
2019
ANNUAL
2
0
1
9
 A
n
n
u
a
l R
e
p
o
r
t
REPORT
Year ended 31 August 2019
Annual Report 2019 1
CONTENTS
Message from the Chairmen  5
Introduction to the Managing Director & CEO                                              7
Directors’ Report 
Directors’ Details  10
Operating and Financial Review  15
Remuneration Report
Introductory Message  58
Remuneration Report  59
Lead Auditor’s Independence Declaration  87
Financial Report 
Income Statements  90
Statements of Comprehensive Income  91
Balance Sheets  92
Statements of Changes In Equity  93
Statements of Cash Flows  97
Notes to the Financial Statements  98
Other Information
Directors’ Declaration  170
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members  171
Shareholding Details  181
Shareholder Information  184
5 Year Financial Summary  185
Glossary  186
Bank of Queensland Limited
ABN 32 009 656 740
AFSL NO. 244616
ABOUT THIS REPORT
This 2019 Annual Report (Report) incorporates the Group’s audited financial statements and 
other statutory disclosures. The Report is lodged with the Australian Securities Exchange 
(ASX). Bank of Queensland (BOQ) is publicly listed in Australia. The financial statements have 
been prepared in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and interpretations issued 
by the Australian Accounting Standards Board (AASB) and the Corporations Act 2001. 
Unless otherwise stated, the Report encompasses all BOQ activities for the financial year 
commenced 1 September 2018 and ended 31 August 2019. All monetary values in this 
document are presented in Australian dollars, which is the Bank’s functional currency. 
OUR 2019 REPORTING SUITE 
BOQ produces a range of reports designed to meet the evolving 
expectations of a wide range of stakeholders. Our 2019 reporting  
suite consists of the following additional documents: 
2019
CORPORATE
2019  2019 
GOVERNANCE
ANNUAL  SUSTAINABILITY 
STATEMENT
REVIEW REPORT
Year ended 31 August 2019 Year ended 31 August 2019
ANNUAL REVIEW  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 
BOQ’s 2019 Annual Review (Review) provides an overview  Our 2019 Corporate Governance Statement discloses 
of BOQ’s operations across the Group and outlines our  how we have complied with the ASX Corporate 
commitment to, and strategies for creating long-term  Governance Council’s Corporate Governance Principles 
value for shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees,  & Recommendations (3rd edition) and is available on the 
and the community. It can be found on the Annual Reports  Corporate Governance page of our website. 
page of our website.
We are always looking for ways to evolve and improve 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  our reporting. Please send your questions, comments 
or suggestions to our Investor Relations team at 
Our 2019 Sustainability Report outlines information about 
InvestorRelations@boq.com.au.
our performance against social, environmental and economic 
opportunities and challenges. This report is available on the 
Annual Reports page of our website and is supported by 
supplementary information available on the Sustainability 
section of our website. 
Annual Report 2019 3
OUR 2019 
PERFORMANCE
PROFIT RESULTS  EARNINGS & DIVIDENDS  
($m) (¢ per ordinary share)
8
360 338 378 352 372 336 320 298 95.6 74 97.6 76 94.7 76 79.6 65
2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019
Cash Earnings after Tax Statutory Net Profit after Tax Cash Basic Earnings per Ordinary Share Dividends per Ordinary Share
Special Dividend per Ordinary Share
2019 CASH EARNINGS   STATUTORY NET PROFIT   CASH BASIC EARNINGS   DIVIDENDS  
AFTER TAX AFTER TAX PER ORDINARY SHARE  PER ORDINARY SHARE 
(¢ per share) (¢ per share)
$320 $298 79.6¢ 65¢
m m
14 11 16 14
%  %   % %
from FY18 from FY18 from FY18 from FY18
NET INTEREST   CASH COST TO   CASH RETURN 
MARGIN INCOME RATIO ON EQUITY
1.93 50.5 8.3
% % %
Down 5bps from FY18 Up 300bps from FY18 Down 160bps from FY18
LOAN IMPAIRMENT EXPENSE ($m)
67 48 41 74
$74
m
 
16bps of gross loans
2016 2017 2018 2019
4 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
EARNINGS & DIVIDENDS  
(¢ per ordinary share)
CHAIRMAN’S REVIEW 
Dear Shareholder
2019 has been a year of significant change for the banking industry  Operating expenses increased by four per cent which took our 
and for BOQ. As we reported at our first half results, the Royal  cost to income ratio to 50.5 per cent. We have continued to invest 
Commission into Misconduct in the Banking, Superannuation and  for the future by improving our technology, risk and compliance 
Financial Services Industry (Royal Commission) will have long  capability.  As we flagged at the 2018 results and in the first 
lasting effects on the Australian financial services landscape.  half this year, the increased capitalised investment expenditure 
We have already started to see the impact of higher costs as a  we have been incurring will lead to an increase in amortisation 
result of the increase in expectations from regulators and the  as these important foundational projects are completed.  We 
community. Meanwhile, the sector has also faced challenges of  continue to explore opportunities to offset this increase through 
an uncertain outlook for housing prices and credit growth and the  digitation and automation of processes to improve efficiency. 
lower for longer interest rate environment, including the recent 
Our underlying asset quality remains sound. Despite this, impaired 
move to a record low cash rate of 0.75%. 
assets increased 20 per cent from a very low level to $197 million. 
At BOQ, we have also seen changes in leadership throughout  This represents 43 basis points of our total loan balances. Our 
the year. Our former Managing Director & CEO Jon Sutton  loan impairment expense also increased substantially during the 
announced his resignation for health reasons in December 2018.  year, reflecting the move to a new collective provisioning model to 
We finalised plans for the Chairman succession in May 2019 with  align with new accounting standards, as well as the deterioration 
the announcement of Patrick Allaway as BOQ’s next Chairman  in a number of forward looking economic indicators and a small 
effective 18 October 2019, and announced the appointment of our  number of larger exposures.  Arrears trends have increased slightly 
new Managing Director & CEO, George Frazis in June 2019.  but remain at relatively low levels. We remain comfortable with the 
During this period of change, the business has continued to  overall performance of the loan portfolio, with no systemic issues 
execute on a strategy of growing our niche business segments,  emerging and support from the recent stabilisation of house prices, 
while enhancing our technology platforms and processes to make  low interest rates and low levels of unemployment.
it easier for our customers to deal with us through their channel  BOQ’s capital position remains appropriate with a Common 
of choice. We have also maintained our prudent risk settings and  Equity Tier 1 ratio (CET1) of 9.04 per cent. CET1 has reduced in 
sought to further enhance our risk and compliance capability to  recent years as we have reinvested in the future of the business 
meet rising stakeholder expectations. and continued growth in higher capital-consumptive commercial 
A major achievement for the year has been the development and  lending segments.  
refinement of our purpose and values. Our purpose is to deliver  Given the challenging outlook, the dividend was reduced by 14 per 
more human, empathetic experiences that help customers and  cent, in line with the reduction in cash earnings, to 65 cents per 
communities prosper.  Our values are: we show we care; we act  share. We have taken a prudent approach which keeps the payout 
with integrity; we achieve together; and we make a difference.   ratio consistent with the level of the first half.
We believe that by living our purpose and values and helping 
An important milestone in 2019 has been the decision to proceed 
customers and communities prosper, we will deliver on our financial 
with additional investment in Virgin Money Australia to build a 
performance objectives and deliver returns for shareholders.
new digital bank.  We are very excited about the prospects for this 
In terms of our 2019 financial performance, our results have  business given the recent success the brand has demonstrated in 
been below expectations and reflective of the difficult operating  attracting customers across its other product lines. You will hear 
environment. Cash earnings after tax decreased 14 per cent from  more about how this will contribute to BOQ’s future through 2020.
2018 to $320 million and cash basic earnings per share decreased 
We have also made considerable progress in the modernisation 
16 per cent to 79.6 cents per share. Return on equity also 
of our technology infrastructure, which has involved shifting 
decreased 160 basis points to 8.3 per cent.  These reductions were 
our data centres to a cloud-based environment.  This will deliver 
driven by lower income, higher operating expenses and a large 
benefits in the future as we have better capacity to scale up, 
increase in loan impairment expense.
reduce cost, implement change and partner with external 
A two per cent contraction in income was the result of subdued  providers to deliver better solutions for our customers.  We are 
asset growth, a five basis point reduction in net interest margin  also on track to rollout a more contemporary mobile banking 
and a 12 per cent reduction in non-interest income. We achieved  offering to our customers in 2020.  These are critical investments 
growth in lending balances of two per cent across the Group.   that will support our transformation and future aspirations.
This included strong growth of 15 per cent or $667 million in 
Many challenges remain for BOQ, including changes in regulation, 
the asset finance and leasing businesses of BOQ Finance. The 
technology and customer behaviour, as well as the broader 
growth momentum continued in Virgin Money Australia and 
economic challenges facing the sector. However, there are good 
BOQ Specialist housing loans, with growth of $914 million and 
opportunities available for BOQ to capitalise on and again return 
$626 million respectively.  Our core BOQ housing loan portfolio, 
to growth with a clear and focused strategy. I am confident that 
however, contracted during the year.  This is attributable to a 
under Patrick and George’s leadership, I am leaving the Bank in 
number of factors including a reduced distribution footprint, more 
very good hands to do just this.
onerous lending processes and digital customer offerings which 
It has been a privilege to serve on the BOQ Board and as your 
lag our peers.  We have plans in place to address these issues and 
Chairman.  I would like to thank my colleagues on the Board, the 
anticipate improved performance from our Retail Bank in 2020.
management team and everyone at BOQ, our customers and you, 
The contraction in net interest margin was most pronounced in 
our shareholders, for your ongoing support.  
the first half of the year, due in part to the higher bank bill swap 
rate which normalised later in the year, as well as ongoing price 
competition for new business.  The reduction in non-interest 
income was driven by ongoing downward pressure on fees and 
insurance income.  Roger Davis 
Retiring Chairman  Annual Report 2019 5
CHAIRMAN’S WELCOME
Dear Shareholder 
I take on the role as Chair of BOQ effective from 18 October with  Looking ahead, the environment in banking and the broader 
appreciation of the considerable responsibility for the Board and  global and local economy remains challenged. We anticipate that 
management to deliver better outcomes for our stakeholders. industry disruption will accelerate, requiring BOQ to transform 
Our FY19 cash earnings after tax of $320 million represents  to an agile challenger bank with a refocus of our retail strategy on 
a 14 per cent decline on last year. We are operating in a low  targeted segments, as we have successfully achieved through our 
growth environment with rising investment needs, regulatory  niche segment strategy in BOQ Business. This includes the rollout 
costs and community expectations. Irrespective of the  of Virgin Money Australia as a digital bank of the future in FY20, 
challenging operating environment, we are not satisfied with our  following a successful proof of concept earlier this year.
performance. We recognise that BOQ needs to take decisive  We recognise that our transformation will take time. The 
action to transform to a more sustainable business model with  investments being made to make BOQ stronger will mean FY20 
a clear strategy to return to growth whilst continuing to deliver  will be a difficult year. We anticipate a decline in year on year 
our purpose of helping customers and communities prosper. We  cash earnings in FY20, largely driven by low revenue growth, 
are confident that in transforming BOQ we can grow long term  higher regulatory compliance costs and increased amortisation 
sustainable shareholder value. and operating expenses related to our increased investment 
At the half year we foreshadowed providing our strategy update  in technology. Following the finalisation of our strategic and 
later this calendar year. Whilst we are well into the process of our  productivity review we will provide a further update to the 
strategic review, we are now of the view that it would be prudent to  market in relation to the impact of these initiatives on our FY20 
defer this market update to February 2020. This will enable our new  performance. We will be transparent about our transformation 
Chief Executive Officer, George Frazis, to optimise the strategy and  when we outline our plans to the market in February 2020, 
conduct a productivity review to ensure we have a fit for purpose  providing clear benchmarks to monitor progress.
operating model aligned with our niche growth strategy. We recognise that many of our shareholders rely on dividends to 
In the interim, George, a seasoned banker with considerable  support their income. We have paid a full year divided for FY19 of 65 
leadership experience in transformation and digital innovation,  cents per share, representing a payout ratio of 82 per cent. We will 
has settled into his new role well. We are excited about the change  continue to factor the importance of dividends for shareholders 
he will lead at BOQ. The foreshadowed transformation strategy  into our future capital management plans as we invest in the 
will focus on five high level priorities for BOQ: business to return to profitable and sustainable growth.
1.  Return to profitable and sustainable growth. We will continue  We have announced that our outgoing Chair, Roger Davis, will 
to focus on niche growth segments, lift the performance of  be stepping down from the Board in October. In addition, David 
our Retail Bank and seek to optimise risk adjusted returns. Willis will be stepping down at the AGM, providing for an orderly 
succession plan. I would like to thank Roger and David for their 
2.  Embed our purpose led, customer culture.  To achieve this we 
significant contribution to BOQ. During their tenure, BOQ has 
need to attract, develop and retain the right talent. We will 
made a number of niche investments that have delivered strong 
invest in developing our people and building an inclusive and 
growth for shareholders in specialty sectors providing a good 
diversified workforce that respects and endorses BOQ as a 
foundation for our strategy to return the Group to growth. We will 
great place to work.
take this opportunity to both refresh and reduce the size of the 
3.  Simplify our business, improve productivity and  Board. I would also like to thank Anthony Rose, our interim CEO, 
address costs.  We will address our rising cost to  and Matt Baxby, our outgoing CFO, for their contribution to BOQ 
income ratio through a structural productivity and  and wish them all the best in their future careers.
operating model review, aimed at reducing complexity 
It is a great honour to be appointed Chair of BOQ and I relish the 
and adopting technology to drive efficiency. 
opportunity to be a change agent and harness the collective 
4.  Close the digital and data gap, delivering our mobile and  strength of the Board and the organisation to transform BOQ and 
Virgin Money Australia investments. We are committed to  to grow long term sustainable value uplift for all stakeholders. 
delighting our customers by providing a seamless end to end 
Thank you for your continued support,
experience across all channels, including new internet and 
mobile banking platforms.
5.  Continue to strengthen the Bank through strong governance, 
compliance and prudent risk management. We have more 
work to do in improving our non-financial risk governance and 
are investing in continuous improvement. 
Patrick Allaway 
Chairman Elect
6 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
INTRODUCTION TO 
THE MANAGING 
DIRECTOR & CEO
Dear Shareholder
I am delighted to join Bank of Queensland as CEO, at a time of evolution and change for BOQ 
and the banking sector as a whole. I have been in banking for 18 years and am passionate 
about the important role it plays in our society.
What excites me most about leading BOQ is the genuine love our people have for BOQ and 
our customers, along with the opportunity to build an organisation that is innovative and 
makes banking easy for our customers. My experience has taught me that building strong 
relationships with our customers begins with our people – our purpose, values, culture and 
the way we go about our business.
In the recent past BOQ has not lived up to its full potential and has underperformed for its 
key stakeholders, including our shareholders. However, let me assure you, I am very focused 
on delivering sustainable and profitable growth and improved shareholder returns. 
Our success will come from a clear vision for growth coupled with inclusive leadership that 
harnesses the diverse skills of all of our team.  But achieving this will take time – 2020 will 
be another tough year of transition. There are challenges ahead, however, fundamentally, 
BOQ is a good business.  Our capital is well positioned for unquestionably strong, we have 
a good funding position and our underlying asset quality is sound.  A strong balance sheet 
will be a focus.
We have good opportunities to differentiate and profitably grow.  This is evidenced by the 
success of Virgin Money Australia and our niche business segments which have developed 
clear customer propositions that are differentiated in the market.
My high level priorities are: 
1.  return to profitable and sustainable growth; 
2.  embed our purpose led, customer culture; 
3.  simplify our business, improve productivity and address costs; 
4.  close the digital and data gap, delivering our mobile and Virgin Money Australia investments; 
and 
5.  continue to strengthen the Bank.
I would like to thank our outgoing Chairman Roger Davis and congratulate our incoming 
Chairman Patrick Allaway. I will be working closely with the Board on my strategic review of 
the business and look forward to updating you on the outcomes early in the coming year. 
Thank you for your support.
George Frazis 
Managing Director and CEO
Annual Report 2019 7

2019 
DIRECTORS’ 
REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
The Directors present their report together with the financial report of Bank of Queensland Limited (the Bank or BOQ) and of the 
Consolidated Entity (or the Group), being the Bank and its controlled entities, for the year ended 31 August 2019 and the independent 
auditor’s report thereon.
DIRECTORS’ DETAILS
The Directors of the Bank at any time during or since the end of the financial year are: 
Name, qualifications and 
independence status Experience, special responsibilities and other Directorships
ROGER DAVIS Mr Davis was appointed Chair of BOQ on 28 May 2013 and has been a Non-Executive Director since 
August 2008. He has over 30 years’ experience in banking and investment banking in Australia, the US  
B.Econ. (Hons),  
and Japan. He was previously a Managing Director at Citigroup where he worked for over 20 years and 
Master of Philosophy
more recently was a Group Managing Director at ANZ Bank.
Retiring Chairman 
Mr Davis is currently Chair of AIG Australia Limited and Charter Hall Retail Management Limited, a  
Non-Executive  
Non-Executive Director of Argo Investments Limited and was formerly a Non-Executive Director of 
Independent Director
Aristocrat Leisure Ltd, Ardent Leisure Group, Ardent Leisure Management Ltd and Ardent Leisure Ltd. 
Mr Davis has a Bachelor of Economics (Hons) degree from the University of Sydney and a Master of 
Philosophy degree from Oxford. 
Mr Davis is Chair of the Investment Committee and Nomination & Governance Committee, a member  
of each of the Audit and Risk Committees, and an attendee at all other Board Committees.
PATRICK ALLAWAY Mr Allaway was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the Bank in May 2019.
BA/LLB Mr Allaway has extensive senior executive, non-executive, and corporate advisory experience across the 
Chairman Elect financial services, property, media and retail sectors.
Non-Executive   Mr. Allaway’s executive career was in financial services with Citibank and Swiss Bank Corporation (now 
Independent Director UBS) working in Sydney, New York, Zurich and London. Mr. Allaway was Managing Director SBC Capital 
Markets & Treasury with direct responsibility for a global business operating in 16 countries.
(commencing as Chairman 
on 18 October 2019) Mr Allaway brings over 30 years’ experience in financial services across financial markets, capital markets, 
and corporate advisory. This included an advisory role in the media sector, responding to considerable 
digital disruption.
Mr Allaway has over 15 years’ Non-Executive Director experience and was formerly a Non-Executive 
Director of Macquarie Goodman Industrial Trust, Metcash Limited, Fairfax Media, Woolworths South 
Africa, David Jones, and Country Road Group. Mr Allaway Chaired the Audit & Risk Committees for 
Metcash, David Jones, and Country Road Group.
Mr Allaway is currently a non-executive Director of Nine Entertainment Co and Domain Limited. He 
is also a member of the Information Technology Committee and Human Resources & Remuneration 
Committee at BOQ.
BRUCE CARTER Mr Carter was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of BOQ on 27 February 2014.
B Econ, MBA, FAICD, FICA Mr Carter was a founding Managing Partner of Ferrier Hodgson South Australia, a corporate advisory 
Non-Executive   and restructuring business, and has worked across a number of industries and sectors in the public and 
Independent Director private sectors. He has been involved with a number of state government-appointed restructures and 
reviews including chairing a task force to oversee the government’s involvement in major resource and 
mining infrastructure projects. Mr Carter had a central role in a number of key government economic 
papers including the Economic Statement on South Australian Prospects for Growth, the Sustainable 
Budget Commission, and the Prime Minister’s 2012 GST Distribution Review.
Mr Carter has worked with all the major financial institutions in Australia. Before Ferrier Hodgson, Mr 
Carter was at Ernst & Young for 14 years including four years as Partner in Adelaide. During his time at 
Ernst & Young, he worked across the London, Hong Kong, Toronto and New York offices. Mr Carter is 
the Chair of Australian Submarine Corporation and Aventus Capital Limited, Deputy Chair of SkyCity 
Entertainment Group Limited and a Non-Executive Director of Eudunda Farmers Ltd and Genesee & 
Wyoming Inc.
Mr Carter is Chair of the Risk Committee and a member of the Audit Committee, Information  
Technology Committee, Investment Committee and the Nomination & Governance Committee.
10 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
Name, qualifications and 
independence status Experience, special responsibilities and other Directorships
RICHARD HAIRE Mr Haire was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of BOQ on 18 April 2012.
B.Ec, FAICD Mr Haire has more than 29 years’ experience in the international cotton and agribusiness industry, 
Non-Executive   including 27 years in agricultural commodity trading and banking. He is Chair of the Cotton Research and 
Independent Director Development Corporation, Reef Corporate Services Limited and Endeavour Foundation. He also serves 
as a Non-Executive Director of BEC Stockfeed Solutions Pty Ltd. Mr Haire was formerly a Director of 
Open Country Dairy (NZ) and New Zealand Farming Systems Uruguay. 
Mr Haire is a member of each of the Risk, Human Resources & Remuneration and Information Technology 
Committees.
JOHN LORIMER Mr Lorimer was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of BOQ on 29 January 2016.
B Com Mr Lorimer has spent more than 30 years in financial services and held executive roles in Australia, Asia 
Non-Executive   and Europe. Mr Lorimer’s most recent executive roles were in the United Kingdom where he was Group 
Independent Director Head of Finance and then Group Head of Regulatory Risk and Compliance for Standard Chartered 
Bank. He also held a number of management positions in the retail bank of Citigroup and served as the 
Chairman of CAF Bank Limited (a subsidiary of Charities Aid Foundation based in the United Kingdom).
He is Chair of Bupa Asia Ltd (HK) Ltd, and a Non-Executive Director of Bupa Australia Pty Ltd, Bupa Aged 
Care Holdings Pty Ltd and Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust plc.
Mr Lorimer is a member of the Information Technology and Risk Committees. 
WARWICK NEGUS Mr Negus was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of BOQ on 22 September 2016.
B Bus, M Com, SF Fin Mr Negus brings more than 30 years’ of finance industry experience in Asia, Europe and Australia. His 
Non-Executive  most recent executive roles include Chief Executive Officer of 452 Capital, Chief Executive Officer 
Independent Director of Colonial First State Global Asset Management and Goldman Sachs Managing Director in Australia, 
London and Singapore. He was also a Vice President of Bankers Trust Australia and a Director of the 
University of NSW (UNSW) Foundation and FINSIA.
Mr Negus is Chair of Pengana Capital Group and URB Investments Limited and a Non-Executive Director 
of Washington H Soul Pattinson & Co Ltd, Virgin Australia Holdings Limited and Terrace Tower Group. He 
is a member of the Council of UNSW and Chair of UNSW Global Limited.
Mr Negus is a member of the Audit Committee, Human Resources & Remuneration Committee and 
Investment Committee. 
KAREN PENROSE Ms Penrose was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of BOQ on 26 November 2015. 
B Com, CPA, FAICD Ms Penrose has been a full-time director since 2014. Her executive career was in leadership and CFO 
Non-Executive   roles, mainly in financial services. She is passionate about customer outcomes, financial management 
Independent Director and well-versed in operating in a rapidly changing regulatory environment, which stems from her 20 years 
in banking with Commonwealth Bank of Australia and HSBC and eight years to early 2014 as a listed-
company CFO and COO. 
Ms Penrose is a Non-Executive Director of Vicinity Centres Limited, Spark Infrastructure Group and Estia 
Health Limited. Ms Penrose was formerly a Non-Executive Director of AWE Limited, Landcom and Future 
Generation Global Investment Company Limited. She is a member of Chief Executive Women. 
Ms Penrose is Chair of the Audit Committee and is a member of each of the Human Resources & 
Remuneration, Risk and Investment Committees.
MICHELLE TREDENICK Ms Tredenick was appointed a Non-Executive Director of BOQ in February 2011.
B Sc, FAICD, F Fin Ms Tredenick is an experienced company director and corporate advisor with over 30 years’ 
Non-Executive   experience in leading Australian businesses. Ms Tredenick is currently a Non-Executive Director of 
Independent Director Insurance Australia Group Limited (IAG), Cricket Australia and Urbis Pty Ltd. She is a member of the 
Senate of the University of Queensland (UQ) as well as sitting on the board of the Ethics Centre. 
Ms Tredenick has previously held executive roles and been a member of the Executive Committee 
at National Australia Bank, MLC and Suncorp. Her experience includes holding the position of Chief 
Information Officer with each of these companies as well as Head of Strategy and Marketing and 
divisional profit and loss roles in Corporate Superannuation, Insurance and Funds Management. 
Ms Tredenick is Chair of the Information Technology Committee, and is a member of each of the 
Human Resources & Remuneration, Risk and Nomination & Governance Committees.
Annual Report 2019 11
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
Name, qualifications and 
independence status Experience, special responsibilities and other Directorships
DAVID WILLIS Mr Willis was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of BOQ in February 2010.
B Com, ACA, ICA Mr Willis has over 35 years’ experience in financial services in the Asia Pacific, the UK and the USA. He 
Non-Executive  is a qualified Accountant in Australia and New Zealand and has had 26 years’ experience working with 
Independent Director Australian and foreign banks. Mr Willis is the founder of Sydney-based Charity “The Horizons Program”.
Mr Willis is Chair of the Human Resources & Remuneration Committee, and is a member of each of the 
Audit and the Nomination & Governance Committees. He is also a Non-Executive Director of BOQ’s 
insurance subsidiaries, St Andrew’s Australia Services Pty Ltd, St Andrew’s Life Insurance Pty Ltd and 
St Andrew’s Insurance (Australia) Pty Ltd.
KATHLEEN BAILEY-LORD  Ms Bailey-Lord was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of BOQ in May 2019.
BA (Hons), MAMP, FAICD Ms Bailey-Lord is an experienced company director and corporate advisor. Ms Bailey-Lord is 
Non-Executive   currently a Non-Executive Director of QBE Insurance (AUSPAC), Melbourne Water and Monash 
Independent Director College.
Ms Bailey-Lord has 20 years of senior executive experience across Australia, New Zealand and Asia. 
Ms Bailey-Lord has led businesses through complex and transformational change, often leveraging 
digital solutions to enable new business models. Ms Bailey-Lord’s experience spans the technology 
industry at IBM, financial services at ANZ Bank, professional services and marketing/media. Ms 
Bailey-Lord sits on the AICD Victorian Council and the AICD Technology, Governance and Innovation 
Panel (pro bono roles). She is a member of Chief Executive Women. 
Ms Bailey-Lord is a member of the Information Technology Committee and Human Resources & 
Remuneration Committee.
GEORGE FRAZIS Mr Frazis was appointed as Managing Director & CEO of the Bank on 5 September 2019.
B. Eng (Hons), MBA Mr Frazis has 26 years’ corporate experience, the past 17 years in Banking and Finance. Most recently, 
Managing Director & CEO he was Chief Executive of Westpac Group’s Consumer Bank responsible for managing the end to 
end relationship with consumer customers. Prior to that Mr Frazis was Chief Executive Officer, St. 
Executive Director George Banking Group and Chief Executive, Westpac New Zealand Limited and has also been Group 
Executive General Manager at National Australia Bank. Mr Frazis has held senior executive roles in 
Commonwealth Bank of Australia’s Institutional and Business Banking Divisions as well as Air New 
Zealand. He has also been a partner with the Boston Consulting Group and an officer in the Royal 
Australian Air Force.
JON SUTTON Mr Sutton was appointed Managing Director & CEO in January 2015 following four months as our 
Managing Director & CEO Acting Chief Executive Officer. Mr Sutton originally joined BOQ in July 2012 as our Chief Operating 
Officer.
Executive Director
Mr Sutton has more than 20 years’ experience in banking and prior to BOQ was the Managing 
(resigned 5 December  Director of Bankwest. Before that, as Executive General Manager of Commonwealth Bank 
2018) Agribusiness (CBA), he was central to the establishment of CBA’s agribusiness segment which grew 
strongly under his guidance and leadership.
Prior to this, Mr Sutton was General Manager of Client Risk Solutions at CBA, responsible for 
marketing derivative products including interest rates, commodities and foreign exchange. He was 
also Head of Resources and Agribusiness and Head of Corporate Risk Management Commodities, 
charged with marketing and commodity hedging products to Australian institutions within the base 
metals, precious metals and energy sectors.
12 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
COMPANY SECRETARIES
VICKI CLARKSON
BA/LLB (Hons), FGIA, FCIS, GAICD
Ms Clarkson joined BOQ on 3 April 2017. Ms Clarkson commenced her career as a corporate lawyer at Blake Dawson Waldron (now 
Ashurst) before joining Clayton Utz. Prior to her role as BOQ’s GM Corporate Governance & Head of Secretariat, Ms Clarkson held senior 
legal and governance roles in ASX listed entities including Aurizon Holdings Limited, Flight Centre Limited and Shine Corporate Ltd. Ms 
Clarkson is an active member and Deputy Chair of the Queensland State Council of the Governance Institute of Australia.
FIONA DALY
LLB, LLM, AGIA, ACIS, MAICD
Ms Daly joined BOQ in October 2018 and was appointed joint company secretary on 30 April 2019. Ms Daly commenced her career as a 
corporate lawyer at Phillips Fox (now DLA Piper) before joining Allens. Prior to working for BOQ, Ms Daly held senior legal and regulatory 
roles including as senior legal counsel, global regulatory affairs manager and joint company secretary at Energy Developments, an 
international energy company.
DIRECTORS’ MEETINGS
The number of meetings of the Bank’s Directors (including meetings of Committees of Directors) and the number of meetings attended 
by each Director during the financial year were: 
Human 
Resources & 
Remuneration 
Board of   Nomination &   Committee   Information 
Board of   Directors -   Risk  Audit  Governance  - BOQ   Technology  Investment 
Directors St Andrews Committee Committee Committee & St Andrews Committee Committee
A B A B A B A B A B A B A B A B
Roger Davis (1) 12 13 - - 7 7 6 8 2 2 - - - - 2 2
Jon Sutton (2) 2 2 3 3 - - - - - - - - - - - 1
Warwick Negus 13 13 - - - - 7 8 - - 7 7 - - 2 2
Bruce Carter 13 13 - - 7 7 8 8 2 2 - - 6 6 2 2
Richard Haire 13 13 - - 7 7 3 3 - - 7 7 6 6 - -
John Lorimer 13 13 - - 7 7 - - - - - - 6 6 - -
Karen Penrose 13 13 - - 5 5 8 8 - - 6 7 - - 1  1
Michelle Tredenick 13 13 - - 7 7 - - 2 2 6 7 6 6 - -
David Willis (3) 13 13 7 7 2  2 5 5 2 2 7 7 - - - -
Patrick Allaway (4) 4 4 - - - - - - - - 1  1 1  1 - -
Kathleen  
4 4 - - - - - - - - - - 3 3 - -
Bailey-Lord (5)
Total number  
13 7 7 8 2 7 6 2
of meetings held
A - Number of meetings attended
B - N  umber of meetings held during the time the director was a member of the Board/Committee during the year.
(1)  R oger Davis is Chair of the Nomination & Governance Committee, a member of each of the Audit Committee and Risk Committees, and an attendee at all other Board Committees,
(2)  Jon Sutton was also a member of St Andrew’s Audit Committee and Risk Committee. Additionally, Mr Sutton was invited by the Board to attend the Risk Committee, Audit 
Committee, Human Resources & Remuneration Committee, Investment Committee and Information Technology Committee meetings (or part thereof).  
Mr Sutton resigned on 5 December 2018. 
(3)  David Willis is also a member of the St Andrew’s Audit Committee and Risk Committee.
(4)  Patrick Allaway joined the Board on 1 May 2019 and the Information Technology Committee and Human Resources & Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2019.
(5)  Kathleen Bailey-Lord joined the Board and Information Technology Committee on 1 May 2019.
2019 Corporate Governance Statement 
BOQ’s governance arrangements and practices are set out in our Corporate Governance Statement. BOQ must also comply with its 
constitution, the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), the ASX Listing Rules, the ASX Corporate Governance Council’s Corporate Governance 
Principles and Recommendations (3rd Edition) (ASX Principles), the Banking Act 1959 (Cth), including Part IIAA of the Banking Executive 
Accountability Regime (BEAR) amongst other laws, and, as an Authorised Deposit-taking Institution, with governance requirements 
prescribed by APRA under Prudential Standard CPS 510 Governance.
Information about BOQ’s Board and management, corporate governance policies and practices and Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework can be found in the 2019 Corporate Governance Statement available at:  
http://www.boq.com.au/aboutus_corporate_governance.htm
Annual Report 2019 13
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
CONTENTS - OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Page
1 Highlights and strategy 15
1.1 Disclosure considerations 15
1.2 Group highlights 16
1.3 Strategy 18
1.4 Risk and regulatory developments 19
2 Group performance analysis 27
2.1 Income statement and key metrics 27
2.2 Net interest income 29
2.3 Non-interest income 30
2.4 Insurance overview 30
2.5 Operating expenses 31
2.6 Capitalised investment expenditure 31
2.7 Lending 32
3 Business settings 35
3.1 Asset quality 35
3.2 Funding and liquidity 40
3.3 Capital management 43
3.4 Tax expense 44
4 Divisional performance 45
4.1 Retail income statement, key metrics and financial performance review 45
4.2 BOQ Business income statement, key metrics and financial performance review 47
4.3 Other segment income statement and financial performance review 49
5 Appendices 50
5.1 Reconciliation of statutory profit to cash earnings 50
5.2 Operating cash expenses  51
5.3 Property, plant & equipment (consolidated) 52
5.4 Cash EPS calculations 53
5.5 Issued capital 53
5.6 Average balance sheet and margin analysis 54
5.7 Distribution footprint 56
5.8 Credit rating 57
5.9 Regulatory disclosures 57
14 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
1.  HIGHLIGHTS AND STRATEGY
1.1  DISCLOSURE CONSIDERATIONS
Future performance Note on statutory profit and cash earnings
This document contains certain ‘forward-looking statements’  Statutory profit is prepared in accordance with the Corporations 
about BOQ’s business and operations, market conditions,  Act 2001 (cth) and the Australian Accounting Standards, which 
results of operations, financial condition, capital adequacy and  comply with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). 
risk management practices which reflect BOQ’s views held and  Cash earnings is a non-accounting standards measure commonly 
current expectations as at the date of this document. used in the banking industry to assist in presenting a clear view of 
the Bank’s underlying earnings. Refer to Section 5.1 Reconciliation 
Forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the 
of statutory profit to cash earnings of the Appendices for a 
use of forward-looking words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘believe’, ‘expect’, 
reconciliation of cash earnings to statutory net profit after tax. 
‘project’, ‘forecast’, ‘estimate’, ‘likely’, ‘intend’, ‘should’, ‘will’, ‘could’, 
Refer to the Reconciliation of statutory profit to cash earnings 
‘may’, ‘target’, ‘plan’ and other similar expressions.
chart below. The main exclusions relate to:
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future 
•  Regulatory/compliance costs including external costs and 
performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties 
other related costs associated with the Royal Commission 
and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of BOQ 
into Misconduct in the Banking, Superannuation and Financial 
and which may cause actual results to differ materially from those 
Services Industry (Royal Commission), The Banking Executive 
expressed or implied in such statements. Readers are cautioned 
Accountability Regime (BEAR), Code of Banking Practice, 
not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.  Comprehensive Credit Reporting, Anti-Money Laundering 
Actual results or performance may vary from those expressed in,  (AML) compliance and regulatory matters of an extraordinary 
or implied by, any forward-looking statements. nature consistent with prior periods;
BOQ does not undertake to update any forward-looking  •  Amortisation of acquisition fair value adjustments arising from 
statements contained in this document, subject to disclosure  the historical acquisition of subsidiaries; and
requirements applicable to it.
•  Hedge ineffectiveness representing earnings volatility 
from hedges that are not fully effective and create a 
Rounding
timing difference in reported profit. These hedges remain 
In accordance with applicable financial reporting regulations and 
economically effective.
current industry practices, amounts in this report have been 
Figures disclosed in this report are on a cash earnings basis unless 
rounded off to the nearest one million dollars, unless otherwise 
stated as being on a statutory profit basis. Unless otherwise 
stated. Any discrepancies between total and sums of components 
stated, all financial comparisons in this document refer to the 
in tables contained in this report are due to rounding.
prior half (1H19), current half (2H19) and the prior year (FY18).
These non-statutory measures have not been subject to 
review or audit.
Reconciliation of statutory profit to cash earnings ($m)  
6 1 320
8 1
6
298
Statutory Net  Amortisation  Hedge  Integration/  Regulatory/  Legacy Cash Earnings  
Profit after Tax of fair value  ineffectiveness transaction  compliance after Tax
adjustments  costs
Annual Report 2019 15
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
1.2  GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
Cash earnings after tax ($m) Statutory profit after tax ($m)
372 DOWN 
203 14% 320 336 DOWN 
191 11% 298
16
16
187 182 190 167 153 175 174 162 156 142
2H17 1H18 2H18 1H19 2H19 2H17 1H18 2H18 1H19 2H19
Impact of disposal of vendor finance entity Impact of disposal of vendor finance entity
Cash basic earnings per share (EPS) (cents) Dividends per ordinary share (cents)
94.7 DOWN 
52.1 16% 79.6 DOWN 
4.1 76
14% 65
8
48.0 46.5 48.2
41.8 37.8 38 38 38 34 31
2H17 1H18 2H18 1H19 2H19 2H17 1H18 2H18 1H19 2H19
Impact of disposal of vendor finance entity Special dividend
Cash net interest margin (NIM) (%) Cash cost to income (CTI) (%)
UP  50.5
1.98 DOWN  47.5 300bps
47.2
5bps 1.93
1.3
1.96 1.97 1.98 1.94 1.92 45.9 47.6 47.3 49.5 51.5
2H17 1H18 2H18 1H19 2H19 2H17 1H18 2H18 1H19 2H19
Impact of disposal of vendor finance entity
Cash return on average equity (ROE) (%) Cash return on average tangible equity (ROTE) (%)
14.3 12.9 DOWN 
210bps 10.8
1.1
9.9 DOWN 
10.9 160bps 8.3
0.8
13.2 12.9 13.0
10.1 9.9 10.0 11.4 10.2
8.8 7.8
2H17 1H18 2H18 1H19 2H19 2H17 1H18 2H18 1H19 2H19
Impact of disposal of vendor finance entity Impact of disposal of vendor finance entity
16 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
1.2	 GROUP	HIGHLIGHTS	(CONTINUED)
CASH EARNINGS AFTER TAX CASH NET INTEREST MARGIN OPERATING EXPENSES
$320m 1.93 $550m
%
Decreased by 14 per cent on FY18.  Down five  basis points from FY18  Four per cent increase on FY18.
driven by elevated basis levels and the 
impact of the lower rate environment.
LOAN IMPAIRMENT EXPENSE COMMON EQUITY TIER 1 DIVIDENDS
$74m 9.04 FINAL & INTERIM
% $0.65
Up seven basis points to 16 basis points  Decrease of 27 basis points for  
of lending and an 80 per cent uplift on  FY19 reflecting higher growth in   Decreased 14 per cent on FY18.
FY18 following the implementation of  capital intensive lending, higher 
the new AASB 9 Financial Instruments  capitalised investment, reduced 
(AASB 9) standard. earnings and lower dividend 
reinvestment plan participation.
BOQ’s cash earnings after tax for FY19 was $320 million, a  increase in capitalised investment. This contributed to an 
14 per cent decrease from FY18. Statutory net profit after  increase in IT expenses in FY19 and will lead to a higher level 
tax decreased 11 per cent to $298 million. The reduction in  of amortisation in future periods as new functionality is 
earnings was driven by a combination of lower income, higher  deployed. Opportunities to improve efficiency continue to be 
operating expenses and higher loan impairment expense. explored to minimise the impact of these expense headwinds.
Total income reduced two per cent compared to FY18, with  Asset quality remains sound with impaired assets of $197 
net interest income down $4 million and non interest income  million or 43 basis points of gross loans, while arrears remain at 
down $17 million or 12 per cent. While lending growth of $937  relatively low levels. Despite this, there has been an increase in 
million or two per cent was achieved over the year, this was  provisions, as a result of the implementation of a new forward 
offset by a five basis point reduction in net interest margin  looking collective provisioning model under AASB 9 and 
to 1.93 per cent. There were strong levels of lending growth in  following impairment of a small number of larger commercial 
BOQ Finance ($667 million), Virgin Money Australia (VMA, $914  exposures. This has in turn led to a $33 million increase in 
million) and BOQ Specialist ($756 million), but a contraction  loan impairment expense to $74 million, or 16 basis points of 
in branch network lending balances as the impact of lower  gross loans. Despite this increase, BOQ’s portfolio remains 
borrower demand and a smaller branch footprint continued to  well provisioned with no systemic areas of stress emerging. 
reduce new business volumes. The five basis point reduction 
BOQ remains appropriately capitalised with a common equity 
in NIM was driven primarily by competition and discounting 
tier one ratio of 9.04 per cent. This is lower than the 9.31 per cent 
for new business as well as the higher bank bill swap rate and 
reported at the end of FY18, due primarily to higher growth in 
associated increase in hedging costs in 1H19. Non-interest 
more capital-intensive commercial lending and leasing as well 
income was lower due to a combination of reduced banking 
as higher capitalised investment. There was also a reduction 
fees, the transition of the BOQ Business merchant offering 
in dividend reinvestment plan participation for the 2018 final 
to a third party arrangement, and lower insurance income.
dividend and 2019 interim dividend, which combined with 
Operating expenses increased by four per cent on FY18.  lower earnings, has reduced organic capital generation.
Following the Final Report from the Royal Commission, 
costs associated with addressing regulatory and compliance 
requirements have increased for BOQ and across the 
industry to meet heightened regulatory and compliance 
expectations. As announced as part of the FY18 results, 
BOQ has embarked on a transformation program to 
improve technology platforms, meet new regulatory and 
compliance requirements and deliver digital offerings that 
improve the BOQ customer experience, supported by an 
Annual Report 2019 17
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
1.3  STRATEGY
BOQ is a financial institution whose primary function is gathering 
There’s Always a Better Way is about BOQ’s commitment 
deposits and lending. It is listed on the Australian Securities 
to making its systems and processes simpler, faster and 
Exchange (ASX) and regulated by the Australian Prudential  smarter. The aim is to improve efficiency, reduce costs, deliver 
Regulation Authority (APRA) as an authorised deposit-taking  better customer service and establish a nimble organisation 
institution (ADI).  positioned to take advantage of a rapidly changing landscape. 
BOQ was established in 1874 and was the first Permanent Building  BOQ is continuing to make improvements to retail, commercial 
Society in Queensland. It has evolved into a national institution  and lease management lending systems. Ongoing focus on 
with a network of retail branches and brokers across Australia.  efficiency across the Group to minimise expense growth, 
BOQ’s primary business segments are Retail Banking and BOQ  whilst investing in new technology aligned to a simplified 
Business and the Group operates a number of brands including  target architecture will enable BOQ to respond more quickly to 
BOQ, BOQ Specialist, BOQ Finance, Virgin Money (Australia) and  emerging opportunities than has been possible in the past.
St Andrew’s Insurance, which are covered in more detail below.
Loved Like No Other is about how BOQ maintains positive 
BOQ’s corporate purpose is to deliver more human, empathetic  stakeholder relationships by living its values, creating a 
experiences that help customers and communities prosper. This  place where people love to work and contributing to the 
is achieved through the values of: We Show We Care; We Act  communities in which it operates. In recent years, BOQ has 
With Integrity; We Achieve Together; and We Make a Difference. reinforced its commitment to ethical conduct and supporting 
its customers. It has also introduced a range of initiatives 
Given the changing operating environment, in 2019 BOQ has 
that bring BOQ’s purpose and values to life and drive a 
commenced a strategic review, recognising the need to take 
customer centric culture. BOQ continues to demonstrate its 
decisive action to transform to a more sustainable business model 
commitment to a diverse and inclusive workforce through a 
with a clear strategy to return to growth. An update on BOQ’s 
number of diversity initiatives and its reconciliation journey. 
strategy is planned for February 2020.
BOQ is committed to engaging positively with all stakeholders in a 
During FY19, BOQ has been aiming to build a differentiated 
fair and transparent way to create value for customers, employees, 
position in the Australian financial services sector by focusing 
investors and the communities in which it operates. More 
on niche customer segments that value a more intimate banking 
information on BOQ’s approach to sustainability is available in the 
relationship. This strategy has been delivered through four 
sustainability section of the BOQ website  
strategic pillars: Customer in Charge; Grow the Right Way; There’s 
(https://www.boq.com.au/Shareholder-centre/sustainability). 
Always a Better Way; and Loved Like No Other.  
Information on BOQ’s corporate governance practices can be 
Customer in Charge is about improving customers’ experience  located in BOQ’s Corporate Governance Statement available on 
and expanding BOQ’s avenues for growth by putting customers  the corporate governance page of the BOQ website  
in charge of when, where and how they choose to engage with  (https://www.boq.com.au/About-us/corporate-governance).
BOQ. This is regardless of whether they come into a branch, 
use online services, call on the phone or buy products through  Portfolio of businesses
a third party intermediary. Many of BOQ’s retail branches are  As noted above, the Group’s subsidiaries and brands 
run by local owner managers, meaning the person running  include BOQ Specialist, BOQ Finance, Virgin Money 
the branch owns the branch. As small business owners, owner  Australia and St Andrew’s which are described below.
managers know what it means to deliver personal service. 
BOQ Specialist delivers distinctive banking solutions to 
Through specialisation and deep industry knowledge in niche 
niche market segments including medical, dental and 
commercial segments, including medical & dental, corporate 
veterinary professionals. BOQ acquired the business 
healthcare & retirement living, hospitality & tourism and 
(previously Investec Professional Finance) as part of 
agribusiness, BOQ also provides a level of support to business 
Investec Bank (Australia) Limited in 2014. BOQ Specialist 
banking customers unique to that offered by other banks.
operates as a separate division of BOQ’s Business Bank.
BOQ’s home loan products, including VMA home loans, are 
BOQ Finance is a wholly owned subsidiary of BOQ specialising 
distributed by more than 7,500 accredited brokers, making 
in asset, cash flow and structured finance solutions. BOQF is 
BOQ more accessible to customers who prefer to use brokers. 
a mid-market financier providing deep industry and product 
BOQ has also been working to streamline customer experience 
skills to its partner base. BOQF has been operating in the 
across channels through the consolidation of customer 
Australian and New Zealand markets for more than 45 years.
touchpoints. A number of projects are also underway to 
improve the digital experience for BOQ customers, including  Virgin Money Australia is a retail financial services company, 
upgrades to internet and mobile banking platforms.  which provides a wide range of financial products that are easy 
to understand as well as being a compelling alternative to the 
Grow the Right Way is about building a strong and profitable 
big banks. BOQ acquired Virgin Money Australia in 2013 and it 
business by making the right decisions about where and how to 
operates as a standalone business within the BOQ Group.
grow. This includes focusing on niche customer segments that 
value an intimate banking relationship. BOQ has continued its  St Andrew’s is a provider of consumer insurance and life 
prudent approach to lending, maintaining a high quality lending  insurance products in Australia. In response to a change 
portfolio. BOQ adheres to APRA’s serviceability and validation  in industry dynamics, St Andrew’s has made the decision 
guidelines and the delivery of a lending transformation program  to cease distribution of consumer credit insurance. 
will deliver an improved customer experience. BOQ has also  Existing customers will continue to be served and the 
been selective in the commercial industry segments it lends  interests of existing policyholders will remain a priority. 
to, has clearly defined risk appetite statements which take into 
account geographic, industry and a number of other risk factors.
18 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
1.4  RISK AND REGULATORY DEVELOPMENTS
The financial services industry continues to face heavy scrutiny  While any question of liability for compensation for any affected 
from the Federal Government, regulators, investors and  customer would turn, in part, on whether ASIC is correct in any of 
consumers. In recent years, a significant number of regulatory  its assertions made in the proceedings, on any likely scenario the 
consultations, inquiries and industry reviews led to a number of  potential total compensation payable to customers will be very 
changes that could impact BOQ. A summary of the key areas of  limited, if not zero, even if any terms are determined to be unfair 
reform and areas of increased risk focus are outlined below. contract terms within the meaning of the Act. The Bank continues 
to communicate with ASIC regarding the proceedings.
REGULATORY DEVELOPMENTS
In the meantime, the Bank has also commenced a further 
review of its small business contract terms and conditions. 
Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorism 
This project involves additional investment in reviewing 
Financing Act 2006 Compliance various suites of standard terms applicable to relevant Bank 
Since the emergence of industry issues with Anti-Money  contracts. Consistent with the Bank’s long history of working 
Laundering (AML) / Counter Terrorism Financing (CTF)  co-operatively with regulators and law enforcement agencies, 
compliance in 2017, the Bank has continued to enhance and  the Bank will continue to monitor compliance with the ASIC Act 
strengthen its AML/CTF systems and controls. During this  and its unfair contract terms provisions, and seek to continue to 
period the Bank has been working in close consultation with  work constructively with ASIC.
Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre (AUSTRAC) 
in relation to the Bank’s AML/CTF program. AUSTRAC  Meeting revised regulatory reporting requirements
conducted a scheduled on-site review of the Bank’s AML/ The economic and financial statistics (EFS) collection – previously 
CTF systems and controls in July 2018 to assess progress and  the Domestic Books collection – is a series of reporting 
compliance with AML/CTF legislation.  requirements administered on behalf of the Australian Bureau 
of Statistics (ABS) and the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) 
As noted in the Directors Report for the half year ended 28 
(collectively, the Agencies) by APRA. The collection focuses on 
February 2019, following this scheduled on-site review, the Bank 
the Australian (domestic) operations and activities of authorised 
received a Compliance Assessment Report from AUSTRAC on 
deposit-taking institutions (ADIs) and Registered Financial 
21 December 2018 (Report). The Report identified potential 
Corporations (RFCs).
compliance contraventions of the Anti-Money Laundering and 
Counter Terrorism Financing Act 2006 (Cth). Since receipt of the  The EFS collection is being introduced in three phases 
Report, the Bank has continued to consult and update AUSTRAC  progressively over late FY19 and FY20. 
about the significant progress that has been made to investigate 
The EFS collection materially increased the quantity of data 
and address the issues identified in the Report. In addition, the 
required from ADIs and RFCs, and has resulted in heightened 
Bank has continued to strengthen its AML/CTF Program. This 
scrutiny regarding the quality and governance supporting the 
work involves additional investment in prevention mechanisms, 
relevant data.
ensuring an effective and efficient control environment, and 
uplifting compliance capability.  The Bank is committed to meeting its regulatory reporting 
requirements. In relation to EFS, this has created challenges 
The Bank has a long history of working co-operatively with 
given data requirements, complexity of origination systems and 
regulators and law enforcement agencies to prevent money 
the need for additional controls. A material program of work has 
laundering and terrorism financing. The Bank is committed 
been prioritised to raise the standards of data quality and data 
to fully meeting regulatory requirements and will continue to 
governance to support the Bank’s ability to provide timely and 
monitor and improve compliance with AML/CTF legislation in 
accurate EFS data to APRA on behalf of the Agencies. The Bank 
conjunction with AUSTRAC.
acknowledges the priority of this work and will continue to work 
closely with APRA and other Agencies.
Unfair contracts
In November 2016, the Bank implemented new terms and  Consumer Credit Insurance
conditions for its small business customers in response to the  Regulatory and community expectations continue to impact 
introduction of unfair contract terms legislation by the Federal  the insurance sector, particularly consumer credit insurance. 
government. Notwithstanding the measures taken by the Bank,  In response to the release of ASIC’s Report 622 relating to 
on 4 September 2019, the Australian Securities and Investments  consumer credit insurance, St Andrew’s has made the decision to 
Commission (ASIC) commenced proceedings alleging that certain  cease sale of consumer credit insurance. 
terms in the Bank’s small business contracts were nevertheless 
unfair contract terms in breach of the ASIC Act. Royal Commission into Misconduct in the Banking, 
Both prior to and following the issue of proceedings, the Bank has  Superannuation and Financial Services Industry
sought to engage with ASIC at all times in a constructive manner  The Royal Commission into Misconduct in the Banking, 
to achieve a resolution of this issue. As part of that process, the  Superannuation and Financial Services Industry was established 
Bank has pro-actively volunteered to carry out a review of all small  on 14 December 2017 and conducted through 2018 and 2019. 
business lending contracts entered into on or after November  The Commissioner, the Honourable Kenneth Madison Hayne AC 
2016 with a view to identifying if there are any instances where  QC, submitted an Interim Report to the Governor-General on 28 
the Bank has relied upon or enforced one or more of the terms  September 2018 which was tabled in Parliament on 28 September 
(alleged by ASIC to be unfair) in a manner which is adverse to  2018. The final report was submitted to the Governor-General on 
the customer’s interests. While the Bank’s review is ongoing, it  1 February 2019 and it tabled in Parliament on 4 February 2019. In 
currently believes that very few, if any, customers have been  response, the Government announced that it was taking action on 
adversely affected by the alleged unfair contract terms.  all 76 recommendations contained within the Commission’s Final 
Report and in a number of important areas is going further. 
Annual Report 2019 19
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
1.4	 	RISK	AND	REGULATORY	DEVELOPMENTS	(CONTINUED)
The Government said its response would address the issues  Banking Executive Accountability Regime
identified by the Royal Commission and substantially build on the  As part of the 2017-18 Budget, the Federal Government 
Government’s existing agenda by:
announced that it would legislate to introduce a new Banking 
•  strengthening protections for consumers, small  Executive Accountability Regime (BEAR). The intention of 
businesses and rural and regional communities; BEAR is to enhance the responsibility and accountability of 
•  enhancing accountability; banks and their directors and senior executives. 
•  ensuring strong and effective financial system regulators; and The Treasury Laws Amendment (Banking Executive 
•  further improving consumer and small  Accountability and Related Measures) Bill 2017 (Cth) passed 
business access to redress. through Federal Parliament on 7 February 2018 and received 
its Royal Assent on 20 February 2018. Large financial 
In undertaking these reforms, the Government stated it would 
institutions needed to comply with the regime on 1 July 2018, 
ensure that the financial system continued to provide consumers 
and small businesses with access to credit and other affordable  with a deferral period for commencement of the variable 
financial services that they need, and that the financial system  remuneration requirements to 1 January 2019. Small and 
remains competitive, efficient and resilient. medium sized ADIs (which includes BOQ) needed to comply 
with BEAR from 1 July 2019.
To ensure these reforms are implemented efficiently and 
effectively, the Government stated that the Treasury Royal 
Parliamentary Joint Committee on Corporations and 
Commission Taskforce will continue as a Financial Services 
Reform Implementation Taskforce. To ensure ongoing coordinated  Financial Services – Operation and effectiveness of 
delivery of reforms, a Financial Services Reform Implementation  the Franchising Code of Conduct 
Committee was also established consisting of the Treasury,  On 22 March 2018, the Senate referred an inquiry into the 
ASIC, APRA, the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel and other 
operation and effectiveness of the Franchising Code of 
agencies as required.
Conduct to the Parliamentary Joint Committee for report by 
Starting in three years, the Government will establish an  30 September 2018. The Committee’s report was released in 
independent inquiry to review and assess whether industry  March 2019 and, in response, the Government has established 
practices have changed following the Royal Commission and 
an inter-agency Franchising Taskforce to examine the feasibility 
have led to better consumer outcomes. The Government will 
and implementation of recommendations in the report. The 
also require a similar assessment of the regulators in three years 
Taskforce will provide advice to the Minister for Employment, 
by a new regulator oversight body that the Government has 
Skills, Small and Family Business and the Assistant Treasurer 
agreed to establish.
in the second half of 2019, which will inform the Government’s 
A number of the recommendations made by the Royal 
response to the Committee’s report. The response will provide 
Commission, and the subsequent response from the Government 
an achievable plan for the reform of the franchising framework 
and regulators, have and will impact BOQ as reforms continue to 
be implemented in the years ahead. BOQ is committed to meeting  that is fair, effective and accountable for franchisors and 
its regulatory and compliance obligations and will implement  franchisees while avoiding unnecessary regulatory burden. BOQ 
changes as required to comply with regulatory changes emanating  will continue to engage cooperatively with the Government 
from the Royal Commission and the Government’s response. when the response is released.
APRA self-assessments Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA)
In June 2018, APRA wrote to the boards of 36 authorised deposit-
On 1 May 2018, the Government announced the authorisation of 
taking institutions, insurers and superannuation licensees, 
Australian Financial Complaints Limited to operate AFCA, and 
including Bank of Queensland, requesting a written self-
members of the inaugural AFCA Board. AFCA has become the 
assessment of the effectiveness of governance, accountability 
one-stop shop external dispute resolution (EDR) body for disputes 
and culture in their institution. The request followed the release of 
the Final Report of the Prudential Inquiry into the Commonwealth  arising in the financial sector. The objective of AFCA is to provide 
Bank of Australia. free, fast and binding dispute resolution for consumers and small 
businesses and to increase transparency of dispute resolution 
Across the industries, four themes emerged:
practices by enabling ASIC to publish banks’ internal dispute 
•  non-financial risk management requires improvement;
resolution data. AFCA commenced accepting complaints from 1 
•  accountabilities are not always clear, 
November 2018. Any existing FOS disputes continued to be dealt 
cascaded and effectively enforced;
with under the previous FOS terms of reference until resolved.
•  acknowledged weaknesses are well-known and 
some have been long-standing; and Earlier this year, the Government approved amendments to the 
•  risk culture is not well understood, and therefore  AFCA Rules which allows AFCA to accept eligible complaints about 
may not be reinforcing the desired behaviours. conduct that occurred on or after 1 January 2008. This change 
BOQ continues to evolve and mature its capability to manage  took effect from 1 July 2019, and customers will be able to raise 
non-financial risks in order to deliver sustainable improvement in 
these complaints with AFCA until 30 June 2020.
risk management practices.  BOQ will be undertaking an on-site 
review with APRA in the near term. 
20 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
1.4	 	RISK	AND	REGULATORY	DEVELOPMENTS	(CONTINUED)
New Banking Code of Practice Introduction of the Modern Slavery Act 
The new Banking Code of Practice took effect from 1 July 2019.  On 28 June 2018, the Government introduced the Modern 
The Banking Code is enforceable as part of a customer’s contract  Slavery Bill 2018. This Bill requires certain organisations based 
with their bank. This is a strong commitment to ethical and  in, or operating in Australia, which have an annual consolidated 
transparent behaviour, responsible lending and greater financial  revenue of more than $100 million (defined as ‘reporting 
protections for customers. entities’), to annually report on the risks of modern slavery in their 
operations and supply chains, and to address those risks. The 
New additions to the Banking Code include:
annual statements will need to address mandatory criteria set 
•  More information about changes to customers’ accounts and  out in the Bill, including the entity’s key modern slavery risks and 
greater assistance to vulnerable customers; describing their actions to address those risks. These criteria will 
•  Simplified small business loan contracts with fewer conditions  provide certainty for business about how to report and ensure 
for more than 92 per cent of businesses; statements can be easily compared.
•  New cooling off periods for guarantors; and The Modern Slavery Act was passed by Parliament on 29 
•  An independent compliance committee with specific small  November 2018 and the reporting requirement entered into 
business and agribusiness expertise to investigate breaches of  force on 1 January 2019. BOQ will submit its first Modern Slavery 
the Banking Code. Statement to the Minister of Home Affairs within six months 
after the end of BOQ’s FY20 reporting period (by the end of 
The recommendations from the Royal Commission include six 
February 2021).
proposed further changes to the Banking Code. Amendments to 
the Code covering five of these changes have been drafted and 
APRA’s proposed revisions to the capital framework  
submitted to the regulators for approval. These changes are due 
for ADIs
to be implemented by March 2020.
On 14 February 2018, APRA released two discussion papers for 
Consumer Data Right Bill and Open Banking 
consultation with ADIs on proposed revisions to the capital 
From 2017 to 2018, the Government consulted on exposure  framework. The papers include proposed revisions to the capital 
draft legislation to implement the Consumer Data Right (CDR).  framework resulting from the Basel Committee finalising the 
The CDR will provide individuals and businesses with a right to  Basel III reforms in December 2017, as well as other changes 
efficiently and conveniently access specified data in relation to  to better align the framework to risks, including in relation 
them held by business; and authorise secure access to this data  to housing lending. APRA also released a discussion paper 
by trusted and accredited third parties. The CDR will also require  on implementation of a leverage ratio requirement. APRA 
businesses (like BOQ) to provide public access to information on  stated that it is not seeking to increase capital requirements 
specified products they have on offer. beyond what was already announced in July 2017 as part of the 
‘unquestionably strong’ benchmarks. The key proposed changes 
CDR is designed to give customers more control over their 
to the capital framework include:
information, leading to more choice in where they take their 
•  lower risk weights for low LVR mortgage loans, and higher 
business, or more convenience in managing their money. The 
risk weights for interest-only loans and loans for investment 
Government has committed to applying the CDR in the banking, 
purposes, than apply under APRA’s current framework; 
energy and telecommunications sector. For the banking sector, 
this is referred to as “Open Banking” and will be the first sector to  •  amendments to the treatment of exposures to small-to 
apply the CDR. medium-sized enterprises (SME), including those secured 
by residential property under the standardised and IRB 
The CDR is intended to reduce the barriers that currently prevent 
approaches; 
customers from switching between banks. Banks will be required 
•  constraints on IRB ADIs’ use of their own parameter estimates 
to provide open access to data on product terms and conditions, 
for particular exposures, and an overall floor on risk weighted 
transaction use, and will have the ability to direct that their data 
assets relative to the standardised approach; and
be shared with other service providers (banks and non-banks).
•  a single replacement methodology for the current advanced 
On 9 May 2018, the Government agreed to the recommendations 
and standardised approaches to operational risk.
of the Review into Open Banking, both for the framework of the 
On 7 June 2019, APRA released its response to the first round 
overarching CDR and for the application of the right to Open 
of consultation on proposed changes to the capital framework 
Banking. The CDR bill passed Parliament on 1 August 2019. The 
for ADIs. APRA is proposing to revise some of its initial 
CDR rules for banking (or Open Banking) were published by 
proposals, including: 
the ACCC on 2 September 2019, providing increased detail on 
•  for residential mortgages, some narrowing in the capital 
the rules for Open Banking and a refined approach to phasing. 
difference that applies to lower risk owner-occupied, principal-
The first important compliance milestone for major banks is 1 
and-interest mortgages and all other mortgages;
February 2020, where they will need to be able to share consumer 
data with accredited persons on transactional accounts, with  •  more granular risk weight buckets and the recognition of 
loan account data required by 1 July 2020. All remaining banks  additional types of collateral for SME lending, as recommended 
(including BOQ) will be required to comply with CDR rules with a  by the Productivity Commission in its report on Competition in 
the Financial System; and
12-month delay from when majors must comply.
•  lower risk weights for credit cards and personal loans secured 
by vehicles.
Annual Report 2019 21
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
1.4	 	RISK	AND	REGULATORY	DEVELOPMENTS	(CONTINUED)
APRA’s consultation on the revisions to the ADI capital  Regulatory Risk
framework is a multi-year project. APRA expects to conduct one 
The risk that new or changes in legislation and regulations will 
further round of consultation on the draft prudential standards  materially impact a security, business, sector, or market. A change 
for credit risk prior to their finalisation. It is intended that they  in legislation, regulations or made by government, regulatory and/
will come into effect from 1 January 2022, in line with the Basel  or industry bodies may increase the costs of operating a business, 
Committee on Banking Supervision’s internationally agreed  reduce the attractiveness of an investment, or change the 
implementation date. An exception is the operational risk capital  competitive landscape. 
proposals for ADIs that currently use advanced models: APRA  BOQ manages Regulatory Risk through monitoring changes to 
is proposing these new requirements be implemented from the  legislation, regulations and/or industry codes, understanding 
and assessing the potential impacts to BOQ’s products, services, 
earlier date of 1 January 2021.
businesses and operations and developing programs that 
APRA’s consultation on increasing the loss-absorbing  support the implementation of any changes impacting BOQ or 
its customers.
capacity of authorised deposit-taking institutions 
On 8 November 2018, APRA released a discussion paper outlining  Credit Risk
its proposed changes to the application of the capital adequacy  The risk that a debtor or transactional counterparty will default 
framework for authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADIs) to  and/or fail to meet their contractual obligations, and includes 
support orderly resolution in the unlikely event of failure. On 8  the risk of loss of value of assets due to deterioration in credit 
quality and credit concentration risk. This risk primarily arises 
July 2019, APRA released its response to submissions on proposed 
from BOQ’s lending activities and the holding of various financial 
changes. For small to medium ADIs, APRA stated that extra loss-
instruments for investment or liquidity purposes. BOQ has a set of 
absorbing capacity would be considered on a case-by-case basis 
well documented credit risk policies to manage these risks within 
as part of the resolution planning process.
the limits set by the Board. They include the Treasury Credit Policy, 
Large Exposures Policy, Sector Risk Concentration Policy, the 
APRA’s amendments to guidance on residential 
Delegated Approval Authority Policy, and specific credit policies for 
mortgage lending
each customer segment and their respective lending products.
On 4 July 2019, APRA announced that it would proceed 
Insurance Risk
with proposed changes to its guidance on the serviceability 
The risk that BOQ incorrectly assesses its risk of exposure to 
assessments that ADIs perform on residential mortgage 
financial loss and inability to meet its liabilities due to inadequate 
applications. APRA confirmed its updated guidance on residential 
or inappropriate insurance product design, claims management or 
mortgage lending would no longer expect ADIs to assess home 
reinsurance management.
loan applications using a minimum interest rate of at least 7 
Liquidity and Funding Risk
per cent. Instead, ADIs will be able to review and set their own 
minimum interest rate floor for use in serviceability assessments  The risk that BOQ cannot meet or generate sufficient cash 
resources to meet its payment obligations in full as they fall due, 
and utilise a revised interest rate buffer of at least 2.5 per cent 
or can only do so at materially disadvantageous terms. BOQ’s 
over the loan’s interest rate.
Liquidity and Funding Policy and Contingency Funding Plan are 
KEY BUSINESS RISKS AND AREAS OF INCREASED   used to manage this risk.
RISK FOCUS Market Risk
This includes Traded Market Risk (the risk that the value of an 
The following business risks are considered to be key risks to 
investment will decrease due to moves in market factors such as 
BOQ’s performance and growth and identified under BOQ’s Risk 
foreign exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices, commodity 
Management Framework. 
price and credit spreads) and Non Traded Market Risk (the risks 
arising from the various structural dimensions of the balance 
Compliance Risk
sheet including Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book, Liquidity, 
The risk to earnings and capital arising from violations of or  
Funding, Securitisation and Capital Risk). BOQ has adopted a 
non-compliance with laws, rules, regulations, prescribed 
number of Treasury Risk Policies to manage Market Risk.
practices or ethical standards. It also includes overseeing 
Operational Risk
the establishment and maintenance of risk-based controls 
to mitigate the risks associated with money laundering and  The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal 
terrorism financing. The policies adopted to manage Compliance  processes, people and systems, or from external events. 
Operational risk management covers a wide variety of risks 
Risk include a Conflicts of Interest Policy, Whistleblower Policy 
including legal risk, franchise risk, environmental sustainability, 
and Breach & Incident Management Process. BOQ employees 
Enterprise Continuity Management (comprising business 
also undertake a range of compliance training to manage 
continuity management, crisis management and disaster 
Compliance Risk, including in relation to Consumer Credit 
recovery, IT Security and technology/system risk) and human 
Insurance, Consumer Protection, Code of Banking Practice, 
resources risk management. BOQ has implemented a number 
National Consumer Credit Protection, Privacy and Anti-money 
of systems and policies to address operational risks including a 
Laundering & Counter Terrorism Financing. BOQ continues to 
Code of Conduct, Outsourcing Policy (including off-shoring of 
enhance and develop policies, frameworks and training to meet 
services), Product Development Policy, Information Security 
ongoing and new compliance obligations.
Policy and IT risk management policies, Workplace Health & Safety 
Policy, Workplace Rehabilitation Standard and Harassment, 
Discrimination & Bullying Standard.
22 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
1.4	 	RISK	AND	REGULATORY	DEVELOPMENTS	(CONTINUED)
Contagion Risk BOQ’s values, together with its range of policies and frameworks 
The risk that problems arising in BOQ’s subsidiary companies  are the foundational elements for how its people behave and are 
may compromise the financial and operational position of BOQ  accountable for the decisions they make. BOQ is committed to 
ensuring an ethical and accountable behaviour across all staff within 
as an ADI.
the Group and its strategic partners, which is supported through: 
Reputation Risk •  Ongoing education of all staff in ethics and values;
The risk to earnings and capital arising from negative public  •  Dedicated Ethics & Security Committee made of Senior 
opinion resulting from the loss of reputation, public trust or  Executive and Management who both review and make 
standing, and is considered to be a risk derived from business  decisions on actual or alleged misconduct issues in addition to 
activities and is considered in conjunction with the underlying  analysing potential trends for future risks to the group;
risks resulting from those activities. •  Appointment of a Customer Advocate who champions the 
voice of the customer and acts as the key internal arbitrator 
Securitisation Risk
with a continual focus on the best interests of the customer 
The risk to earnings in the event of a major disruption in market 
and minimising the likelihood of future complaints or incidents;
demand for asset backed securities thereby increasing BOQ’s 
•  Active participation in independent Industry Risk Culture 
funding costs as the BOQ Group seeks alternative, more 
Survey that benchmarks BOQ against peers around attitudes 
expensive, funding sources. This may have an impact on net 
to risk and governance. The outcomes from the survey are 
interest margin, profitability and may limit securitisation as a 
then used to assist the ongoing development of risk and 
funding and capital management tool.
culture program across the group; and
Strategic Risk •  The reporting and monitoring of Risk Culture has continued 
The potential for financial loss associated with the vulnerability of  to mature, with the ongoing enhancement of risk culture 
business earnings to changes in the strategic environment. dashboards and the rollout of divisional operational risk 
committees that support good governance of both Risk  
Talent Risk and Culture. 
The risk arising from the inability to attract or retain the quality 
Cyber and business resilience 
of talent required to deliver for customers, shareholders and the 
communities in which the Bank operates. Risk events that result from the external environment continue to 
be a major focus for all financial institutions and third parties that 
Cyber Security Risk support us. The increase of cyber-related attacks, environmental 
The risk arising from failure to secure and protect computers,  and weather events, pandemics or systems failures can 
networks, programs and data from unintended or unauthorised  significantly disrupt the systems and processes that enable us to 
access. protect our staff, customers and shareholders. 
Across BOQ both Cyber and Business Continuity are regarded as 
Conduct Risk
material business risks that are actively managed and monitored 
The risk of inappropriate, unethical or unlawful behaviour 
across the Group. Critical to BOQ’s investment in Cyber and 
by Management or employees, which could have significant 
Business Resilience is its:
ramifications for our customers, shareholders, clients, 
counterparties and the markets in which the Bank operates. •  Specialised and highly-experienced staff;
•  Ongoing simplification of systems to reduce the point of 
Sustainability and Climate Change Risk potential compromise;
Climate change is becoming increasingly relevant to businesses in 
•  Development of policies, processes and controls that reflect 
the Australian economy.  The ongoing effects of climate change 
international and industry standards and best practices;
risks may impact the long-term prosperity of Australia’s economy, 
•  Relationships with strategic partners, including the 
environment and society.
assessment of their systems and processes, to ensure they 
In addition to the above, there are a number of areas of increased  continue to maintain the same level of resilience and security 
risk focus, driven largely by external developments such as  as BOQ; and
changes in community expectations, technology and regulatory 
•  Ongoing development of business continuity plans and 
activity. These include:
responses through scenario based testing of systems  
Ethics and business conduct and processes.
The conduct of the financial services industry has been under 
increasing scrutiny with a range of regulatory investigations 
impacting not just the brand and reputation of the companies 
involved, but also heightening attention across the broader 
industry. Regardless of the outcome, these investigations 
incur a cost and a loss of value, so it’s understandable that 
stakeholders want greater clarity on how ethics and business 
conduct are managed.
While it is not possible to control the actions of every individual 
within a company, strong management controls and a culture that 
values integrity go a long way to minimising the risk of adverse 
employee behaviour.
Annual Report 2019 23
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
1.4	 	RISK	AND	REGULATORY	DEVELOPMENTS	(CONTINUED)
Climate change
Governance
The risks and opportunities of climate change are becoming 
Management of risk is ultimately overseen by the BOQ Board 
increasingly relevant to most businesses in the Australian 
and Risk Committee. BOQ has an integrated Risk Management 
economy. Through the Paris Agreement of 2015, governments 
around the world agreed to take action to limit global warming  Framework in place to identify, assess, manage and report risks 
to less than 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels and as  on a consistent and reliable basis. This framework has been 
close to 1.5 degree Celsius as possible and to transition to net zero  developed to accord with the tolerance levels set out in the BOQ 
emissions by 2050. As a result, the Australian Government has set  Risk Appetite Statement. A number of risks have been identified 
a target to reduce emissions by 26-28 per cent below 2005 levels  as material business risks for BOQ under this Risk Management 
by 2030. The transition to a low carbon economy and the ongoing  Framework, including credit risk, operational risk, reputation risk 
effects of climate change will impact the long-term prosperity  and strategic risk. 
of Australia’s economy, environment and society. Therefore 
The Board delegates day to day management of the business 
businesses are increasing the level of disclosure around how the 
risks and opportunities of climate change are relevant to their  to the management team. This includes identification of 
particular business. opportunities for the business as well as management of risk 
within the risk appetite that has been approved by the Board. The 
In 2017, the Financial Stability Board’s Taskforce on Climate-
management team utilises the Executive Committee, Business 
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) published its final report  Performance Committee and Executive Credit Committee as well 
which set out its recommendations for helping businesses 
as various policies to assess and manage risks.
disclose climate-related financial information. The TCFD 
report establishes recommendations for disclosing clear,  Strategy
comparable and consistent information about the risks and 
Risks
opportunities presented by climate change, and provide decision- 
The following tables outline the potential climate-related 
useful information to lenders, insurers, and investors. The 
risks which are currently considered to be most relevant to 
recommendations are structured around four thematic areas 
BOQ in the context of its future strategies. The physical risks 
that represent core elements of how organisations operate: 
identified are more likely to manifest over the medium to long 
governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets. 
term (5-30 years+). The timing and magnitude of transition 
An overview of the information relevant to BOQ across these 
risks are less certain but have the potential to arise sooner (3-5 
themes is provided below.
years), depending on actions taken by governments, regulators, 
businesses and consumers to expedite a transition to a low 
carbon economy.
Transition risks
Climate-related risks Potential financial impacts for BOQ Potential actions for BOQ to mitigate
Reduced income for businesses or  Increased loan impairment expense (due to  Identify existing customers most at risk and 
individuals currently reliant on income from  reduced capacity for customers to repay) assist with transition;
unsustainable sources, or increased climate- Consider sustainability of income in any new 
related transition expenses lending.
Changing customer behaviour, including  Decreased income (if BOQ product/service  Monitor community attitudes and customer 
reduced demand for certain products offerings do not meet customer needs/  behaviour;
expectations) Operate in a way that aligns with customer 
and community expectations;
Design and distribute products and 
services that meet customer needs and 
expectations.
Costs to offset emissions or transition to  Increased expenses Identify opportunities to reduce exposure to 
lower emissions energy/fuel sources; higher emission energy/fuel sources;
Regulatory change; Monitor community and stakeholder views 
Enhanced reporting obligations;  and expectations; 
Increased stakeholder concern;  Continue to enhance disclosures to meet 
Exposure to litigation; stakeholder expectations. 
Increased insurance premiums
BOQ will continue to monitor and assess external developments which may lead to increased transition risk, in order to better understand 
the likely risks that may arise for BOQ over the short, medium and long term. In its commercial lending and BOQ Finance portfolios, BOQ 
has limited direct lending exposure to the sectors at highest risk from a more rapid transition.
24 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
1.4	 	RISK	AND	REGULATORY	DEVELOPMENTS	(CONTINUED)
Physical risks
Climate-related risks Potential financial impacts for BOQ Potential actions for BOQ to mitigate
Decline in value of assets due to: Increased loan impairment expense Identify existing customers and assets most 
Increase in impact of climate-related  at risk;
extreme weather events; Assist customers to understand risks and 
Rising sea levels; mitigate where possible;
Rising temperatures;  Assess climate-related risk of new lending.
Rise in insurance premiums or inability to 
obtain insurance.
Business disruption due to climate-related  Decreased income; Prepare for business disruption scenarios
extreme weather events, rising sea levels or  Increased expenses.
rising temperatures
As part of its annual portfolio stress testing simulation, in 2018  Risk management
BOQ included a weather-related event as a scenario to be tested.   BOQ’s process for identifying, assessing and managing risks is 
This involved a severe flood scenario in South-East Queensland, 
integrated into its overall Risk Management Framework. Climate 
with inundation to a level of seven metres (compared to the 2011 
risk can emerge in the assessment of credit risk, operational risk, 
Brisbane flood level of four metres). The financial impact of this 
reputation risk, and strategic risk, which have been identified as 
scenario was immaterial in terms of direct physical impact on 
material risks under BOQ’s Risk Management Framework. The 
BOQ’s lending portfolio.
management team utilises the Executive Credit Committee 
BOQ’s 2019 stress testing scenarios include a severe long term  and credit policies such as the Ecological Care and Sustainability 
drought scenario and a long term sea-level rise analysis (based  Lending Policy to assess potential implications to credit risk. 
on data from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s  Credit risk is assessed at a portfolio level as well as at an individual 
(IPCC) RCP8.5 high emissions scenario). The final results of these  credit exposure level on a case-by-case basis. On an individual 
scenarios are expected to be available later in the 2019 calendar  exposure level this would include consideration of future cash 
year and will be included in BOQ’s Internal Capital Adequacy  flows available to service debt as well as valuations of assets 
Assessment Process (ICAAP) Report.  taken as security. Property valuations take into account factors 
such as flooding and environmental risk in estimating the value 
Opportunities
of properties, which BOQ uses as a basis for determining an 
The following are the key climate-related opportunities which are 
appropriate level of lending to be extended relative to that 
most relevant to BOQ:
property value. In addition, BOQ’s loan agreements require 
•  Funding investment in renewable energy. customers to maintain comprehensive insurance for any 
property provided as security for a loan. Where flood is identified 
•  Developing finance solutions to meet the needs of businesses 
as a potential risk in the valuation, flood cover is required to be 
and consumers in a lower-carbon economy.
included in the insurance policy. This provides a level of protection 
These opportunities would primarily impact BOQ through  to the value of security in the event that there is damage or 
increased revenues. There may also be opportunities to achieve  destruction caused by extreme weather events. 
lower costs through pursuit of more resource and energy 
Reputation risk is managed in line with BOQ’s Conduct and 
efficient operations.
Reputational Risk Framework, through monitoring of both the 
An example of this is that in FY19, BOQ Finance established a new  internal and external environment and regular stakeholder 
Energy Efficient Equipment Finance Program, by joining the Clean  engagement with customers, investors, suppliers, employees, 
Energy Finance Corporation (CEFC) co-financing program. The  government, media, regulators and community partners. This 
CEFC is a government entity established to facilitate increased  includes a combination of structured engagement through 
flows of finance into Australian based renewable energy, energy  surveys, regular reporting and industry forums as well as direct 
efficiency and low emissions technology. This program will allow  feedback from customers and staff or indirect information 
BOQ to provide small business owners with competitive finance  gathering and monitoring of issues that may be or may become 
for eligible equipment. relevant to BOQ. 
BOQ’s Risk team is conducting a review of its current approach 
to managing climate-related risk with a view to making 
recommendations which will be considered for implementation 
in 2020, to better embed climate-related risk in BOQ’s policies 
and processes. 
Annual Report 2019 25
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
1.4	 	RISK	AND	REGULATORY	DEVELOPMENTS	(CONTINUED)
Metrics and targets
BOQ is reviewing metrics that would be most relevant to 
monitor specific climate-related risks for the business. 
A metric that is currently reported is the dollar value and 
proportion of the loan portfolio that has been extended to 
businesses who are directly involved in fossil fuel mining ($30 
million or <0.1 per cent of BOQ’s total loan portfolio as at 31 
August 2019). This is a metric that will reduce to zero by 2023 
as BOQ has committed to no further financing of equipment 
directly involved in the extraction of fossil fuels. BOQ has no 
direct exposure to coal-fired power generators and has no 
appetite for lending to this sector. For BOQ’s housing loan 
portfolio, lending identified in mining- dependent regions are 
subject to specific policy considerations. Monthly internal 
reporting on exposures and arrears levels is used to monitor 
risk in these locations. Given the size and nature of its business, 
BOQ’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are not significant, 
with purchased electricity for its support centres and branches 
being the biggest contributor to emissions. Electricity 
consumption and other environmental impact metrics are 
published in the Non-financial performance measures section 
of BOQ’s Sustainability Report.
 
26 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
2.  GROUP PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS
2.1  INCOME STATEMENT AND KEY METRICS
Year End Performance Half Year Performance
Aug-19   Aug-19  
$ million Aug-19 Aug-18 vs Aug-18 Aug-19 Feb-19 vs Feb-19
Net interest income 961 965 - 485 476 2%
Non-interest income 128 145 (12%) 63 65 (3%)
Total income 1,089 1,110 (2%) 548 541 1%
Operating expenses (550) (527) 4% (282) (268) 5%
Underlying profit  539 583 (8%) 266 273 (3%)
Loan impairment expense (74) (41) 80% (44) (30) 47%
Profit before tax 465 542 (14%) 222 243 (9%)
Income tax expense (145) (170) (15%) (69) (76) (9%)
Cash earnings after tax 320 372 (14%) 153 167 (8%)
Statutory net profit after tax (1) 298 336 (11%) 142 156 (9%)
(1)   Refer to Section 5.1 Reconciliation of statutory profit to cash earnings of the Appendices for a reconciliation of cash earnings to statutory net profit after tax.
Year End Performance Half Year Performance
Aug-19   Aug-19  
Key Metrics Aug-19 Aug-18 vs Aug-18 Aug-19 Feb-19 vs Feb-19
SHAREHOLDER RETURNS  
Share price ($) 9.17 11.49 (20%) 9.17 9.01 2%
Market capitalisation ($ million) 3,721 4,565 (18%) 3,721 3,620 3%
Dividends per ordinary share  
(cents) 65  76  (14%) 31 34 (9%)
(fully franked)
CASH EARNINGS BASIS
Basic Earnings per Share (EPS)  (cents) 79.6  94.7  (16%) 37.8 41.8 (10%)
Diluted EPS  (cents) 74.0  89.3  (17%) 35.3 39.0 (9%)
Dividend payout ratio  (%) 82.4 80.7  170bps 82.2 81.8 40bps
STATUTORY BASIS
Basic EPS  (cents) 74.2  85.5  (13%) 35.3  39.0  (9%)
Diluted EPS  (cents) 69.2  81.2  (15%) 33.0  36.4  (9%)
Dividend payout ratio  (%) 88.5 89.3  (80bps) 88.6 87.6  100bps
Annual Report 2019 27
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
2.1	 INCOME	STATEMENT	AND	KEY	METRICS	(CONTINUED)	
Year End Performance Half Year Performance
Aug-19  Aug-19 
Key Metrics Aug-19 Aug-18 vs Aug-18 Aug-19 Feb-19 vs Feb-19
PROFITABILITY AND EFFICIENCY MEASURES
CASH EARNINGS BASIS
Net profit after tax  ($ million) 320 372 (14%) 153 167 (8%)
Underlying profit (1) ($ million) 539 583 (8%) 266 273 (3%)
NIM (2) (%) 1.93 1.98 (5bps) 1.92 1.94 (2bps)
CTI (%) 50.5 47.5 300bps 51.5 49.5 200bps
Loan impairment expense to gross loans  
(bps) 16 9 7bps 19 13 6bps
and advances (GLA)
ROE  (%) 8.3 9.9 (160bps) 7.8 8.8 (100bps)
ROTE (3) (%) 10.8 12.9 (210bps) 10.2 11.4 (120bps)
STATUTORY BASIS
Net profit after tax  ($ million) 298 336 (11%) 142 156 (9%)
Underlying profit (1) ($ million) 509  534  (5%) 252 257 (2%)
NIM (2) (%) 1.93 1.98 (5bps) 1.92 1.94 (2bps)
CTI (%) 53.5 52.4 110bps 54.3 52.8 150bps
Loan impairment expense to GLA (bps) 16 9 7bps 19 13 6bps
ROE (%) 7.7 8.9 (120bps) 7.3 8.2 (90bps)
ROTE (3) (%) 10.1 11.6 (150bps) 9.5 10.7 (120bps)
ASSET QUALITY
30 days past due (dpd) arrears ($ million) 499 469 6% 499 505 (1%)
90dpd arrears ($ million) 312  260  20% 312 287 9%
Impaired assets ($ million) 197 164 20% 197 152 30%
Specific provisions to impaired assets (%) 43.3 52.4 (910bps) 43.3 50.4 (710bps)
Collective provisions to risk weighted assets 
(%) 0.48 0.39 9bps 0.48 0.46 2bps
(RWA)
CAPITAL
Common equity tier 1 (CET1) ratio (%) 9.04 9.31 (27bps) 9.04 9.26 (22bps)
Total capital adequacy ratio (%) 12.40 12.76 (36bps) 12.40 12.68 (28bps)
RWA ($ million) 30,533 29,669 3% 30,533 29,978 2%
(1)  Profit before loan impairment expense and tax.
(2)	NIM	net	of	offset	accounts.
(3) B ased on after tax earnings applied to average shareholders’ equity (excluding preference shares and treasury shares) less goodwill and identifiable intangible assets 
(customer related intangibles/brands and computer software).
28 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
2.2  NET INTEREST INCOME
Year End Performance Half Year Performance
Aug-19   Aug-19  
$ million Aug-19 Aug-18 vs Aug-18 Aug-19 Feb-19 vs Feb-19
Net interest income 961 965 - 485 476 2%
Average interest earning assets 49,842 48,818 2% 50,220 49,441 2%
NIM 1.93  1.98  (5bps) 1.92  1.94  (2bps)
Net interest income decreased $4 million from FY18. This was  Asset margins improved in 2H19 as asset pricing benefits offset 
driven by a five basis point decrease in NIM, partially offset by a  continued pressure from competition for new lending and the 
two percent increase in average interest earning assets. The five  impact of discounting on the existing portfolio. Hedging costs 
basis points reduction in NIM was primarily due to increased basis  also improved in 2H19 from 1H19, driven by a reduced spread 
costs, though this moderated in 2H19, and the impact of lower  between the bank bill swap rate and overnight index swap rate. 
interest rates on the Bank’s capital and low cost deposit portfolio.  Funding costs rose as deposit pricing lagged the rapid changes 
in the movement in short term interest rates, both cash rate 
2H19 performance saw net interest income increase by $9 million 
and bank bill swap rate, over 2H19. The net result was a two basis 
or two per cent. The increase in net interest income was a result 
point decrease in NIM in 2H19.
of a two per cent increase in average interest earning assets in 
2H19 and a higher day count in 2H19 compared to 1H19. This was 
partially offset by a reduction in NIM.
Net interest margin - February 2019 to August 2019  
2.28%
2.26%
0.34% (1)  0.02% (0.05%)
0.03% (0.02%) 0.34% (1)
NIL
1.94% 1.92%
1H19 Asset pricing  Funding costs   Hedging costs Capital and low  Third party  2H19
and mix and mix cost deposits costs
NIM Third party costs (1)
(1)  Third party costs largely represent commissions to Owner Managers and brokers.
Underlying movements in NIM between 2H19 and 1H19 included  Hedging costs: The impact of hedging costs improved NIM by 
the following: three basis points in 2H19, driven by reductions in basis and other 
Asset pricing and mix: Asset pricing and mix improved by two  hedging costs. Half of the improvement was due to the basis 
basis points over 2H19. Loan repricing actions contributed  portfolio spreads reducing from an average of 46 basis points to 
positively to NIM by six basis points. This benefit was partially  39 basis points. The remainder was from favourable positioning of 
offset by continued margin pressure from competition for new  other hedging over the period.
housing loans, and retention discounting. This was responsible  Capital and low cost deposits: The return on BOQ’s $4.4 billion 
for a four basis points reduction in NIM. replicating portfolio declined in 2H19, as the lower interest rate 
Funding costs and mix: Funding costs (excluding the impact of  environment impacted the portfolio reinvestment rates. This 
basis) reduced NIM by five basis points. Retail and middle market  drove a two basis point reduction in NIM over 2H19.
term deposit costs increased in 2H19 as industry pricing lagged a 
reduction in short term rates. Wholesale funding costs also rose 
in line with a lengthening of portfolio duration strengthening the 
Bank’s Net Stable Funding Ratio.
Annual Report 2019 29
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
2.3	 NON-INTEREST	INCOME
Year End Performance Half Year Performance
Aug-19 vs  Aug-19 vs 
$ million Aug-19 Aug-18 Aug-18 Aug-19 Feb-19 Feb-19
Banking income 82 93 (12%) 39 43 (9%)
Insurance income 11 19 (42%) 4 7 (43%)
Other income (1) 30 32 (6%) 15 15 -
Trading income 5 1 400% 5 - -
Total non-interest income (2) 128 145 (12%) 63 65 (3%)
(1)   VMA third party income and costs are included in other income as a net result.
(2)  Refer to Section 5.1 (B) Non-cash earnings reconciling items of the Appendices for a reconciliation of cash non-interest income to statutory non-interest income.
Non-interest income of $128 million reduced $17 million or 12  Trading income of $5 million was supported by improved 
per cent from FY18. credit spreads as investors chased yield in a low interest rate 
environment, improved short end funding conditions, basis 
Banking income was $11 million or 12 per cent lower than in 
performance and heightened volatility.
FY18. The reduction in banking income was largely due to the 
transition of the BOQ Business merchant terminal offering  Declining St Andrew’s insurance income is discussed in detail in 
to a new third party arrangement, combined with continuing  Section 2.4 below.
customer trends towards lower or no fee products and the 
impact from the implementation of AASB 15 Revenue from 
Contracts with Customers (AASB 15).
Other income decreased $2 million or six per cent during 
FY19 and was flat half on half. The decrease is partly due to a 
reduction in the vendor program end of term income in the 
BOQ Finance business as a result of improving contract terms 
for customers. Included in other income was $8 million of 
VMA third party product distribution income, which was up 34 
per cent on FY18.
2.4  INSURANCE OVERVIEW
Year End Performance Half Year Performance
Aug-19 vs  Aug-19 vs 
$ million Aug-19 Aug-18 Aug-18 Aug-19 Feb-19 Feb-19
Gross written premium (net of refunds) 60 72 (17%) 29 31 (6%)
Net earned premium 55 66 (17%) 26 29 (10%)
Underwriting result 8 15 (47%) 2 6 (67%)
Other insurance income 3 3 - 2 1 100%
Total income 11 18 (39%) 4 7 (43%)
Consolidation adjustment - 1 (100%) - - -
Group insurance result 11 19 (42%) 4 7 (43%)
St Andrew’s contributed $11 million or nine per cent to non- Regulatory and community expectations continue to impact 
interest income in FY19, an $8 million reduction compared to  the insurance sector, particularly consumer credit insurance. 
FY18 due to a lower underwriting result. This was impacted by  A number of St Andrew’s corporate partners (including BOQ) 
contracting net earned premium reflecting fewer premiums,  have made the decision to cease distribution of consumer 
partly offset by reduced commissions paid. Claims costs were flat  credit insurance, following release of ASIC’s Report 622. Existing 
on FY18, reflecting higher loss ratios on a smaller portfolio. customers will continue to be served and the interests of 
policyholders will remain a priority.
30 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
2.5  OPERATING EXPENSES
Year End Performance Half Year Performance
Aug-19 vs  Aug-19 vs 
$ million Aug-19 Aug-18 Aug-18 Aug-19 Feb-19 Feb-19
Employee expenses 264 263 - 132 132 -
Occupancy expenses 42 44 (5%) 21 21 -
General expenses 91 81 12% 47 44 7%
IT expenses 125 119 5% 65 60 8%
Other expenses 28 20 40% 17 11 55%
Total operating expenses (1) (2) 550 527 4% 282 268 5%
CTI 50.5% 47.5% 300bps 51.5% 49.5% 200bps
Number of employees (FTE) (1) 2,098 2,039 3% 2,098 2,073 1%
(1)	 FTE	numbers	and	operating	expenses	exclude	VMA	third	party	costs	as	the	net	result	is	included	in	non-interest	income.	Expenses	relating	to	the	VMA	mortgage	offering	
have been included in the above table.
(2)  Refer to Section 5.1 (B) Non-cash earnings reconciling items of the Appendices for a reconciliation of cash operating expenses to statutory operating expenses.
Operating expenses increased $23 million or four per cent on FY18. Flat employee expenses were driven by lower short term incentives 
paid,  including no Key Management Personnel receiving an award under the Short Term Incentive plan. This was offset by higher FTE to 
support regulatory and compliance programs and targeted growth in BOQ Business.
General and Other expenses increased 12 per cent and 40 per cent respectively. This was largely due to addressing regulatory and 
compliance requirements, additional non-lending losses and higher industry levies. Also included are higher telecommunication costs 
incurred during the transition between data centre locations as part of the Bank’s infrastructure modernisation program. 
IT costs increased due to data collection activities addressing compliance requirements and new technology services resulting from the 
Bank’s technology transformation programs. 
2.6  CAPITALISED INVESTMENT EXPENDITURE
The Bank’s transformation program continues to drive an increase in the assets under construction balance, with a number of significant 
multi-year foundational investment programs underway. These include the functionality required to support the industry’s New Payment 
Platform, a treasury and market risk system upgrade, developing capability for digital offerings for retail, business and financial markets 
customers, as well as a program of work to modernise the Bank’s technology infrastructure.
A number of investments delivered new functionality during 2H19, driving an increase in the software intangible asset balance.
Carrying value of IT intangible assets ($m)  
232
193
180
172
117
44 69 93
Assets under construction
Software intangible asset balance
128
111 115
100
Feb 18 Aug 18 Feb 19 Aug 19
Annual Report 2019 31
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
2.7  LENDING
Lending growth of two per cent was achieved during the year, in an environment characterised by slowing credit growth, strong 
competition and a shifting regulatory landscape. Strong new business acquisition was achieved through the different brand 
channels in BOQ Specialist and BOQ Finance. Virgin Money continued to deliver strong growth, with its home loan portfolio growing 
by $0.9 billion in FY19 to over $2.5 billion while the branch network experienced a contraction in balances, a result of a smaller 
distribution footprint.
As at
 Aug-19   Aug-19  
$ million Aug-19 Feb-19 Aug-18 vs Feb-19(1)  vs Aug-18
Housing lending 27,702 28,330 28,007 (4%) (1%)
Housing lending – APS 120 qualifying securitisation (2) 2,945 2,215 2,499 65% 18%
30,647 30,545 30,506 1% -
Commercial lending  10,008 10,040 9,881 (1%) 1%
BOQ Finance 5,262 4,898 4,595 15% 15%
Consumer 299 296 297 2% 1%
Gross loans and advances 46,216 45,779 45,279 2% 2%
Provision for impairment (233) (214) (201) 18% 16%
Net loans and advances 45,983 45,565 45,078 2% 2%
(1)  Growth rates have been annualised.
(2) Securitised loans subject to capital relief under APRA Prudential Standard APS 120 Securitisation (APS 120).
32 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
2.7	 LENDING	(CONTINUED)	
Growth in gross loans & advances 
Growth in housing ($m)  
FY18 FY19
2.2% Growth 0.5% Growth
0.4x System (1) 0.2x System (1)
653
141
VMA Home Loans 
932
914
BOQ Specialist
BOQ
644 626
(1)  Source: Based on latest available APRA 
system growth statistics as at August 2019
(923)
(1,399)
Housing lending
While housing loan growth was constrained in FY19 by a  BOQ Specialist housing loan balances grew by 14 per cent 
slowing mortgage market and an increasing competitive  in FY19, including 16 per cent growth in its core medical 
landscape, BOQ has maintained prudent credit settings  segment. BOQ Specialist continues to deliver strong, above 
with rigorous servicing, validation and responsible lending  system growth on a maturing portfolio by focusing on building 
practices.  The Bank has increased investment in its lending  relationships with professionals in the early stages of their 
capability, in an effort to deliver improved customer  careers or at university. The diversity offered through this 
outcomes and operational efficiencies. portfolio in geography, profession and age, improves the overall 
risk profile of the housing loan portfolio. The mortgage offering 
Housing growth improved over 2H19 with continued strong 
also creates future opportunities to meet the commercial 
customer acquisition across the Virgin Money and BOQ 
lending needs of the targeted health professional market 
Specialist channels, whilst runoff moderated across the BOQ 
segments well into the future stages of their career progression. 
branded portfolio. The overall housing loan portfolio has further 
Customer growth of five per cent was achieved including 15 per 
diversified geographically with more than half of new business 
cent growth in medical graduates highlighting the success of 
flows originated outside of Queensland.  Distribution through 
this part of the niche strategy.
third party channels represented 29 per cent of new business 
fundings, though this remains under-represented relative to the  BOQ’s branch network improved its housing performance 
industry average of nearly 60 per cent. in 2H19, particularly across the Owner Manager channel, 
through improved retention rates. A new revenue share 
Virgin Money originated over $1.1 billion in new business 
remuneration structure is on track to be introduced early in 
fundings during FY19 taking the portfolio to more than $2.5 
the new financial year which will further align outcomes for 
billion.  The ‘Reward Me’ mortgage product has resonated 
the Bank and Owner Managers.
with a new customer base aligned to the Virgin Money 
brand, predominantly younger and largely based outside of  BOQ’s growth through the mortgage broker channel improved in 
Queensland.  Virgin Money continues to expand its broker  2H19 as retention rates improved. The broker support team has 
presence and in 2019 introduced a direct online capability  continued to work closely with key aggregator partners to further 
further leveraging its enhanced digital offering. improve turnaround times and enhance the customer experience.
Annual Report 2019 33
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
2.7	 LENDING	(CONTINUED)	
Growth in commercial & BOQ Finance ($m)  
FY18 FY19
667
569
108
667
250 BOQ
461
127
BOQ Specialist
250
130
BOQ Finance
(3)
Commercial BOQ Finance Commercial BOQ Finance
FY18 FY19
Commercial BOQ Finance Commercial BOQ Finance
Growth rate 6.1%  5.8% 1.3% 14.5%
System growth (1)  5.1% 4.8% 3.4% 3.2%
Growth vs System 1.2x 1.2x 0.4x 4.5x
(1)  Based on latest available APRA and AFIA system growth statistics as at August 2019.
Commercial & BOQ Finance lending
The commercial lending portfolio grew one per cent in FY19, with  of the medical graduate market resulting in customer growth 
higher run-off due to large client exposure pay downs in 1H19 and  of 15 per cent, five per cent increase in total customer numbers 
a number of large customer asset sales in 2H19. The portfolio  and an estimated 25 per cent of market share in the core 
remains geographically diverse, with Queensland concentration at  medical segment.
42 per cent.
BOQ Finance provided strong asset growth of over $660 million 
The BOQ branded commercial portfolio was relatively flat year  or 15 per cent to take the portfolio to $5.2 billion. Investment 
on year, however the Bank’s niche segment strategy continues  in systems has supported growth in the equipment finance 
to deliver with the corporate healthcare and retirement living  business, novated lease business and new strategic partnerships 
segment delivering growth of 11 per cent. This was offset by run  in the wholesale business. Diversification of exposure has 
off in the property finance portfolio. The agribusiness niche  continued with growth in structured finance solutions, cashflow 
segment had modest growth due to unfavourable weather  finance, equipment finance and dealer wholesale solutions. New 
conditions and BOQ’s focus on supporting existing customers for  green energy solutions have recently been developed to support 
long term financial stability. Small business growth was flat as new  future growth.
business volumes were offset by run off in the mature portfolio.
BOQ Specialist grew strongly at five per cent with solid 
performance in the core medical segment. Offering bespoke 
solutions to medical, dental and veterinary professionals results 
in building deeper customer relationships from graduation 
through to retirement. BOQ Specialist has captured a large part 
34 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.  BUSINESS SETTINGS
3.1  ASSET QUALITY
Loan impairment expense increased $33 million year on year to $74 million, or 16 basis points of gross loans and advances. Impaired 
asset balances of $197 million were $33 million higher than FY18. On transition to AASB 9 from 1 September 2018, a $10 million 
increase in the collective provision was recognised as an adjustment to retained profits. To align with requirements of AASB 9, BOQ 
has implemented a new collective provisioning model (CP model) which is a forward-looking, expected credit loss model. Whilst 
underlying portfolio trends remain sound, the Group’s new collective provisioning was impacted by a less certain economic outlook 
and an increase in arrears which were significant drivers for the increase in loan impairment expense. 
  Year End Performance Half Year Performance
Aug-19   Aug-19  
 Aug-19  Aug-18 vs Aug-18 Aug-19 Feb-19 vs Feb-19
Loan impairment expense  ($ million) 74 41 80%  44  30 47%
Loan impairment expense / GLA  bps 16 9 7bps 19 13 6bps
Impaired assets ($ million) 197 164 20%  197  152 30%
30dpd arrears ($ million) 499 469 6%  499  505 (1%)
90dpd arrears ($ million) 312 260 20%  312  287 9%
Collective provision & general reserve for 
bps 78 67 11bps 78 74 4bps
credit losses (GRCL) / RWA 
The table above summarises BOQ’s key credit indicators   •  30 day and 90 day arrears have increased $30 million and 
and shows: $52 million respectively year on year. The increase was 
driven by the Retail and BOQ Finance portfolios. Retail was 
•   L oan impairment expense increased by $33 million (80 
impacted by new industry expectations surrounding 
per cent) year on year to $74 million. Of the $33 million 
hardships and recovery processes, while BOQ Finance was 
increase in loan impairment expense the collective 
impacted by two large connections totalling $6 million 
provision contributed $22 million. This result included the 
moving into 90 days arrears. 
implementation of a new CP model, which was impacted 
by increases in arrears rates and a less certain economic  •  Collective provisioning and GRCL coverage against RWA 
outlook. Excluding the impact of the collective provision, loan  increased by 11 basis points in FY19 and four basis points in 
impairment expense / GLA in FY19 was 11 basis points, which  2H19. This increase is due to a higher collective provision and 
is two basis points higher than FY18. includes a transitional adjustment upon implementation of 
a new CP model under AASB 9. In addition, less certain 
•  I mpaired assets of $197 million increased by $33 million (20 
economic conditions and increases in arrears impacted the 
per cent) against FY18 and $45 million (30 per cent) against 
forward looking assumptions underlying the expected credit 
2H19. The increase was driven by the Commercial and BOQ 
loss model.
Finance portfolios and more particularly, a large well secured 
agribusiness exposure. The Group now holds two impaired 
exposures greater than $10 million and three exposures 
greater than $5 million. The impaired balances of these five 
connections were $57 million in total. At FY18, the Group held 
three exposures greater than $5 million in impaired status, 
totalling $25 million.
Annual Report 2019 35
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.1	 ASSET	QUALITY	(CONTINUED)
Loan impairment expense
Year End Performance Half Year Performance
Aug-19 Aug-18 Aug-19 Feb-19
Expense Expense/ Expense Expense/ Expense Expense/ Expense Expense/
($m) GLA (bps) ($m) GLA (bps) ($m) GLA (bps) ($m) GLA (bps)
Retail lending  18  6 15 5 7 5 11 7
Commercial lending  24  24 11 11 20 40 4 8
BOQ Finance  32  61 15 33 17 65 15 61
Total loan impairment expense 74 16 41 9 44 19 30 13
Higher loan impairment expense of $74 million during the year  Commercial lending and BOQ Finance loan impairment expense 
included $22 million attributable to higher collective provision  increased by $13 million and $17 million respectively. Impacting 
impairment expense based on the new CP model under AASB 9.  both portfolios was the forward looking CP model. The CP model 
Specific provision impairment expense for FY19 was $52 million, a  included model adjustments of $4 million in the Commercial 
$5 million increase from FY18.  portfolio to provide additional coverage across the agribusiness 
portfolio affected by the drought conditions in New South 
Retail impairment expense increased by $3 million on FY18 and 
Wales and Queensland, and $6 million in BOQ Finance to better 
was mainly driven by higher specific provisioning activity in the 
reflect observed loss given default metrics in the vendor finance 
housing portfolio. Continuing low levels of retail loan impairment 
portfolio. There was also an $8 million increase in specific 
expense in 2H19 reflects robust underwriting standards and 
provisions in 2H19, driven by a small number of connections 
collection practices. 
greater than $1 million. 
Impaired assets
As at
Aug-19   Aug-19  
$ million
Aug-19 Feb-19 Aug-18 vs Feb-19 vs Aug-18
Retail lending 73 60 67 22% 9%
Commercial lending 98 69 81 42% 21%
BOQ Finance 26 23 16 13% 63%
Total impaired assets 197 152 164 30% 20%
Impaired assets / GLA 43bps 33bps 36bps 10bps 7bps
Total impaired assets increased by $33 million, up 20 per cent on  BOQ Finance impaired assets increased by $10 million during 
FY18. FY19, with $3 million in 2H19. This uplift was in line with historical 
provisioning levels and included a single name exposure raised 
The increase in retail impaired assets over 2H19 was driven by  
in 2H19, underlying performance in this portfolio has been 
four new exposures greater than $1 million for a total of $9 million, 
satisfactory.
reversing the previous halves’ downward trend.
The Group now holds five impaired exposures greater than 
Commercial lending increase of $17 million during FY19 was driven 
$5 million with a combined total of $57 million, with two of 
by the impairment of two new large exposures totalling $40 
these exposures greater than $10 million. The Group held three 
million.  Partially offsetting this was the realisation and clearing of 
exposures greater than $5 million at 1H19 and FY18 for a combined 
one large exposure of $7 million.
total of $18 million and $25 million respectively.
 
36 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.1	 ASSET	QUALITY	(CONTINUED)
Impaired assets ($m)  
90 (45) 20%
15 (12)
(13)
26
33 (45) (20) 197
8 (1)
14 (21) 26
164 49
11
(23) 152
16
23
73
67 Retail        $13m or 22%
60
Commercial        $29m or 42% 98
81
69
Aug 18 New impaired Realisations Feb 19 New impaired Realisations Aug 19
Commercial Retail BOQ Finance
Provision coverage
Total provisions increased by $32 million or 16 per cent to $233  Total provision coverage reduced 11 per cent over FY19, while the 
million during FY19. The increase was due to an increase in the  GRCL increased by $3 million (five per cent). Total provisions and 
collective provision as a result of the implementation of a new CP  GRCL to RWA has remained stable from 1H19 and FY18 and BOQ 
model under AASB 9. Specific provision coverage of 43 per cent  remains satisfactorily provisioned compared to industry peers.
was down 900 basis points from FY18. This is reflective of the low 
specific provisioning activity in FY19 and indicative of adequate 
security backing the impaired assets. 
As at
Aug-19    Aug-19  
$ million Aug-19 Feb-19 Aug-18 vs Feb-19 vs Aug-18
Specific provision 85 77 86 10% (1%)
Collective provision 148 137 115 8% 29%
Total provisions 233 214 201 9% 16%
GRCL 62 60 59 3% 5%
Specific provisions to impaired assets 43% 51% 52% (800bps) (900bps)
Total provisions and GRCL coverage / impaired assets (1) 163% 197% 174% (3400bps) (1100bps)
Total provisions and GRCL / RWA (1) 1.1% 1.0% 1.0% 5bps 5bps
(1)	 GRCL	gross	of	tax	effect.
 
Annual Report 2019 37
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.1	 ASSET	QUALITY	(CONTINUED)	
Specific provisions ($m)  
30 (22)
17 (26)
(6)
5 (3) 11
5 (7) (6)
86 7 7 (10) 85
(16) 77 12
13
20
15
27
26
25
46
37 39
Aug 18 New specifics Realisations Feb 19 New specifics Realisations Aug 19
Commercial Retail BOQ Finance
Collective provision and GRCL/RWA vs peers
The graph below provides BOQ’s level of collective provisions and  driven by the forward looking collective provision to adequately 
GRCL to RWA against the current levels of its peers, as published  provide for future events. BOQ continues to be adequately 
in their most recent financial reports. BOQ’s coverage increased  provisioned in comparison to industry peers.
11 basis points over FY19 (four basis points increase from 1H19), 
Standardised banks Advanced banks (1)
1.02%
BOQ
0.16%
0.85%
0.78% 0.78%
0.74% 0.75%
0.71% 0.69%
0.29%
0.28%
0.45% 0.29%
0.86% 0.85%
0.75%
0.69%
0.46% 0.49% 0.42%
0.33%
Feb 19 FY19 SUN BEN ANZ CBA NAB WBC
Collective provision to RWA GRCL to RWA
(1)    Advanced accredited approach to risk weightings causes coverage to appear higher on a relative basis to the standardised banks. 
38 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.1	 ASSET	QUALITY	(CONTINUED)
Arrears
Portfolio 
Balance     
($m)    
Aug-19   Aug-19 
Key Metrics Aug-19 Aug-19 Feb-19  Aug-18 vs Feb-19 vs Aug-18
Total lending - portfolio balance ($ million) 46,216 45,779  45,279  1% 2%
30 days past due ($ million)  499  505  469  (1%) 6%
90 days past due ($ million)  312  287 260 9% 20%
Proportion of portfolio
30 days past due: GLAs 1.08% 1.10% 1.04% (2bps) 4bps
90 days past due: GLAs 0.68% 0.63% 0.57% 5bps 11bps
By product
30 days past due: GLAs (housing) 29,042 1.02% 1.00% 0.92% 2bps 10bps
90 days past due: GLAs (housing) 0.62% 0.51% 0.44% 11bps 18bps
30 days past due: GLAs (line of credit) 1,605 2.80% 2.19% 2.33% 61bps 47bps
90 days past due: GLAs (line of credit) 1.99% 1.79% 1.17% 20bps 82bps
30 days past due: GLAs (consumer) 299 1.00% 1.01% 1.35% (1bps) (35bps)
90 days past due: GLAs (consumer) 0.67% 0.68% 0.67% (1bps) -
30 days past due: GLAs (commercial) 10,008 1.19% 1.29% 1.38% (10bps) (19bps)
90 days past due: GLAs (commercial) 0.90% 1.02% 1.08% (12bps) (18bps)
30 days past due: GLAs (BOQ Finance) 5,262 0.68% 0.90% 0.47% (22bps) 21bps
90 days past due: GLAs (BOQ Finance) 0.17% 0.13% 0.07% 4bps 10bps
Retail Arrears 
Retail arrears increased in both 30 and 90 day categories. This  were expired and the full balance was considered to be in arrears 
reflected a slower transition back to a performing status that  at 1H19. Since 1H19, these were reviewed and no longer considered 
is aligned to new industry expectations driving longer workout  to be in arrears.
times in support of the customer. Line of credit (LOC) arrears 
BOQ Finance arrears have decreased by 22 basis points in 30 days 
have historically trended higher than the other portfolios due to 
arrears but increased 4 basis points in the 90 days arrears since 
the revolving nature of the credit facilities and the smaller LOC 
1H19. The combination of seasonality and the settlement of one 
portfolio exacerbating the arrears ratios. 
large exposure early in 2H19 contributed to the improvement in 
the 30 days arrears. The increase in 90 days arrears was driven by 
BOQ Business Arrears 
one large exposure equating to 8 basis points. Overall movement 
Commercial arrears have decreased in both 30 and 90 day 
in FY19 shows a return to more normal levels following the 
categories by 10 basis points and 12 basis points respectively from 
historical lows seen in FY18. 
1H19. This is driven by the clearance of one large connection which 
equated to 18 basis points across the 30 and 90 days categories. 
In addition, there have been a number of commercial loan  
facilities that, while being serviced and considered performing, 
Annual Report 2019 39
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.2  FUNDING AND LIQUIDITY
BOQ’s liquidity strategy and risk appetite are designed to ensure  
it has the ability to meet financial obligations as they fall due 
in all market conditions.  BOQ has developed a robust liquidity 
risk management framework including Board approved liquidity 
risk tolerances, detailed strategy and policy governing the 
management of liquidity and funding, together with annual Board 
approved funding and contingency funding plans.  Management 
of liquidity risk at BOQ includes a focus on developing a stable  LCR - August 2019 (145%)  
customer deposit base, access to diversified wholesale funding 
markets and disciplined management of maturity profiles. The  $7.9 BILLION
Bank also maintains a portfolio of unencumbered, high quality 
liquid assets, giving BOQ a buffer to withstand a range of stress  OTHER ALA(1)
events, including those involving the loss or impairment of both 
unsecured and secured funding sources. BOQ regularly stress 
tests it’s liquidity risk framework to identify vulnerabilities under a  INTERNAL   $5.4 BILLION
diverse range of market scenarios.  RMBS
Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) OTHER
APRA requires LCR ADIs to maintain a minimum 100 per cent LCR. 
The LCR requires sufficient tier 1 high quality liquid assets (HQLA1) 
and alternative liquid assets, covered by the Committed Liquidity 
WHOLESALE  
Facility (CLF), to meet net cash outflows over a 30 day period, 
HQLA1 FUNDING
under a regulator defined liquidity stress scenario. BOQ manages 
its LCR on a daily basis and actively maintains a buffer above the 
regulatory minimum in line with BOQ’s prescribed risk appetite 
CUSTOMER  
and management ranges.  DEPOSITS
The Bank’s LCR at 31 August 2019 was 145 per cent, which is 18 
per cent higher than 31 August 2018 (127 per cent) and also higher  Liquid assets Net cash outflows
than the LCR as at 1H19 of 124 per cent. BOQ’s average LCR for 
(1)  Alternative liquid assets (ALA) qualifying as collateral for the CLF, 
2H19 was 140 per cent, which is eight per cent higher than the  excluding internal RMBS, within the CLF limit.
average for 1H19 of 132 per cent.
Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) NSFR - August 2019 (112%)  
APRA’s stated objective in implementing the NSFR was to 
$37.7 BILLION
strengthen funding and liquidity resilience. The NSFR encourages 
ADIs to fund their lending activities with more stable sources of  WHOLESALE  
funding, and thereby promoting greater balance sheet resilience. FUNDING &   $33.5 BILLION
OTHER LIABILITIES
The NSFR establishes a minimum stable funding requirement 
based on the liquidity characteristics of the ADI’s assets and 
off-balance sheet activities over a one year time horizon. The 
 
NSFR is defined as the ratio of the amount of Available Stable 
OTHER LOANS
Funding (ASF) to the amount of Required Stable Funding 
(RSF). APRA requires ADIs to maintain an NSFR of at least 100 
per cent. BOQ manages its NSFR on a daily basis and actively 
maintains a buffer above the regulatory minimum in line with  CUSTOMER DEPOSITS
BOQ’s prescribed risk appetite and management ranges.
RESIDENTIAL 
BOQ’s NSFR as at 31 August 2019 was 112 per cent, up from 110 per 
MORTGAGES  
cent at 28 February 2019. The primary drivers of the increase in  ≤ 35% RISK  
NSFR have been an increase in customer deposits and long-term  WEIGHT
wholesale funding, partially offset by an increase in other assets 
and residential mortgages that are subject to or would qualify 
LIQUIDS & OTHER
for a 35 per cent risk weight under APS 112 Capital Adequacy:  CAPITAL
ASSETS
Standardised Approach to Credit Risk (APS 112). The average 
NSFR for 2H19 was 110.8 per cent. ASF RSF
40 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.2	 FUNDING	AND	LIQUIDITY	(CONTINUED)
NSFR waterfall 28 February 2019 - 31 August 2019  
2.3% (0.3%)
(0.9%)
(0.5%)
(1.2%)
2.6%
112%
110%
Feb 2019 Customer  Wholesale  Liquid assets Residential  Other loans Other assets Aug 2019
deposits funding  mortgages  
& other  ≤ 35%
liabilities
Liquid assets
BOQ maintains a portfolio of high quality, diversified liquid  BOQ was granted a $3.5 billion RBA CLF for the 2019 calendar 
assets to facilitate balance sheet liquidity and meet internal  year, enabling the Bank to meet its minimum regulatory 
and regulatory requirements. Liquid assets are comprised of  requirement of greater than 100 per cent LCR. BOQ increased 
HQLA1 (cash, Australian Semi-Government and Commonwealth  its contingent liquidity through its internal RMBS, in line with the 
Government securities) and alternative liquid assets covered  increase in CLF to ensure it maintains a sufficient buffer to its 
under the CLF provided by the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA).  physical liquidity.
CLF assets include senior unsecured bank debt, covered bonds, 
asset backed securities (ABS) and residential mortgage backed 
securities (RMBS) that are eligible for repurchase with the RBA.
Annual Report 2019 41
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.2	 FUNDING	AND	LIQUIDITY	(CONTINUED)
Funding Long term wholesale ($billion)  
The Bank’s funding strategy and risk appetite reflects the 
12.0
Group’s business strategy, adjusted for the current economic  10.0 10.4
environment. Funding is managed to allow for various scenarios 
4.6
that may impact BOQ’s funding position.
3.6 3.9
0.8 0.8 1.6
Funding mix ($billion)  
4.8 4.9 5.0
50.3
0.8 0.8 0.8
48.1 48.2 Aug 18 Feb 19 Aug 19
Additional tier 1 notes /  Senior unsecured
12.0 subordinated debt
10.0 10.4 Securitisation Covered bond
Customer deposits ($billion)  
5.9
6.8 6.8 32.4
31.3 31.0
2.3
2.0 2.2
2.7
2.6
2.6
10.2 10.0 11.2
32.4
31.3 31.0
16.5 16.2 16.2
Aug 18 Feb 19 Aug 19 Aug 18 Feb 19 Aug 19
Customer  Short term   Long term   Term deposits Transaction accounts
deposits (1) wholesale wholesale (2)
Savings & investment Mortgage offsets
(1)  The classification of customer deposits is defined as all deposits excluding those from financial institutions as defined under APS 210 Liquidity.
(2) Foreign currency balances have been translated at end of day spot rates.
Wholesale funding
BOQ focuses on three main strategic elements in delivering its  In FY19, customer deposit growth coupled with long term 
wholesale funding objectives - capacity growth, resilience and  wholesale funding growth supported both lending growth and 
diversity - while minimising the cost of funds and maintaining its  targeted runoff of short term wholesale funding, whilst also 
ability to take advantage of opportunities in the most appropriate  strengthening the Bank’s liquidity position. The Bank’s deposit to 
markets. The Bank continues to focus on increasing longer dated,  loan ratio of 70 per cent was one per cent up from FY18 (69 per 
stable funding sources whilst tactically reducing reliance on short  cent), driven by strong customer deposit growth in the Bank’s 
dated wholesale funding. retail channels.
42 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.2	 FUNDING	AND	LIQUIDITY	(CONTINUED)
Term funding issuance 
During FY19, BOQ issued a combination of secured and unsecured  These transactions highlight BOQ’s ability to use a range of debt 
debt transactions in both domestic and offshore markets via  programmes to access long term wholesale funding markets, 
benchmark and non-benchmark deals to increase the long  which provides diversification benefits whilst also allowing for 
term wholesale funding portfolio. The Bank’s benchmark sized  manageable refinancing towers over the next five years.
transactions included a $500 million senior unsecured deal for 
three years, a €500 million (~AUD $811 million) covered bond for 
five years, a $779 million REDS EHP (ABS) deal and a $1 billion 
REDS (RMBS) capital relief transaction.
Major maturities ($m) (1) (2) (3) (4)  
1,200
1,000
350
800
150
150
600
400
700 744 811
600 600 600 600 600
200 500
200
0
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Additional Tier 1 Senior unsecured Subordinated debt Covered bond
(1)  Any transaction issued in a currency other than AUD is shown in the applicable AUD equivalent hedged amount. 
(2) Senior unsecured maturities greater than or equal to $50 million shown, excludes private placements.
(3) Redemption of subordinated debt notes and additional tier 1 notes at the scheduled call date is at BOQ’s option and is subject to obtaining prior written approval from APRA.
(4) Quarters are reflected in line with the Bank’s financial reporting year.
3.3  CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 
Capital adequacy
As at
Aug-19   Aug-19  
$ million Aug-19 Feb-19 Aug-18 vs Feb-19 vs Aug-18
CET1 2,761 2,776 2,762  (1%) -
Additional tier 1 capital 500  500  500  - -
Total tier 2  525 524 524  - -
Total capital base 3,786 3,800 3,786 - -
Total RWA 30,533 29,978 29,669 2% 3%
CET1 ratio 9.04% 9.26% 9.31% (22bps) (27bps)
Total capital adequacy ratio 12.40% 12.68% 12.76% (28bps) (36bps)
Annual Report 2019 43
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.3	 CAPITAL	MANAGEMENT	(CONTINUED)
The Group’s CET1 ratio decreased by 22 basis points during 2H19  Software expenditure utilised 12 basis points of capital during 
from 9.26 per cent to 9.04 per cent. 2H19. This spend is consistent with the accelerated investment 
spend in 2H19 that was flagged at the 1H19 results. 
There was seven basis points of underlying capital consumption 
in 2H19. Reduced earnings and a decline in the dividend  Fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) reserves 
reinvestment plan participation, resulted in a higher net capital  were impacted by movements in credit spreads and the effects of 
outflow from the 2019 interim dividend payment.  hedging on the underlying book during 2H19. 
BOQ completed a $1 billion capital efficient RMBS transaction  Other items reduced CET1 ratio by three basis points primarily due 
during 2H19, which generated seven basis points of capital benefit.  to an increase in deferred tax assets and non-cash items. Further 
details on the non-cash items can be found in Section 5.1 (B) Non-
cash earnings reconciling items.
Common Equity Tier 1 2H19 vs 1H19  
Underlying capital consumption of 
7bps 
0.50% (0.23%)
(0.34%)
0.07% (0.12%)
(0.07%)
(0.03%)
9.26%
9.04%
1H19 Cash  RWA growth Dividend net  Securitisation Software  FVOCI reserve  Other   2H19
earnings of DRP  expenditure movements items
3.4  TAX EXPENSE
Tax expense arising on cash earnings for FY19 amounted to $145 million. This represented an effective tax rate of 31.2 per cent, which is 
above the corporate tax rate of 30 per cent primarily due to the non-deductibility of interest payable on WCN and Capital Notes.
44 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
4.  DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE
4.1  RETAIL INCOME STATEMENT, KEY METRICS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE REVIEW
Retail Banking provides solutions to personal customers who may  The VMA ‘Reward Me’ mortgage offering continues to be well 
choose to do their banking across multiple channels including  received by customers and brokers, with the mortgage portfolio 
the Owner Managed and corporate branch network; third party  now exceeding $2.5 billion. These home loan customers provide 
intermediaries and VMA distribution channels; online via digital,  geographic diversification from the Group’s traditional markets 
social media, mobile banking; or on the phone. in addition to broadening the customer profile to a younger 
demographic.
The Retail bank had a challenging year in terms of growth, with 
assets contracting in an environment of slowing credit growth,  Retail Banking continues to invest in its digital enablement 
intense competition and shifting customer preferences. While  strategy with upgrades to both mobile banking and internet 
the Bank has maintained prudent credit settings with stringent  banking platforms underway.  Investment has also been  
serviceability requirements, changes have been made to manual  made in better understanding the needs of our customers 
lending processes late in FY19 to improve customer experience  to ensure that future strategies are aligned to delivering on 
and reduce turnaround times. The investment in the Bank’s  customer expectations. 
lending capability is also delivering improved customer outcomes 
and operational efficiencies. 
Year End Performance Half Year Performance
Aug-19 vs  Aug-19 vs 
$ million Aug-19 Aug-18 Aug-18 Aug-19 Feb-19 Feb-19
Net interest income 432  458  (6%) 217  215  1%
Non-interest income 63  67  (6%) 31  32  (3%)
Total income 495  525  (6%) 248  247  -
Operating expenses (287)  (281)  2% (146)  (141)  4%
Underlying profit  208  244  (15%) 102  106  (4%)
Loan impairment expense (14)  (15)  (7%) (4)  (10)  (60%)
Profit before tax 194  229  (15%) 98  96  2%
Income tax expense (61)  (72)  (15%) (31)  (30)  3%
Cash earnings after tax 133  157  (15%) 67  66 2%
Cash earnings after tax of $133 million for FY19 was down 15 per  Operating expenses of $287 million increased $6 million or  
cent on FY18 in an environment of slowing credit growth, intense  two per cent on FY18, reflecting an increase in business activity 
competition, rising funding costs and shifting regulatory and  to address risk and compliance requirements, the expansion 
community expectations.  of the VMA digital channel and additional investment in the 
customer experience.  
Net interest income of $432 million decreased $26 million or six 
per cent over FY19. This was a reflection of lower asset balances  Impairment expense of $14 million reduced $1 million or seven 
and margin compression driven by competition and increased  per cent from FY18.  This equates to six basis points of gross 
basis costs, whilst deposit margins were managed through growth  loans and reflects the Bank’s robust underwriting standards and 
in the new fast track saver product which enabled less reliance on  collection practices.
the more expensive term deposit portfolio.
Non-interest income of $63 million for FY19 was $4 million or six 
per cent lower than FY18. This reflects lower banking income as 
customers continue to trend toward low or no fee products, as 
well as the impact from the implementation of AASB 15.
Annual Report 2019 45
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
4.1	 RETAIL	INCOME	STATEMENT,	KEY	METRICS	AND	FINANCIAL	PERFORMANCE	REVIEW	(CONTINUED)
Year End Performance Half Year Performance
Aug-19  Aug-19 
Key metrics Aug-19 Aug-18 vs Aug-18 Aug-19 Feb-19 vs Feb-19
CASH EARNINGS BASIS
CTI (%) 58.0 53.5 450bps 58.9 57.1 180bps
ASSET QUALITY
90dpd arrears ($ million) 210 148 42% 210 177 19%
Impaired assets ($ million) 67 59 14% 67 54 24%
Loan impairment expense / GLA (bps) 6 6 - 3 8 (5bps)
BALANCE SHEET 
GLA  ($ million)  24,783   25,252  (2%)  24,783   24,996 (1%)
Housing ($ million) 24,717   25,170  (2%)  24,717   24,922 (1%)
Other retail ($ million) 66 82 (21%)  66  74 (12%)
CREDIT RWA ($ million) 8,664  8,841 (2%)  8,664   8,775  (1%)
CUSTOMER DEPOSITS (1) ($ million)  15,742   15,192  4%  15,742   15,312  3%
Term deposits ($ million) 6,295   6,650  (5%)  6,295   6,711  (6%)
Mortgage offsets ($ million) 1,511   1,329  14%  1,511   1,455  4%
Savings & investment ($ million) 6,426   5,762  12%  6,426   5,712  13%
Transaction accounts ($ million) 1,510   1,451  4%  1,510   1,434  5%
DEPOSIT TO LOAN RATIO (%) 64 60 400bps 64  61 300bps
(1)  Treasury managed deposits are included in the Bank’s Other  operating segment.
46 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
4.2  BOQ BUSINESS INCOME STATEMENT, KEY METRICS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE REVIEW
BOQ Business includes BOQ branded commercial lending  customer acquisition with housing loans growing above system 
activity, BOQ Finance and BOQ Specialist businesses. The division  at an annual rate of 14 per cent. This provides a good pipeline 
provides tailored business banking solutions including commercial  of customers with potential commercial lending needs in the 
lending, equipment finance and leasing, cashflow finance, foreign  future. BOQ Specialist focuses on very clearly defined niches 
exchange, interest rate hedging, transaction banking and deposit  and has developed a distinct competitive advantage through 
solutions for commercial and specialist customers.  tailored consumer and commercial products and services to 
assist professionals through their practicing life cycles.
The BOQ Business division continued to deliver on its strategy 
to grow in niche target segments in FY19, by providing a tailored  BOQ Finance lending grew strongly in the period, with $667 million 
relationship offering to customers. Overall loan growth was  or 15 per cent balance growth during the year. BOQ Finance 
$1.4 billion in FY19. Queensland concentration for BOQ Business  remained focused on its existing market proposition and grew 
lending was 42 per cent. across multiple portfolios increasing diversification of product 
mix. This business continues to grow year on year through 
BOQ branded commercial loan growth was underpinned by 
targeted broker relationships in the equipment finance business 
an ongoing focus on quality and appropriate return for risk. 
and new structured programs.
Focus on the Bank’s niche segments of corporate healthcare 
and retirement living, hospitality and tourism and agribusiness 
continues to contribute to the diversification of the loan portfolio 
by geography, industry and asset class. 
BOQ Specialist achieved higher fundings compared to FY18, with 
solid growth despite both the commercial and home lending 
books maturing. Aggregate asset growth was $756 million. 
The BOQ Specialist’s mortgage offering delivered strong new 
Year End Performance Half Year Performance
Aug-19 vs  Aug-19 vs 
$ million Aug-19 Aug-18 Aug-18 Aug-19 Feb-19 Feb-19
Net interest income 527  514  3% 266  261  2%
Non-interest income 50  59  (15%) 24  26  (8%)
Total income 577  573  1% 290 287  1%
Operating expenses (242)  (228)  6% (124)  (118)  5%
Underlying profit  335  345  (3%) 166  169  (2%)
Loan impairment expense (60)  (26)  131% (40)  (20)  100%
Profit before tax 275  319  (14%) 126  149  (15%)
Income tax expense (86)  (100)  (14%) (39)  (47)  (17%)
Cash earnings after tax 189  219  (14%) 87  102 (15%)
Cash earnings after tax of $189 million was $30 million lower than  operating expenses from the business. Non-interest income 
FY18 due largely to higher loan impairment expense driven by  generated by asset sales in equipment finance and financial 
increased collective provisions. markets also reduced. 
Net Interest Income of $527 million was $13 million or three per  Operating expenses of $242 million increased by $14 million or  
cent higher than FY18. This was driven by lending growth of seven  six per cent on FY18 due to increased technology services 
per cent with the BOQ Specialist and BOQ Finance businesses  resulting from the Bank’s transformation program and rising 
both performing strongly. Net interest margin reduced 13 basis  compliance and employee costs associated with managing the 
points over the year due to the changing mix of the portfolio,  growing portfolio.
higher costs and increased competition.
Impairment expense of $60 million increased $34 million on 
Non-interest income of $50 million was $9 million or 15 per cent  FY18. The increase was attributable to the forward looking CP 
lower than FY18. The BOQ merchant offering was migrated to  model and support of the growth in the asset finance portfolio, 
a third party in return for a revenue share of new and ongoing  along with specific provisions related to a small number of large 
merchant income. This provides customers with improved  exposures raised in 2H19.
technology and ongoing investment whilst removing risk and 
Annual Report 2019 47
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
4.2	 BOQ	BUSINESS	INCOME	STATEMENT,	KEY	METRICS	AND	FINANCIAL	PERFORMANCE	REVIEW	(CONTINUED)
Year End Performance Half Year Performance
Aug-19  Aug-19 
Key metrics Aug-19 Aug-18  vs Aug-18 Aug-19 Feb-19 vs Feb-19
CASH EARNINGS BASIS
CTI (%) 41.9 39.8 210bps 42.8 41.1 170bps
ASSET QUALITY
90dpd arrears ($ million) 102 113 (10%) 102 110 (7%)
Impaired assets ($ million) 130 104 25% 130 98 33%
Loan impairment expense / GLA (bps) 28 13 15bps 38 19 19bps
BALANCE SHEET 
GLA ($ million)  21,433   20,027  7%  21,433   20,783  3%
Housing ($ million) 5,930   5,336  11%  5,930   5,623  5%
Commercial and other ($ million) 10,241   10,096  1%  10,241   10,262 -
BOQ Finance ($ million) 5,262   4,595  15%  5,262   4,898  7%
CREDIT RWA  ($ million) 17,291  16,317 6%  17,291   16,873  2%
CUSTOMER DEPOSITS (1) ($ million)  8,293   8,004  4%  8,259   7,745  7%
Term deposits ($ million) 1,512   1,739  (13%)  1,512   1,609  (6%)
Mortgage offsets ($ million) 838   671  25%  838   781  7%
Savings & investment ($ million) 4,755   4,453  7%  4,755   4,266  11%
Transaction accounts ($ million) 1,188   1,141  4%  1,188  1,089  9%
DEPOSIT TO LOAN RATIO (%) 39 40 (100bps)  39   37 200bps
(1)  Treasury managed deposits are included in  the Bank’s Other  operating segment.
48 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
4.3  OTHER SEGMENT INCOME STATEMENT AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE REVIEW
Other includes Group Treasury, St Andrew’s Insurance and Group Head Office.
Year End Performance Half Year Performance
Aug-19 vs  Aug-19 vs 
$ million Aug-19 Aug-18 Aug-18 Aug-19 Feb-19 Aug-18
Net interest income 2  (7)  129% 2  -  -
Non-interest income 15  19  (21%) 8  7  14%
Total income 17  12  42% 10  7  43%
Operating expenses (21)  (18)  17% (12)  (9)  33%
Underlying profit  (4)  (6)  (33%) (2)  (2)  -
Loan impairment expense  -   -  -  -   -  -
Profit before tax (4)  (6)  (33%) (2)  (2)  -
Income tax expense 2  2  - 1  1  -
Cash loss after tax (2)  (4) (50%) (1)  (1)  -
Other segment cash loss after tax was $2 million, driven  Operating expenses of $21 million increased by $3 million or 17 
predominantly by lower non-interest income compared to FY18. per cent on FY18, largely as a result of addressing regulatory and 
compliance requirements for the St Andrew’s insurance business 
Non-interest income includes St Andrew’s insurance and trading 
in 2H19.
income. Contributing to this was St Andrew’s insurance income 
deterioration (further information at Section 2.4 Insurance 
overview), partly offset by higher trading income.
Annual Report 2019 49
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
5.  APPENDICES
5.1  RECONCILIATION OF STATUTORY PROFIT TO CASH EARNINGS
Cash earnings is used to present a clear view of BOQ’s underlying operating results. This excludes a number of items that introduce 
volatility or one off distortions of the current year performance, and allows for a more effective comparison of BOQ’s performance 
across reporting periods.
The main exclusions relate to: 
•  Regulatory/compliance costs ($6 million after tax) which include external costs and other related costs associated with the Royal 
Commission, BEAR, Code of Banking Practice ,Comprehensive Credit Reporting, AML and other regulatory matters; 
•  Amortisation of acquisition fair value adjustments ($6 million after tax) arising from the historical acquisition of subsidiaries; and
•  Hedge ineffectiveness ($8 million after tax) which represents earnings volatility from hedges that are not fully effective and create a 
timing difference in reported profit. These hedges remain economically effective.
(A) RECONCILIATION OF CASH EARNINGS TO STATUTORY NET PROFIT AFTER TAX
Year End Performance Half Year Performance
Aug-19   Aug-19  
$ million Aug-19 Aug-18 vs Aug-18 Aug-19 Feb-19 vs Feb-19
Cash earnings after tax 320 372 (14%) 153 167 (8%)
Amortisation of acquisition fair value adjustments (6) (7) (14%) (2) (4) (50%)
Hedge ineffectiveness (8) (3) 167% (5) (3) 67%
Integration/transaction costs (1) (1) - (1) - -
Regulatory/compliance (6) (9) (33%) (3) (3) -
Software changes - (11) (100%) - - -
Legacy items (1) (5) (80%) - (1) (100%)
Statutory net profit after tax 298 336 (11%) 142 156 (9%)
(B) NON-CASH EARNINGS RECONCILING ITEMS
Amortisation 
Cash   of acquisition  Integration/  Statutory  
earnings   fair value  Hedge  transaction   Regulatory/  Legacy   net profit 
$ million Aug-19 VMA adjustments ineffectiveness costs compliance items  Aug-19
Net interest income 961 - - - - - - 961
Non-interest income 128 16 - (11) - - 2 135
Total income 1,089 16 - (11) - - 2 1,096
Operating expenses (550) (16) (7) - (1) (9) (4) (587)
Underlying profit 539 - (7) (11) (1) (9) (2) 509
Loan impairment expense (74) - - - - - - (74)
Profit before tax 465 - (7) (11) (1) (9) (2) 435
Income tax expense (145) - 1 3 - 3 1 (137)
Profit after tax 320 - (6) (8) (1) (6) (1) 298
50 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
5.2  OPERATING CASH EXPENSES 
Year End Performance Half Year Performance
Aug-19   Aug-19  
Aug-19 Aug-18 vs Aug-18  Aug-19 Feb-19 vs Feb-19
EMPLOYEE EXPENSES
Salaries 217 214 1% 109 108 1%
Superannuation contributions 20 20 - 10 10 -
Payroll tax 13 13 - 6 7 (14%)
Employee  share programs 8 10 (20%) 4 4 -
Other 6 6 - 3 3 -
264 263 - 132 132 -
OCCUPANCY EXPENSES
Lease expense 30 32 (6%) 15 15 -
Depreciation - fixed assets 10 9 11% 5 5 -
Other 2 3 (33%) 1 1 -
42 44 (5%) 21 21 -
GENERAL EXPENSES
Marketing 16 15 7% 9 7 29%
Commissions to Owner Managed branches (OMB) 5 5 - 3 2 50%
Communications and postage 19 17 12% 10 9 11%
Printing and stationery 3 3 - 1 2 (50%)
Impairment 4 2 100% 2 2 -
Processing costs  15 15 - 7 8 (13%)
Other operating expenses 29 24 21% 15 14 7%
91 81 12% 47 44 7%
IT EXPENSES
Data processing 84 75 12% 44 40 10%
Amortisation - intangible assets 40 43 (7%) 21 19 11%
Depreciation - fixed assets 1 1 - - 1 (100%)
125 119 5% 65 60 8%
OTHER EXPENSES
Professional fees 18 13 38% 12 6 100%
Directors’ fees 2 2 - 1 1 -
Other 8 5 60% 4 4 -
28 20 40% 17 11 55%
Total operating expenses 550 527 4% 282 268 5%
Annual Report 2019 51
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
5.2	 OPERATING	CASH	EXPENSES	(CONTINUED)
Employee expenses IT expenses
Employee expenses of $264 million increased by $1 million on  IT expenses of $125 million increased by $6 million or five per 
FY18. Flat employee expenses were driven by lower short term  cent on FY18. Data processing expenses increased by $9 million 
incentives paid, including no Key Management Personnel receiving  driven by new technology services associated with the Bank’s 
an award under the Short Term Incentive plan. This was offset by  transformation programs, along with consultancy costs for data 
higher FTE to support regulatory and compliance programs and  collection to support compliance activity. This was offset by a $3 
targeted growth in BOQ Business. million reduction in amortisation as a result of accelerated 
amortisation recognised in FY18.
Occupancy expenses
Occupancy expenses of $42 million decreased by $2 million or  Other expenses
five per cent on FY18, due to consolidation of office space which  Other expenses of $28 million increased by $8 million or 40 
offset increased depreciation on leasehold assets. per cent on FY18. Professional fees increased by $5 million as 
a result of activity to address compliance requirements and 
General expenses
support for divisional business strategy development. The 
General expenses of $91 million increased by $10 million or 12 per  Bank’s insurance costs also increased by $2 million, in line with 
cent on FY18 due to higher non-lending losses reflecting improved  a general trend of higher premiums across the industry. 
remediation processes, and higher industry levies. In addition, 
there were higher telecommunication costs during the transition 
between data centre locations as part of the Bank’s infrastructure 
modernisation program.
5.3	 PROPERTY,	PLANT	&	EQUIPMENT	(CONSOLIDATED)
Plant  Assets under 
Leasehold  furniture and  Capital works  operating 
improvements equipment IT equipment in progress lease Total
$ million $m $m $m  $m $m $m
COST
Balance as at 31 August 2018 82 33 34 1 16 166
Additions 3 1 - 4 5 13
Disposals (4) (1) - - (7) (12)
Transfers between categories 1 - - (1) - -
Balance as at 31 August 2019 82 33 34 4 14 167
DEPRECIATION AND LOSS ON DISPOSAL / IMPAIRMENT
Balance as at 31 August 2018 43 24 30 - 12 109
Depreciation for the year 8 2 1 - 5 16
Disposals (2) - - - (8) (10)
Balance as at 31 August 2019 49 26 31 - 9 115
Carrying amount as at 31 August 2018 39 9 4 1 4 57
Carrying amount as at 31 August 2019 33 7 3 4 5 52
52 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
5.4  CASH EPS CALCULATIONS
Year End Performance Half Year Performance
Aug-19   Aug-19  
Aug-19 Aug-18 vs Aug-18 Aug-19 Feb-19 vs Feb-19
Basic EPS  (cents) 79.6  94.7  (16%) 37.8  41.8  (10%)
Diluted EPS  (cents) 74.0  89.3  (17%) 35.3  39.0  (9%)
Reconciliation of cash earnings for EPS
Cash earnings available for ordinary 
($ million) 320 372 (14%) 153 167 (8%)
shareholders
  Add:  Convertible Preference Shares 
($ million) - 7 (100%) - - -
dividend
  Add: WCN ($ million) 7 7 - 4 3 33%
  Add: Capital Notes ($ million) 14 9 56% 7 7 -
Cash diluted earnings available for ordinary 
($ million) 341 395 (14%) 164 177 (7%)
shareholders
Weighted average number of shares 
(WANOS)
Basic WANOS (million) 402 393 2% 404 399 1%
  Add: Effect of award rights (million) 1 2 (50%) 1 2 (50%)
  Add: Effect of CPS (million) - 12 (100%) - - -
  Add: Effect of WCN (million) 17 14 21% 17 16 6%
  Add: Effect of Capital Notes (million) 39 21 86% 39 38 3%
Diluted WANOS for cash earnings EPS (million) 459 442 4% 461 455 1%
5.5  ISSUED CAPITAL
Ordinary shares
Consolidated
2019 
Number
Movements during the year
Balance at the beginning of the year – fully paid 397,311,850
Dividend reinvestment plan (1) 8,472,959
Balance at the end of the year – fully paid 405,784,809
(1)  Amounts taken up by shareholders as part of the dividend reinvestment plan:
•  28 per cent of the dividend paid on 14 November 2018, equating to $43 million; and
•  26 per cent of the dividend paid on 22 May 2019, equating to $35 million.
Annual Report 2019 53
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
5.6  AVERAGE BALANCE SHEET AND MARGIN ANALYSIS
August 2019 (Full Year) August 2018 (Full Year)
Average  Average   Average   Average  
balance  Interest   rate  Interest  rate  Rate 
$ million $m $m % $m % %
INTEREST EARNING ASSETS
Gross loans & advances at amortised cost 43,616 1,913 4.39 42,763 1,927 4.52
Investments & other securities 6,226 145 2.33 6,055 142 2.35
Total interest earning assets 49,842 2,058 4.13 48,818 2,069 4.25
Non-interest earning assets
Property, plant & equipment 54 59
Other assets 1,594 1,555
Provision for impairment (215) (220)
Total non-interest earning assets 1,433 1,394
Total assets 51,275 50,212
INTEREST BEARING LIABILITIES
Retail deposits  29,236  576 1.97 28,729 578 2.02
Wholesale deposits & borrowings  17,303  521 3.01 16,928 526 3.12
Total interest bearing liabilities  46,539  1,097 2.36 45,657 1,104 2.42
Non-interest bearing liabilities  876  755
Total liabilities  47,415  46,412
Shareholders’ funds  3,860  3,800
Total liabilities & shareholders’ funds  51,275  50,212
INTEREST MARGIN & INTEREST SPREAD
Interest earning assets 49,842 2,058 4.13 48,818 2,069 4.25
Interest bearing liabilities 46,539 1,097 2.36 45,657 1,104 2.42
Net interest spread 1.77 1.83
Benefit of net interest-free assets,  
0.16 0.15
liabilities and equity
NIM - on average interest  
49,842 961 1.93 48,818 965 1.98
earning assets
54 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
5.6	 AVERAGE	BALANCE	SHEET	AND	MARGIN	ANALYSIS	(CONTINUED)
August 2019 (six month period) February 2019 (six month period)
Average  Average   Average   Average  
balance  Interest   rate  Interest  rate  Rate 
$ million $m $m % $m % %
INTEREST EARNING ASSETS
Gross loans & advances at amortised cost 43,781 952 4.31 43,455 961 4.46
Investments & other securities 6,439 71 2.19 5,986 74 2.49
Total interest earning assets 50,220 1,023 4.04 49,441 1,035 4.22
Non-interest earning assets
Property, plant & equipment 52 56
Other assets 1,625 1,535
Provision for impairment (224) (207)
Total non-interest earning assets 1,453 1,384
Total assets 51,673 50,825
INTEREST BEARING LIABILITIES
Retail deposits 29,485 285 1.92 28,927 291 2.03
Wholesale deposits & borrowings 17,328 253 2.90 17,305 268 3.12
Total interest bearing liabilities 46,813 538 2.28 46,232 559 2.44
Non-interest bearing liabilities 1,000 734
Total liabilities 47,813 46,966
Shareholders’ funds 3,860 3,859
Total liabilities & shareholders’ funds 51,673 50,825
INTEREST MARGIN & INTEREST SPREAD
Interest earning assets 50,220 1,023 4.04 49,441 1,035 4.22
Interest bearing liabilities 46,813 538 2.28 46,232 559 2.44
Net interest spread 1.76 1.78
Benefit of net interest-free assets,  
0.16
liabilities and equity 0.16
NIM - on average interest  
50,220 485 1.92 49,441 476 1.94
earning assets
Annual Report 2019 55
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
5.7  DISTRIBUTION FOOTPRINT
BOQ has evolved its Customer in Charge strategic pillar to support customers in engaging through the channel of their choice. This could 
be directly through BOQ’s Owner Managed and corporate branches, a preferred broker (aligned to BOQ or VMA), via online channels such 
as digital, social media and mobile banking, or on the phone.
Branch numbers reduced by 16 during 2019 as closures, conversions and portfolio mergers occurred.  The franchise network remains 
a key differentiator for BOQ and is pivotal to the Bank’s deposit raising capabilities.  A new revenue share remuneration structure is on 
track to be introduced early in the new financial year. This will better align outcomes for the Bank and Owner Managers, whilst being more 
attractive to potential new franchisees.
In a market where many customers prefer using third party channels, BOQ has continued to build its broker presence during 2019 with 29 
per cent of housing settlements being originated through the VMA and BOQ branded accredited brokers. The majority of these brokers 
are domiciled outside of Queensland, which continues to accelerate the geographic diversification of the portfolio and provide deeper 
access to the Sydney and Melbourne markets where BOQ has traditionally been under represented.
NT
QLD
1 16 15
34 58 688
1 4
WA 791 240 296
12 6 583
7
554 89 47
SA
145 266 201 NSW & ACT
10 18 1119
1458 124 372
VIC
AS AT 31 AUGUST 2019 9 10 633
CORPORATE 
65 572 BOQ BRANDED ATM’S 1311 104 78
BRANCHES
TAS 2
OWNER MANAGED 
95 BRANCHES  1033 REDI ATM’s 17 51
BROKERS ACCREDITED 
3201 7 TRANSACTION CENTRES 14 35
WITH BOQ
BROKERS ACCREDITED 
4446
WITH VMA
56 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Highlights and strategy  15  |  Group performance analysis  27  |  Business settings  35  |  Divisional performance  45  |  Appendices  50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
5.7	 DISTRIBUTION	FOOTPRINT	(CONTINUED)
As at Aug-19 QLD NSW / ACT VIC WA NT TAS SA Total
Corporate branches 34 10 9 12 - - - 65
OMB 58 18 10 6 1 2 - 95
Transaction centres 7 - - - - - - 7
99 28 19 18 1 2 - 167
As at Aug-18 QLD NSW / ACT VIC WA NT TAS SA Total
Corporate branches 42 11 10 13 - - 1 77
OMB 62 18 10 6 1 2 - 99
Transaction centres 7 - - - - - - 7
111 29 20 19 1 2 1 183
Corporate, Owner Managed Branches (OMB) & Transaction Centres  
106 (3)
(6) 5 102
(13)
6 (5)
99 95
77
65
7 7
FY18 OMB  OMBs  Corporate  FY19 FY18 Corporate  OMBs  Corporate  FY19
closures/ converted  branches  closures converted  branches 
mergers  to corporate  converted  to corporate  converted 
branches to OMB branches to OMB
OMBs Transaction centres Corporate branches
5.8  CREDIT RATING
The Bank monitors rating agency developments closely. Entities in the Group are rated by Standard & Poor’s (S&P), Moody’s Investor 
Service and Fitch Ratings. BOQ’s current debt ratings are shown below. There have been no changes to the credit ratings from FY18.
Rating Agency Short Term Long Term Outlook
S&P A2 BBB+ Stable
Fitch F2 A- Stable
Moody’s P2 A3 Stable
5.9  REGULATORY DISCLOSURES
The APS 330 Public Disclosure capital disclosure template, regulatory capital reconciliation, LCR, NSFR (included in the relevant Pillar 3 
disclosures document) and capital instrument disclosures are available at the regulatory disclosures section of the Bank’s website at the 
following address: https://www.boq.com.au/regulatory_disclosures
Annual Report 2019 57
Remuneration Summary  59   |  Key Management Personnel  62  |  Remuneration Outcomes  63  |  Remuneration Strategy & Structure  67
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
CONTENTS
59   Section 1 67   Section 4  73   Section 6
Remuneration Summary Remuneration Strategy   Non-Executive Director 
& Structure Remuneration
62   Section 2
Key Management Personnel (KMP)  70   Section 5 74   Section 7 
63   Section 3 Remuneration Governance Statutory Tables
Remuneration Outcomes
Dear Shareholder,
Introduction The Board has explicitly considered risk events, behaviours and 
On behalf of the Board I have pleasure in presenting the 2019  outcomes with input from the Chief Risk Officer and Chair of the 
Remuneration Report. Risk Committee. On balance, taking into account both positive 
and negative outcomes together with cancellations and 
This Report is provided in an environment of some uncertainty 
forfeitures which occurred during the year, the Board has 
and considerable change for the sector as a whole. Regulatory, 
determined no further adjustments will be made at this time.
Statutory and other industry requirements include the Sedgwick 
Finally the Board will not be seeking any increase to the directors’ 
Recommendations, BEAR, APRA’s draft Prudential Standard 
fee pool and is not proposing to increase individual directors’ fees.
CPS 511 Remuneration (CPS 511) and outcomes from the Hayne 
Separately the Board has considered the external and internal 
Royal Commission. These are challenging our thinking about 
challenges facing BOQ over the next three years and the 
fundamental remuneration structure and policy as we seek to 
importance of key senior employees to the significant 
balance the interests of customers, shareholders, the community 
transformation required over this period. In this context the Board 
and employees. has determined to offer conditional equity to select senior 
employees with 50% vesting after eighteen months and the 
Over the past year we have again consulted widely with regulators, 
remainder after three years. These awards will be subject to 
customers, shareholders and their representatives, employees 
continued employment and earnings growth or specific 
and the community. Additionally we have met with regulators, 
transformation projects. The pool for this is capped at $5 million 
banks and their advisors outside of Australia. The feedback from 
and will not be offered to KMP including the Managing Director 
stakeholders and others continues to influence our remuneration 
structure and policy. and Chief Executive Officer (MD & CEO).
In 2018 whilst we made some changes consistent with the BEAR  Governance
requirements, our remuneration structure was retained. In 2019  The principles by which remuneration is governed have not 
we refined and clarified several parts of the remuneration  changed in the 2019 year and are included in the body of the 
framework but have refrained from any significant changes until  report. We have been considering the impact of the APRA 
the latest regulatory requirements are better understood.  proposed Prudential Standard CPS 511 on our remuneration 
structures and believe if these remain in the final standard 
2019 Outcomes 
changes will be necessary to our existing structure. Any 
Fixed increases across BOQ will on average be no greater than  changes will be disclosed in future Remuneration Reports.
inflation. This includes a 3% increase for employees covered by 
our collective agreement. No KMP will receive an increase in  Conclusion
fixed remuneration as a result of the 2019 review. The BOQ Board remains committed to designing remuneration 
The BOQ Short Term Incentive (STI) Plan has financial and  structures which balance stakeholders’ interests in the short and 
behavioural gateways and for 2019 the financial gateways have  long term. In doing so we will ensure compliance with the 
not been met. The Board has not awarded any STI to KMP and  regulatory and legal obligations under which we operate. 
the most senior leaders of BOQ. The Board has also considered  In the current climate the Board has been very conscious of the 
the importance of our customer facing and support employees  environment, stakeholders and regulators in determining 
to the continued systems, risk and control work being  appropriate outcomes for the 2019 year. It is the Board’s view that 
undertaken by a number of our people. Having regard for this,  the remuneration outcomes for the 2019 year are appropriate.
the Board has determined to use its discretion as provided under 
This is my final report presented to you as Chair of the Human 
the plan, and make an incentive pool available for select 
Resources and Remuneration Committee (HRRC). I retire at the 
employees. On average, individual awards will reduce by more 
2019 AGM after three terms and nearly 10 years with BOQ. It has 
than 40% relative to the prior year.
been a privilege to fulfill this role as a director and Chair of the 
The BOQ Long Term Incentive (LTI) Plans are awarded on the  HRRC, and I have been very appreciative of the level of 
basis of potential and retention. These have 3 and 4 year vesting  shareholder advice and support for our remuneration process. 
periods, are issued at face value, are hurdled for senior 
Thank you. 
executives and are subject to malus and clawback. The Board will 
Yours sincerely,
award KMP LTI in accordance with plan guidelines at 100% of 
fixed remuneration with a 4 year vesting period.
David Willis 
Chairman, BOQ HRRC
58 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
 Remuneration Governance  70  |  Non-Executive Director Remuneration  73  |  Statutory Tables  74
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
This Remuneration Report has been prepared for consideration by the Bank’s shareholders at the 2019 AGM. It outlines the overall 
remuneration strategy, framework and practices adopted by the Consolidated Entity for the period 1 September 2018 to 31 August 2019 
(FY19). It has been prepared in accordance with Section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001 and has been audited in accordance with 
section 308(3C).
This report comprises the following sections:
•  Section One: A summary of FY19 remuneration highlights and changes for FY20.
•  Section Two: A list of the FY19 KMP including changes.
•  Section Three: FY19 Remuneration Outcomes.
•  Section Four: Remuneration Strategy and Structure.
•  Section Five: Remuneration Governance policies and principles.
•  Section Six: Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration.
•  Section Seven: Statutory tables required by the Corporations Act.
SECTION 1. REMUNERATION SUMMARY
This section provides a summary of how remuneration worked at BOQ for the FY19 year covering both the structure in place and the 
associated outcomes. Changes made during FY19 are highlighted. 
1.1	 REMUNERATION	STRUCTURE	IN	PLACE	FOR	FY19	(SEE	SECTION	4)
Remuneration at BOQ comprises three components being: Fixed Remuneration, STI and LTI. The STI and LTI together constitute Variable 
Remuneration. Together Fixed and Variable components comprise Total Remuneration. 
Figure 1 below illustrates the components of remuneration at the target/performing level and are expressed as a percentage of  
Total Remuneration:
Figure 1 - Remuneration Mix (at Performing level)  
Managing Director & CEO 34% 16% 16% 34%
Group Executive (Line) 36% 14% 14% 36%
Group Executive (Functional) 40% 10% 10% 40%
Fixed Remuneration STI - Cash STI - Deferred LTI
In Figure 1 the LTI value has been presented at 100% of Fixed Remuneration. LTI grants are made within the range of 80% to 120% 
of Fixed Remuneration.
Remuneration is awarded by way of cash and equity. Fixed Remuneration and a portion of the STI is delivered as cash with the 
remaining STI and the full LTI awarded in equity and deferred to a future period.
Figure 2 below illustrates the delivery profile of the different components of KMP remuneration. It shows the time period over which 
performance is measured, when each component is awarded and when the deferred elements vest. The deferred STI and LTI awards 
for FY19 will not fully vest until after year end results are announced in October 2022 (FY23).
Annual Report 2019 59
Remuneration Summary  59   |  Key Management Personnel  62  |  Remuneration Outcomes  63  |  Remuneration Strategy & Structure  67
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
Figure 2 - Remuneration Components Delivery  
Financial Year 19 Nov-19 Dec-19 Dec-20 Dec-21 Dec-22
Fixed Remuneration (Cash  
and Superannuation) 
50% paid in cash
STI Performance Year
50% deferred  
20% vests 15% vests 15% vests
into equity
LTI vests subject to 
LTI Granted December 2018 relative TSR & EPS 
Performance
STI performance is assessed by way of financial and non-financial measures separately at the group and individual level under 
four distinct pillars. These are set at the beginning of the financial year with KMP sharing the same group scorecard and individual 
scorecards tailored to each KMP’s role. LTI vests subject to comparative financial measures, Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and 
Earnings Per Share (EPS).
STI is subject to financial, risk and behaviour gateways. The financial gateway requires basic cash EPS to be above 90% of budget. 
Where awarded, STI is paid 50% in cash and 50% in equity deferred over three years. 20% vests after one year, 15% after two years, and 
15% after three years, subject to specified employment conditions.
Figure 3 below illustrates the four STI pillars, each of which contains a number of measures. Outcomes are calculated by scoring the 
measures and multiplying the group and individual scores. Final awards are subject to Board discretion.
Figure 3 - KMP STI Pillars  
Culture   Customer  
25% 25%
Pillar Examples of Measures
Culture Employee engagement, diversity and risk management
Shareholder Financial measures e.g. NPAT, divisional expenditure
Shareholder   Strategy  
25% 25% Customer Customer Advocacy and Net Promoter Score (NPS)
Strategy Implementation of Board approved strategy including divisional projects
LTI consists of annual equity grants, which vest at the end of four years subject to relative TSR (80%), relative EPS (20%) and continued 
employment.
1.2	 ACTUAL	OUTCOMES	FOR	FY19	(SEE	SECTION	3)
1.2.1 Fixed Remuneration
During FY19, Anthony Rose and Doug Snell were appointed to interim roles as Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Group Executive, BOQ 
Business respectively. For the period they held these roles, they received temporary increases in remuneration. In addition, Adam 
McAnalen was appointed to the role of Chief Risk Officer. All three received fixed remuneration increases which were below that of their 
predecessors. Permanent replacements have been subsequently appointed for both of the interim roles.
1.2.2 STI
EPS performance did not meet the financial gateway under the STI plan and the Board chose not to exercise its discretion to pay 
incentives to KMP. As a result no KMP received an STI for FY19. 
1.2.3 LTI
The 2015 grant of LTI was subject to relative TSR and EPS and was tested in FY19 with 16% of the grant vesting.
The Board has approved LTI grants to be made to KMP in FY20 at 100% of fixed remuneration with unchanged performance conditions. 
The MD & CEO grant of 100% of fixed remuneration will be subject to shareholder approval at the 2019 AGM.
60 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
 Remuneration Governance  70  |  Non-Executive Director Remuneration  73  |  Statutory Tables  74
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
1.3  CHANGES MADE IN FY19 AND THOSE APPLYING FOR FY20
During 2019 the following changes were made to BOQ’s remuneration structure and policy:
1.  Changes were made to STI plan measures to better align with BOQ’s strategic pillars (customer, shareholder, strategy and culture). 
These changes were made bearing in mind the plan’s overarching financial gateway.
2.  Grants of LTI made from FY19 onwards have a performance/vesting period of four years (previous grants were based on 
performance/vesting periods of three years) which aligns with the BEAR legislation.
3.  As part of the implementation of the BEAR legislation during FY19, the Board reviewed and updated the BOQ Executive Service 
Agreement (ESA).
4.   BOQ is in the process of changing KMP notice periods, excluding the MD & CEO. These are being increased to six months (from three 
months) following an assessment of market practice.
5.  The LTI plan Good Leaver policies were updated to provide further clarity.
6.  Implementation of a Non-Executive Director (NEDs) Fee Sacrificed Rights Plan (NED Plan) allowing NEDs to sacrifice a portion of 
their Board fees to acquire BOQ shares. The equity under this plan is not subject to any conditions apart from a disposal restriction for 
a minimum of three years. 
7.  The Bank has made continued progress towards implementing the Sedgwick Recommendations within its business. In addition, the 
outcomes of the Banking Royal Commission and APRA’s draft Prudential Standard CPS 511 are being actively contemplated.
For the FY20 year the following changes are being implemented or considered:
1.  George Frazis commenced with BOQ on 5 September 2019 as MD & CEO. The Board received independently sourced benchmarking, 
and his remuneration package is consistent with that of the previous MD & CEO. This information was disclosed to the ASX on 6 June 
2019 and is presented in Figure 4 below:
Figure 4 - MD & CEO Remuneration: FY20 Potential  
4,550
3,770 1,300
$
1,300 S 
D
975 N
A
S
LTI - Performance Award Rights (PARs) 585 U
O
STI - Deferred Shares 1,300 585 975 TH
STI - Cash
Fixed Remuneration 1,300 1,300 1,300
Minimum Performing Maximum
2.  Remuneration for KMP is independently benchmarked against both the external market and internal relativities. No KMP will receive an 
increase in fixed remuneration as a result of the FY19 review.  KMP have not received an increase to fixed remuneration since 2016.
3.  The Board has considered the criticality of key senior employees to the changing operating environment and the transformation 
challenge for the Bank over the next three years. In light of these factors the Board has determined to offer a Transformation 
Incentive with the objective of retaining, aligning and rewarding select employees for achieving BOQ’s transformation strategy. 
Grants will be subject to conditions including continued employment and earnings growth or specific transformation projects, with 
vesting occurring after 18 months and three years. This plan will be capped at $5 million and offered to those senior employees below 
KMP level who are considered critical talent and core to the implementation of the strategy. The MD & CEO and other KMP will not be 
eligible to participate in the Transformation Incentive.
4.  Following the Hayne Royal Commission and the release of draft CPS 511, the Board has consulted with advisers and regulators. Subject 
to finalisation of the prudential standard it is the Board’s view that there are a number of changes which should be considered as part of 
a redesign of BOQ variable remuneration. These changes will focus on both the STI and LTI plans as well as the overarching framework. 
Further details of any changes will be provided in future Remuneration Reports.
Annual Report 2019 61
 Remuneration Summary  59   |  Key Management Personnel  62  |  Remuneration Outcomes  63  |  Remuneration Strategy & Structure  67
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
SECTION 2. KMP
This section outlines those directors and executives who are the focus of this report. 
There were several changes to KMP over FY19. The table below identifies Directors and Group Executives who are KMP and sets out the 
changes that have occurred in FY19 and up until the date of this report.
TABLE 1 - DIRECTORS AND GROUP EXECUTIVES
Directors (Executive and Non-Executive) Senior Executives 
Chairman (Non-executive) Chief Operating Officer from 1 
Ceased as Chairman 17 October 2019 September to 5 December 2018
Roger Davis Anthony Rose
Will retire as a Director on 31 October  Interim CEO from 6 December 2018 to 4 
2019 September 2019
Director (Non-executive) Matthew Baxby  Chief Financial Officer 
Patrick Allaway Chair-Elect (Chair from 18 October 2019)
Appointed effective from 1 May 2019 Chief Risk Officer 
Peter Deans
Retired effective 31 May 2019
Director (Non-executive) 
Kathleen Bailey-Lord
Appointed effective from 1 May 2019 Group Executive, People and Culture 
Debra Eckersley
from 3 September 2018
Bruce Carter Director (Non-executive)
Chief Risk Officer 
Adam McAnalen
MD & CEO from 1 June 2019
George Frazis Appointed effective from 5 September 
2019 Lyn McGrath Group Executive, Retail Banking
Richard Haire Director (Non-executive) Group Executive, BOQ Business  
Peter Sarantzouklis
from 12 August 2019
John Lorimer Director (Non-executive)
Interim Group Executive, BOQ Business 
Doug Snell
from 21 December 2018 to 11 August 2019
Warwick Negus Director (Non-executive)
Donna-Maree Vinci Chief Digital and Information Officer
Karen Penrose Director (Non-executive)
Group Executive, BOQ Business
MD & CEO Brendan White Resigned 6 December and ceased in role 
Jon Sutton
Resigned effective 5 December 2018 on 20 December 2018
Michelle Tredenick Director (Non-executive)
David Willis Director (Non-executive)
In addition to the above table the following is relevant to KMP changes:
•  Anthony Rose was not a BOQ director in the period that he was Interim CEO. Consistent with the previous permanent MD & CEO, 
George Frazis is a director of BOQ. Upon his commencement, Anthony ceased being KMP and will leave BOQ on 31 December 2019.
•  Adam McAnalen was not a KMP in his previous role as CEO of BOQ Finance prior to his permanent appointment as Chief Risk Officer. 
•  Doug Snell was not a KMP in his previous role of General Manager, BOQ Business prior to his appointment as Interim Group Executive, 
BOQ Business. Upon the appointment of Peter Sarantzouklis, Doug moved back into his previous role and ceased to be KMP.
•  Brendan White resigned on 6 December 2018 and ceased in the role of Group Executive, BOQ Business on 20 December 2018. His 
notice period lasted until 6 March 2019.
•  Peter Deans’ retirement was notified to the ASX on 8 March 2019 and he entered into a consultancy agreement effective from 
his retirement on 31 May 2019 for a period of seven months to ensure continuity, provide transitional support and access to 
organisational knowledge with respect to risk at BOQ.
•  The Chief Operating Officer role was held vacant while Anthony Rose was Interim CEO. 
•  Matthew Baxby’s resignation as Chief Financial Officer was notified to the ASX on 20 June 2019 and he will remain with BOQ until 
the end of October 2019.
•  Roger Davis’ retirement as Chairman was announced on 29 May 2019 and is effective 17 October 2019. Patrick Allaway will assume 
the chair role from 18 October 2019. Roger will retire from the Board on 31 October 2019.
•  David Willis announced his retirement as a director and Chair of the HRRC on 8 August 2019 with effect from the 2019 AGM 
on 10 December 2019. He will retain his role as a director of St Andrews Insurance Group.
•  On 10 October 2019 it was announced that Ewen Stafford will be appointed to the role of Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating 
Officer. Ewen will commence with BOQ later in FY20.
62 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
 Remuneration Governance  70  |  Non-Executive Director Remuneration  73  |  Statutory Tables  74
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
SECTION 3. REMUNERATION OUTCOMES
This section provides further information concerning remuneration outcomes for the FY19 year.
3.1	 LINKING	PERFORMANCE	&	REWARD	OUTCOMES	–	VARIABLE	REMUNERATION
The Consolidated Entity’s financial performance is summarised in Table 2 below together with its relationship to the aggregate amount of 
Short Term Incentive paid to KMP.
TABLE 2 - BOQ CONSOLIDATED ENTITY PERFORMANCE 
5 Year Company Performance 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Statutory net profit/(loss) after tax $298m  $336m $352m $338m $318m
Cash net profit after tax (NPAT) (1) $320m  $372m $378m $360m $357m
Cash Basic earnings per share (EPS) (1)  79.6c 94.7c 97.6c 95.6c 97.3c
Cash cost to income ratio (CTI) (1) 50.5%  47.5% 46.6% 46.8% 46.0%
Share price at balance sheet date $9.17  $11.49 $12.59 $10.55 $12.67
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) (1) -13.9%  -2.70% 26.5% -10.7% 6.3%
Value of Dividends paid $288m  $341m $308m $300m $272m
KMP STI Awarded ($m) - $2.73 $4.02 $3.55 $3.73
(1)  Non-statutory measures are not subject to audit 
Figure 5 - KMP STI Awarded in Comparison to NPAT  
The below graph compares the total STI awarded to KMP with BOQ’s Cash NPAT over the past 5 years:
390 6
380
5
370
360 4
$ 350 $
S  3 S 
N 340 N
O O
LI 330 2 LI
L L
MI 320 MI
1 Cash NPAT
310
300 0 KMP STI Awarded
FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19
Annual Report 2019 63
Remuneration Summary  59   |  Key Management Personnel  62  |  Remuneration Outcomes  63  |  Remuneration Strategy & Structure  67
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.2  FY19 STI OUTCOMES
Cash Basic EPS achieved for FY19 did not meet the financial gateway at 90% of budget. As a result no KMP were eligible to receive an 
award under the STI Plan and the Board elected not to exercise its discretion in the award of STI for FY19.
Whilst no FY19 STI is payable, the Board reviewed each KMP’s performance in accordance with their STI measures. This included a review 
of risk behaviours as well as performance against group and individual scorecards. 
The table below provides outcomes against the group scorecard measures. Each measure is assessed individually and overall performance 
is determined by the averaged outcome. For FY19 the overall performance against the Group Scorecard was below expectations. 
TABLE 3 - SUMMARY OF GROUP PERFORMANCE OUTCOMES
Pillar Weighting Measure Outcome
NPS Ranking
ACTUAL MAX
Customer 25% Customer Advocacy
TARGET
Main Financial Institution (MFI) Ranking Improvement
ACTUAL MAX
Strategy 25% Implementation of Board approved strategy
TARGET
NPAT
ROE ACTUAL MAX
Shareholder 25% CTI
TARGET
Loan Impairment Expense / Gross Loans & Advances (GLA) 
Employee Engagement & Enablement
ACTUAL MAX
Culture 25% Diversity & Inclusion
TARGET
Risk Management
Scorecard outcomes for individual KMP were no higher than performing.
3.3  FY19 LTI OUTCOMES
3.3.1 FY19 LTI Awards Vesting
PARs awarded to KMP in 2015 were tested after year end results were announced in October 2018 consistent with plan terms. 
The 2015 LTI grant had two performance hurdles being relative TSR with an 80% weighting and relative EPS with a 20% weighting. At the 
date of vesting, qualifying KMP had to be employed, not serving out a notice period or subject to performance review due to any adverse 
risk behaviours. 
The statutory tables in Section 7 set out the detail of LTI awards vesting to individual qualifying KMP. The results of the testing is 
presented in Table 4 below.
Vesting outcomes for the 2015 PARs grant are as follows:
TABLE 4 - LTI VESTING OUTCOMES
LTI VESTING OUTCOMES – 2015 Grant
Grant Date Performance Period Vesting Hurdle Performance Outcome
BOQ TSR achieved ranking of 34th percentile, which was 
TSR ranking of at least 
15/12/2015 8 October 2015 to 4 October 2018 below the threshold level of performance, resulting in none of 
50th percentile
the TSR tranche vesting
Relative EPS ranking of  BOQ EPS achieved ranking of 77th percentile resulting in 
at least 60th Percentile 78%of the EPS tranche vesting
Overall 16% of the PARs granted in 2015 vested in 2018.
64 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
 Remuneration Governance  70  |  Non-Executive Director Remuneration  73  |  Statutory Tables  74
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.3	 FY19	LTI	OUTCOMES	(CONTINUED)
Figure 6 shows the proportion of LTI which has vested over the past 5 years:
Figure 6 - Percentage of LTI vesting over the last five years  
100% 100%
100%
90%
80%
70% 65%
60% 55%
50%
40%
30%
16%
20%
10%
0%
FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19
3.3.2 FY20 LTI (Granted December 2019)
Grants are made on the basis of potential and retention, following the FY19 Remuneration Review. The Board has determined that FY20 
LTI grants will be awarded in December 2019.
Grants are subject to unchanged performance conditions, a four year vesting period and are made at face value. FY20 grants have been 
made within guidance at 100% of Fixed Remuneration. Table 5 below summarises KMP LTI grants (PARs) proposed for FY20:
TABLE 5 - LTI GRANTS PROPOSED FOR FY20
FY20 Fixed    LTI% of Fixed    LTI Grant at 
Name Position Title Remuneration Remuneration   Face Value $ 
George Frazis Managing Director & CEO $1,300,000 100% $1,300,000
Debra Eckersley Group Executive, People & Culture $525,000 100% $525,000
Adam McAnalen Chief Risk Officer $600,000 100% $600,000
Lyn McGrath Group Executive, Retail Banking $635,000 100% $635,000
Peter Sarantzouklis Group Executive, BOQ Business $690,000 100% $690,000
Donna-Maree Vinci Chief Digital & Information Officer $580,000 100% $580,000
Awards for the MD & CEO are subject to shareholder approval at the 2019 AGM.
3.4	 KMP	TOTAL	REWARD	OUTCOMES	FOR	FY19	(NON-STATUTORY	DISCLOSURE)
This section provides a summary of the total benefit earned by KMP with respect to performance over the FY19 period. As with previous 
years this non-statutory table is provided to show what KMP actually received in FY19 including the value of any other benefits plus 
deferred STI and LTI which has vested. It excludes unvested STI and LTI.
The table below includes a breakdown of the following components of KMP remuneration:
•  FY19 fixed remuneration which includes base salary plus superannuation;
•  The value of non-monetary and other short-term benefits provided in FY19; and
•  Variable remuneration which comprises:
-  The value of the cash component of the STI relating to performance in FY19 (Nil in FY19); and
-  The value of previously granted deferred STI and LTI which vested. In addition we have provided the value of deferred STI or LTI 
which lapsed or forfeited during the period.
Annual Report 2019 65
Remuneration Summary  59   |  Key Management Personnel  62  |  Remuneration Outcomes  63  |  Remuneration Strategy & Structure  67
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.4	KMP	TOTAL	REWARD	OUTCOMES	FOR	FY19	(NON-STATUTORY	DISCLOSURE)	(CONTINUED) TABLE 6 - NON-STATUTORY DISCLOSURE Value of Prior Years’ Value of LTI Deferred Equity Equity Vested in Period Vested in Period Forfeited / Value of Termination Total Reward Fixed (1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)Lapsed Benefits BenefitsValue NamePosition TitleYearRemuneration STI Cash (7)Jon Sutton 2019 532,621  40,639  -  435,630 975,000 150,436 2,093,687 (2,629,401)Managing Director & CEO 2018 1,295,135  70,477  475,000  578,495 - 759,282  3,107,912 (621,244) (8)Anthony Rose 2019 919,607  -  -  156,057 - 78,225  1,153,889  (410,685)Interim CEO 2018 707,395  -  165,000  221,845 - 379,641  1,473,881 (310,615)Chief Operating Officer Matthew Baxby2019 652,596  -  -  193,064 - 67,993  913,653  (356,980)Chief Financial Officer 2018 652,606  -  190,000  248,844 - 318,908  1,410,358 (260,916) (9)Peter Deans 2019 481,802  37,548  -  157,883 - 81,237  720,922  (1,482,725)Chief Risk Officer 2018 669,318  49,808  165,000  221,845 - 394,828  1,450,991 (323,047) (10)Debra Eckersley 2019 524,651  -  -  - - -  524,651  - Group Executive, People and Culture (11)Adam McAnalen2019 150,206  1,453  - - --150,206 -Chief Risk Officer (12)Lyn McGrath 2019 520,530  37,196  -  483,274 - -  1,003,804  - Group Executive, Retail Banking 2018 56,252  1,722  -  - - -  56,252 - (13)Peter Sarantzouklis 2019 39,294  450  -  - - -  39,294  - Group Executive, BOQ Business (14)Doug Snell 2019 315,089  3,282  -  ---315,089-Interim Group Executive, BOQ Business Donna-Maree Vinci2019 575,740  56,800  -  140,274 - 148,729  864,743  (781,287)Chief Digital & Information Officer 2018 571,458  47,803  150,000  96,633 - -  818,091 - (15)Brendan White 2019 414,449  10,668  -  201,448 - 77,028  692,925  (1,421,686)Group Executive, BOQ Business 2018 687,472  20,669  220,000  284,583 - 364,454  1,556,509 (298,197) (1) Base remuneration and superannuation make up a Group Executive’s fixed remuneration, including annual (7) Jon Sutton ceased employment on 5 December 2018. The Value of LTI Vested in Period for 2018 has been leave paid during the year. For departing KMP this includes any leave which is paid out upon termination of restated.employment, which is not included in Table 10 in Section 7.1.(8)	Anthony	Rose	held	the	role	of	Chief	Operating	Officer	until	6	December	2018	when	he	became	Interim	Chief	(2) Value of benefits includes both non-monetary and other short term benefits and relate to benefits (and Executive	Officer.associated FBT) such as car parking, accommodation or relocation, travel and gifts received on leaving BOQ (9) Peter Deans ceased employment on 31 May 2019.for former Executives disclosed above.(10) Debra Eckersley assumed the role of Group Executive, People & Culture on 3 September 2018.(3) The value of all deferred cash and/or equity awards (closing share price on vesting date) that vested during (11)	Adam	McAnalen	was	promoted	into	the	KMP	role	of	Chief	Risk	Officer	on	1	June	2019.	The	amounts	shown	FY19. This excludes deferred equity awards granted in previous years which have not vested in FY19. relate to the period Mr McAnalen was KMP.(4) This relates to PARs that vested during the financial year (closing share price on vesting date).(12) Lyn McGrath assumed the role of Group Executive, Retail Banking on 1 August 2018.(5) This is the total $ value of fixed remuneration, STI cash, Value of Deferred Equity Vested in Period, Termination (13) Peter Sarantzouklis assumed the role of Group Executive, BOQ Business on 12 August 2019.Benefits and Value of LTI Vested in Period.(14) Doug Snell held the role of Interim Group Executive, BOQ Business from 21 December 2018 to 12 August 2019 (6) This relates to PARs which lapsed during the year as a result of hurdles not being met and/or as a result of The amounts shown relate to the period Mr Snell was KMP.ceasing employment (closing share price on lapsed date). (15) Brendan White ceased employment on 6 March 2019.
66 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
 Remuneration Governance  70  |  Non-Executive Director Remuneration  73  |  Statutory Tables  74
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.5  TREATMENT FOR DEPARTING KMP
Departing KMP are subject to plan rules and Board policy in relation to any unvested equity.
Payments provided for all departing KMP were within the termination benefit limit under the Corporations Act and are made in 
accordance with their individual employment agreements. Any restricted shares or PARs from previous years retained by departing KMP 
are held on foot and remain subject to the clawback and malus provisions of the associated plan rules. 
Upon his resignation Jon Sutton received a payment of 9 months fixed remuneration in lieu of notice and was not eligible for either the 
FY19 STI award or LTI grant. He retained his restricted shares granted under the FY17 and FY18 STI and a portion of his PARs for testing at 
future dates, with the remainder of his PARs being forfeited.
Brendan White was on leave for his three month notice period and was not eligible for either the FY19 STI award or LTI grant. Brendan 
retained his restricted shares from the deferred FY17 STI and forfeited any entitlement to  FY18 restricted shares along with all PARs.
Peter Deans forfeited his previously granted PARs but retained his FY17 and FY18 restricted shares for future vesting. Peter did not receive 
any FY19 STI award or LTI grant.
SECTION 4. REMUNERATION STRATEGY & STRUCTURE
This section provides an overview of the remuneration strategy and framework covering employees within BOQ. 
The Board’s remuneration strategy is supported by objectives that are common to all employees and are consistent with prior years, 
these include:
•  Attraction and retention of appropriately skilled and experienced employees through the provision of market competitive 
remuneration;
•  No distinction or difference in pay between genders for those that are performing the same role, other than where this is a 
difference as a result of performance, skill and experience;
•  Provide opportunities for executives and employees to earn incentives linked to achievement of BOQ’s objectives and performance, 
performance of their business unit and their individual contribution within an appropriate risk control framework;
•  Align executive and employee interests with those of the Bank’s stakeholders;
•  Ensure that remuneration structures and their operation encourage behaviours that are consistent with the Bank’s values and 
deliver good customer outcomes; and
•  Provide remuneration structures that remain current and keep pace with the prevailing remuneration trends, practice 
and governance frameworks.
4.1  FIXED REMUNERATION
Fixed remuneration, which comprises salary, superannuation and other benefits is determined based upon the following factors:
1.  Benchmarking using companies exhibiting similar characteristics and dynamics as BOQ.
2.  Comparative fixed remuneration within BOQ for roles at a similar level.
3.  The competitive dynamics of the hire. 
4.  The candidate’s existing or most recent remuneration.
5.  Any regulatory considerations concerning quantum.
6.  Changing market trends and expectations.
Annual Report 2019 67
Remuneration Summary  59   |  Key Management Personnel  62  |  Remuneration Outcomes  63  |  Remuneration Strategy & Structure  67
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
4.2  BOQ STI PLAN
Purpose The STI Plan aims to reward KMP’s contribution to specific annual BOQ Group and individual performance 
objectives.
Performance Period BOQ’s financial year, i.e. the 12 months from 1 September to 31 August.
Award Opportunity -  Target/Performing: MD & CEO – 90%; Line KMP – 75%; Functional KMP – 53%
expressed as a % of Fixed 
Exceptional/Maximum: MD & CEO – 150%; Line KMP – 140%; Functional KMP – 100%
Remuneration (FR)
Gateway To be eligible for an STI award two gateway hurdles must be satisfied:
1.  90% of budgeted cash basic EPS
2.  Behavioural and risk measures
If either gateway is not achieved the KMP will not be eligible for a STI regardless of performance under the 
Group or Individual scorecards.
Pillars/Measures The Group and individual KPI Score is based upon four equally weighted pillars aligned to BOQ’s strategy. 
The same pillars are used for all participants with the exception of the Chief Risk Officer (CRO), these are:
•  Customer (measures cover customer satisfaction and advocacy) – 25%
•  Strategy (measures progress towards the Board’s yearly strategy) - 25%
•  Shareholder (covers financial performance including NPAT, ROE, CTI and Loan Impairment Expense /
GLA) - 25%
•  Culture (including both people and risk measures) – 25%
The Board approves financial and non-financial measures for the year. The Customer, Strategy and Culture 
measures are designed to provide a focus on non-financial performance and to achieve the BOQ’s long 
term objectives in areas such as customer satisfaction and advocacy, employee engagement and risk 
management. The financial measures are designed to provide a direct link with shareholders, to encourage 
prudent cost management and to ensure asset quality. The financial measures are supplemented by the 
STI Plan’s financial gateway.
Individual scorecards include financial and non-financial measures specific to the participant’s division. For 
the revenue generating divisions (Retail and BOQ Business) measures include divisional NPAT, CTI and Loan 
Impairment Expense / GLA along with divisional customer satisfaction, strategic, employee engagement 
and risk measures. For the functional division heads, scorecards include reporting, project, strategic, cost 
management, and stakeholder specific measures. All scorecards include cultural, risk and compliance 
measures.
For the CRO, objectives are set by the Board Risk Committee, due to the need to maintain the 
independence of Adam McAnalen’s role. His Individual Scorecard does not include profitability or financial 
measures.
Award Determination Performance intervals are provided across a range of outcomes with Performing/Target being aligned 
to the yearly budget. STI may be earned across the performance range up to a capped maximum at the 
exceptional level of performance. HRRC and the Board approve KMP scorecard outcomes.
The amount of an STI award which a participant may receive is calculated by multiplying the Group KPI and 
Individual KPI score for each KMP by using the following formula:
Participant’s Fixed Remuneration x STI Target Opportunity % x Group KPI Score % x Individual KPI Score % 
= STI Award
The multiplicative design results in the Individual KPI score serving as a modifier on the Group KPI score and 
can result in the STI award being scaled up to the maximum opportunity or down to zero.
The Board approves all KMP STI awards and retains overarching discretion to pay or withhold any 
STI award. When reviewing STI awards the Board is able to view performance retrospectively having regard 
Board Discretion/Overlay
for factors which may not have been foreseen when the measures were set at the beginning 
of the financial year.
Delivery STI Awards are paid in cash where the value is $100,000 or less. Where the value of the STI award is above 
$100,000, 50% is paid in cash and the remaining 50% is deferred over three years in the form of Restricted 
Shares. The cash component of any STI award is generally paid in November following release of the full 
year results. The Restricted Shares are subject to forfeiture under certain conditions and vest 40% after 1 
year, 30% after 2 years and 30% after 3 years subject to specified employment conditions.
68 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
 Remuneration Governance  70  |  Non-Executive Director Remuneration  73  |  Statutory Tables  74
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
4.3  BOQ LTI PLAN
Purpose The LTI Plan’s purpose is to align executive’s interests with stakeholders over the medium to long term.  
LTI is granted to executives on the basis of retention and potential.
Instrument LTI is provided to KMP under the BOQ Group Award Rights Plan, which includes ability to grant:
•  Deferred Award Rights (DARs), subject to service related vesting conditions (not currently offered to 
KMP); and
•  PARs, subject to both performance and service related vesting conditions.
Each PAR confers the right to one ordinary share in BOQ upon vesting. Shares delivered upon vesting are 
either issued or procured on market at the Board’s discretion.
Opportunity Grants to KMP of LTI are typically made in the range of 80% to 120% of Fixed Remuneration.
The number of PARs granted is determined by dividing the Participant’s dollar denominated grant by a 
Volume Weighted Average Price (VWAP) of the five trading days after the announcement of BOQ’s full year 
results. Accordingly PAR grants are made at face value.
The FY20 LTI allocation for George Frazis (MD & CEO) has a performance period starting on his 
commencement date of 5 September 2019, with the VWAP calculation on the five trading days immediately 
prior to that date.
Measurement Period PARs have a four year measurement/vesting period. The measurement period generally begins in October 
following the announcement of BOQ’s full year results.
Vesting Conditions A participant must remain employed during the measurement period or be considered a good leaver for 
PARs to vest. Vesting is also subject to the performance conditions: 
•  80% of the PARs are subject to a relative TSR condition; and
•  20% of the PARs are subject to a relative cash EPS condition.
Total Shareholder Return TSR is the measurement of the entire return (including dividends) a shareholder would obtain from holding 
an entity’s securities over the period. The LTI plan uses relative TSR which compares the TSR of BOQ with 
the performance of a Peer Group comprising the companies in the S&P/ASX 200 excluding resources, real 
estate investment trusts, telecommunications (offshore headquartered), energy and utilities. Vesting of 
the TSR tranche is tested independently and is subject to the following scale:
BOQ's TSR vs ASX 200 Peer Group % of TSR Tranche Vesting
At or above 75th Percentile 100%
Between 50th and 75th Percentile Pro-rata on a straight-line basis between 50% and 100%
At 50th Percentile 50%
Below 50th Percentile 0%
Cash Earnings per share Cash EPS is the measure of financial performance of cash flow generated by the company on a per share 
basis. It is calculated by dividing cash NPAT by the total number of ordinary shares on issue. BOQ’s EPS is 
measured against a Peer Group comprising five Financial Services companies: Australia & New Zealand 
Banking Group, Commonwealth Bank of Australia, National Australia Bank, Westpac Banking Corporation 
and Bendigo & Adelaide Bank. Vesting of the EPS tranche is tested independently and is subject to the 
following scale:
BOQ's EPS vs Financial Services Peer Group % of EPS Tranche Vesting
At or above 90th Percentile 100%
Between 60th and 90th Percentile Pro-rata on a straight-line basis between 50% and 100%
At 60th Percentile 50%
Below 60th Percentile 0%
There is no retesting of any of the vesting conditions and any PARs which do not vest on the testing date 
Retesting
lapse.
The Board has discretion to reduce the vesting of any LTI award to zero where the Board feels it would 
Board Discretion be inappropriate for the PARs to vest such as where there has been a material misstatement of financial 
results or serious misconduct by an individual.
The exercise price of each PAR is nil. Once the PARs vest, participants can exercise them at any time 
Exercise
before the 7th anniversary of the grant.
Participants may not dispose of PARs prior to exercise.
The Board has the discretion to specify any disposal restrictions to be applied to any shares received on 
Disposal Restrictions exercise of PARs. Any restrictions will be included in the offer provided to Participants. Current unvested 
PARs on foot do not have any specific disposal restrictions as part of their offers apart from complying 
with BOQ’s Securities Trading Policy.
Annual Report 2019 69
 Remuneration Summary  59   |  Key Management Personnel  62  |  Remuneration Outcomes  63  |  Remuneration Strategy & Structure  67 
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
SECTION 5. REMUNERATION GOVERNANCE
Remuneration is governed by principles, policy and oversight of the HRRC in accordance with its charter and on behalf of the Board. The 
HRRC and Board may exercise discretion in accordance with parameters described below.
The remuneration strategy and the principles adopted to support this were described in Section 4. In accordance with the HRRC Charter, 
the remuneration policy was updated during the period, and was approved by the Board. The remuneration strategy and policy will be 
reviewed regularly as developments and changes in the regulatory environment become known. This includes the outcomes of APRA’s 
proposed prudential standard CPS 511.
A report was provided by the CRO in assessing executive performance in FY19. The Chair of the Risk Committee attended the HRRC 
meeting to discuss the CRO’s report. This is supplemented by a meeting of the HRRC to which the full Risk Committee was invited when 
reviewing and finalising STI amounts for FY19 and LTI grants for FY20.
5.1  REGULATORY CHANGES/IMPLEMENTATION
During FY19 further progress was made towards implementing the Sedgwick recommendations across BOQ and in particular at replacing 
commission based sales plans with balanced scorecards incorporating a mixture of financial and non-financial measures. FY19 marked 
the second year of the new scorecard across BOQ’s Corporate Branch network staff. Further work was undertaken during FY19 in 
incorporating the principles of the Sedgwick recommendations within the BOQ Business Division by reviewing the plans covering these 
employees with the first new balanced scorecard coming into effect on 1 September 2019. Further work will be undertaken in FY20 
focusing on replacing the remaining commission plans within BOQ Business as well as moving the existing scorecards to a majority 
weighting on non-financial performance. BOQ is on track to meet the Sedgwick deadline of 1 September 2020.
The BEAR legislation came into effect on 1 July 2019 and BOQ’s remuneration governance framework and policies were  
updated accordingly. 
Work will be undertaken during FY20 with regards to APRA’s draft prudential standard CPS 511. This may require banks to implement 
changes to both remuneration design and remuneration governance. The Board and the HRRC are working with all stakeholders including 
APRA to determine the appropriate changes.
5.2  REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES
The below principles govern how remuneration works at BOQ:
•  Total reward is linked to performance and reflects stakeholder interests;
•   Fixed and total remuneration for each KMP is periodically benchmarked to the market to ensure it remains competitive;
•  Key performance measures apply to all executives, covering both financial and non-financial measures;
•  The Bank’s LTI is awarded on the basis of a VWAP (face value) and not a risk adjusted value (fair value);
•  Total remuneration for KMP is targeted to achieve a balanced mix between fixed, short term and long term variable at risk 
remuneration;
•  Variable remuneration is capped and subject to deferral and/or clawback/malus of unvested deferred STI and LTI;
•  Cash payments are not made to executives joining BOQ; and
•  The Board has discretion over the outcomes under both the STI and LTI plans.
5.3  HRRC CHARTER
Under the Consolidated Entity’s HRRC charter, the Committee undertakes to conduct regular reviews and provide advice to the Board 
with regard to the following:
•    Review the Consolidated Entity’s Remuneration Policy, at least on a biennial basis, to ensure compliance with the Consolidated Entity’s 
objectives including the risk management framework and to reflect changes in the regulatory environment;
•   Reviewing and making recommendations to the Board on the design and terms of all employee equity plans;
•   Provide recommendations to the Board on remuneration, recruitment, succession, retention and termination policies for Group 
Executives;
•   An annual review of the individual remuneration arrangements for Group Executives (MD & CEO and his direct reports), any other 
Accountable Persons under BEAR and all other Responsible Persons (as defined by the APRA Prudential Standard CPS 520);
•   Reviewing and making recommendations to the Board on diversity at all levels below the Board and overseeing execution of the 
Consolidated Entity’s People & Culture strategy; and
•   Recommending NED remuneration, including ensuring that the structure of NED remuneration is clearly distinguished from that of 
Group Executives.
70 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Remuneration Governance  70  |  Non-Executive Director Remuneration  73  |  Statutory Tables  74
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
5.4   SECURITIES TRADING POLICY
The Securities Trading Policy regulates dealing by Directors, Employees and Contractors in BOQ securities. Under the policy, Prescribed 
Persons (those employees with the authority, responsibility or a participatory role in the planning, directing or controlling of the activities 
of the Consolidated Entity) are prohibited from trading in BOQ securities during certain blackout periods:
•   The period commencing 1 March and ending at the close of trading on the ASX one trading day after the announcement of BOQ’s half 
year results; 
•   The period commencing 1 September and ending at the close of trading on the ASX one trading day after the announcement of BOQ’s 
full year results; or 
•   Any other period of time nominated from time-to-time by the Chairman, the MD & CEO or the Chief Financial Officer of BOQ.
If a Director, Employee or Contractor has inside information about the BOQ Group, they must not trade in BOQ securities at any time 
whilst in possession of such information, including outside of a Blackout period.
5.5  USE OF REMUNERATION CONSULTANTS
Where necessary, the Board seeks advice from independent experts and advisors, including remuneration consultants. The remuneration 
consultants are engaged by the Chairman of the HRRC which ensures, upon engagement, that the appropriate level of independence 
exists from the Consolidated Entity’s Management. Reports provided by independent consultants are submitted directly to the Chairman 
of the HRRC. Where the consultant’s engagement requires a recommendation, the recommendation is provided to, and discussed 
directly with the HRRC Chairman in accordance with the requirements of the Corporations Act.
During FY19 the HRRC engaged independent advisors from PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), Ernst & Young (EY) and Egan Associates 
to assist with the decision making process. None of the advisors provided a remuneration recommendation as defined under the 
Corporations Act.
5.6  BOARD DISCRETION
Group Executives’ remuneration is determined by the remuneration strategy, policy and plans such as STI and LTI. Remuneration 
outcomes are assessed against a range of performance measures and awarded in accordance with the plan design and plan rules.
The Board and HRRC recognise that there are a number of factors which are specific to the current and forward years and these may 
be taken into account when considering the overall remuneration outcomes for each year. To account for these factors, the HRRC and 
Board may make discretionary adjustments to the outcomes for Group Executives (as well as those employees classified as Responsible 
Persons) that may impact their remuneration negatively or positively. Through this process, remuneration outcomes have been adjusted 
both positively and negatively in previous years.
Criteria used by the HRRC to apply discretionary adjustments include:
•  Factors either not known or relevant at the beginning of a financial year, which can impact performance positively or negatively during 
the course of the financial year;
•  The degree of ‘stretch’ implicit in the measures and targets and the environment and market context in which the targets were set;
•  Whether the operating environment during the financial year was materially different than forecast;
•  Comparison with the performance of the Consolidated Entity relative to its competitors;
•  The emergence of any major positive or negative risk or reputational issues;
•  The quality of the financial result as shown by its composition and consistency;
•  Whether leadership behaviours and BOQ values have been consistently demonstrated throughout the year; and
•  Any other matters that the Board and the HRRC deem to be relevant and which are not outlined above.
5.7   CLAWBACK AND MALUS
Clawback and malus provisions are set out in plan rules. In circumstances where it becomes evident there was a material misstatement of 
financial results or serious misconduct by an individual where this may result in reputational damage to the Bank, the Board can exercise 
discretion to reduce or forfeit (malus) a pro-rated amount or the full value of any unvested awards or compel the participant to pay back 
any award or vested equity (clawback).
The Board has reviewed the clawback and malus provisions of the incentive plan rules as part of its overarching review into risk and 
consequence management and intends to broaden these policies in part to better align with BEAR and APRA’s CPS 511 standard.
Annual Report 2019 71
 Remuneration Summary  59   |  Key Management Personnel  62  |  Remuneration Outcomes  63  |  Remuneration Strategy & Structure  67 
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
5.8  GOOD LEAVER AND CHANGE OF CONTROL PROVISIONS
Group Executives are not eligible to receive an STI or LTI if they resign or are terminated for misconduct or poor performance. However 
the Board has discretion to consider a pro-rated retention based on circumstances where they meet the “good leaver” definition. 
Commonly good leaver status is granted in the case of redundancy, retirement, Total and Permanent Disablement, death in service or the 
divestment of a portion of BOQ. Under the STI Plan rules if a participant is deemed a good leaver, their award for the year will be pro-rated 
and subject to the same performance testing as if their employment had not ended. Restricted Shares granted as deferred STI will be 
forfeited if the employee ceases employment to work for a competitor or if they are terminated for misconduct. PARs granted under the 
LTI Plan will be pro-rated based on the number of days elapsed in the vesting period with the remaining PARs being retained for testing at 
the end of the original performance period. The Board retains the discretion to classify an employee as a Good Leaver and to determine 
the treatment of their award including forfeiture in full in accordance with plan rules.
The Board retains discretion to determine the treatment of an STI award in the case of a Change of Control including the early payment 
for the whole or part of a performance period. This covers both the cash STI award and the removal of the restrictions on deferred STI. 
With respect to the LTI the Board’s policy is that a pro-rata number of PARs will vest depending on the proportion of the vesting period 
elapsed and the likelihood (at the Board’s discretion) that the performance conditions would have been satisfied. 
5.9  MINIMUM SHAREHOLDING REQUIREMENTS
NEDs are currently required to hold shares equal in value to one times their base fee within three years of their appointment to the Board 
or within 12 months of the adoption of the policy (whichever is the latter).
There is currently no holding policy in place for executives as they receive equity under the deferred STI and LTI plans.
5.10  EXECUTIVE CONTRACTS
The remuneration and terms of Group Executives are formalised in their ESA. Each of these agreements provide for the payment of fixed 
and performance-based variable remuneration, superannuation and other benefits such as statutory leave entitlements. During FY19 
the Board updated the BOQ ESA to bring it in line with the BEAR legislation. As part of this the notice period for executives other than 
the MD & CEO are being increased to 6 months. This change is being implemented for all current Group Executives and will be used for all 
future contracts. Employment terms being implemented are governed by employment contracts as set out in the table below
TABLE 7 - EXECUTIVE CONTRACT TERMS
Notice Period   Employer Notice 
Name Position Title by Executive Period Termination Payments (includes Notice Periods)
Managing Director & Chief 
George Frazis 6 months 9 months 9 months fixed remuneration in lieu of notice
Executive Officer
Chief Digital & Information 
Donna-Maree Vinci 3 months 3 months 6 months fixed remuneration
Officer
Lyn McGrath Group Executive Retail Banking 3 months 3 months 3 months fixed remuneration in lieu of notice
Group Executive People & 
Debra Eckersley 6 months 6 months 6 months fixed remuneration in lieu of notice
Culture
Adam McAnalen Chief Risk Officer  6 months 6 months 6 months fixed remuneration in lieu of notice
Peter Sarantzouklis Group Executive BOQ Business 6 months 6 months 6 months fixed remuneration in lieu of notice
Interim Group Executive BOQ 
Doug Snell 3 months 3 months 3 months fixed remuneration
Business
Anthony Rose Interim Chief Executive Officer  3 months 3 months 6 months fixed remuneration
Matthew Baxby Chief Financial Officer 3 months 3 months 6 months fixed remuneration
Managing Director & Chief 
Jon Sutton 9 months 9 months No benefit in addition to notice
Executive Officer
Brendan White Group Executive BOQ Business 3 months 3 months 6 months fixed remuneration
Peter Deans Chief Risk Officer  3 months 3 months 3 months fixed remuneration
72 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Remuneration Governance  70  |  Non-Executive Director Remuneration  73  |  Statutory Tables  74
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
SECTION 6. NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION
6.1   FEE POOL
NED fees are determined within an aggregate fee pool limit. The pool currently stands at $2,800,000 (inclusive of superannuation) and 
was approved by shareholders on 30 November 2016. The fee pool allows the Board flexibility in dealing with changes to its size and 
composition. The Board will not be seeking any increase to the fee pool at the 2019 AGM.
6.2  REMUNERATION FRAMEWORK
Non-Executive Director fees are set to attract and retain individuals of appropriate calibre to the BOQ Board and Committees. Fees are 
reviewed annually by the HRRC having regard to external benchmarking information provided by independent remuneration consultants, 
principally to ensure market comparability.
The Chairman’s fees are determined independently to the fees of other Directors and are also based upon information provided 
periodically by independent remuneration consultants. The Chairman is not present at any discussions relating to the determination of 
their own remuneration.
In order to maintain independence and impartiality, NEDs do not receive any performance-related remuneration including share options 
or rights subject to a performance condition in addition to their prescribed fees. NEDs are not provided with retirement benefits apart 
from statutory superannuation.
6.3  NED FEES
In FY19 the Board implemented a new NEDs Fee Sacrifice Rights Plan, the details of which are provided in the table below:
The plan’s purpose is to provide an opportunity for NEDs to increase their shareholding in a tax 
Purpose
effective manner. The Plan meets regulatory and tax requirements.
Directors can nominate at the beginning of the participation period, a percentage of their pre-tax fees 
Value
(up to 100%) to receive in rights to shares in BOQ.
Rights vest and convert to shares following the completion of the participation period. For FY19 the 
Vesting Period participation period was the six months from 1 March to 31 August 2019. The rights do not have any 
performance conditions in order to preserve the directors’ independence.
Shares received on exercise will be subject to a disposal restriction of at least three years or longer as 
Disposal Restrictions
nominated by the director (up to a maximum of 15 years).
If a participant ceases to be a NED prior to the rights vesting, they will retain a number of their rights 
Cessation of Employment based on the period they were a NED. If employment ceases during the restriction period, any disposal 
restrictions on the shares will be lifted subject to a minimum trading restriction of 12 months.
Annual Report 2019 73
 Remuneration Summary  59   |  Key Management Personnel  62  |  Remuneration Outcomes  63  |  Remuneration Strategy & Structure  67
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
6.3		NED	FEES	(CONTINUED)
The table below sets out the current Board and Committee membership fee structure (exclusive of superannuation). There are no 
planned changes to fees for FY20. 
TABLE 8 - DIRECTORS’ ANNUAL FEES (1)
01/09/18 - 31/08/19 01/09/18 - 31/08/19
Directors’ Annual Fees Chairman/Committee Chair $ Directors/Committee Members $
Fixed component of remuneration for Directors (2) - 150,000
Chairman (3) 400,000 -
Additional remuneration is paid to Non-Executive Directors for Committee work:
St Andrews’ Board of Directors (4) (5) - 45,000
Audit Committee 45,000 22,500
Risk Committee 45,000 22,500
Nomination & Governance Committee 15,000 10,000
Human Resources & Remuneration Committee 35,000 17,500
Investment Committee (6) 2,250 1,500
Due Diligence Committee (6) 2,250 1,500
Information Technology Committee 35,000 17,500
(1)  Fees remain unchanged since FY14.
(2) Directors receive one fee for serving on Bank and subsidiary Committees. A separate fee is received for serving on St Andrew’s Board.
(3)  The Chairman receives no additional remuneration for involvement with Committees.
(4)  David Willis is also a member of the St Andrew’s Board of Directors.
(5)		This	fee	is	payable	to	St	Andrews’	directors	who	are	also	BOQ	directors.	Different	fees	are	payable	to	other	St	Andrews’	NEDs.
(6) Per meeting.
SECTION 7. STATUTORY TABLES
7.1  STATUTORY DISCLOSURES
The following tables include details of the nature and amount, as required by the Corporations Act 2001, of each major element of the 
remuneration of each Director and Group Executive of the Group, calculated in accordance with accounting standards.
74 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Remuneration Governance  70  |  Non-Executive Director Remuneration  73  |  Statutory Tables  74
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
tor of the Consolidated Entity are as outlined in the table below: Long-Term Share Based Payments Proportion of  Value of Postremuneration rights as mployment Other Shares proportion of performance  (3) (4) (5) (6)long termand units related remunerationTermination RightsTotal  $%$Benefits$$$% 20,649 ----438,282 -- 20,169----420,169--  5,304 ---- 61,137 --  5,304 ---- 61,137 --  4,234 --- 133,046  261,280 -- 19,308----262,516--  19,443 ---- 238,193 -- 19,308----269,266--  18,050 ---- 208,050 -- 17,733----207,733--  17,800 ---- 210,800 -- 15,849----181,182--  20,359 ---- 245,609-- 18,233----218,733--  20,748 ---- 255,748 -- 19,616----254,616--  21,865 ---- 284,365 -- 19,616----283,267-- (7%) 5,133  -  975,000 (484,316)  396,8751,274,384(38%) 20,16926,056-757,289511,4583,212,49054%24% (7)	The	Bank	has	also	paid	insurance	premiums	in	respect	of	Director’s	and	Officers’	Liability	Insurance	which	is	not	reflected in the above table as there is no appropriate basis for allocation.(8) Reportable fringe benefits amounts related to private travel adjacent to a company funded business trip.(9) Patrick Allaway was appointed to the BOQ Board on 1 May 2019.(10) Kathleen Bailey-Lord was appointed to the BOQ Board on 1 May 2019.(11)	Jon	Sutton	resigned	effective	5	December	2018.	Mr	Sutton	received	a	termination	payment	(which	is	his	notice	period in accordance with his contract) and retained rights received under BOQ’s award rights plans. The rights remain subject to the relevant performance hurdles and restriction periods. The full value of retained equity has been included in Mr Sutton’s 2019 remuneration in accordance with AASB 2 . On Share-based Paymentsseparation, a number of award rights lapsed and the associated expense has been reversed.
7.1	STATUTORY	DISCLOSURES	(CONTINUED) TABLE 9 - DIRECTOR’S REMUNERATION Details of the nature and amount of each major element of the remuneration of each Direc Short-Term  Total  Non-Other  eshort term monetaryshort term Salary   (1) (2)benefits benefitsbenefits and fees STI at risk $$$$$   (7)Non-Executive Directors - Current 2019400,000 -17,633-417,633  (8)Roger Davis 2018400,000---400,000 2019 55,833 --- 55,833  (9)Patrick Allaway 2019 55,833 --- 55,833  (10)Kathleen Bailey- Lord 2019 124,000 --- 124,000 Bruce Carter 2018243,208---243,208 2019 218,750 --- 218,750 Richard Haire  2018249,958---249,958 2019 190,000 --- 190,000 John Lorimer 2018190,000---190,000 2019 193,000 --- 193,000 Warwick Negus 2018165,333---165,333 2019 225,250 --- 225,250 Karen Penrose 2018200,500---200,500 2019 235,000 --- 235,000 Michelle Tredenick 2018235,000---235,000 2019 262,500 --- 262,500 David Willis 2018263,651---263,651 (7) Executive Directors - Former  (11)Jon Sutton -   341,053 - 27,421  13,218  381,692 2019Managing Director &  20181,352,041475,00020,66949,8081,897,518Chief Executive Officer (1) STI at risk reflects 50 per cent of the amounts paid or accrued in respect of FY19. (2) Non-monetary benefits relate to company-funded benefits (and associated FBT) such as car parking, accommodation or relocation and travel relating to Executives and NEDs. In addition, this includes gifts received on leaving BOQ for former Executives.(3) Post-employment includes superannuation benefits.(4) Comprises long service leave accrued or utilised during the financial year. (5) The fair value of the rights is calculated at the date of grant using an industry accepted option pricing model and allocated to each reporting period evenly over the period from grant date to vesting date.(6) Represents restricted shares awarded through deferred STI payments or Non-Executive Director Fee Sacrifice Rights Plan.
Annual Report 2019 75
 Remuneration Summary  59   |  Key Management Personnel  62  |  Remuneration Outcomes  63  |  Remuneration Strategy & Structure  67
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
7.1	STATUTORY	DISCLOSURES	(CONTINUED) TABLE 10 - GROUP EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION Details of the nature and amount of each major element of the remuneration of each Group Executive of the Consolidated Entity are as outlined in the table below: Short-Term Long-Term  Share Based Payments Proportion of  Value of PostNon-remunerationOther  Total   rights as employment monetaryshort term short term Other Shares proportion of Salary  performance  (1) (2) (3) (4)  (5) (6) (7)benefitsbenefitsbenefits long termand unitsand fees STI at risk related remunerationTermination RightsTotal   $$$%$$$$Benefits$$$% Executives - Current Matthew Baxby2019 659,021 - -  -  659,021  20,649  18,219 - 329,463 112,917 1,140,269 39%29% 2018631,755190,000--821,75520,16913,046-355,322214,5841,424,87653%25%  (8)Debra Eckersley2019 528,235 - -  -  528,235  24,138  1,485 - 47,132  - 600,990 8%8%  (9)Adam McAnalen 2019 140,674 - 1,276  177  142,127  8,204  69,968 - 22,375 - 242,674 -9% Lyn McGrath2019 537,821 - 37,196  -  575,017  20,902  2,062 - 57,007 724,202 1,379,190 57%4% 201855,211-1,722-56,9334,880149---61,962-- Anthony Rose2019 926,320 - -  -  926,320  20,649  47,780 - 357,832 96,042 1,448,623 31%25% 2018704,229165,000--869,22920,16913,983-393,220178,5421,475,14350%27%  (10)Peter Sarantzouklis2019 38,925 - 450  -  39,375  3,409  103 - - - 42,887--  (11)Doug Snell2019 301,851 - 3,282  -  305,133  13,238  9,500 - 74,681 - 402,552-19% Donna-Maree Vinci2019 537,308 - 56,800  -  594,108  20,649  7,281 - 317,450 86,667 1,026,155 38%31% 2018553,101150,00047,803-750,90420,1695,242-491,008160,6251,427,94863%34% Executives - Former 2019 416,384  -  -  37,548  453,932  15,399  - -(331,344)  138,125 276,112(70%)(120%) (12)Peter Deans 2018651,301165,000-49,808866,10915,15713,626-398,745180,6251,474,26250%27% 2019 364,658 - 10,668  -  375,326  10,266  - -(321,076) (37,500)27,016(1327%)(1188%) (13)Brendan White 2018660,696220,00020,669-901,36520,16913,916-385,735234,5831,555,76854%25% (10) Peter Sarantzouklis was appointed as an executive on 12 August 2019.(1) Salary and fees include fixed remuneration, including annual leave accrued during the year.(11) Doug Snell was Interim Group Executive, BOQ Business for the period 21 December 2018 to 12 August 2019. The (2) STI at risk reflects 50 per cent of the amounts paid or accrued in respect of FY19. amounts shown relate to the period Mr Snell was KMP.(3) Non-monetary benefits relate to company-funded benefits (and associated FBT) such as car parking, (12) Peter Deans retired on 31 May 2019. Mr Deans retained rights received under BOQ’s award rights plans. The rights accommodation or relocation, travel and gifts received on leaving BOQ for former Executives disclosed above.remain subject to the relevant performance hurdles and restriction periods. The full value of retained equity has (4) Post-employment includes superannuation benefits.been included in Mr Dean’s 2019 remuneration in accordance with AASB 2 Share-based Payments. On separation, (5) Comprises long service leave accrued or utilised during the financial year. a number of award rights lapsed and the associated expense has been reversed. (6) The fair value of the rights is calculated at the date of grant using an industry accepted option pricing model and (13) Brendan White ceased employment on 6 March 2019. Mr White retained rights received under BOQ’s award allocated to each reporting period evenly over the period from grant date to vesting date.rights plans. The rights remain subject to the relevant performance hurdles and restriction periods. The full value (7) Represents restricted shares awarded through deferred STI payments or in lieu of forgone incentives. of retained equity has been included in Mr White’s 2019 remuneration in accordance with AASB 2 Share-based (8) Debra Eckersley was appointed as an executive on 3 September 2018.. On separation, a number of award rights lapsed and the associated expense has been reversed. Payments(9) Adam McAnalen was appointed as an executive on 1 June 2019. The amounts shown relate from the period he was appointed and became KMP. 
76 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Remuneration Governance  70  |  Non-Executive Director Remuneration  73  |  Statutory Tables  74
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
7.2  EQUITY HELD BY GROUP EXECUTIVES
The movement during FY19 in the number of rights over ordinary shares held by each Group Executive as part of their remuneration, are as follows:
TABLE 11 - MOVEMENT IN RIGHTS HELD BY GROUP EXECUTIVES DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019
Movements during the 2019 
Financial Year
Share 
Price at  Vested  
Grant  Balance   Balance at  during the 
Group (1)    Date   at 1 Sep   31 Aug  Year (5)
Executive Type Grant Date $ 2018 Other (2) Granted (3) Exercised Lapsed 2019 (3) (4) (%)
Current
Matthew Baxby 2015 PARs 15/12/2015 13.02  44,194   -   -   6,931   37,263   -  16%
2016 PARs 23/12/2016 11.95  54,399   -   -   -   -   54,399  0%
Restricted Shares 23/12/2016 11.95  10,653   -   -   10,653   -   -  50%
2017 PARs 13/12/2017 12.71  50,002   -   -   -   -   50,002  0%
Restricted Shares 13/12/2017 12.71  19,085   -   -   9,542   -   9,543  50%
2018 PARs 11/12/2018 9.74  -   -   61,695   -   -   61,695 0%
Restricted Shares 11/12/2018 9.74  -   -   17,897   -   -   17,897  0%
Debra Eckersley 2018 PARs 11/12/2018 9.74  -   -   49,450   -   -   49,450 0%
Adam McAnalen 2016 PARs 23/12/2016 11.95  -  9,067  -  - - 9,067 0%
2016 DARs 23/12/2016 11.95  -  1,814  -   -   -  1,814 0%
2017 PARs 13/12/2017 12.71  -  7,634  -  -  -  7,634 0%
2017 DARs 13/12/2017 12.71  -  3,054  -   -   -  3,054 0%
2018 PARs 11/12/2018 9.74  -  10,361  -  -  -  10,361 0%
2018 DARs 11/12/2018 9.74  -  3,768 -  -   -  3,768 0%
Lyn McGrath Restricted Shares 17/10/2018 10.56  -  -   56,068   51,460   -   4,608 92%
2018 PARs 11/12/2018 9.74  -   -   59,811   -   -   59,811  0%
Restricted Shares 11/12/2018 9.74  -   -   14,129   -   -   14,129 0%
Anthony Rose 2015 PARs 15/12/2015 13.02  50,843   -   -   7,974   42,869   -  16%
2016 PARs 23/12/2016 11.95  58,932   -   -   -   -   58,932  0%
Restricted Shares 23/12/2016 11.95  8,500   -   -   8,500   -   -  50%
2017 PARs 13/12/2017 12.71  54,200   -   -   -   -   54,200 0%
Restricted Shares 13/12/2017 12.71  15,649   -   -   7,824   -   7,825  50%
2018 PARs 11/12/2018 9.74  -   -   66,876   -   -   66,876 0%
Restricted Shares 11/12/2018 9.74  -   -   15,542   -   -   15,542  0%
Donna-Maree 
Vinci 2015 PARs 15/12/2015 13.02  44,585   -   -   6,993   37,592   -  16%
2016 PARs 29/02/2016 10.55  52,076   -   -   8,168   43,908   -  16%
2016 PARs 23/12/2016 11.95  51,679   -   -   -   -   51,679  0%
Restricted Shares 23/12/2016 11.95  7,707   -   -   7,707   -   -  50%
2017 PARs 13/12/2017 12.71  44,276   -   -   -   -   44,276  0%
Restricted Shares 13/12/2017 12.71  13,932   -   -   6,966   -   6,966  50%
2018 PARs 11/12/2018 9.74  -   -   57,362   -   -   57,362  0%
Restricted Shares 11/12/2018 9.74  -   -   14,129   -   -   14,129 0%
(1)  Group Executives with nil shareholding movements while KMP have been excluded from the table above. 
(2) Other is the balance at the date an executive became KMP. Adam McAnalen was appointed as an executive on 1 June 2019. 
(3) This represents the maximum number of award rights that may vest to each Executive.
(4) Balance amounts as at 31 August 2019 are unvested and not yet exercisable.
(5) Percentage of initial rights granted. 
Annual Report 2019 77
 Remuneration Summary  59   |  Key Management Personnel  62  |  Remuneration Outcomes  63  |  Remuneration Strategy & Structure  67
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
7.2	 EQUITY	HELD	BY	GROUP	EXECUTIVES	(CONTINUED)
TABLE 11 - MOVEMENT IN RIGHTS HELD BY GROUP EXECUTIVES DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 (CONTINUED)
Movements during the 2019 
Financial Year
Share 
Price at  Balance   Vested  
Grant  Balance    at  during the
Date   at 1 Sep  Opening  31 Aug  Year(5)
Group Executive (1) Type Grant Date $ 2018 Balance (2) Granted (3) Exercised Lapsed 2019 (3) (4) (%)
Former
Jon Sutton 2015 PARs 15/12/2015 13.02  97,774  -   -   15,335   82,439   -  16%
2016 PARs 23/12/2016 11.95  117,865  -  -   -   117,865   -  0%
Restricted shares 23/12/2016 11.95  22,667  -  -   22,667   -   -  50%
2017 PARs 13/12/2017 12.71  99,239  -  -   -   77,547 21,692 0%
Restricted shares 13/12/2017 12.71  45,803  -  -   22,901   -   22,902  50%
Restricted shares 05/12/2018 9.74  -   -   44,741   -   -   44,741  0%
Peter Deans 2015 PARs 15/12/2015 13.02  52,798  -  -   8,281   44,517   -  16%
2016 PARs 23/12/2016 11.95  61,199  -  -   -   61,199   -  0%
Restricted shares 23/12/2016 11.95  8,500  -  -   8,500   -   -  50%
2017 PARs 13/12/2017 12.71  51,528  -  -   -   51,528   -  0%
Restricted shares 13/12/2017 12.71  16,031  -  -   8,015   -   8,016 50%
2018 PARs 11/12/2018 9.74  -   -   60,400   -   60,400   -  0%
Restricted shares 11/12/2018 9.74  -   -   15,542   -   -   15,542  0%
Brendan White 2015 PARs 15/12/2015 13.02  50,061  -  -   7,852   42,209   -  16%
2016 PARs 23/12/2016 11.95  58,026  -  -   -   58,026   -  0%
Restricted shares 23/12/2016 11.95  10,767  -  -   10,767   -   -  50%
2017 PARs 13/12/2017 12.71  52,673  -  -   -   52,673   -  0%
Restricted shares 13/12/2017 12.71  20,611  -  -   10,305   -   10,306 50%
(1)  Group Executives with nil shareholding movements while KMP have been excluded from the table above. 
(2) Opening balance is the balance at the date an executive became KMP. Adam McAnalen was appointed as an executive on 1 June 2019. 
(3) This represents the maximum number of award rights that may vest to each Executive.
(4) Balance amounts as at 31 August 2019 are unvested and not yet exercisable.
(5) Percentage of initial rights granted. 
78 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Remuneration Governance  70  |  Non-Executive Director Remuneration  73  |  Statutory Tables  74
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
7.2	 EQUITY	HELD	BY	GROUP	EXECUTIVES	(CONTINUED)
The table below shows the total value of any rights that were granted, exercised or lapsed to Group Executives.
TABLE 12 - VALUE OF RIGHTS HELD BY GROUP EXECUTIVES DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019
Fair Value   Value at   Share Price  Value at 
per Right at  Grant  at Exercise  Exercise   Expiry / 
Group   Grant Date  Date (1)  Date (2)   Date (3)  Lapsing  
Executive Grant Grant Date $ $  Exercise Date $ $ Date
Current
Matthew Baxby 2013 PARs 16/12/2013 7.63  344,433  24/10/2016 11.20  326,603  16/12/2018
2013 DARs 16/12/2013 10.38  52,720  30/12/2014 12.20  12,383  16/12/2018
31/12/2015 13.94  21,231  16/12/2018
27/01/2017 12.21  31,026  16/12/2018
2014 PARs 16/12/2014 6.13  267,041  29/10/2017 13.47  322,741  16/12/2019
Restricted Shares  16/12/2014 11.70  266,982  16/12/2015 13.31  151,854  16/12/2024
16/12/2016 11.50  131,215  16/12/2024
2015 PARs 15/12/2015 7.67  338,968  16/04/2019 8.99  62,310  16/12/2020
Restricted Shares  15/12/2015 13.02  239,334  15/12/2016 11.50  105,697  16/12/2025
15/12/2017 12.61  115,899  16/12/2025
2016 PARs 23/12/2016 6.80  369,913  - - - 16/12/2021
Restricted Shares  23/12/2016 11.95  254,607  15/12/2017 12.61  134,334  16/12/2026
30/04/2019 8.89  94,705  16/12/2026
2017 PARs 13/12/2017 7.14  357,014  - - - 13/12/2022
Restricted Shares  13/12/2017 13.10  250,014  30/04/2019 8.89  84,828  16/12/2027
2018 PARs 11/12/2018 4.91  302,922  - - - 11/12/2025
Restricted Shares  11/12/2018 10.62  190,066  - - - 11/12/2028
Debra Eckersley 2018 PARs 11/12/2018 4.91  242,800  - - - 11/12/2025
Adam McAnalen 2015 PARs 15/12/2015 7.67 53,997 16/01/2019 10.34 11,426 16/12/2020
2015 DARs 15/12/2015 11.71 27,483 22/12/2016 12.00 5,640 16/12/2020
19/12/2017 12.66 8,913 16/12/2020
13/12/2018 9.56 11,214 16/12/2020
2016 PARs 23/12/2016 6.80 61,656 - - - 16/12/2021
2016 DARs 23/12/2016 11.45 41,529 19/12/2017 12.66 9,179 23/12/2021
13/12/2018 9.56 10,401 23/12/2021
2017 PARs 13/12/2017 7.14 54,507 - - - 13/12/2022
2017 DARs 13/12/2017 11.05 42,178 13/12/2018 9.56 7,294 13/12/2022
2018 PARs 11/12/2018 4.91 50,873 - - - 11/12/2025
2018 DARs 11/12/2018 8.21 30,935 - - - 11/12/2025
Lyn McGrath Restricted Shares 17/10/2018 10.91  611,702  30/04/2019 8.89  348,746  17/10/2028
15/08/2019 8.85  108,244  17/10/2028
2018 PARs  11/12/2018 4.91  293,672 - - - 11/12/2025
Restricted Shares  11/12/2018 10.62  150,050  - - - 11/12/2028
Anthony Rose 2013 PARs 16/12/2013 7.63  410,036  21/10/2016 11.14  386,736  16/12/2018
2013 DARs 16/12/2013 10.38  62,757  8/01/2015 11.94  14,435  16/12/2018
26/02/2016 10.55  19,127  16/12/2018
9/01/2017 12.40  37,498  16/12/2018
(1)  Represents rights held at 1 September 2018 or granted during FY19.
(2) Closing share price on exercise date of rights that have a nil exercise price.
(3) Closing share price on exercise date multiplied by the number of rights exercised during the year.
Annual Report 2019 79
 Remuneration Summary  59   |  Key Management Personnel  62  |  Remuneration Outcomes  63  |  Remuneration Strategy & Structure  67
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
7.2	 EQUITY	HELD	BY	GROUP	EXECUTIVES	(CONTINUED)	
TABLE 12 - VALUE OF RIGHTS HELD BY GROUP EXECUTIVES DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 (CONTINUED)
Fair Value   Value at   Share Price  Value at 
per Right at  Grant  at Exercise  Exercise   Expiry / 
Group   Grant Date  Date (1)  Date (2)  Date (3) Lapsing  
Executive Grant Grant Date $ $  Exercise Date $ $ Date
Current
Anthony Rose 
2014 PARs 16/12/2014 6.13  317,902  27/10/2017 13.31  379,641  16/12/2019
(continued)
Restricted Shares  16/12/2014 11.70  249,982  16/12/2015 13.31  142,191  16/12/2024
16/12/2016 11.50  122,855  16/12/2024
2015 PARs 15/12/2015 7.67  389,966  30/04/2019 8.89  70,889  16/12/2020
Restricted Shares 15/12/2015 13.02  239,334  15/12/2016 11.50  105,697  16/12/2025
15/12/2017 12.61  115,899  16/12/2025
2016 PARs 23/12/2016 6.80  400,738  - - - 16/12/2021
Restricted Shares 23/12/2016 11.95  203,150  15/12/2017 12.61  107,185  16/12/2026
30/04/2019 8.89  75,565  16/12/2026
2017 PARs 13/12/2017 7.14  386,988  - - - 13/12/2022
Restricted Shares 13/12/2017 13.10  205,002  30/04/2019 8.89  69,555  16/12/2027
2018 PARs 11/12/2018 4.91  328,361  - - - 11/12/2025
Restricted Shares 11/12/2018 10.62  165,056  - - - 11/12/2028
Doug Snell 2015 PARs 15/12/2015 7.67 65,993 24/04/2019 9.42 12,708 16/12/2020
2015 DARs 15/12/2015 11.71 54,955 22/12/2016 12.00 11,280 16/12/2020
21/12/2017 12.67 17,827 16/12/2020
20/12/2018 9.42 22,099 16/12/2020
2016 PARs 23/12/2016 6.80 67,816 - - - 16/12/2021
2016 DARs 23/12/2016 11.45 62,288 21/12/2017 12.67 13,785 23/12/2021
20/12/2018 9.42 15,373 23/12/2021
2017 PARs 13/12/2017 7.14 65,410 - - - 13/12/2022
2017 DARs 13/12/2017 11.05 59,051 20/12/2018 9.42 10,070 13/12/2022
2018 PARs 11/12/2018 4.91 50,873 - - - 11/12/2025
2018 DARs 11/12/2018 8.21 54,137 - - - 11/12/2025
Donna-Maree  2015 PARs 15/12/2015 7.67  341,967  1/05/2019 8.88  62,098  16/12/2020
Vinci
Restricted Shares 15/12/2015 13.02  163,961  6/12/2016 11.33  71,345  16/12/2025
27/07/2017 12.20  76,811  16/12/2025
2016 PARs 29/02/2016 7.67  399,423  1/05/2019 8.88  72,532  16/12/2020
2016 PARs 23/12/2016 6.80  351,417  - - - 16/12/2021
Restricted Shares 23/12/2016 11.95  184,185  15/12/2017 12.61  97,173  16/12/2026
30/04/2019 8.89  68,515  16/12/2026
2017 PARs 13/12/2017 7.14  316,131  - - - 13/12/2022
Restricted Shares 13/12/2017 13.10  182,509  30/04/2019 8.89  61,928  16/12/2027
2018 PARs 11/12/2018 4.91  281,647  - - - 11/12/2025
Restricted Shares 11/12/2018 10.62  150,050  - - - 11/12/2028
(1)  Represents rights held at 1 September 2018 or granted during FY19.
(2) Closing share price on exercise date of rights that have a nil exercise price.
(3) Closing share price on exercise date multiplied by the number of rights exercised during the year.
80 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Remuneration Governance  70  |  Non-Executive Director Remuneration  73  |  Statutory Tables  74
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
7.2	 EQUITY	HELD	BY	GROUP	EXECUTIVES	(CONTINUED)	
TABLE 12 - VALUE OF RIGHTS HELD BY GROUP EXECUTIVES DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 (CONTINUED)
Fair Value   Share Price  Value at 
per Right at  Value at   at Exercise  Exercise   Expiry / 
Group   Grant Date  Grant Date (1)  Date (2)  Date (3) Lapsing  
Executive Grant Grant Date $ $  Exercise Date $ $ Date
Former
Jon Sutton 2013 PARs  16/12/2013 7.63  459,242  24/10/2016 11.20  435,478  16/12/2018
2013 DARs  16/12/2013 10.38  93,711  02/01/2015 12.20  22,021  16/12/2018
18/12/2015 13.55  36,693  16/12/2018
22/12/2016 12.00  54,180  16/12/2018
2014 PARs  16/12/2014 6.13  635,810  27/10/2017 13.31  759,282  16/12/2019
Restricted Shares  16/12/2014 11.70  388,335  16/12/2015 13.31  220,879  16/12/2024
16/12/2016 11.50  190,854  16/12/2024
2015 PARs 15/12/2015 7.67  749,927  31/01/2019 10.17  155,957  16/12/2020
Restricted Shares  15/12/2015 13.02  611,055  15/12/2016 11.50  269,859  16/12/2025
15/12/2017 12.61  295,906  16/12/2025
2016 PARs 23/12/2016 6.80  801,482  - - - 16/12/2021
Restricted Shares  23/12/2016 11.95  541,729  15/12/2017 12.61  285,818  16/12/2026
31/01/2019 10.17  230,523  16/12/2026
2017 PARs 13/12/2017 7.14  708,566  - - - 13/12/2022
Restricted Shares  13/12/2017 13.10  600,019  31/01/2019 10.17  232,903  16/12/2027
Restricted Shares  05/12/2018 10.62  475,149  - - - 05/12/2028
Peter Deans 2013 PARs 16/12/2013 7.63  393,639  24/10/2016 11.20  373,262  16/12/2018
2013 DARs 16/12/2013 10.38  60,246  28/01/2015 12.37  14,349  16/12/2018
18/12/2015 13.55  23,591  16/12/2018
27/12/2016 11.95  34,691  16/12/2018
2014 PARs 16/12/2014 6.13  330,622  28/10/2017 13.31  394,828  16/12/2019
Restricted Shares  16/12/2014 11.70  242,705  16/12/2015 13.31  138,051  16/12/2024
16/12/2016 11.50  119,278  16/12/2024
2015 PARs 15/12/2015 7.67  404,961  14/01/2019 10.27  85,046  16/12/2020
Restricted Shares  15/12/2015 13.02  239,334  15/12/2016 11.50  105,697  16/12/2025
15/12/2017 12.61  115,899  16/12/2025
2016 PARs 23/12/2016 6.80  416,153  - - - 16/12/2021
Restricted Shares  23/12/2016 11.95  203,150  15/12/2017 12.61  107,185  16/12/2026
10/12/2018 9.56  81,260  16/12/2026
2017 PARs 13/12/2017 7.14  367,910  - - - 13/12/2022
Restricted Shares  13/12/2017 13.10  210,006  10/12/2018 9.56  76,623  16/12/2027
2018 PARs 11/12/2018 4.91  296,564  - - - 11/12/2025
Restricted Shares  11/12/2018 10.62  165,056  - - - 11/12/2028
(1)  Represents rights held at 1 September 2018 or granted during FY19.
(2) Closing share price on exercise date of rights that have a nil exercise price.
(3) Closing share price on exercise date multiplied by the number of rights exercised during the year.
Annual Report 2019 81
 Remuneration Summary  59   |  Key Management Personnel  62  |  Remuneration Outcomes  63  |  Remuneration Strategy & Structure  67
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
7.2	 EQUITY	HELD	BY	GROUP	EXECUTIVES	(CONTINUED)	
TABLE 12 - VALUE OF RIGHTS HELD BY GROUP EXECUTIVES DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 (CONTINUED)
Fair Value   Share Price  Value at 
per Right at  Value at   at Exercise  Exercise   Expiry / 
Group   Grant Date  Grant Date (1)  Date (2)  Date (3) Lapsing  
Executive Grant Grant Date $ $  Exercise Date $ $ Date
Former
Brendan White 2013 PARs 16/12/2013 7.63  393,639  24/10/2016 11.20  373,262  16/12/2018
2013 DARs 16/12/2013 10.38  60,246  23/12/2014 12.08  14,013  16/12/2018
18/12/2015 13.55  23,591  16/12/2018
05/04/2017 12.12  35,184  16/12/2018
2014 PARs 16/12/2014 6.13  305,188  02/11/2017 12.49  341,864  16/12/2019
Restricted Shares 16/12/2014 11.70  330,080  16/12/2015 13.31  187,751  16/12/2024
16/12/2016 11.50  162,219  16/12/2024
2015 PARs 15/12/2015 7.67  383,968  08/01/2019 9.97  78,284  16/12/2020
Restricted Shares 15/12/2015 13.02  310,618  15/12/2016 11.50  137,184  16/12/2025
15/12/2017 12.61  150,412  16/12/2025
2016 PARs 23/12/2016 6.80  394,577  - - - 16/12/2021
Restricted Shares 23/12/2016 11.95  257,319  15/12/2017 12.61  135,759  16/12/2026
30/04/2019 8.89  95,719  16/12/2026
2017 PARs 13/12/2017 7.14  376,085  - - - 13/12/2022
Restricted Shares 13/12/2017 13.10  270,004  30/04/2019 8.89  91,611  16/12/2027
(1)  Represents rights held at 1 September 2018 or granted during FY19.
(2) Closing share price on exercise date of rights that have a nil exercise price.
(3) Closing share price on exercise date multiplied by the number of rights exercised during the year.
82 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Remuneration Governance  70  |  Non-Executive Director Remuneration  73  |  Statutory Tables  74
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
7.3	 EQUITY	INSTRUMENTS	-	HOLDINGS	AND	MOVEMENTS
Movement in shares
The number of shares held directly, indirectly or beneficially by each Director, Group Executive or related party is as follows:
Received on  
Exercise of 
Held at  Award Rights  Held at 
1 September   Purchases /   / Restricted  31 August  
Ordinary shares (1) 2018 (Sales)  Shares 2019 
Directors - Current
Roger Davis 18,043  -  - 18,043 
Patrick Allaway -  30,000  - 30,000 
Kathleen Bailey-Lord  -  3,132  - 3,132 
Bruce Carter 17,503  14,909 (2) -  32,412 
Richard Haire 16,603  - - 16,603 
John Lorimer 17,000  - - 17,000 
Warwick Negus 15,000  - - 15,000 
Karen Penrose 13,591  - - 13,591 
Michelle Tredenick 15,635  - - 15,635 
David Willis 11,932  88  - 12,020 
Executive Director - Former
Jon Sutton 177,616  - -  n/a
Executives - Current
Matthew Baxby 105,310  (72,582) 27,126  59,854 
Adam McAnalen (3) 39,901 - -  39,901 
Lyn McGrath - - 51,460  51,460 
Anthony Rose - - 24,298  24,298 
Donna-Maree Vinci 20,299  - 29,834  50,133 
Executives - Former
Peter Deans 34,026  (30,281) 24,796  n/a 
Brendan White 3,330  - 7,852  n/a
(1)  Directors and Group executives with nil shareholding balances as at 31 August 2019 have been excluded from the table above. 
(2)  Rights granted under Non-Executive Director Fee Sacrifice Rights Plan and vest on 2 September 2019.
(3)  Opening balance as at 1 June 2019.
Annual Report 2019 83
 Remuneration Summary  59   |  Key Management Personnel  62  |  Remuneration Outcomes  63  |  Remuneration Strategy & Structure  67
REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
7.4	 TRANSACTIONS	WITH	KEY	MANAGEMENT	PERSONNEL	(DIRECTORS	AND	GROUP	EXECUTIVES)
Loan transactions
Loans to KMP and their related parties (including close family members of the KMP and entities over which the KMP and/or their close 
family members have control, joint control or significant influence) are provided in the ordinary course of business. Normal commercial 
terms and conditions are applied to all loans. Any discounts provided to KMP are the same as those available to all employees of the 
Consolidated Entity. There have been no write downs or amounts recorded as provisions during FY19. 
Details of loans held by KMP and their related parties during the financial year, where the individual’s aggregate loan balance exceeded 
$100,000 at any time in this period, are as follows:
Balance at  Interest charged   Balance at   Highest balance during 
1 September 2018 during the year 31 August 2019 the year
$ $ $ $
Executives
Matthew Baxby   1,106,608   45,720   1,179,029   1,833,252 
Debra Eckersley (1)  -  4,869   350,000  351,304 
Doug Snell (2)  -   6,683  n/a 283,717
Executive - Former
Brendan White   789,747   19,230  n/a 793,295 
Other Related Parties 
Richard Haire related parties  191,000  8,428   186,543   191,728 
Other Related Parties - Former
Jon Sutton related parties   1,269,422   12,534   n/a 1,269,992 
(1)  Debra Eckersley’s account was opened during the financial year on 11 April 2019.
(2) Doug Snell was appointed Interim Group Executive, BOQ Business on 21 December 2018.
Details regarding the aggregate of loans made, guaranteed or secured by any entity in the economic entity to all Group Executives and 
their related parties, and the number of individuals in each group are as follows:
Balance at  Interest charged  Balance at   Number in group at 31 
1 September 2018 during the year 31 August 2019 August 2019
$ $ $ #
Executives 1,139,156 59,594 1,536,789 3
Executives - Former 789,747 19,230 n/a -
Other Related Parties 191,000 8,428 186,543 1
Other Related Parties - Former 1,269,422 12,534 n/a -
Other transactions
Transactions with KMP and their related parties (other than loans and shares) during the financial year were related to personal banking, 
investment, finance leasing, insurance policy and deposit transactions. These transactions are on normal commercial terms and 
conditions, in the ordinary course of business and are considered trivial or domestic in nature. 
On 26 May 2015, the Bank issued 15,000 Wholesale Capital Notes (1) at a price of $10,000 per note. 
On 28 December 2017, the Bank issued 3,500,000 million Capital Notes (1) at a price of $100 per note.
Details of those notes issued to BOQ Directors are set out below:
Balance at   Interest earned 
31 August 2019 for the year 
$ $
Roger Davis Wholesale Capital Notes  200,000  8,785
David Willis Wholesale Capital Notes  70,000  3,075
Roger Davis Capital Notes  50,000  1,537
Roger Davis related parties Capital Notes  50,000  1,537
Total 370,000 14,934
(1)   Capital notes are classified as non-current.
84 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
Indemnification of officers Audit and non-audit services
The Bank’s Constitution supported by a Deed of Indemnity,  During the year, KPMG, the Bank’s auditor, has performed certain 
Insurance and Access provides an indemnity in favour of all  other services in addition to their statutory duties. The Board 
directors and officers of the Bank against liabilities incurred by  has considered the non-audit services provided during the year 
them in the capacity as officer to the maximum extent permitted  by the auditor are compatible with, and did not compromise, the 
by law. auditor’s independence requirements of the Corporations Act 
2001 (Cth) for the following reasons:
Insurance of officers 
•   all non-audit services were subject to the corporate 
Since the end of the previous financial year the Bank has paid 
governance procedures adopted by the Bank and have been 
insurance premiums in respect of a Directors’ and Officers’ 
reviewed by the Audit Committee to ensure they do not 
liability insurance contract. The contract insures each person who 
impact the integrity and objectivity of the auditor; and
is or has been a Director or officer (as defined in the Corporations 
Act 2001 (Cth)) of the Bank against certain liabilities arising in the  •   the non-audit services provided do not undermine the 
course of their duties to the Bank and its controlled entities. The  general principles relating to auditor’s independence as set 
Directors have not included details of the nature of the liabilities  out in APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, 
covered or the amount of the premium paid in respect of the  as they did not involve reviewing or auditing the auditor’s own 
insurance contract as such disclosure is prohibited under the  work, acting in a management or decision making capacity 
terms of the contract. for the Bank or acting as an advocate for the Bank or jointly 
sharing risks and rewards.
Directors’ interests
Directors’ interests as at the date of this report were as follows:
Wholesale 
Ordinary  Capital 
Capital 
shares Notes
Notes
Roger Davis 18,043 1,000 20
Patrick Allaway 30,000 - -
Kathleen Bailey-Lord 3,132 - -
Bruce Carter 32,412  - -
Richard Haire  16,603 - -
John Lorimer 17,000 - -
Warwick Negus 15,000 - -
Karen Penrose 13,591 - -
Michelle Tredenick 15,635 - -
David Willis 12,020  - 7
Details of the amounts paid to the auditor of the Bank, KPMG and its related practices for audit and non-audit services provided during 
the year are set out below and in the Note 6.7 Auditor Remuneration:
Consolidated Bank
2019 2018 2019 2018
KPMG AUSTRALIA $000 $000 $000 $000
Audit services 
-  Statutory audits and reviews of the financial reports  1,773   1,737   1,324  1,279 
-  Regulatory audits and reviews as required by regulatory authorities  462   346   325  244
Total audit services  2,235  2,083   1,649   1,523 
Audit related services 
-  Other assurance services  534  532   397 399
-  Regulatory assurance services  94  235   -  235
Total audit related services 628  767  397  634 
Non-audit services 
-  Taxation services  169   171   169 171
-  Other  333  103   263 103
Total non-audit services 502  274  432  274 
Annual Report 2019 85
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 August 2019
Lead Auditor’s Independence Declaration under 
Lead Auditor’s Independence Declaration Management attestation
The lead auditor’s independence declaration is set out on page   The Board has been provided with a written statement from the 
87 and forms part of the Directors’ report for the year ended   Group’s Managing Director & CEO, former Interim CEO and 
Section 307C of the Corporations Act 2001 
31 August 2019. Chief Financial Officer, confirming the accompanying financial 
statements and notes are in accordance with the Corporations 
Director and management changes Act 2001 (Cth) and they present a true and fair view in all 
Director changes during the year: material respects of the Consolidated Entity’s financial position 
•  On 5 December 2018, Jon Sutton resigned from his role as  and performance as at and for the year ended 31 August 2019.
To the Directors of Bank of Queensland Limited 
Managing Director & CEO. 
The Directors’ Declaration can be found on page 170 of the 
•  Non-Executive Directors, Patrick Allaway and Kathleen Bailey- financial statements.
Lord, were appointed to the BOQ board on 1 May 2019. 
Environmental regulation I declare that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, in relation to the audit of Bank of Queensland 
•  On 29 May 2019, Roger Davis announced his retirement as 
The Consolidated Entity’s operations are not subject to  Limited for the financial year ended 31 August 2019 there have been: 
Chairman on 17 October 2019 and from the Board on 31 
any significant environmental regulations under either 
October 2019. Mr Allaway will move into the Chairman role  Commonwealth or State legislation. The Board confirms that the  i.  no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements as set out in the 
from 18 October 2019.
Group is not aware of any breach of environmental requirements. Corporations Act 2001 in relation to the audit; and 
•  On 8 August 2019, David Willis announced his retirement as a 
Director and Chair of the Human Resources & Remuneration  Subsequent events ii.  no contraventions of any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the audit. 
Committee, with effect from the 2019 AGM on 10 December 
Dividends have been determined after 31 August 2019. The 
2019. He will retain his role as a Director of St Andrew’s  financial effect of the dividends has not been brought to account     
Australia Services Pty Ltd, St Andrew’s Insurance (Australia)  in the financial statements for the year ended 31 August 2019.   
Pty Ltd and St Andrew’s Life Insurance Pty Ltd.
Further details with respect to the dividend amounts per share,   
Management changes during the year: payment date and dividend reinvestment plan can be obtained   
•  On 6 December 2018, Brendan White resigned from his role as  from Note 2.4 Dividends of the consolidated financial statements.
Group Executive, BOQ Business with his notice period ending   
Other than as disclosed below, no matters or circumstances have 
6 March 2019. KPM_INI_01                   
arisen since the end of the financial year and up until the date of 
•  Doug Snell moved from General Manager BOQ Business to  this report which significantly affect the operations of the Bank, 
Interim Group Executive, BOQ Business from 21 December  the results of those operations, or the state of affairs of the Bank 
2018 to 12 August 2019. in subsequent years.
•  Anthony Rose moved from Chief Operating Officer to Interim 
On 11 October 2019, the Bank entered into a Subscription   
CEO from 6 December 2018 to 4 September 2019. Mr Rose 
Agreement in relation to a debt for equity swap for the purchase 
was not a Director in the period that he was Interim CEO and   
of 8,128 fully paid ordinary shares issued by its subsidiary, St 
the role of Chief Operating Officer was held vacant while Mr 
Andrew’s Australia Services Pty Ltd, for the value of $30,000,000.
KPMG  Robert Warren  
Rose was Interim CEO. He will remain with BOQ until the end of 
December 2019.  Rounding of amounts  Partner  
•  On 8 March 2019, Peter Deans announced his retirement from  The Bank is a company of a kind referred to in ASIC Corporations  Sydney 
his role as Chief Risk Officer on 31 May 2019.  Instrument 2016/191 dated 24 March 2016 and in accordance   16 October 2019 
•  Adam McAnalen was appointed to the role of Chief Risk  with that Instrument, amounts in this financial report and     
Officer from 1 June 2019. Mr McAnalen was previously CEO of  Directors’ report have been rounded off to the nearest million 
BOQ Finance.  dollars, unless otherwise stated.     
•  On 20 June 2019, Matt Baxby announced his resignation as  Signed in accordance with a resolution of the Directors:
   
Chief Financial Officer. He will remain with BOQ until the end 
of October 2019.
 
•  Peter Sarantzouklis was appointed Group Executive, BOQ 
 
Business from 12 August 2019.
 
•  On 5 September 2019, George Frazis was appointed Managing 
 
Director & CEO.
 
•  On 10 October 2019 it was announced that Ewen Stafford  
will be appointed to the role of Chief Financial Officer and   
Chief Operating Officer. Ewen will commence with BOQ    
later in FY20.  
 
 
 
Roger Davis George Frazis
Chairman  Managing Director & CEO 
16 October 2019 16 October 2019
 
 
KPMG, an Australian partnership and a member firm of the KPMG  Liability limited by a scheme approved under 
network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG  Professional Standards Legislation. 
86 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. 
 
 
LEAD AUDITOR’S INDEPENDENCE 
Lead Auditor’s Independence Declaration under 
DECLARATION UNDER SECTION 307C 
LOeFaS deT cAHtuiEod niCt o3Or0’Rs7 CPIn OdoefR ptAheeTn IdCOeoNnrpcSoe rA aDCteiocTnl a2sr a0At0ciot1n 2 u0n0d1 er 
Section 307C of the Corporations Act 2001 
To the Directors of Bank of Queensland Limited 
I declare that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, in relation to the audit of Bank of Queensland 
To the Directors of Bank of Queensland Limited 
Limited for the financial year ended 31 August 2019 there have been: 
i.  no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements as set out in the 
I declare that, to thCeo brpeosrta otifo mnsy A kcnto 2w0l0e1d gine  raenladt iboenl iteof ,t ihne r eauladtiiot;n a tnod t he audit of Bank of Queensland 
Limited for the financial year ended 31 August 2019 there have been: 
ii.  no contraventions of any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the audit. 
i.  no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements as set out in the 
   
Corporations Act 2001 in relation to the audit; and 
 
ii.  no contraventions of any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the audit. 
 
 
   
   
KPM_INI_01                     
 
 
KPM_INI_01                   
 
 
KPMG  Robert Warren  
  Partner  
Sydney   
16 October 2019 
KPMG  Robert Warren  
   
Partner  
  Sydn ey 
16 October 2019 
       
     
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KPMG, an Australian partnership and a member firm of the KPMG  Liability limited by a scheme approved under 
network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG  Professional Standards Legislation. 
International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. 
 
 
KPMG, an Australian partnership and a member firm of the KPMG  Liability limited by a scheme approved under 
network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG  Professional Standards Legislation. 
International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity.  Annual Report 2019 87

2019 
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
INCOME STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
Consolidated Bank
2019 (1)  2018  2019 (1)  2018 
Note
$m $m $m $m
Interest income:
  Effective interest income 2.1  1,913  1,927  1,884  1,760
  Other 2.1  145  142  165  289
Interest expense 2.1 ( 1,097)  (1,104)  (1,319)  (1,311)
Net interest income 2.1  961  965  730  738
Other operating income 2.1  126  137  227  228
Net banking operating income  1,087  1,102  957  966
Net insurance operating income 2.1 9 19 - -
Total operating income before impairment  
2.1  1,096  1,121  957  966
and operating expenses
Expenses 2.2  (587)  (587)  (566)  (545)
Impairment on loans and advances (74)  (41) (37)  (23)
Profit before income tax   435  493  354  398
Income tax expense 2.3  (137)  (157)  (109) (121)
Profit for the year  298  336  245  277
Profit attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 298 336 245 277
Earnings per share (EPS)
Basic EPS - Ordinary shares (cents) 2.6 74.2 85.5
Diluted EPS - Ordinary shares (cents)  2.6 69.2 81.2
(1)  The August 2019 financial results reflect the adoption of AASB 9 Financial Instruments (AASB 9) and AASB 15 Revenue from contracts with customers (AASB 15) on 1 
September 2018. As permitted by AASB 9 and AASB 15, the Consolidated Entity and the Bank have not restated previously reported financial periods. Refer to Note 1.5 for 
the impact from the initial adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15. 
The Income Statements should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
90 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
For the year ended 31 August 2019
Consolidated Bank
2019 (1)  2018  2019 (1)  2018 
$m $m $m $m
Profit for the year 298 336 245 277
Other comprehensive income, net of income tax
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Cash flow hedges:
  Net movement taken to equity  (79) (11)  (74) (12)
  Net movement transferred to profit or loss  20  22  20  22
Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income 
(FVOCI):
  Net change in fair value  (3) -  (3) -
  Net movement transferred to profit or loss  (13) -  (13) -
Financial assets available-for-sale:
  Net change in fair value - 6 - 6
  Net movement transferred to profit or loss - (14) - (14)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Equity instruments at FVOCI:
  Net change in fair value (1) - (1) -
Other comprehensive income, net of income tax (76) 3 (71) 2
Total comprehensive income for the year 222 339 174 279
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 222 339 174 279
(1)  The August 2019 financial results reflect the adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15 on 1 September 2018. As permitted by AASB 9 and AASB 15, the Consolidated Entity and the 
Bank have not restated previously reported financial periods. Refer to Note 1.5 for the impact from the initial adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15. 
The Statements of Comprehensive Income should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
Annual Report 2019 91
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
BALANCE SHEETS
As at 31 August 2019
Consolidated Bank
2019 (1)  2018  2019 (1)  2018 
Note
$m $m $m $m
ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents 3.1 1,274 1,212 685 840
Due from other financial institutions 708 6 668 6
Derivative financial assets 3.8 229 135 145 80
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) 3.2 2,586 - 2,586 -
Financial assets held for trading 3.2 - 1,385 - 1,385
Debt instruments at FVOCI 3.2 3,569 - 3,569 -
Equity instruments at FVOCI 3.2 6 - 6 -
Financial assets available-for-sale 3.2 - 3,946 - 3,975
Debt instruments at amortised cost (3) 3.2 - - 5,468 4,867
Loans and advances 3.3 45,983 45,078 40,836 40,571
Other assets 158 169 1,541 940
Current tax assets 7 - 8 -
Property, plant and equipment 52 57 46 51
Assets held for sale (2) 6.5 - 57 - -
Shares in controlled entities 6.5 - - 522 522
Deferred tax assets 2.3 85 45 79 46
Intangible assets 4.1 924 875 848 798
Investments in joint arrangements and associates 6.6 16 15 3 -
Total assets 55,597 52,980 57,010 54,081
LIABILITIES
Due to other financial institutions - accounts payable at call 285 315 285 315
Deposits  3.4 38,337 38,017 38,528 38,266
Derivative financial liabilities 3.8 687 294 687 293
Accounts payable and other liabilities 394 360 302 304
Current tax liabilities - 5 - 5
Liabilities held for sale (2) 6.5 - 22 - -
Provisions 4.2 40 34 26 30
Amounts due to controlled entities (3) - - 6,086 4,595
Insurance policy liabilities 5.1 9 - - -
Borrowings  3.5 11,986 10,077 7,372 6,503
Total liabilities 51,738 49,124 53,286 50,311
Net assets 3,859 3,856 3,724 3,770
EQUITY
Issued capital 3,497 3,418 3,503 3,425
Reserves 213 38 222 42
Retained profits 149 400 (1) 303
Total equity 3,859 3,856 3,724 3,770
(1)  The August 2019 financial position reflects the adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15 on 1 September 2018. As permitted by AASB 9 and AASB 15, the Consolidated Entity and the 
Bank have not restated previously reported financial periods. Refer to Note 1.5 for the impact from the initial adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15. 
(2) The St Andrew’s Group was classified as held for sale as at 31 August 2018 but has ceased to be held for sale as at 31 August 2019. Refer to Note 6.5(d) for presentation  
of the comparatives. 
(3) The Bank’s 2018 balances have been reclassified for comparison purposes. Refer to Note 3.2 for further details.
The Balance Sheets should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
92 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the year ended 31 August 2019
Equity 
Employee  reserve  Cash flow 
Ordinary  benefits  for credit  hedge  FVOCI   Profit   Retained  Total 
shares   reserve  losses  reserve  reserve (1)  reserve (2)  profits  equity 
Consolidated $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2019
Balance at beginning of the year 3,418 26 59 (106) 59 - 400 3,856
Change on adoption of new accounting 
- - - - 3 - (13) (10)
standards (3)
Restated balance at beginning of the year 3,418 26 59 (106) 62 - 387 3,846
Total comprehensive income for the year
Profit for the year - - - - - -  298   298 
Transfers to profit reserve - - - - - 245 (245) -
Other comprehensive income,  
net of income tax:
Cash flow hedges:
  Net movement to equity - - -  (79) - - -  (79)
  Net movement transferred to profit or loss - - -  20  - - -  20 
Debt instruments at FVOCI:
  Net change in fair value - - - -  (3) - -  (3)
  Net movement transferred to profit or loss - - - -  (13) - -  (13)
Equity instruments at FVOCI
  Net change in fair value - - - -  (1) - -  (1)
Transfer to equity reserve for credit losses - - 3 - - - (3) -
Total other comprehensive income / (expense) - - 3 (59) (17) - (3) (76)
Total comprehensive income / (expense) for 
- - 3 (59) (17) 245 50 222
the year
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in 
equity / contributions by and distributions to  -
owners
Treasury shares (4) 1 - - - - - - 1
Dividend reinvestment plan 78 - - - - - - 78
Dividends to shareholders - - - - - - (288) (288)
Total contributions by and distributions to 
79 - - - - - (288) (209)
owners
Balance at the end of the year  3,497  26   62   (165) 45 245 149 3,859
(1)  On initial application of AASB 9 from 1 September 2018, the available-for-sale assets including the corresponding reserve have been reclassified to debt and equity 
securities measured at FVOCI with a corresponding FVOCI reserve. Refer to Note 1.5 for the impact from the initial adoption of AASB 9.
(2)  Profit reserve was established during the current financial year.
(3) The August 2019 financial results reflect the adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15 on 1 September 2018. The carrying amounts of assets and liabilities impacted by the adoption 
were adjusted through opening retained profits and reserves on 1 September 2018 as if the Consolidated Entity and the Bank had always applied the new requirements. As 
permitted by AASB 9 and AASB 15, the Consolidated Entity and the Bank have not restated previously reported financial periods. Refer to Note 1.5 for the impact from the 
initial adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15.
(4) Treasury shares represent the value of shares held by a subsidiary that the Bank is required to include in the Consolidated Entity’s financial statements. No gain or loss is 
recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Bank’s own equity instruments.
The Statements of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
Annual Report 2019 93
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the year ended 31 August 2019
Equity 
Employee  reserve  Cash flow  Available-
Ordinary  benefits  for credit  hedge  for-sale  Retained  Total 
shares   reserve  losses  reserve  reserve  profits  equity 
Consolidated $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2018
Balance at beginning of the year 3,360 26 81 (117) 67 371 3,788
Total comprehensive income for the year
Profit for the year  -   -   -   -   - 336 336
Other comprehensive income, net of income tax:
Cash flow hedges:
  Net movement to equity  -   -   -  (11)  -  -  (11)
  Net movement transferred to profit or loss  -   -   -  22 -  -  22
Financial assets available-for-sale:
Net change in fair value  -   -   -  - 6  -  6
Net movement transferred to profit or loss - - - - (14) - (14)
Transfer from equity reserve for credit losses - - (22) - - 22 -
Total other comprehensive income / (expense)  -   -  (22) 11 (8) 22 3
Total comprehensive income / (expense) for the year  -   -  (22) 11 (8) 358 339
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in 
equity / contributions by and distributions to 
owners
Issues of ordinary shares (1) 11 - - - - - 11
Dividend reinvestment plan 47 - - - - - 47
Dividends to shareholders - - - - - (329) (329)
Total contributions by and distributions to owners 58 - - - - (329) (271)
Balance at the end of the year 3,418 26 59 (106) 59 400 3,856
(1)   On 26 October 2017, 850,000 ordinary shares were issued at $13.28 and on 17 May 2018, 2,809 ordinary shares were issued at $10.02 to the trustee of the Bank of Queensland 
Limited Employee Share Plans Trust to satisfy the exercise of award rights and issue of shares under the Award Rights Plan and issue of shares under the BOQ Restricted 
Share Plan and BOQ Employee Share Plan.
The Statements of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
94 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the year ended 31 August 2019
Equity 
Employee  reserve  Cash flow 
Ordinary  benefits  for credit  hedge  FVOCI  Profit  Retained  Total 
shares   reserve  losses  reserve  reserve (1)  reserve (2)  profits  equity 
Bank $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2019
Balance at beginning of the year 3,425 26 60 (103) 59 - 303 3,770
Change on adoption of new accounting 
- - - - 3 - (13) (10)
standards (3)
Restated balance at beginning of the year 3,425 26 60 (103) 62 - 290 3,760
Total comprehensive income for the year
Profit for the year - - - - - -  245  245 
Transfers to profit reserve - - - - - 245 (245) -
Other comprehensive income net of income 
tax:
Cash flow hedges:
  Net movement to equity  -   -   -   (74)  -   -   -   (74)
  Net movement transferred to profit or loss  -   -   -   20   -   -   -   20 
Debt instruments at FVOCI:
  Net change in fair value  -   -   -   -   (3)  -   -   (3)
  Net movement transferred to profit or loss  -   -   -   -   (13)  -   -   (13)
Equity instruments at FVOCI
  Net change in fair value  -   -   -   -   (1)  -   -   (1)
Transfer to equity reserve for credit losses - - 3 - - - (3) -
Total other comprehensive income / (expense) - - 3 (54) (17) - (3) (71)
Total comprehensive income / (expense) for 
- - 3 (54) (17) 245 (3) 174
the year
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in 
equity / contributions by and distributions to 
owners
Dividend reinvestment plan 78 - - - - - - 78
Dividends to shareholders - - - - - - (288) (288)
Total contributions by and distributions to 
78 - - - - - (288) (210)
owners
Balance at the end of the year  3,503   26   63   (157) 45 245 (1) 3,724
(1)  On initial application of AASB 9 from 1 September 2018, the available-for-sale assets including the corresponding reserve have been reclassified to debt and equity 
securities measured at FVOCI with a corresponding FVOCI reserve. Refer to Note 1.5 for the impact from the initial adoption of AASB 9
(2)  Profit reserve was established during the current financial year.
(3)  The August 2019 financial results reflect the adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15 on 1 September 2018. The carrying amounts of assets and liabilities impacted by the adoption 
were adjusted through opening retained profits and reserves on 1 September 2018 as if the Consolidated Entity and the Bank had always applied the new requirements. As 
permitted by AASB 9 and AASB 15, the Consolidated Entity and the Bank have not restated previously reported financial periods. Refer to Note 1.5 for the impact from the 
initial adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15.
The Statements of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
Annual Report 2019 95
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the year ended 31 August 2019
Equity 
Employee  reserve  Cash flow  Available-
Ordinary  benefits  for credit  hedge  for-sale  Retained  Total 
shares   reserve  losses  reserve  reserve  profits  equity 
Bank $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2018
Balance at beginning of the year 3,367 26 68 (113) 67 347 3,762
Total comprehensive income for the year
Profit for the year  - - - - - 277 277
Other comprehensive income, net of income tax:
Cash flow hedges:
  Net movement to equity - - - (12) - - (12)
  Net movement transferred to profit or loss - - - 22 - - 22
Financial assets available-for-sale:
Net change in fair value - - - - 6 - 6
Net movement transferred to profit or loss - - - - (14) - (14)
Transfer from equity reserve for credit losses - - (8) - - 8 -
Total other comprehensive income / (expense) - - (8) 10 (8) 8 2
Total comprehensive income / (expense) for the year - - (8) 10 (8) 285 279
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in 
equity / contributions by and distributions to 
owners
Issues of ordinary shares (1) 11 - - - - - 11
Dividend reinvestment plan 47 - - - - - 47
Dividends to shareholders - - - - - (329) (329)
Total contributions by and distributions to owners 58 - - - - (329) (271)
Balance at the end of the year 3,425 26 60 (103) 59 303 3,770
(1)    On 26 October 2017, 850,000 ordinary shares were issued at $13.28 and on 17 May 2018, 2,809 ordinary shares were issued at $10.02 to the trustee of the Bank of Queensland 
Limited Employee Share Plans Trust to satisfy the exercise of award rights and issue of shares under the Award Rights Plan and issue of shares under the BOQ Restricted 
Share Plan and BOQ Employee Share Plan.
The Statements of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
96 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
Consolidated Bank
2019  2018  2019  2018 
Note
$m $m $m $m
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Interest received  2,064  2,085  1,948  1,958
Fees and other income received  131  160  193  192
Interest paid  (1,083) (1,102)  (1,309) (1,311)
Cash paid to suppliers and employees  (473) (500)  (469) (453)
Income tax paid  (153) (147)  (150) (143)
 486  496  213  243
Increase in operating assets:
Loans and advances  (996) (1,529)  (261) (1,235)
Other financial assets  (1,263) 449  (1,274) 499
Increase / (decrease) in operating liabilities:
Deposits   294  901  236 808
Net cash inflow / (outflow) from operating activities 3.1 (1,479) 317  (1,086) 315
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Payments for property, plant and equipment  (13) (14) (6) (10)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 4 8 - 1
Payments for intangible assets (98) (73) (96) (71)
Proceeds / (payments) for investments in joint arrangements 
(3) - (4) -
and associates
Dividends received from controlled entities - - 12 22
Net cash inflow / (outflow) from investing activities (110) (79) (94) (58)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Proceeds from borrowings 3.5 4,021 3,308 1,757 2,022
Repayments of borrowings 3.5  (2,159) (2,959) (937) (1,824)
Proceeds for foreign exchange instruments - (1) - (1)
Net movement in other financing activities - - 422 131
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares - 11 - 11
Payments for treasury shares (7) (11) (7) (11)
Dividends paid (210) (282) (210) (282)
Net cash inflow / (outflow) from financing activities 1,645 66 1,025 46
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 56 304 (155) 303
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year (1) 1,218 914 840 537
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 3.1 1,274 1,218 685 840
Cash and cash equivalents included in assets held for sale (1) - (6) - -
Cash and cash equivalents as presented in the Balance Sheets 1,274 1,212 685 840
(1)  The St Andrew’s Group was classified as held for sale as at 31 August 2018 but has ceased to be held for sale as at 31 August 2019. Refer to Note 6.5(d) for presentation  
of the comparatives. 
The Statements of Cash Flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
Annual Report 2019 97
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
Page
Note 1 Basis of preparation 99
1.1 Reporting entity 99
1.2 Basis of preparation 99
1.3 Use of estimates and judgements 99
1.4 New Australian accounting standards 99
1.5 Implementation of new Australian accounting standards 101
Note 2 Financial performance 105
2.1 Operating income 105
2.2 Expenses 106
2.3 Income tax expense and deferred tax 107
2.4 Dividends 110
2.5 Operating segments 111
2.6 Earnings per share  113
Note 3 Capital and Balance Sheet management 114
3.1 Cash and cash equivalents 114
3.2 Financial assets and liabilities 115
3.3 Loans and advances 117
3.4 Deposits 124
3.5 Borrowings 124
3.6 Risk management 127
3.7 Fair value of financial instruments 138
3.8 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 142
3.9 Capital management 148
3.10 Capital and reserves 149
Note 4 Other assets and liabilities 150
4.1 Intangible assets 150
4.2 Provisions 152
Note 5 Insurance business 153
5.1 Insurance business 153
Note 6 Other notes 158
6.1 Employee benefits 158
6.2 Commitments 159
6.3 Contingent liabilities 160
6.4 Related parties information 160
6.5 Controlled entities 163
6.6 Investments in joint arrangements and associates 166
6.7 Auditor’s remuneration 167
6.8 Events subsequent to balance date 167
6.9 Significant accounting policies 168
98 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PREPARATION
1.1  REPORTING ENTITY 1.3  USE OF ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS
The Bank is a for-profit company domiciled in Australia. The   The preparation of a financial report in conformity with 
address of the Bank’s registered office is Level 6, 100 Skyring  Australian Accounting Standards requires management to 
Terrace, Newstead QLD 4006. make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the 
application of accounting policies and reported amounts of 
The consolidated financial statements of the Bank for the 
assets, liabilities, income and expenses. These estimates and 
financial year ended 31 August 2019 comprise the Consolidated 
associated assumptions are based on historical experience and 
Entity and the Consolidated Entity’s interest in equity accounted 
various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under 
investments. The principal activity of the Bank is the provision of 
the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making 
financial services to the community.
the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities 
that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results 
1.2  BASIS OF PREPARATION
may differ from these estimates. These accounting policies have 
been consistently applied throughout the Consolidated Entity. 
(a) Statement of compliance
These general purpose financial statements have been prepared  The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an 
in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and  ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised 
interpretations issued by the Australian Accounting Standards  in the period in which the estimates are revised if the revision 
Board (AASB) and the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). The  only affects that period, or in the period of the revision and future 
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto also  periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
comply with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as 
Information about significant areas of estimation uncertainty 
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). 
and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have 
The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue 
the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the 
by the Directors on 16 October 2019.
financial statements are described below:
(b) Basis of measurement •  Loans and advances - Expected credit losses – Note 3.3(a);
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a historical  •  Financial instruments – Notes 3.2 and 3.7;
cost basis, with the exception of the following assets and liabilities  •  Carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets – 
which are stated at their fair value:  Note 4.1.
•  Derivative financial instruments;
1.4  NEW AUSTRALIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
•  Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive 
income; and (a)  New accounting standards applicable this  
•  Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. financial year
The Consolidated Entity has adopted the following new standards 
(c) Functional and presentation currency
and amendments to standards, including any consequential 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Australian  amendments to other standards, with a date of initial application 
dollars, which is the Bank’s functional currency. of 1 September 2018. 
(d) Rounding •  AASB 2016-5 Amendments to Australian Accounting 
Standards – Classification and Measurement of Share-based 
The Consolidated Entity is of a kind referred to in ASIC Corporations 
Payment Transactions; 
Instrument 2016/191 dated 24 March 2016 and in accordance with 
that instrument, amounts in this financial report and Directors’  •  AASB 2016-6 Amendments to Australian Accounting 
report have been rounded off to the nearest million dollars, unless  Standards – Applying AASB 9 Financial Instruments with 
otherwise stated. AASB 4 Insurance Contracts; 
•  AASB 2017-1 Amendments to Australian Accounting 
Standards – Transfers of Investment Property, Annual 
Improvements 2014–2016 Cycle and Other Amendments; 
•  AASB 2017-3 Amendments to Australia Accounting Standards 
– Clarifications to AASB 4;
•  AASB Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and 
Advance Consideration;
•  AASB 9 Financial Instruments - The impact of implementing 
this new standard is disclosed in Note 1.5; and
•  AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers - The impact 
of implementing this new standard is disclosed in Note 1.5.
The Consolidated Entity has reviewed the impact of the 
aforementioned standards and, apart from AASB 9 and AASB 15, 
determined there to be no material impact.
Annual Report 2019 99
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
1.4	 NEW	AUSTRALIAN	ACCOUNTING	STANDARDS	(CONTINUED)
(b) New accounting standards applicable in future financial years
The following standards and amendments have been identified as those which may impact the Consolidated Entity in future  
financial years:
AASB 16 Leases (AASB 16)
AASB 16 introduces a single on-Balance Sheet accounting model for lessees for recognising and measuring lease arrangements and will 
replace AASB 117 Leases (AASB 117). The standard will become mandatory for the Group for the financial year commencing 1 September 
2019. Lessor accounting under AASB 16 remains largely unchanged from AASB 117. 
On transition, the standard requires identification of leases that provide the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period 
of time. For these leases, the Group is required to recognise on Balance Sheet a right-of-use (ROU) asset, representing the right to use 
the underlying asset, and a lease liability, representing the future lease payment obligations. Exemptions exist for leases of less than 12 
months or of low value. Operating lease obligations which were previously recognised as a straight line operating expense will be replaced 
by interest expense on the lease liability and depreciation expense on the ROU asset. This will result in higher interest expenses weighted 
to the earlier periods of each lease term. 
The Group has performed an assessment of the impact of AASB 16 which has included a review of the Group’s contracts to identify all 
leases which are applicable under AASB 16 and calculation of the ROU asset and lease liability for each lease. The most significant impacts 
identified relate to property, vehicle and equipment leases held by the Group. 
The Group has elected to apply the modified retrospective approach on transition. The calculation has been made using the Group’s 
incremental borrowing rate and by making judgements as to whether extension and termination options will be taken up. 
The Group expects to recognise a lease liability of approximately $190 million and ROU assets of approximately $130 million in the Group’s 
2020 Annual Report. After adjusting for lease liabilities currently recorded on balance sheet and recognising finance lease receivables for 
subleases, this results in a retained earnings reduction of approximately $10 million following relevant tax adjustments. 
AASB 17 Insurance Contracts (AASB 17)
This standard will replace AASB 4 Insurance Contracts, AASB 1023 General Insurance Contracts and AASB 1038 Life Insurance 
Contracts. It will become mandatory for the Consolidated Entity in the financial year commencing 1 September 2022. This standard 
introduces new measurement approaches to be used in valuing insurance contract liabilities. Under the new model, insurance contract 
liabilities will represent the present value of future cash flows including a provision for risk. The potential effects of this standard are yet to 
be determined.
100 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
1.5  I MPLEMENTATION OF NEW AUSTRALIAN 
ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
AASB 9 Financial Instruments (AASB 9) This election is made on an instrument by instrument basis 
The standard became mandatory for the Consolidated Entity in  and the Consolidated Entity has made this election for its 
this financial year commenced 1 September 2018 and replaces  equity instruments. Gains or losses cannot be reclassified to 
the guidance under AASB 139 Financial Instruments: Recognition  profit or loss in the Income Statement, but can be reclassified 
and Measurement (AASB 139). AASB 9 introduces changes in the  to retained profits.
classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities,  •  Fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) - Financial assets 
in addition to a new Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model for  in this category are those that are held for trading and have 
impairment and requirements with respect to hedge accounting.  been designated by management upon initial recognition or 
The Consolidated Entity has elected, as a policy choice permitted  are mandatorily required to be measured at fair value under 
under AASB 9, to continue to apply hedge accounting in  AASB 9. These instruments largely comprise assets that had 
accordance with AASB 139. previously been classified as financial assets held for trading 
Classification and measurement under AASB 139.
AASB 9 introduced new requirements, which determine how  Financial liabilities
financial assets are classified and measured. Financial assets,  Financial liabilities continue to be measured at amortised cost, 
except equity instruments and derivatives, are classified  except for derivative financial liabilities that are designated at 
according to their contractual cash flow characteristics and the  FVTPL.
business model in place for managing the financial asset.
Hedging
The AASB 139 measurement categories of financial assets (fair 
The new accounting standard requirements allow for broader 
value through profit or loss, available-for-sale, held-to-maturity 
application of hedge accounting and to align it more closely with 
and loans & receivables) have been replaced by:
risk management. While the new model does not fundamentally 
•  Amortised cost - From 1 September 2018, the Consolidated  change the types of hedging relationships, it simplifies the 
Entity only classifies amounts due from other financial  effectiveness testing by removing the 80 – 125 per cent 
institutions and loans and advances when both of the following  thresholds. Adoption of the hedge accounting requirements 
conditions are met: under AASB 9 is currently optional. The Consolidated Entity has 
•  The financial asset is held within a business model where  elected to continue applying the hedge accounting requirements 
the objective is to hold them in order to collect contractual  under AASB 139.
cash flows; and Impairment
•  The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise  The adoption of AASB 9 has resulted in a change in the 
to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and  Consolidated Entity’s impairment methodology by replacing 
interest (SPPI). AASB 139’s incurred loss approach with a forward-looking ECL 
•  Fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) – a  approach. The impairment requirements have been adopted from 
financial asset is classified at FVOCI when both of the following  1 September 2018 and an allowance for ECL has been recorded for 
conditions are met: all loans, advances and debt financial assets not held at FVTPL.
•  The financial asset is held within a business model where  Equity instruments are not subject to impairment under AASB 9.
the objective is achieved by holding them in order to collect  Refer to Note 3.3 for further information on the ECL methodology 
contractual cash flows and selling the financial assets; and and the reconciliation of ECL on transition to AASB 9 on 1 
•  The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise to  September 2018.
cash flows that meet the SPPI test. These instruments  Transition
largely comprise assets that had previously been classified 
As permitted by AASB 9, the Consolidated Entity has not 
as financial assets available-for-sale under AASB 139.
restated its comparative financial statements and has recorded 
Debt instruments at FVOCI are subsequently measured  a transition adjustment to its opening Balance Sheet, retained 
at fair value with gains and losses arising from changes  profits and OCI at 1 September 2018 for the impact of the 
in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income.  adoption of AASB 9’s classification and measurement and 
Interest income and foreign exchange gains and losses  impairment accounting requirements.
are recognised in profit or loss in the Income Statement. 
The following table summarises the impact on classification and 
On derecognition, cumulative gains or losses previously 
measurement to the Consolidated Entity’s financial assets on 1 
recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified 
September 2018. There are no changes in the classification and 
to profit or loss in the Income Statement.
measurement of financial liabilities of the Consolidated Entity.
AASB 9 requires equity financial assets to be classified 
and measured at FVTPL, but there is an option to make 
an irrevocable election to designate non-traded equity 
investments as FVOCI. 
Annual Report 2019 101
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
1.5  IMPLEMENTATION OF NEW AUSTRALIAN ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (CONTINUED)
Consolidated
As at 31 August 2018 As at 1 September 2018
AASB 139  AASB 9 measurement  Carrying amount under  Carrying amount under 
measurement category category AASB 139 AASB 9 (1) (2)
$m $m
Cash and cash equivalents Loans and receivables Amortised cost 1,212 1,212
Due from other financial institutions Loans and receivables Amortised cost 6 256
Derivative financial assets  
FVTPL FVTPL 25 25
(trading derivatives)
Derivative financial assets  
Hedging derivatives Hedging derivatives 110 110
(hedging derivatives)
Financial assets held for trading FVTPL FVTPL 1,385 1,385
Financial assets available-for-sale  
Available-for-sale FVOCI (3) 3,943 3,693
(debt instruments)
Financial assets available-for-sale  
Available-for-sale FVOCI option (4) 3 7
(equity instruments)
Loans and advances (5) Loans and receivables Amortised cost 45,078 45,068
Other assets Loans and receivables Amortised cost 169 169
(1)  The carrying amount does not reflect AASB 15 changes.
(2)	The	impact	on	the	Bank	is	not	materially	different	from	the	impact	on	the	Consolidated	Entity,	except	for	the	REDS	EHP	Securitisation	notes	held	by	the	Bank.	$30	million	
of opening balance financial assets available-for-sale relating to the REDS EHP Securitisation notes were reclassified to debt instruments at amortised cost on transition to 
AASB 9. There was no re-measurement impact associated with this reclassification. 
(3)  As of 1 September 2018, the Consolidated Entity has assessed its liquidity portfolio which had previously been classified as financial assets available-for-sale (debt 
instruments). The Consolidated Entity concluded that these instruments are managed within a business model of collecting contractual cash flows and selling the financial 
assets. Accordingly, the Consolidated Entity has classified these investments as debt instruments measured at FVOCI. 
(4) The Consolidated Entity has elected the option to irrevocably designate some of its previous financial assets available-for-sale (equity instruments) as equity instruments 
at FVOCI with no subsequent recycling of realised gains or losses permitted.
(5)	As	part	of	transition	to	AASB	9,	all	products	offered	by	the	Group	were	reviewed	to	determine	if	they	are	loans	within	the	scope	of	AASB	9	or	finance	leases	within	the	scope	
of AASB 117. The current year finance lease receivables disclosure in Note 3.3 has been updated to reflect finance lease receivables within the scope of AASB 117.
Refer to Transition impacts of adopting AASB 9 and AASB 15 for the Consolidated Entity’s quantitative impact arising from the adoption 
of AASB 9 and AASB 15 on 1 September 2018.
102 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
1.5  I MPLEMENTATION OF NEW AUSTRALIAN  •  Trail commissions: Trail commission income on distribution of 
ACCOUNTING	STANDARDS	(CONTINUED) general insurance products that was previously recognised by 
the Consolidated Entity over time, is now recognised at a point 
AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (AASB 15)
in time when the Consolidated Entity’s performance obligation 
AASB 15 was adopted by the Consolidated Entity on 1 September  in respect of this income is considered to be met. This has 
2018, replacing the previous guidance under AASB 118 Revenue,  resulted in the Consolidated Entity recognising the net present 
AASB 111 Construction Contracts and related interpretations.  value of expected future trail commission income on sale of 
Revenue arising from items such as financial instruments,  these products. The receivable in respect of the Consolidated 
insurance contracts and leases is outside the scope of AASB  Entity’s entitlement to future payments of trail commission is 
15 and continues to be accounted for in accordance with the  recognised in “Other assets”.
relevant applicable standard.  The amount of trail commission revenue is dependent on 
assumptions about the behavioural life of the underlying 
AASB 15 establishes a five step revenue recognition 
transaction generating the commission. Trail commission income 
and measurement model to account for revenue 
is only recognised to the extent it is highly probable it will not 
arising from contracts with customers. The 
reverse in future periods.
five steps of the revenue model include: 
1.  Identification of the contract with a customer; Refer to Transition impacts of adopting AASB 9 
and AASB 15 on the next page for the Consolidated 
2.  I dentification of the separate performance obligations  
Entity’s quantitative impact arising from the adoption 
in the contract;
of AASB 9 and AASB 15 on 1 September 2018. 
3.  Determination of the transaction price under the contract;
4.  A  llocation of the transaction price to each performance 
obligation identified in Step 2; and
5.  R ecognition of revenue when a performance obligation  
is satisfied. 
Where there is variable consideration in calculating a transaction 
price, revenue will only be recognised if it is highly probable that a 
significant revenue reversal will not occur in future periods. 
Transition
The Consolidated Entity has applied the modified retrospective 
transition approach in adopting AASB 15 which recognises the 
cumulative effect of initial application through adjustment 
to opening retained profits as at 1 September 2018, with no 
restatement of comparatives. Under this transition method, 
the Consolidated Entity applied AASB 15 retrospectively only to 
contracts that are not completed contracts at the date of initial 
application of 1 September 2018. 
The significant changes to the Consolidated Entity as a result of 
adopting AASB 15 are:
•	 Annual	and	upfront	fees:	Annual	fees	in	relation	to	housing	
and business lending packages, as well as annual fees on credit 
card products, are no longer recognised upfront but over the 
annual period in line with the performance obligation delivered 
to the customers. Annual fees will be deferred on the Balance 
Sheet in “Accounts payable and other liabilities” when received 
and recognised in “Customer fees and charges” on a straight-
line basis throughout the year. Similarly, certain upfront fees 
in relation to loan contracts are no longer recognised upfront 
but when the performance obligation to the customers is 
delivered, which is over the life of these contracts. 
Annual Report 2019 103
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
opening adjustments -sale relating ed with this  Carrying amount at 1 September 2018 $m 256 1,385 - 3,693 7 - 45,064 171 50  2,351 52,977 367 48,764 49,131 3,846 3,418  41  387 3,846
1.5	IMPLEMENTATION	OF	NEW	AUSTRALIAN	ACCOUNTING	STANDARDS	(CONTINUED) Transition impacts of adopting AASB 9 and AASB 15 The following table summarises the adjustments arising on adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15. The adjustments have been recognised against the Consolidated Entity’s retained profits and reserves as at 1 September 2018. The overall impact of the changes was a decrease of $13 million to the Consolidated Entity’s retained profits. The below do not differ materially for the Bank, except for the REDS EHP Securitisation notes held by the Bank. $30 million of opening balance financial assets available-forto the REDS EHP Securitisation notes were reclassified to debt instruments at amortised cost on transition to AASB 9. There was no re-measurement impact associatreclassification.  AASB 9 AASB 9 Classification and MeasurementAASB 15 changesConsolidatedImpairment Remeasurements in equity Reclassification Reclassification instruments at Carrying amount Remeasurements Annual and of financial assets of financial assets (1)at 31 August 2018in ECLupfront feesTrail commisionheld for tradingavailable-for-saleFVOCI  $m$m$m$m$m$m$m ASSETS Due from other financial institutions6-250---- Financial assets at FVTPL-1,385----- Financial assets held for trading1,385(1,385)----- Debt instruments at FVOCI--3,693---- Equity instruments at FVOCI--34--- Financial assets available-for-sale3,946-(3,946)---- Loans and advances45,078 ---(10)(4)- Other assets169-----2 Deferred tax assets 45 --(1)33- Other financial and non-financial assets2,351------ 52,980 --3(7)(1)2 Total assets LIABILITIES Accounts payable and other liabilities 360 ----7- Other financial and non-financial liabilities48,764------ 49,124 ----7-Total liabilities  Net assets 3,856 --3(7)(8)2 EQUITY Issued capital 3,418 ------ Reserves 38 --3--- Retained profits 400 ---(7)(8)2 3,856 --3(7)(8)2Total equity  (1) Increase in fair value of equity instruments previously recognised at cost under AASB 139.
104 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
NOTE 2. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
2.1  OPERATING INCOME
Consolidated Bank
2019  2018  2019  2018 
$m $m $m $m
INTEREST INCOME
Effective interest income 1,913 1,927  1,884  1,760
Other: Securities at fair value 145 142  165  289
Total interest income 2,058 2,069  2,049  2,049
INTEREST EXPENSE
Retail deposits (576) (578) (575) (580)
Wholesale deposits and borrowings  (521) (526) (744) (731)
Total interest expense (1,097) (1,104) (1,319) (1,311)
Net interest income 961 965 730 738
INCOME FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Customer fees and charges (1) 72 85 73 110
Share of fee revenue paid to Owner Managed branches (7) (7) (7) (7)
Commissions  36 34 13 14
Foreign exchange income – customer based 12 12 12 12
Net profit / (loss) on sale of property, plant and equipment 5 7 (1) -
Net income / (loss) from financial instruments and derivatives 
2 (4) 1 (4)
at fair value
Securitisation income - -  95  56
Dividend income - - 12 22
Management fee – controlled entities - - 26 23
Other income 6 10 3 2
Total income from operating activities 126 137 227 228
INCOME FROM INSURANCE ACTIVITIES
Premiums from insurance contracts  55  66 - -
Investment revenue  2  2 - -
Claims and policyholder liability expense from insurance contracts  (48) (49) - -
Net insurance operating income  9  19 - -
Total operating income  1,096  1,121 957 966
(1)  Customer charges on lending, banking and leasing products.
Interest income and expense
Interest income and expense for all interest bearing financial instruments are recognised in the profit or loss using the effective interest 
rates of the financial assets or financial liabilities to which they relate.
Interest income on finance lease receivables is recognised progressively over the life of the lease, reflecting a constant periodic rate of 
return on the net investment.
Other operating income
Other operating income and expenses that are considered an integral part of the effective interest rate on a financial instrument are 
included in the measurement of the effective interest rate. 
Non-yield related application and activation lending fee revenue is recognised over the contract period in line with the performance 
obligation delivered to the customers. Customer service fees that represent the recoupment of the costs of providing the service are 
recognised on an accrual basis when the service is provided. Commissions are recognised as income when performance obligations in 
respect of those commissions have been satisfied.
Dividends are recognised when control of a right to receive consideration is established.
Annual Report 2019 105
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
2.2  EXPENSES
Consolidated Bank
2019  2018  2019  2018 
Note $m $m $m $m
OPERATING EXPENSES
Advertising 26 22 15 14
Commissions to Owner Managed Branches 5 5 5 5
Communications and postage 19 17 18 17
Printing and stationery 3 3 3 3
Processing costs 15 15 15 15
Other 36 24 60 (1) 26
104 86 116 80
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
Professional fees 23 30 20 27
Directors fees 2 2 2 2
Other 7 5 12 9
32 37 34 38
IT EXPENSES
Data processing 85 77 80 72
Amortisation – computer software  4.1 41 60 38 57
Depreciation – IT equipment 1 1 1 1
127 138 119 130
OCCUPANCY EXPENSES
Lease rentals  30 32 27 31
Depreciation – plant, furniture, equipment and leasehold 
10 9 10 9
improvements
Other 4 4 3 3
44 45 40 43
EMPLOYEE EXPENSES
Salaries, wages and superannuation contributions 244 240 224 219
Payroll tax 13 13 12 12
Equity settled transactions 8 10 7 8
Other 10 10 9 9
275 273 252 248
OTHER
Amortisation – acquired intangibles  4.1 5 8 5 6
Total expenses 587 587 566 545
(1)  Other operating expenses include impairment of the intercompany loan from the Bank to St Andrew’s Australia Services Pty Ltd of $24 million.
106 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
2.3  INCOME TAX EXPENSE AND DEFERRED TAX
Income tax expense
The major components of income tax expense along with a reconciliation between pre-tax profit and tax expense are detailed below:
Consolidated Bank
2019  2018  2019  2018 
$m $m $m $m
CURRENT TAX EXPENSE
Current year 139 147 106 113
Adjustments for prior years 1 (1) 1 (1)
140 146 107 112
DEFERRED TAX EXPENSE
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (3) 11 2 9
Total income tax expense  137 157 109 121
DEFERRED TAX RECOGNISED IN EQUITY
Cash flow hedge reserve (25) 1 (23) 1
Retained profits (1) (6) - (6) -
Other (6) (3) (6) (3)
(37) (2) (35) (2)
NUMERICAL RECONCILIATIONS BETWEEN TAX EXPENSE  
AND PRE-TAX PROFIT 
Profit before tax  435 493 354 398
Income tax using the domestic corporate tax rate of 30% (2018: 30%) 131 148 106 119
Increase in income tax expense due to:
  Non-deductible expenses 7 9 7 9
Decrease in income tax expense due to:
  Non-assessable income - - - -
  Other (2) (1) - (4) (7)
Income tax expense on pre-tax net profit  137 157 109 121
(1)  T  he August 2019 financial results reflect the adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15 on 1 September 2018. The carrying amounts of assets and liabilities impacted by the adoption 
were adjusted through opening retained profits and reserves on 1 September 2018 as if the Consolidated Entity and the Bank had always applied the new requirements. As 
permitted by AASB 9 and AASB 15, the Consolidated Entity and the Bank have not restated previously reported financial periods. Refer to Note 1.5 for the impact from the 
initial adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15.
(2)   In the Bank, this includes the impact of dividends received from subsidiary members in the tax consolidated group which are eliminated at a group level, and the dilutionary 
impact to prima-facie tax expense relating to franking credits on external dividends received on investments.
Annual Report 2019 107
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
2.3	 INCOME	TAX	EXPENSE	AND	DEFERRED	TAX	(CONTINUED)
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
CONSOLIDATED $m $m $m $m $m $m
Accruals 3 3 - - 3 3
Capitalised expenditure - - (6) (8) (6) (8)
Provisions for impairment 70 60 - - 70 60
Other provisions 15 16 - - 15 16
Equity reserves 37 6 - - 37 6
Leasing - - (36) (34) (36) (34)
Other 7 7 (5) (5) 2 2
Total tax assets / (liabilities) (1) 132 92 (47) (47) 85 45
BANK
Accruals 2 1 - - 2 1
Capitalised expenditure - - (2) (5) (2) (5)
Provisions for impairment 49 46 - - 49 46
Other provisions 13 16 - - 13 16
Equity reserves 33 4 - - 33 4
Leasing - - (19) (21) (19) (21)
Other 7 7 (4) (2) 3 5
Total tax assets / (liabilities) 104 74 (25) (28) 79 46
(1)  The St Andrew’s Group was classified as held for sale as at 31 August 2018 but has ceased to be held for sale as at 31 August 2019. Net deferred tax assets of $1 million were 
classified as held for sale and excluded in the above table as at 31 August 2018. Refer to Note 6.5(d) for presentation of the comparatives.  
Unrecognised deferred tax assets 
Deferred tax assets have not been brought to account for the following items as realisation of the benefit is not regarded as probable:
2019 2018
$m $m
Gross income tax losses (1) 25 26
Gross capital gains tax losses 51 51
(1)  Income tax losses are subject to utilisation over an expected 10-15 year period.
108 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
2.3	 INCOME	TAX	EXPENSE	AND	DEFERRED	TAX	(CONTINUED)
Accounting for income tax
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Income  Any current tax liabilities (or assets) and deferred tax assets 
tax is recognised in profit or loss in the Income Statement except  arising from unused tax losses of the subsidiaries are assumed 
to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity,  by the head entity in the tax-consolidated group and are 
or other comprehensive income. recognised as amounts payable (receivable) to (from) other 
entities in the tax-consolidated group in conjunction with any 
Current tax is the expected tax payable / receivable on the 
Tax Funding Agreement (TFA) amounts. Any difference between 
taxable income / loss for the year and any adjustment to the 
these amounts is recognised by the Bank as an equity 
tax payable / receivable in respect of previous years. It is 
contribution, or distribution from the subsidiary.
measured using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at 
the reporting date. Any subsequent period amendments to deferred tax assets 
arising from unused tax losses as a result of a revised assessment 
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences 
of the probability of recoverability is recognised by the head 
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial 
entity only.
reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses and  Nature of tax funding and tax sharing arrangements
deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is  The Bank, in conjunction with other members of the tax-
probable that future taxable profits will be available against  consolidated group, has entered into a TFA which sets out the 
which they can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at  funding obligations of members of the tax-consolidated group in 
each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no  respect of tax amounts. The TFA requires payments to (from) the 
longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. head entity equal to the current tax liability (asset) assumed by 
the head entity and any tax-loss deferred tax asset assumed by 
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to 
the head entity, resulting in the Bank recognising an inter-entity 
be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, using 
payable (receivable) equal in amount to the tax liability (asset) 
tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the reporting date. 
assumed. 
The measurement of deferred tax reflects the tax consequences 
that would follow the manner in which the Consolidated Entity  Contributions to fund the current tax liabilities are payable as per 
expects, at the reporting date, to recover or settle the carrying  the TFA and reflect the timing of the head entity’s obligation to 
amount of its assets and liabilities. make payments for tax liabilities to the relevant tax authorities.
The Bank, in conjunction with other members of the tax-
Tax consolidation
consolidated group, has also entered into a Tax Sharing 
The Bank is the head entity in the tax-consolidated group 
Agreement (TSA). The TSA provides for the determination of the 
comprising all the Australian wholly-owned subsidiaries.  
allocation of income tax liabilities between the entities should the 
The implementation date for the tax-consolidated group was  
head entity default on its tax payment obligations. No amounts 
1 September 2003.
have been recognised in the financial statements in respect of 
Current tax expense (income), deferred tax liabilities and deferred  this agreement as payment of any amounts under the TSA is 
tax assets arising from temporary differences of the members of  considered remote.
the tax-consolidated group are recognised in the separate 
financial statements of the members of the tax-consolidated 
group using a ‘group allocation’ approach by reference to the 
carrying amounts in the separate financial statements of each 
entity and the tax values applying under tax consolidation.
Annual Report 2019 109
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
2.4  DIVIDENDS
Bank
2019 2018
Cents per  Cents per 
share $m share $m
ORDINARY SHARES
Special 2017 dividend paid 23 November 2017  - - 8 31
Final 2018 dividend paid 14 November 2018 (2017: 23 November 2017) 38 151 38 149
Interim 2019 dividend paid 22 May 2019 (2018: 17 May 2018) 34 137 38 149
288 329
CONVERTIBLE PREFERENCE SHARES (CPS) 
Second half 2017 CPS dividend paid on 16 October 2017 - - 245 7
Pro-rata CPS dividend paid on 28 December 2017 - - 98 2
Final 2018 CPS dividend paid on 16 April 2018 (1) - - 244 3
- 12
(1)   In accordance with the ASX announcement dated 5 March 2018, BOQ confirmed the redemption of all outstanding CPS on the optional conversion/redemption date of 16 
April 2018 with the redemption price of $102.44 per CPS, comprising the face value of $100 per CPS and a final dividend of $2.44 per CPS for the period from (and including) 
16	October	2017	to	(but	excluding)	the	redemption	date	of	16	April	2018.	The	ASX	announcement	on	16	April	2018	confirmed	the	removal	of	CPS	from	official	quotation	at	
close of trading on 16 April 2018.
All dividends paid on ordinary and preference shares have been fully franked. Since the end of the financial year, the Directors have 
determined the following dividends:
Cents per 
share $m
Final ordinary share dividend  31 126
The final dividend payment will be fully franked and paid on 27 November 2019 to owners of ordinary shares at the close of business on 7 
November 2019 (record date). Shares will be quoted ex-dividend on 6 November 2019. 
Bank
2019 2018
$m $m
30% franking credits available to shareholders of the Bank for subsequent financial years 177 172
The ability to utilise the franking credits is dependent upon there  •  all shares sold in the ordinary course of trading on the ASX 
being sufficient available profits to declare dividends. The profits  automated trading system; and
accumulated in the profit reserve are available for dividend  •  where shares are sold on trading platforms of Australian 
payments in future years. All franked dividends paid or declared by  licensed financial markets operated by persons other than 
the Bank since the end of the previous financial year were franked  ASX, all shares sold in the ordinary course of trading on such of 
at the tax rate of 30 per cent. those trading platforms determined by the Board from time 
The balance of the Bank’s dividend franking account at the date of  to time,
this report, after adjusting for franking credits and debits that will  during the 10 trading day period commencing on the second trading 
arise on payment of income tax and proposed dividends relating  day after the record date in respect of the relevant dividend.
to the year ended 31 August 2019, is $120 million calculated at the 
Shares issued or transferred under the DRP will be fully-paid and 
30 per cent tax rate (2018: $105 million). It is anticipated, based 
rank equally in all respects with existing shares.
on these franking account balances that the Bank will continue to 
pay fully franked dividends in the foreseeable future. The calculation of the daily volume weighted average price shall 
not include certain transactions, as outlined in the DRP terms 
Dividend reinvestment plan and conditions.
The dividend reinvestment plan (DRP) provides ordinary  If, after this calculation there is a residual balance, that balance 
shareholders with the opportunity to reinvest all or part of their  will be carried forward (without interest) and added to the next 
entitlement to a dividend into new ordinary shares. The price for  dividend for the purpose of calculating the number of shares 
shares issued or transferred under the DRP is an amount 1.5 per cent  secured under the DRP at that time.
(2018: 1.5 per cent) less than the arithmetic average, rounded to  The last date for election to participate in the DRP for the 2019 
four decimal places, of the daily volume weighted average price of: final dividend is 8 November 2019.
110 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
2.5  OPERATING SEGMENTS 
Segment information
The Consolidated Entity determines and presents operating  Management monitors the operating results of its business units 
segments based on the information that is provided internally   separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource 
to the Managing Director & CEO, the Bank’s chief operating  allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance 
decision maker.  is evaluated based on operating profit or loss which in certain 
respects is measured differently from operating profit or loss  
An operating segment is a component of the Consolidated 
in the consolidated financial statements. Income taxes are 
Entity that engages in business activities from which it may earn 
managed within the individual operating segments and thus 
revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses 
disclosed this way. 
that relate to transactions with any of the Consolidated Entity’s 
other components. All operating segments’ operating results are  Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s 
regularly reviewed by the Consolidated Entity’s Managing Director  length basis, reflecting the Bank’s external cost of funds, in a 
& CEO to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the  manner similar to transactions with third parties.
segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete 
Major customers
financial information is available.
No revenue from transactions with a single external customer 
Segment results that are reported to the Managing Director &  or counter party amounted to 10 per cent or more of the 
CEO include items directly attributable to a segment as well as  Consolidated Entity’s total revenue in 2019 or 2018.
those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. 
Geographic information
The Consolidated Entity’s operating segments comprise the 
While the Consolidated Entity does have some operations in  
following:
New Zealand, the business segments operate principally  
Retail Banking - retail banking solutions to customers managed  in Australia.
through our Owner Managed and Corporate branch network, 
Goodwill
third party intermediaries’ and Virgin Money distribution channels;
For goodwill allocation between segments, refer to Note 4.1.
BOQ Business - includes the BOQ branded commercial lending 
activity, BOQ Finance and BOQ Specialist businesses. The division  Presentation
provides tailored business banking solutions including commercial 
The following table presents income, profit and certain asset 
lending, equipment finance and leasing, Cashflow finance, foreign 
and liability information regarding the Consolidated Entity’s 
exchange, interest rate hedging, transaction banking and deposit 
operating segments.
solutions for commercial customers; and
Inter-segment revenue and expenses and transfer pricing 
Other - Treasury, St Andrew’s Insurance and Group  
adjustments are reflected in the performance of each 
Head Office.
operating segment.
All inter-segment profits are eliminated on consolidation.
Annual Report 2019 111
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
2.5	 OPERATING	SEGMENTS	(CONTINUED)
Retail Banking BOQ Business Other Segment Total
2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
INCOME
Net interest income (1) 432  458 527  514 2  (7) 961  965
Non interest income 63  67 50  59 15  19 128  145
Total income 495  525 577  573 17 12 1,089  1,110
Operating expenses (287)  (281) (242)  (228) (21)  (18) (550)  (527)
Underlying profit / (loss) 208  244 335  345 (4)  (6) 539  583
Loan impairment expense (14)  (15)  (60)  (26)   -  - (74)  (41) 
Cash profit / (loss) before tax 194  229  275  319  (4)  (6)  465  542 
Income tax expense  (61)  (72)  (86)  (100)  2 2  (145)  (170) 
Segment cash profit / (loss) after tax (2) 133  157  189  219  (2)  (4)  320  372 
Statutory basis adjustments:
Amortisation of acquisition of fair value
- - - - (6)  (7)  (6)  (7) 
adjustments
Hedge ineffectiveness - - - - (8)  (3)  (8)  (3) 
Integration / transaction costs - - - - (1)  (1)  (1)  (1) 
Regulatory / compliance - - - - (6)  (9)  (6)  (9) 
Software changes (3) - (7) - (4) - -  - (11) 
Legacy items - - - - (1) (5)  (1) (5) 
Statutory net profit / (loss) after tax 133 150 189 215 (24) (29)  298 336 
INCLUDED IN THE RESULTS:
Depreciation and amortisation (34) (49) (17) (26) (1) (2) (52) (77)
Loan impairment expense (14) (15)  (60) (26)  - - (74) (41) 
Segment assets 25,820 25,826 22,329 20,588 7,448 6,566 55,597 52,980
Segment liabilities 15,779 15,226 8,410 8,105 27,549 25,793 51,738 49,124
(1)   Interest income and interest expenses are disclosed in this note on a net interest income basis. This is in line with the information provided internally to the Managing 
Director & CEO.
(2)	This	excludes	a	number	of	items	that	introduce	volatility	and	/	or	one-off	distortions	of	the	Group’s	performance.
(3) Software changes include a non-recurring adjustment due to a prior year reassessment of the useful lives of existing assets relative to the Bank’s investment roadmap and a 
change to the capitalisation policy.
112 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
2.6  EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic earnings per share (EPS) is calculated by dividing the relevant earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the average weighted 
number of shares on issue. Diluted EPS takes into account the dilutive effect of all outstanding share rights vesting as ordinary shares.
Consolidated
2019 2018
$m $m
EARNINGS RECONCILIATION
Profit for the year  298 336
Basic earnings 298 336
Effect of CPS - 7
Effect of wholesale capital notes 7 7
Effect of capital notes 14 9
Diluted earnings 319 359
Weighted average number of shares used as the denominator 2019 Number 2018 Number
Number for basic earnings per share
Ordinary shares  401,554,707  393,417,739
Number for diluted earnings per share
Ordinary shares  401,554,707  393,417,739
Effect of award rights  1,454,170  1,523,277
Effect of CPS - 12,129,338
Effect of wholesale capital notes  17,020,105  13,750,181
Effect of capital notes  39,350,887  21,408,589
 459,379,869  442,229,124
EARNINGS PER SHARE 
Basic earnings per share - Ordinary shares (cents) 74.2 85.5
Diluted earnings per share - Ordinary shares (cents) 69.2 81.2
Annual Report 2019 113
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
NOTE 3. CAPITAL AND BALANCE SHEET MANAGEMENT 
3.1  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Components of cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at branches, cash on deposit and balances with the Reserve Bank of Australia. Cash flows from 
the following activities are presented on a net basis in the Statements of Cash Flows:
•  Sales and purchases of trading securities;
•  Customer deposits and withdrawals from deposit accounts; and
•  Loan drawdowns and repayments. 
Consolidated Bank
2019 2018 2019 2018
$m $m $m $m
Notes, coins and cash at bank 1,051 815 463 443
Remittances in transit 223 297 222 297
Reverse repurchase agreements maturing in less than three months - 100 - 100
Cash and cash equivalents as presented in the Balance Sheets 1,274 1,212 685 840
Cash and cash equivalents included in assets held for sale (1) - 6 - -
Total 1,274 1,218 685 840
Notes to the Statements of Cash Flows 
Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash provided by operating activities:
Profit from ordinary activities after income tax 298 336 245 277
Add / (less) non-cash items or items classified as investing / financing:
Depreciation  11 11 11 11
Amortisation 5 6 5 5
Software amortisation and impairment 45 62 42 59
(Profit) / loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 1 (1) 1 -
Impairment of intercompany loan (2) - - 24 -
Equity settled transactions 8 10 7 8
Dividends received from controlled entities - - (12) (22)
Add / (less) changes in operating assets and liabilities:
(Increase) / decrease in due from other financial institutions (656) 6 (662) 2
(Increase) / decrease in financial assets (608) 443 (608) 506
(Increase) in loans and advances (943) (1,461) (223) (1,195)
Increase / (decrease) in provision for impairment 22 (26) - (28)
Decrease in derivatives 19 35 18 26
Decrease in deferred tax asset - 9 6 9
Decrease in amounts due to / from controlled entities - - 455 322
(Increase) / decrease in other assets 16 41 (601) (426)
(Increase) in current tax assets (7) - (8) -
Increase / (decrease) in due to other financial institutions (30) 54 (30) 54
Increase in deposits 314 824 252 740
Increase / (decrease) in accounts payable and other liabilities 39 (29) 5 (27)
(Decrease) in current tax liabilities (5) (1) (5) (1)
Increase / (decrease) in provisions (5) 3 (4) (2)
Increase / (decrease) in deferred tax liabilities (2) 1 (4) (3)
(Decrease) in insurance policy liabilities (1) (6) - -
Net cash (inflow) / outflow from operating activities (1,479) 317 (1,086) 315
(1)  The St Andrew’s Group was classified as held for sale as at 31 August 2018 but has ceased to be held for sale as at 31 August 2019. Refer to Note 6.5(d) for presentation of 
the comparatives.
(2)  This includes the impairment of the intercompany loan from the Bank to St Andrew’s Australia Services Pty Ltd of $24 million.
114 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.2  FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Financial instruments measured at amortised cost
Financial assets that are held to collect the contractual cash flows and that contain contractual terms that give rise on specified 
dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest, are measured at amortised cost. In addition, most financial 
liabilities are measured at amortised cost. Financial assets or financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value, inclusive of any 
directly attributable costs. They are subsequently measured at each reporting date at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method. Included in this category is loans and advances at amortised cost included in Loans and advances – refer to Note 3.3 for 
further information. 
The Bank invests in debt securities at amortised cost that are issued by 100 per cent owned securitisation vehicles within the 
Consolidated Group. During the year, the Bank reviewed the treatment of the securitisation notes issued under the REDS Securitisation 
and Impala Securitisation programs and purchased by the Bank. The programs’ underlying pool of financial instruments are recorded 
within the Bank’s Loans and advances. In prior years, the balances relating to these internally held securitisation notes were netted off 
within the financial statements. The balances are now disclosed separately within financial assets and the associated liability on the 
Bank’s Balance Sheet. For comparison purposes, the prior year balances have been reclassified throughout the Bank’s 2019 financial 
statements. There is no effect on net assets or total comprehensive income at 31 August 2018. There is no change to the Consolidated 
Entity Balance Sheet.
Also included in this category are loans and advances at amortised cost (refer to Note 3.3 Loans and advances) and receivables due from 
other financial institutions recognised and measured at amortised cost.
For financial liabilities at amortised cost: refer to Note 3.4 for further information on Deposits and Note 3.5 for further information 
on Borrowings.
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI)
Financial assets held in a business model that is achieved by both collecting and selling contractual cash flows that contain contractual 
terms that give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest are measured at FVOCI. Gains 
or losses arising from changes in the fair value of these financial instruments are recognised in other comprehensive income. Interest 
income and foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss in the Income Statement, as are cumulative gains or losses 
previously recognised in other comprehensive income upon derecognition of the financial instruments. 
Equity instruments that are not held for trading are measured at FVOCI, where an irrevocable election has been made by management. 
Amounts presented in other comprehensive income are not subsequently transferred to profit or loss, but can be reclassified to retained 
profits. Dividends on such investments are recognised in profit or loss unless the dividend clearly represents a recovery of part of the 
cost of the investment.
Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL)
Financial assets that do not meet the criteria to be measured at amortised cost or FVOCI are measured at FVTPL, with all changes in fair 
value recognised in the Income Statement. Financial assets in this category are those that are held for trading and have been designated 
by management upon initial recognition or are mandatorily required to be measured at fair value under AASB 9.
Where a financial liability is designated at fair value through profit or loss, the movement in fair value are recognised in profit or loss in the 
Income Statement.
Modification of financial instruments
A financial instrument is modified when its original contractual cash flows are modified. A financial instrument that is modified is 
derecognised if the existing agreement is cancelled and a new agreement is made on substantially different terms or if the existing terms 
of the financial instrument are substantially modified. Where the modification results in derecognition of the original financial instrument, 
a new financial instrument is recorded initially at fair value and the difference is recorded in profit or loss in the Income Statement.
When the modification does not result in derecognition, the difference between the financial instrument’s original contractual cash flows 
and the modified cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate, are recognised as a gain or loss in the Income Statement.
Reclassification of financial instruments
The Consolidated Entity reclassifies financial assets when, and only when, it changes its business model for managing those assets. 
Reclassified financial assets are subsequently measured based on the new measurement category. 
The Consolidated Entity does not reclassify financial liabilities. 
Derecognition of financial instruments
Financial assets are derecognised when, and only when, the contractual rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired, or 
where the Consolidated Entity has transferred its contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the financial assets or substantially all 
the risks and rewards of ownership. 
Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished, i.e. when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expired.
Annual Report 2019 115
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.2	 FINANCIAL	ASSETS	AND	LIABILITIES	(CONTINUED)
Financial assets recognised and measured at fair value are listed below. For other financial assets and liabilities refer to Note 3.1 for Cash 
and cash equivalents, Note 3.3 for Loans and advances, Note 3.4 for Deposits, Note 3.5 for Borrowings and Note 3.8 for Derivative 
financial instruments and hedge accounting.
Consolidated Bank
2019 2018 2019 2018
$m $m $m $m
Derivative financial assets
Current 47 48 47 49
Non-current 182 87 98 31
Total derivative financial assets 229 135 145 80
Financial assets at FVTPL
Floating rate notes and bonds 954 - 954 -
Negotiable certificates of deposit 619 - 619 -
Reverse repurchase agreements  1,013 - 1,013 -
Total financial assets at FVTPL 2,586 - 2,586 -
Current 2,586 - 2,586 -
Financial assets held for trading
Floating rate notes and bonds - 430 - 430
Negotiable certificates of deposit - 955 - 955
Total held for trading  - 1,385 - 1,385
Current - 1,385 - 1,385
Financial assets at FVOCI
Debt instruments 3,569 - 3,569 -
Equity instruments 6 - 6 -
Total financial assets at FVOCI 3,575 - 3,575 -
Current 192 - 192 -
Non-current 3,383 - 3,383 -
Financial assets available-for-sale
Debt instruments - 3,943 - 3,972
Unlisted equity instruments - 3 - 3
Total available-for-sale - 3,946 - 3,975
Current - 817 - 846
Non-current - 3,129 - 3,129
Debt instruments at amortised cost (1)
Current - - 216 187
Non-current - - 5,252 4,680
- - 5,468 4,867
 
(1)  During the year, the Bank reviewed the treatment of the securitisation notes issued under the REDS Securitisation and Impala Securitisation programs and purchased by the 
Bank.	The	balances	were	previously	netted	off	within	the	Bank’s	Balance	Sheet,	and	thus	disclosed	as	nil	in	the	Bank’s	2018	Balance	Sheet.	The	balances	are	now	disclosed	
separately within financial assets and the associated liability (Amounts due to controlled entities) on the Bank’s Balance Sheet. For comparison purposes, the prior year 
balances have been reclassified throughout the Bank’s 2019 financial statements.
116 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.3  LOANS AND ADVANCES
Loans and advances at amortised cost
 Loans and advances are originated by the Consolidated Entity and are recognised upon cash being advanced to the borrower. Loans and 
advances are initially recognised at fair value, plus incremental directly attributable transaction costs. They are subsequently measured 
at each reporting date at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Finance lease receivables
Loans and advances include finance lease receivables. Finance lease receivables, accounted for under AASB 117, are also originated 
by the Consolidated Entity and are recognised upon cash being advanced to the borrower. Finance leases are those products where 
substantially all the risks and rewards of the leased asset have been transferred to the lessee. 
Finance lease receivables are initially recognised at amounts equal to the lower of fair value of the leased asset or the present value of 
the minimum lease repayments. Subsequently, lease repayments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the 
finance lease liability.
Consolidated Bank
2019 2018 2019 2018
$m $m $m $m
Residential property loans – secured by mortgages 30,647 30,506 30,647 30,506
Personal loans  223 222 223 222
Overdrafts  228 223 228 223
Commercial loans  9,816 9,626 9,626 9,466
Credit cards  76 75 76 75
Asset finance and leasing 5,332 5,020 222 263
Gross loans and advances 46,322 45,672 41,022 40,755
Less:
Unearned finance lease income (106) (393) (22) (28)
Specific provision for impairment (85) (86) (65) (74)
Collective provision for impairment (148) (115) (99) (82)
Total loans and advances 45,983 45,078 40,836 40,571
(a) Loans and advances - Expected credit losses (ECL)
The adoption of AASB 9 from 1 September 2018 has resulted in a change in the Consolidated Entity’s impairment methodology by 
replacing AASB 139’s incurred loss approach with a forward-looking ECL approach. The ECL allowance is based on the credit losses 
expected to arise over the next 12 months of the financial asset, unless there has been a significant increase in credit risk (SICR) since 
origination. In this case, the allowance is based on the ECL for the life of the financial asset. The 12 months ECL is the portion of lifetime 
ECLs that represent the ECLs that result from default events on a financial asset that are possible within the 12 months after the 
reporting date.
At the end of each reporting period, the Consolidated Entity performs an assessment of whether a financial asset’s credit risk has 
increased significantly since initial recognition. This is done by considering the change in the risk of default occurring over the remaining 
life of the financial asset.
The Consolidated Entity applies a three stage approach to measuring the ECL, as described below:
•  Stage 1 – For financial assets where there has not been a SICR since initial recognition and that are not credit impaired upon origination, 
the portion of the lifetime ECL associated with the probability of default (PD) occurring within the next 12 months is recognised as the 
12 month ECL, adjusted for forward-looking information. Stage 1 includes facilities where the credit risk has improved and the loan has 
been reclassified from Stage 2 or Stage 3.
•  Stage 2 – When there has been a SICR, the lifetime ECL is determined with reference to the financial asset’s lifetime PD and the 
lifetime losses associated with that PD, adjusted for forward-looking information. The Consolidated Entity assesses whether there has 
been a SICR since initial recognition based on qualitative, quantitative, and reasonable and supportable forward-looking information 
that includes significant management judgement. Use of alternative criteria could result in significant changes to the timing and 
amount of ECL to be recognised. Lifetime ECL is generally determined based on the behavioural maturity of the financial asset , which 
is generally less than or equal to the contractual maturity. Stage 2 also includes facilities where the credit risk has improved and the 
loan has been reclassified from Stage 3.
Annual Report 2019 117
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.3	 LOANS	AND	ADVANCES	(CONTINUED)
(a) Loans and advances - Expected credit losses (ECL) (continued)
•  Stage 3 - This includes financial assets that are deemed to be credit impaired, which generally correspond to the APRA definition 
of default, and include exposures that are at least 90 days past due. The provision is also equivalent to the lifetime ECL. Financial 
assets in Stage 3 will have a collective provision determined by the ECL model, although some loans are individually covered by a 
specific provision. A specific provision is calculated based on estimated future cash flows discounted to their present value, net of any 
collateral held against that financial asset.
Transition impact
On transition to AASB 9 on 1 September 2018 the Consolidated Entity’s total credit impairment allowances increased by $10 million 
as a result of the following principle differences between AASB 139’s incurred credit loss requirements and AASB 9’s ECL impairment 
requirements:
•    Forward looking information (FLI): AASB 9 requires the calculation of the ECL to include FLI, which incorporates macro-economic 
information. Previously AASB 139 required the consideration of historical information that was updated to reflect current conditions 
at the reporting date.
•    A 12-month minimum ECL requirement (stage 1): AASB 9 requires a 12-month ECL impairment allowance to be held on all exposures, 
unless the contractual period is shorter.
•    SICR (stage 2): AASB 9 requires the Consolidated Entity to determine whether there has been a SICR since initial recognition, and in 
such instances, to classify the exposure as stage 2 and recognise a lifetime expected credit loss.
•    Off balance sheet exposures: AASB 9’s scope includes certain off balance sheet exposures such as undrawn credit commitments, 
financial guarantee contracts and letters of credit for which an ECL is required to be recognised. No impairment allowance was 
specifically required to be recognised under AASB 139.
Write-offs
Financial assets are written off, either partially or in full, against the related provision when the Consolidated Entity concludes that there 
is no reasonable expectation of recovery and all possible collateral has been realised. Recoveries of financial assets previously written off 
are recognised in profit or loss based on the cash received.
Significant increase in credit risk
SICR for financial assets are assessed by comparing the risk of a default occurring over the expected life of a financial asset at the 
reporting date compared to the corresponding risk of default at origination. In determining what constitutes a significant increase in 
credit risk, the Consolidated Entity considers qualitative and quantitative information. For the majority of the Consolidated Entity’s Retail 
portfolio, a statistical model has been developed to identify where a facility’s recent behaviour has deteriorated significantly from its 
origination behaviour. For most of the Consolidated Entity’s Commercial portfolio the primary indicator of a significant increase in credit 
risk is a change in the internal customer risk rating between origination and reporting date. For all loan portfolios, the primary indicator is 
in addition to the secondary SICR indicator, which is based on 30 days past due arrears information.
Calculation of ECL
Both 12 months ECLs and lifetime ECLs are calculated on either an individual basis or a collective basis, depending on the nature of the 
underlying portfolio of financial assets. When calculating the ECL, portfolios of financial assets are grouped as follows:
•    Retail lending: Home loans model, Personal loans model and BOQ Specialist model, 
•    Commercial lending: Commercial risk rated model and Equipment Finance model.
Where ECL is modelled collectively for portfolios of exposures, it is modelled primarily as the product of the PD, the loss given default 
(LGD) and the exposure at default (EAD). 
These parameters are generally derived from internally developed statistical models combined with historical, current and forward-
looking information, including macro-economic data:
•    The 12-months and lifetime PD, for accounting purposes, represent the estimation of the point-in-time probability of a default over 
the next 12 months and remaining lifetime of the financial instrument, respectively, based on conditions existing at the balance 
sheet date and future economic conditions that affect credit risk;
•    The EAD represents the expected exposure at default, taking into account the repayment of principal and interest from the balance 
sheet date to the default event together with any expected drawdown of a facility; and
•    The LGD represents the expected loss conditional on default, taking into account the mitigating effect of collateral, its expected 
value when realised, and the time value of money.
118 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.3	 LOANS	AND	ADVANCES	(CONTINUED)
Incorporation of forward-looking information
The credit risk factors described above are at a point in time estimates based on the probability weighted forward-looking economic 
scenarios. The inclusion of a forward-looking component in the model anticipates changes in the economic outlook, which will likely 
increase the volatility of the provision. The Consolidated Entity considers four forward-looking macro-economic scenarios (boom, 
recovery, slow down and recession) over time horizons ranging from one year to over four years to ensure a sufficient unbiased 
representative sample is included in estimating the forward-looking ECL. Sensitivity analysis is also performed on each of the macro-
economic scenarios and if conditions warrant, this could result in a management overlay for economic uncertainty which is included in 
the ECL.
The scenarios, including its underlying indicators, are developed using a combination of publicly available data, internal forecasts and third 
party information to form the initial baseline. The scenarios are refined through consultation with internal specialists and benchmarking 
to external data from reputable sources, which includes forecasts published from a range of market economists and official data sources, 
including major central banks.
Economic outlook factors that are taken into consideration include, but are not limited to, unemployment, interest rates, gross domestic 
product, inflation, commercial and residential property price indexes, and require an evaluation of both the current and forecast direction 
of the macro-economic cycle.
Incorporating forward looking information, including macro-economic forecasts, increases the degree of judgement required to assess 
how changes in these data points will affect ECLs. The methodologies and assumptions, including any forecasts of future economic 
conditions, are reviewed regularly.
Governance
The Executive Credit Committee has the delegation for reviewing and approving the methodology, including any judgements and 
assumptions. The Consolidated Entity holds a semi-annual Economic Forum to discuss and approve future economic forecasts, and 
the associated probability weights and economic scenarios. Where applicable, management adjustments or overlays may be made 
to account for situations where known or expected risks and information have not been considered in the modelling process. The 
Consolidated Entity’s provision for impairment on loans and advances, and key areas of judgement are reported to the Group’s Audit 
Committee and Board at each reporting period.
Annual Report 2019 119
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.3	LOANS	AND	ADVANCES	(CONTINUED)
The following table discloses the reconciliation of the ECL model of the Consolidated Entity for the year ended 31 August 2019.
Collective Provision
Stage 3 – 
Stage 1 –  Stage 2 –  Stage 3 –  Specific  Specific  Collective 
12 month ECL Lifetime ECL Lifetime ECL provision provision provision Total 
Consolidated $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Balance as at 31 August 2018 - - - - 86 115 201
Change on adoption of AASB 9 69 38 18 86 (86) (115) 10
Balance as at 1 September 2018 69 38 18 86 - - 211
Transfers during the year to:
Stage 1  8  (7) (1)  -   -   -   - 
Stage 2 (4)  4   -   -   -   -   - 
Stage 3 (1) (5)  3   3   -   -   - 
New/increased provisions  41   29   13   44   -   -   127 
Write-back of provisions no longer 
(32) (15) (10) (1)  -   -  (58)
required
Amounts written off, previously 
 -   -   -  (44)  -   -  (44)
provided for
Unwind discount  -   -   -  (3)  -   -  (3)
Balance as at 31 August 2019  81   44   23   85  - -  233 
The table below discloses the effect of movements in the gross carrying value of loans and advances in the different stages of the ECL 
model of the Consolidated Entity during the year ended 31 August 2019.
Stage 3 – 
Stage 1 –  Stage 2 –  Stage 3 –  Specific 
12 month ECL Lifetime ECL Lifetime ECL provision Total (1) 
Consolidated $m $m $m $m $m
Gross carrying amount as at 1 September 2018 42,337 2,500 274 168 45,279
Transfers during the year to:
Stage 1  636  (625) (6) (5) -
Stage 2 (1,220)  1,236  (14) (2) -
Stage 3 (169) (128)  193   104  -
New loans and advances originated or purchased  11,055   72   6   6   11,139 
Loans and advances derecognised during the year 
(9,406) (630) (102) (64) (10,202)
including write-offs
Balance as at 31 August 2019  43,233   2,425   351   207   46,216 
Provision for impairment (81) (44) (23) (85) (233)
Net carrying amount as at 31 August 2019  43,152   2,381   328   122   45,983 
(1)  The amounts presented above are inclusive of unearned finance lease income. 
120 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.3	 LOANS	AND	ADVANCES	(CONTINUED)
The following table discloses the reconciliation of the new ECL model of the Bank for the year ended 31 August 2019.
Collective Provision
Stage 3 – 
Stage 1 –  Stage 2 –  Stage 3 –  Specific  Specific  Collective 
12 month ECL Lifetime ECL Lifetime ECL provision provision provision Total 
Bank $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Balance as at 31 August 2018  -   -   -   -  74 82 156
Change on adoption of AASB 9  44   31   17   74  (74) (82) 10
Balance as at 1 September 2018  44   31   17   74  - - 166
Transfers during the year to:
Stage 1  6  (5)  -  (1)  -   -   - 
Stage 2 (1)  2  (1)  -   -   -   - 
Stage 3  -  (5)  3   2   -   -   - 
New/increased provisions  14   21   9   28   -   -   72 
Write-back of provisions no longer 
(16) (11) (9) (7)  -   -  (43)
required
Amounts written off, previously 
 -   -   -  (28)  -   -  (28)
provided for
Unwind discount  -   -   -  (3)  -   -  (3)
Balance as at 31 August 2019  47   33   19   65  - -  164 
The table below discloses the effect of movements in the gross carrying value of loans and advances in the different stages of the ECL 
model of the Bank during the year ended 31 August 2019.
Stage 3 – 
Stage 1 –  Stage 2 –  Stage 3 –  Specific 
12 month ECL Lifetime ECL Lifetime ECL provision Total (1) 
Bank $m $m $m $m $m
Gross carrying amount as at 1 September 2018  37,983   2,313   271   160  40,727
Transfers during the year to:
Stage 1  593  (582) (6) (5) -
Stage 2 (1,052)  1,068  (14) (2) -
Stage 3 (147) (123)  186   84  -
New loans and advances originated or purchased  8,509   63   4   1   8,577 
Loans and advances derecognised during the year 
(7,620) (527) (100) (57) (8,304)
including write-offs
Balance as at 31 August 2019  38,266   2,212   341   181   41,000 
Provision for impairment (47) (33) (19) (65) (164)
Net carrying amount as at 31 August 2019  38,219   2,179   322   116   40,836 
(1)  The amounts presented above are inclusive of unearned finance lease income.
Annual Report 2019 121
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.3	 LOANS	AND	ADVANCES	(CONTINUED)
As stated in Note 1.5, comparatives have not been restated and are shown below.
Consolidated Bank
2018 2018
$m $m
Specific provision:
Balance at the beginning of the year 106 90
Add: Expensed during the year 44 31
Less: Bad debts written off  (61) (44)
Unwind of discount (3) (3)
Balance at the end of the year 86 74
Collective provision:
Balance at the beginning of the year 121 92
Add: Released during the year (6) (10)
Balance at the end of the year 115 82
Total provisions for impairment 201 156
(b) Lease receivables
Asset finance and leasing include the following finance lease receivables for leases where the Consolidated Entity is the lessor.
Consolidated Bank
2019 (1) 2018 2019 2018
$m $m $m $m
Gross investment in finance lease receivables: 
Less than one year  373  1,909  24  23
Between one and five years  725  3,015  161  192
More than five years  61  96  37  48
 1,159  5,020  222  263
Unearned finance lease income  (106) (393)  (22) (28)
Net investment in finance leases  1,053  4,627  200  235
The net investment in finance leases:
Less than one year  333  1,740  24  22
Between one and five years  667  2,805  145  173
More than five years  53  82  31  40
 1,053  4,627  200  235
(1)		As	part	of	transition	to	AASB	9,	all	products	offered	by	the	Group	were	reviewed	to	determine	if	they	are	loans	within	the	scope	of	AASB	9	or	finance	leases	within	the	scope	
of AASB 117. The current year finance lease receivables disclosure has been updated to reflect finance lease receivables within the scope of AASB 117.
122 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.3	 LOANS	AND	ADVANCES	(CONTINUED)
(c) Transfer of financial assets
Securitisation program
Through its REDS Securitisation (RMBS Trusts), REDS EHP Securitisation (REDS EHP Trusts) and Impala Securitisation programs, the 
Consolidated Entity packages loans and advances through a series of securitisation vehicles from which debt securities are issued to 
investors. The Consolidated Entity is entitled to any residual income from the vehicles after all payments to investors and costs of the 
programs have been met. The securitised loans and advances are included in Loans and advances and the securitisation liabilities are 
included in Borrowings on the Bank’s Balance Sheet. The note holders have recourse only to the loan pool of assets. Refer to Note 6.9 (a)
(ii) for further information.
Covered bond program
The Bank issues covered bonds for funding and liquidity purposes. The bonds are issued to external investors and are secured against 
a pool of the Bank’s housing loans. Housing loans are assigned to a bankruptcy remote structured entity to provide security for all 
obligations payable on the covered bonds issued by the Bank. The covered bond holders have dual recourse to the Bank and the cover 
pool of assets. The Bank is required to maintain the cover pool at a level sufficient to cover the obligations of the bonds. The Bank is 
entitled to any residual income of the covered bond structured entity after all payments due to the covered bond holders and any costs 
related to the program have been met. The housing loans are included in Loans and advances and the covered bonds issued are included 
in Borrowings on the Bank’s Balance Sheet. 
 The following table sets out the transferred financial assets and associated liabilities of the securitisation and covered bond programs 
that did not qualify for derecognition under AASB 9 and typically result in the transferred assets continuing to be recognised in full. 
Consolidated Bank
2019 2018 2019 2018
$m $m $m $m
TRANSFERRED FINANCIAL ASSETS
Securitisation - Loans and advances (1)  4,532 3,400 8,906 8,158
Covered Bonds - Loans and advances 2,776 1,382 2,776 1,382
7,308 4,782 11,682 9,540
ASSOCIATED FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Securitisation Liabilities - External investors  4,623 3,580 - -
Covered Bonds - External investors 1,652 806 1,652 806
Amounts due to controlled entities (1) - - 8,900 8,326
6,275 4,386 10,552 9,132
FOR THOSE LIABILITIES THAT HAVE RECOURSE  
ONLY TO TRANSFERRED ASSETS (2)
Fair value of transferred assets 7,341 4,785 11,716 9,543
Fair value of associated liabilities (6,275) (4,386) (10,552) (9,132)
Net position 1,066 399 1,164 411
(1)  During the year, the Bank reviewed the treatment of the securitisation notes issued under the REDS Securitisation and Impala Securitisation programs and purchased by the 
Bank.	The	balances	were	previously	netted	off	within	the	Bank’s	Balance	Sheet.	The	balances	are	now	disclosed	separately	within	financial	assets	and	the	associated	liability	
on the Bank’s Balance Sheet. For comparison purposes, the prior year balances have been reclassified throughout the Bank’s 2019 financial statements.
(2)  The fair values of transferred assets and liabilities that reprice within 6 months are assumed to equate to the amortised cost. All other fair values are calculated using a 
discounted cash flow model.
Annual Report 2019 123
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.4  DEPOSITS
Deposits are initially recognised at fair value, net of any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial measurement, they 
are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Consolidated Bank
2019 2018 2019 2018
$m $m $m $m
Deposits at call 16,343 14,786 16,488 14,991
Term deposits 18,061 18,747 18,107 18,791
Certificates of deposit  3,933 4,484 3,933 4,484
Total deposits 38,337 38,017 38,528 38,266
CONCENTRATION OF DEPOSITS
Customer deposits 32,428 31,325 32,573 31,530
Wholesale deposits  5,909 6,692 5,955 6,736
38,337 38,017 38,528 38,266
3.5  BORROWINGS 
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial measurement, 
they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The Consolidated Entity recorded the following movements on borrowings:
Covered  Senior 
Securitisation  bonds  EMTN   ECP   Subordinated unsecured  Capital 
liabilities (1) liabilities (2) program program  notes notes Notes (3) Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2019
Balance at beginning of year 3,576 804 276 93 349 4,486 493 10,077
Proceeds from issues 2,264 811 20 - - 926 - 4,021
Repayments (1,222) - (46) (90) - (801) - (2,159)
Deferred establishment costs (3) (2) - - - - - (5)
Amortisation of deferred costs (4) 2 1 - - - 2 2 7
Foreign exchange translation (4) - 35 13 (3) - - - 45
Balance at end of the year 4,617 1,649 263 - 349 4,613 495 11,986
124 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.5	 BORROWINGS	(CONTINUED)
Covered  Senior  CPS and 
Securitisation  bonds  EMTN   ECP   Subordinated unsecured  Capital 
liabilities (1) liabilities (2) program program  notes notes Notes (3) Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2018
Balance at beginning of year 3,424 749 172 321 200 4,338 447 9,651
Proceeds from issues 1,288 - 93 88 200 1,459 191 3,319
Repayments (1,135) - - (322) (50) (1,311) (141) (2,959)
Deferred establishment costs (2) - - - (1) (1) (7) (11)
Amortisation of deferred costs (4) 1 1 - - - 1 3 6
Foreign exchange translation (4) - 54 11 6 - - - 71
Balance at end of the year 3,576 804 276 93 349 4,486 493 10,077
(1)  S ecuritisation liabilities are secured by a floating charge over securitised assets for amounts owing to note holders and any other secured creditors of the securitisation vehicles.
(2) Covered bonds liabilities are secured by a charge over a pool of loans and advances and guaranteed by the covered bond guarantor.
(3) Wholesale Capital Notes
  On 26 May 2015, the Bank issued 15,000 Wholesale Capital Notes (WCN) at a price of $10,000 per note. WCN are non-cumulative, fully paid and are issued by the Bank on a 
perpetual and subordinated basis. They are not guaranteed or secured. As at 31 August 2019, 15,000 WCN were outstanding with accrued distributions of $2 million. WCN 
must convert to ordinary shares on a mandatory conversion date of 26 May 2022 if certain mandatory conversion conditions are satisfied. Upon conversion, WCN holders 
will receive a number of ordinary shares based on the value weighted average price during a specified period. The WCN must also convert to ordinary shares of the Bank with 
the occurrence of a non-viability event, a capital trigger event or an acquisition event. BOQ may elect to redeem or resell the WCN on 26 May 2020 or following a regulatory 
or tax event. These options are subject to APRA’s prior written approval and certain conditions being satisfied. In a winding up of the Bank, if the WCN have not been 
converted	or	written	off	on	account	of	a	non-viability	trigger	event	or	capital	trigger	event,	the	WCN	will	rank	for	payment	of	capital	ahead	of	ordinary	shareholders,	equally	
with other securities or instruments ranking equally with WCN, but behind all other securities or instruments ranking ahead of WCN, and behind all senior creditors.
  Capital Notes
  On 28 December 2017, the Bank issued 3,500,000 Capital Notes at a price of $100 per note. Capital Notes are perpetual and convertible notes issued by BOQ, with 
preferred, discretionary, non-cumulative distributions. They are not guaranteed or secured. As at 31 August 2019, 3,500,000 Capital Notes were outstanding with accrued 
distributions of $1 million. Capital Notes must convert into ordinary shares on 15 August 2026 if certain mandatory conversion conditions are satisfied, unless they are 
converted or redeemed earlier. Where the mandatory conversion conditions are satisfied, a holder will receive a number of ordinary shares per Capital Note based on the 
value weighted average price of ordinary shares during a specified period. The Capital Notes must also convert to ordinary shares of the Bank with the occurrence of a loss 
absorption event or an acquisition event. BOQ may elect to convert, redeem or resell Capital Notes on 15 August 2024 or following a regulatory or tax event. BOQ may also 
elect to convert all Capital Notes following a potential acquisition event. These options are subject to APRA’s prior written approval and certain conditions being satisfied. In 
a winding up of the Bank, Capital Notes will rank for payment of capital ahead of ordinary shares, equally with CPS, WCN and other equal ranking instruments, but behind the 
claims of all senior ranking creditors, including depositors and unsubordinated and subordinated creditors.
  CPS
  On 24 December 2012, the Bank issued 3,000,000 CPS. CPS were fully paid, perpetual and convertible preference shares with preferred, discretionary, non-cumulative 
dividends. They were not guaranteed or secured. In accordance with the ASX announcement dated 5 March 2018, BOQ confirmed the redemption of all outstanding CPS 
on the optional conversion/redemption date of 16 April 2018 with the redemption price of $102.44 per CPS, comprising the face value of $100 per CPS and a final dividend 
of $2.44 per CPS for the period from (and including) 16 October 2017 to (but excluding) the redemption date of 16 April 2018. The ASX announcement on 16 April 2018 
confirmed	the	removal	of	CPS	from	official	quotation	at	close	of	trading	on	16	April	2018.
(4) Amortisation of deferred costs and foreign exchange translation are non-cash movements. Foreign exchange translation movements are 100 per cent hedged. 
Annual Report 2019 125
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.5	 BORROWINGS	(CONTINUED)
The Bank recorded the following movements on borrowings:
Covered  Senior 
bonds  EMTN   ECP    Subordinated  unsecured  Capital 
liabilities(1) program program notes  notes  Notes (2) Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2019
Balance at beginning of year 806 276 93 349 4,486 493 6,503
Proceeds from issues 811 20 - - 926 - 1,757
Repayments - (46) (90) - (801) - (937)
Deferred establishment costs - - - - - - -
Amortisation of deferred costs (3) - - - - 2 2 4
Foreign exchange translation (3) 35 13 (3) - - - 45
Balance at end of the year 1,652 263 - 349 4,613 495 7,372
Covered  Senior  CPS and 
bonds  EMTN   ECP    Subordinated  unsecured  Capital 
liabilities(1) program program notes  notes  Notes (2) Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2018
Balance at beginning of year 752 172 321 200 4,338 447 6,230
Proceeds from issues - 93 88 200 1,459 191 2,031
Repayments - - (322) (50) (1,311) (141) (1,824)
Deferred establishment costs - - - (1) (1) (7) (9)
Amortisation of deferred costs (3) - - - - 1 3 4
Foreign exchange translation (3) 54 11 6 - - - 71
Balance at end of the year 806 276 93 349 4,486 493 6,503
(1)  Covered bonds liabilities are secured by a charge over covered pool of loans and advances and guaranteed by the covered bond guarantor.
(2) Wholesale Capital Notes 
  On 26 May 2015, the Bank issued 15,000 WCN at a price of $10,000 per note. WCN are non-cumulative, fully paid and are issued by the Bank on a perpetual and subordinated 
basis. They are not guaranteed or secured. As at 31 August 2019, 15,000 WCN were outstanding with accrued distributions of $2 million. WCN must convert to ordinary 
shares on a mandatory conversion date of 26 May 2022 if certain mandatory conversion conditions are satisfied. Upon conversion, WCN holders will receive a number of 
ordinary shares based on the value weighted average price during a specified period. The WCN must also convert to ordinary shares of the Bank with the occurrence of a 
non-viability event, a capital trigger event or an acquisition event. BOQ may elect to redeem or resell the WCN on 26 May 2020 or following a regulatory or tax event. These 
options	are	subject	to	APRA’s	prior	written	approval	and	certain	conditions	being	satisfied.	In	a	winding	up	of	the	Bank,	if	the	WCN	have	not	been	converted	or	written	off	
on account of a non-viability trigger event or capital trigger event, the WCN will rank for payment of capital ahead of ordinary shareholders, equally with other securities or 
instruments ranking equally with WCN, but behind all other securities or instruments ranking ahead of WCN, and behind all senior creditors.
  Capital Notes
  On 28 December 2017, the Bank issued 3,500,000 Capital Notes at a price of $100 per note. Capital Notes are perpetual and convertible notes issued by BOQ, with 
preferred, discretionary, non-cumulative distributions. They are not guaranteed or secured. As at 31 August 2019, 3,500,000 Capital Notes were outstanding with accrued 
distributions of $1 million. Capital Notes must convert into ordinary shares on 15 August 2026 if certain mandatory conversion conditions are satisfied, unless they are 
converted or redeemed earlier. Where the mandatory conversion conditions are satisfied, a holder will receive a number of ordinary shares per Capital Note based on the 
value weighted average price of ordinary shares during a specified period. The Capital Notes must also convert to ordinary shares of the Bank with the occurrence of a loss 
absorption event or an acquisition event. BOQ may elect to convert, redeem or resell Capital Notes on 15 August 2024 or following a regulatory or tax event. BOQ may also 
elect to convert all Capital Notes following a potential acquisition event. These options are subject to APRA’s prior written approval and certain conditions being satisfied. In 
a winding up of the Bank, Capital Notes will rank for payment of capital ahead of ordinary shares, equally with CPS, WCN and other equal ranking instruments, but behind the 
claims of all senior ranking creditors, including depositors and unsubordinated and subordinated creditors.
  CPS
  On 24 December 2012, the Bank issued 3,000,000 CPS. CPS were fully paid, perpetual and convertible preference shares with preferred, discretionary, non-cumulative 
dividends. They were not guaranteed or secured. In accordance with the ASX announcement dated 5 March 2018, BOQ confirmed the redemption of all outstanding CPS 
on the optional conversion/redemption date of 16 April 2018 with the redemption price of $102.44 per CPS, comprising the face value of $100 per CPS and a final dividend 
of $2.44 per CPS for the period from (and including) 16 October 2017 to (but excluding) the redemption date of 16 April 2018. The ASX announcement on 16 April 2018 
confirmed	the	removal	of	CPS	from	official	quotation	at	close	of	trading	on	16	April	2018.	
(3) Amortisation of deferred costs and foreign exchange translation are non-cash movements. Foreign exchange translation movements are 100 per cent hedged. 
126 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.6  RISK MANAGEMENT 
The Consolidated Entity adopts a “managed risk” approach to its banking and insurance activities in which the articulation of a risk aware 
culture is prevalent throughout the Consolidated Entity’s credit, market, liquidity, insurance, operational risk and compliance policies and 
procedures. The Board has adopted policies in relation to the assessment, management and monitoring of these risks and ownership of 
the frameworks within which these risks are managed reside with the Chief Risk Officer. 
The Chief Risk Officer contributes towards the achievement of the Consolidated Entity’s corporate objectives through the 
operationalisation and progressive development of the Consolidated Entity’s risk management function. The continued improvement of 
the Consolidated Entity’s risk management function focuses on a number of key areas, with particular emphasis on:
1.  t he efficiency and effectiveness of the Consolidated Entity’s credit, market, liquidity, operational risk and compliance management 
process controls and policies to support the Bank’s customer proposition in line with its risk appetite;
2.   providing management and the Board with risk reporting that contributes to the further development of sound corporate 
governance standards;
3.  m  aintaining regulatory compliance in line with regulators’ expectations;
4.  p roviding a sound basis from which the Bank can progress to the required compliance level under the Basel II accord; and 
5.  c ontributing to the Consolidated Entity achieving risk based performance management. 
Group Risk is an independent function and is responsible for providing the framework, policies and procedures needed for managing 
credit, liquidity, market, operational risk and compliance throughout the Group. Policies are set in line with the governing strategy and risk 
guidelines set by the Board.
Monitoring
The Consolidated Entity’s enterprise risk management framework incorporates active management and monitoring of a range of risks 
including (but not limited to):
1.  Market;
2.  Credit;
3.  Liquidity; and
4.  Insurance.
(a) Market risk
Market risk is the risk that movements in market rates and prices will result in profits or losses to the Consolidated Entity. The objective of 
market risk management is to manage and control market risk and to minimise its impact on the Consolidated Entity. 
(i)  Interest rate risk management
The operations of the Consolidated Entity are subject to the risk of interest rate fluctuations as a result of mismatches in the timing of 
the repricing of interest rates on the Consolidated Entity’s assets and liabilities.
The figures in the table below indicate the potential increase / (decrease) in net interest income for an ensuing 12 month period of a 1 
per cent parallel shock increase to the yield curve. 
2019 2018
Consolidated
$m $m
Exposure at the end of the year (12) 15
Average monthly exposure during the year (1) 2
High month exposure during the year 5 15
Low month exposure during the year (12) (8)
(ii)  Foreign exchange risk
It is the Bank’s policy not to carry material foreign exchange rate exposures, net of associated hedging instruments. At balance date, 
there are no net material foreign exchange rate exposures.
The Bank uses cross currency swaps and foreign exchange forwards to hedge its exchange rate exposures arising from borrowing off-
shore in foreign currencies. The Bank uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge potential exchange rate exposures created 
by customer-originated foreign currency transactions.
The Bank’s investment in its New Zealand subsidiary is hedged by forward foreign exchange contracts which mitigate the currency 
risk arising from the subsidiary’s net assets.
Annual Report 2019 127
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.6	 RISK	MANAGEMENT	(CONTINUED)
(a) Market risk (continued)
(iii) Traded market risk
Market risks attributable to trading activities are primarily measured using a parametric Value-at-Risk (VaR) model based on 
historical data. VaR is a statistical technique used to quantify the potential loss in earnings from adverse market movements and is 
calculated over a 1-day time horizon to a 99 per cent confidence level using 2 years of historical data. As an additional overlay to VaR, 
the individual market risks of interest rate, foreign exchange, credit and equity are managed using a framework that includes stress 
testing, scenario analysis, sensitivity analysis and stop losses. Risks are monitored and measured against limits delegated by the 
Asset-Liability Committee (ALCO) and approved by the Board’s Risk Committee. 
The portfolio (interest rate, foreign exchange, credit and equity) VaR for the Bank’s trading portfolio for the year was as follows:
2019 2018
Trading VaR
$m $m
Average 0.19 0.21
Maximum 0.31 0.82
Minimum 0.12 0.10
(b) Credit risk 
Credit risk arises in the business from lending activities, the provision of guarantees including letters of credit and commitments to lend, 
investment in bonds and notes, financial market transactions and other associated activities. Credit risk is the potential loss arising from 
the possibility that customers or counter parties fail to meet contractual payment obligations to the Consolidated Entity as they fall due. 
The Board have implemented a structured framework of systems and controls to monitor and manage credit risk comprising:
•  documented credit risk management principles which are disseminated to all staff involved with the lending process;
•  documented policies;
•  a process for approving risk, based on tiered delegated approval authorities, whereby the largest exposures are assessed by the 
Executive Credit Committee consisting of Group Executives and senior risk managers, chaired by the Chief Risk Officer;
•  risk grading the Bank’s commercial exposures for facilities greater than $100,000 based on items inclusive of financial performance 
and stability, organisational structure, industry segment and security support. Exposures within this segment of the portfolio are 
generally subject to annual review which may include reassessment of the assigned risk grade;
•  an automated scorecard approval model for the Bank’s retail portfolio inclusive of home loans, home equity lines of credit and 
personal loans. This model is supported by experienced risk assessment managers; and
•  a series of management reports detailing industry concentrations, counter party concentrations, loan grades and security 
strength ratings.
The Consolidated Entity uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising 
from operating, financing and investing activities. In accordance with its treasury risk policies, the Consolidated Entity can hold derivative 
financial instruments for trading purposes. Credit risk on derivative contracts used for these purposes is minimised as counter parties 
are recognised financial intermediaries with acceptable credit ratings determined by a recognised rating agency.
(i)  Maximum exposure to credit risk
The amounts disclosed are the maximum exposure to credit risk, before taking account of any collateral held or other credit 
enhancements. For financial assets recognised on the Balance Sheet, the exposure to credit risk equals their carrying amount. For 
customer commitments, the maximum exposure to credit risk is the full amount of the committed facilities as at reporting date.
128 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.6	 RISK	MANAGEMENT	(CONTINUED)
(b) Credit risk (continued)
(i)  Maximum exposure to credit risk (continued)
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the 
reporting date was:
2019 2018 (1)
Stage 1  Stage 2  Stage 3  Total  Total 
Consolidated Entity
$m $m $m $m $m
Cash and cash equivalents 1,274 - - 1,274 1,212
Due from other financial institutions 708 - - 708 6
Other financial assets (including accrued interest) 6,220 - - 6,220 5,395
Derivative financial instruments 229 - - 229 135
Financial assets other than loans and advances 8,431 - - 8,431 6,748
Gross loans and advances 43,339 2,425 558 46,322 45,672
Total financial assets 51,770 2,425 558 54,753 52,420
Customer commitments (2) 1,799 - - 1,799 1,753
Total potential exposure to credit risk 53,569 2,425 558 56,552 54,173
(1)  As permitted by AASB 9, previously reported financial periods have not been restated. Refer to Note 1.5 for the impact from the initial adoption of AASB 9. 
(2)  Refer to Note 6.2 for details of customer commitments.
2019 2018 (1)
Stage 1  Stage 2  Stage 3  Total  Total 
Bank
$m $m $m $m $m
Cash and cash equivalents 685 - - 685 840
Due from other financial institutions 668 - - 668 6
Other financial assets (including accrued interest) 11,683 - - 11,683 10,287
Derivative financial instruments 145 - - 145 80
Financial assets other than loans and advances 13,181 - - 13,181 11,213
Gross loans and advances 38,288 2,212 522 41,022 40,755
Total financial assets 51,469 2,212 522 54,203 51,968
Customer commitments (2) 952 - - 952 995
Total potential exposure to credit risk 52,421 2,212 522 55,155 52,963
(1)   As permitted by AASB 9, previously reported financial periods have not been restated. Refer to Note 1.5 for the impact from the initial adoption of AASB 9.
(2) Refer to Note 6.2 for details of customer commitments.
Annual Report 2019 129
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.6	 RISK	MANAGEMENT	(CONTINUED)
(b) Credit risk (continued)
(i)  Maximum exposure to credit risk (continued)
The distribution of financial assets by credit quality at the reporting date was:
Consolidated Bank
2019  2018 (1)  2019  2018 (1) 
$m $m $m $m
Neither past due or impaired
Gross loans and advances 45,061 44,653 39,934 39,851
Stage 1 43,142 - 38,175 -
Stage 2 1,828 - 1,670 -
Stage 3 91 - 89 -
Financial assets other than loans and advances 8,431 6,748 13,181 11,213
Stage 1 8,431 - 13,181 -
Stage 2  -  -  -  -
Stage 3  -  -  -  -
Past due but not impaired
Gross loans and advances 1,064 855 917 756
Stage 1 197 - 113 -
Stage 2 597 - 542 -
Stage 3 270 - 262 -
Impaired
Gross loans and advances 197 164 171 148
Stage 1  -  -  -  -
Stage 2  -  -  -  -
Stage 3 197 - 171 -
Total financial assets 54,753 52,420 54,203 51,968
(1)  As permitted by AASB 9, previously reported financial periods have not been restated. Refer to Note 1.5 for the impact from the initial adoption of AASB 9. 
There is no individual exposure included in impaired assets which exceeds 5% of shareholders’ equity (2018: nil).
The Bank holds collateral against loans and advances to customers in the form of mortgage interest over property, other registered 
securities over assets and guarantees and mortgage insurance. To mitigate credit risk, the Bank can take possession of the collateral 
held against the loans and advances as a result of customer default. To ensure reduced exposure to losses, the collateral held by the 
Bank as mortgagee in possession is realised promptly.
Estimates of fair value are based on the value of collateral assessed at the time of borrowing, and generally are not updated except where 
it is a requirement of a scheduled review or when a loan is individually assessed as impaired. An estimate of the collateral held against 
past due but not impaired and impaired loans and advances at amortised cost is outlined below. 
Consolidated Bank
2019  2018 (1)   2019  2018 (1) 
$m $m $m $m
Held against past due but not impaired assets 1,921 1,397 1,775 1,335
Stage 1 192 - 113 -
Stage 2 1,073 - 1,015 -
Stage 3 656 - 647 -
Held against impaired assets 146 105 133 98
Stage 1  -  -  -  -
Stage 2  -  -  -  -
Stage 3 146 - 133 -
(1)  As permitted by AASB 9, previously reported financial years have not been restated. Refer to Note 1.5 for the impact from the initial adoption of AASB 9. 
130 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.6	 RISK	MANAGEMENT	(CONTINUED)
(b) Credit risk (continued)
(ii) Credit quality
The credit quality categories of financial assets have been determined based on Standard & Poor’s credit ratings, APRA risk 
weightings and the Bank’s standard risk grading. The categories are classified as below:
•  High grade - generally corresponds to Standard & Poor’s credit ratings AAA+ to BBB-.
•  Satisfactory - generally corresponds to Standard & Poor’s credit rating BB+ to B.
•  Weak - generally corresponds to Standard & Poor’s credit ratings up to B.
•  Unrated - Loans and advances which have been classified as unrated are not secured, however these are not deemed to be weak.
The table below presents an analysis of the credit quality of financial assets:
Consolidated
2019  2018 (1) 
$m $m
Gross loans & advances Gross loans & advances
Gross   Other Gross   Other
Retail  Commercial loans &  financial  Retail  Commercial loans &  financial 
advances assets advances assets
High Grade 25,610 4,571 30,181 8,425 25,294 4,388 29,682 6,745
Stage 1 24,538 4,083 28,621 8,425 - - - -
Stage 2 981 438 1,419 - - - - -
Stage 3 91 50 141 - - - - -
Satisfactory 4,970 9,688 14,658 - 5,114 8,967 14,081 -
Stage 1 4,800 8,872 13,672 - - - - -
Stage 2 139 620 759 - - - - -
Stage 3 31 196 227 - - - - -
Weak 313 902 1,215 6 330 1,327 1,657 3
Stage 1 160 629 789 6 - - - -
Stage 2 43 200 243 - - - - -
Stage 3 110 73 183 - - - - -
Unrated 53 215 268 - 65 187 252 -
Stage 1 53 203 256 - - - - -
Stage 2 - 5 5 - - - - -
Stage 3 - 7 7 - - - - -
30,946 15,376 46,322 8,431 30,803 14,869 45,672 6,748
(1)  As permitted by AASB 9, previously reported financial years have not been restated. Refer to Note 1.5 for the impact from the initial adoption of AASB 9.
Annual Report 2019 131
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.6	 RISK	MANAGEMENT	(CONTINUED)
(b) Credit risk (continued)
Bank
2019  2018 (1) 
$m $m
Gross loans & advances Gross loans & advances
Gross   Other Gross   Other
Retail  Commercial loans &  financial  Retail Commercial loans &  financial 
advances assets advances assets
High Grade 25,610 3,865 29,475 12,149 25,294 3,640 28,934 11,180
Stage 1 24,538 3,377 27,915 12,149 - - - -
Stage 2 981 438 1,419 - - - - -
Stage 3 91 50 141 - - - - -
Satisfactory 4,970 5,853 10,823 66 5,114 5,637 10,751 19
Stage 1 4,800 5,088 9,888 66 - - - -
Stage 2 139 571 710 - - - - -
Stage 3 31 194 225 - - - - -
Weak 313 143 456 6 330 488 818 14
Stage 1 160 58 218 6 - - - -
Stage 2 43 40 83 - - - - -
Stage 3 110 45 155 - - - - -
Unrated 53 215 268 960 65 187 252 -
Stage 1 53 214 267 960 - - - -
Stage 2 - - - - - - - -
Stage 3 - 1 1 - - - - -
30,946 10,076 41,022 13,181 30,803 9,952 40,755 11,213
(1)  As permitted by AASB 9, previously reported financial years have not been restated. Refer to Note 1.5 for the impact from the initial adoption of AASB 9.
(iii) Loans and advances which were past due but not impaired
Loans which are 90 or more days past due are not classified as impaired assets where the estimated net realisable value of the 
security is sufficient to cover the repayment of all principal and interest amounts due. 
Consolidated Bank
2019  2018  2019  2018 
Consolidated
$m $m $m $m
Less than 30 days - Retail 303 224 303 224
- Commercial 262 162 150 85
30 to 89 days - Retail 132 161 132 161
- Commercial 56 48 29 30
90 days or more - Retail 213 150 213 150
- Commercial 98 110 90 106
1,064 855 917 756
132 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.6	 RISK	MANAGEMENT	(CONTINUED)
(b) Credit risk (continued)
(iv) Concentration of exposure for gross loans and advances
Concentration of credit risk exists when a number of counter parties are engaged in similar activities, operate in the same 
geographical areas or industry sectors and have similar economic characteristics, so that their ability to meet contractual 
obligations is similarly affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions. The Consolidated Entity monitors 
concentrations of credit risk by geographical location for loans and advances. An analysis of these concentrations of credit risk at 
the reporting date is shown below: 
Consolidated Bank
Geographical concentration of credit risk for loans and advances   2019  2018  2019  2018 
 (before provisions and unearned income): $m $m $m $m
Queensland  19,963  20,221  18,170  18,526
New South Wales  13,105  12,026  11,729  10,687
Victoria  6,900  7,044  5,728  6,012
Northern Territory  272  287  256  277
Australian Capital Territory  341  323  310  300
Western Australia  4,333  4,463  3,981  4,143
South Australia  802  771  645  611
Tasmania  229  230  203  199
International (New Zealand)   377  307  -  -
 46,322  45,672  41,022  40,755
Annual Report 2019 133
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.6	 RISK	MANAGEMENT	(CONTINUED)
(c) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk arises from the possibility that the Consolidated Entity is unable to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. Liquidity 
risk is managed through a series of detailed policies. This includes the management of cash flow mismatches, the maintenance of a stable, 
core retail deposits base, the diversification of the funding base and the retention of adequate levels of high quality liquid assets. 
The Consolidated Entity manages liquidity risk by maintaining sufficient cash balances and liquid assets, continuously monitoring forecast 
and actual cash flows, matching maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities and monitoring liquidity scenario analysis. 
Total  
Carrying  3 months   3 to 12   1 to 5   Over   Policy   contractual  
Consolidated  amount  At Call  or less  months  years  5 years  holder  cash flows 
2019 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Due to other financial 
institutions 285 285 - - - - - 285
Deposits  38,337 16,343 13,614 7,702 969 1 - 38,629
Derivative financial 
instruments (1) 49 - 11 11 20 2 - 44
Accounts payable and other 
liabilities 394 - 394 - - - - 394
Securitisation liabilities (2) 4,617 - 465 973 2,397 1,143 - 4,978
Borrowings 7,369 - 640 969 6,132 - - 7,741
Insurance policy liabilities 9 - - - - - 9 9
Total financial liabilities 51,060 16,628 15,124 9,655 9,518 1,146 9 52,080
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL 
INSTRUMENTS  
(HEDGING RELATIONSHIP)
Contractual amounts payable - 837 401 2,596 152 - 3,986
Contractual amounts receivable - (817) (302) (2,245) (63) - (3,427)
461 - 20 99 351 89 - 559
OFF BALANCE SHEET POSITIONS
Guarantees, indemnities and 
letters of credit 301 - - - - - 301
Customer funding commitments 1,498 - - - - - 1,498
1,799 - - - - - 1,799
(1)   Derivative financial instruments other than those designated in hedge relationships.
(2)  Repayment of securitisation bonds is forecast based on the expected repayment profile of the underlying assets of the Trusts.
134 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.6	 RISK	MANAGEMENT	(CONTINUED)
(c) Liquidity risk (continued)
Total  
Carrying  3 months   3 to 12   1 to 5   Over   Policy   contractual  
Consolidated  amount  At Call  or less  months  years  5 years  holder  cash flows 
2018 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Due to other financial 
institutions 315 315 - - - - - 315
Deposits  38,017 14,786 13,340 9,389 893 - - 38,408
Derivative financial 
instruments (1) 8 - 2 2 6 1 - 11
Accounts payable and other 
liabilities 360 - 360 - - - - 360
Securitisation liabilities(2) 3,576 - 260 611 2,117 659 - 3,647
Borrowings 6,501 - 66 1,055 5,901 - - 7,022
Liabilities held for sale (3) 22 - - - - - 22 22
Total financial liabilities 48,799 15,101 14,028 11,057 8,917 660 22 49,785
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL 
INSTRUMENTS  
(HEDGING RELATIONSHIP)
Contractual amounts payable - 853 452 1,664 211 - 3,180
Contractual amounts receivable - (846) (404) (1,457) (118) - (2,825)
176 - 7 48 207 93 - 355
OFF BALANCE SHEET POSITIONS
Guarantees, indemnities and 
letters of credit 304 - - - - - 304
Customer funding commitments 1,449 - - - - - 1,449
1,753 - - - - - 1,753
(1)   Derivative financial instruments other than those designated in hedge relationships.
(2)  Repayment of securitisation bonds is forecast based on the expected repayment profile of the underlying assets of the Trusts.
(3) The St Andrew’s Group was classified as held for sale as at 31 August 2018 but has ceased to be held for sale as at 31 August 2019. Refer to Note 6.5(d) for presentation  
of the comparatives.
Annual Report 2019 135
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.6	 RISK	MANAGEMENT	(CONTINUED)
(c) Liquidity risk (continued)
Total  
Carrying  3 months   3 to 12  1 to 5   Over   contractual 
Bank  amount  At Call  or less  months  years  5 years  cash flows 
2019 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Due to other financial institutions 285 285 - - - - 285
Deposits  38,528 16,488 13,660 7,702 969 1 38,820
Derivative financial instruments (1) 49 - 11 11 20 2 44
Accounts payable and other liabilities 302 - 302 - - - 302
Borrowings 7,372 - 640 969 6,132 - 7,741
Amounts due to controlled entities 6,086 6,086 - - - - 6,086
Total financial liabilities 52,622 22,859 14,613 8,682 7,121 3 53,278
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  
(HEDGING RELATIONSHIP)
Contractual amounts payable - 834 397 934 152 2,317
Contractual amounts receivable - (827) (326) (616) (63) (1,832)
546 - 7 71 318 89 485
OFF BALANCE SHEET POSITIONS
Guarantees, indemnities and letters of credit 301 - - - - 301
Customer funding commitments 651 - - - - 651
952 - - - - 952
(1)   Derivative financial instruments other than those designated in hedge relationships. 
136 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.6	 RISK	MANAGEMENT	(CONTINUED)
(c) Liquidity risk (continued)
Total  
Carrying  3 months   3 to 12  1 to 5   Over   contractual 
Bank  amount  At Call  or less  months  years  5 years  cash flows 
2018 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Due to other financial institutions 315 315 - - - - 315
Deposits  38,266 14,991 13,384 9,389 893 - 38,657
Derivative financial instruments (1) 8 - 2 2 6 1 11
Accounts payable and other liabilities 304 - 304 - - - 304
Borrowings 6,503 - 66 1,055 5,901 - 7,022
Total financial liabilities 45,396 15,306 13,756 10,446 6,800 1 46,309
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  
(HEDGING RELATIONSHIP)
Contractual amounts payable - 849 433 852 211 2,345
Contractual amounts receivable - (848) (399) (640) (118) (2,005)
230 - 1 34 212 93 340
OFF BALANCE SHEET POSITIONS
Guarantees, indemnities and letters of credit 304 - - - - 304
Customer funding commitments 691 - - - - 691
995 - - - - 995
(1)   Derivative financial instruments other than those designated in hedge relationships. 
(d) Insurance risk
(i)  R  isk management objectives and policies   Risk strategy
for risk mitigation In compliance with contractual and regulatory requirements, a 
Insurance risks are controlled through the use of underwriting  strategy is in place to ensure that the risks underwritten satisfy 
procedures, adequate premium rates and policy charges  objectives whilst not adversely affecting the Consolidated 
and sufficient reinsurance arrangements, all of which are  Entity’s ability to pay benefits and claims when due. The strategy 
approved through a Board approved governance structure.  involves the identification of risks by type, impact and likelihood, 
Controls are also maintained over claims management  the implementation of processes and controls to mitigate 
practices to assure the correct and timely payment of  the risks, and continuous monitoring and improvement of 
insurance claims. the procedures in place to minimise the chance of an adverse 
compliance or operational risk event occurring. Included in 
(ii) Strategy for managing insurance risk this strategy is the process for underwriting and product 
Portfolio of risks pricing to ensure products are appropriately priced. Capital 
During the financial year, the Bank’s insurance subsidiaries  management is also a key aspect of the Consolidated Entity’s 
issued a range of consumer credit insurance, life and  risk management strategy. Capital requirements take account 
general insurance products. The performance of the Bank’s  of all of the various regulatory requirements to which the 
insurance subsidiaries and its continuing ability to write  Consolidated Entity is subject.
business depends on its ability to pre-empt and control risks. 
Prudential capital requirements
The Bank’s insurance subsidiaries have a risk management 
strategy which has been approved by their respective Boards.  Prudential capital requirements established by APRA are in 
It summarises the approach to risk and risk management. place to safeguard policyholders’ interests, which are primarily 
the ability to meet future claim payments to policyholders. 
These require the Consolidated Entity’s capital base to exceed 
the Prudential Capital Requirement throughout the year, not 
just at year end. The level of capital requirements also take 
into account specific risks faced by the Bank’s insurance 
subsidiaries.
Annual Report 2019 137
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.6	 RISK	MANAGEMENT	(CONTINUED)	 3.7  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(d) Insurance risk (continued) (a) Fair value of financial instruments
The financial assets and liabilities listed below are recognised 
(iii) Methods to limit or transfer insurance risk exposures
and measured at fair value and therefore their carrying value 
Reinsurance
equates to their fair value:
The insurance subsidiaries use reinsurance arrangements 
to pass on or cede to reinsurers risks that are outside of the  •  Derivatives;
subsidiaries’ risk appetite.
•  Financial instruments designated at FVTPL; and
Underwriting procedures •  Financial instruments designated at FVOCI. 
Strategic underwriting decisions are put into effect using the 
underwriting procedures detailed in the Bank’s insurance  The fair value estimates for instruments carried at amortised 
subsidiaries’ Underwriting Policy. Such procedures include  cost are based on the following methodologies and 
limits to delegated authorities and signing powers.  assumptions:
Cash and cash equivalents, due from and to other financial 
Claims management
institutions, accounts payable and other liabilities
Strict claims management procedures ensure timely and 
The fair value approximates their carrying value as they are 
correct payment of claims in accordance with policy conditions.
short term in nature or are receivable or payable on demand. 
Asset and liability management techniques Loans and advances
Assets are allocated to different classes of business using a  Loans and advances are net of specific and collective provisions 
risk based approach. The Bank’s insurance subsidiaries have  for impairment and unearned income. The fair values of loans 
a mix of short and long term business and invest accordingly.  and advances that reprice within six months of year end are 
Market risk is managed through investing in cash, deposits  assumed to equate to the carrying value. The fair values of all 
and bank issued commercial bills. No more than 35 per cent  other loans and advances are calculated using discounted cash 
of shareholder funds and funds backing insurance policy  flow models based on the maturity of the loans and advances. 
liabilities can be invested with any one counterparty, subject 
The discount rates applied are based on the current interest 
to counterparty credit ratings.
rates at the reporting date for similar types of loans and 
advances, if the loans and advances were performing at 
(e) Concentration of insurance risk
the reporting date. The differences between estimated fair 
(i)  Insurance risks associated with human life events values and carrying values reflect changes in interest rates 
The Consolidated Entity aims to maintain a diversified profile  and creditworthiness of borrowers since loan or advance 
of ages, genders, health statuses and geographic locations  origination. 
within its portfolio of policyholders. This policy maintains a 
Deposits 
balance between the current and future profitability of the 
The fair value of non-interest bearing, at call and variable rate 
life business, and exposure to any significant external events. 
deposits and fixed rate deposits repricing within six months 
The distribution channels and subsequent demographic mix 
is the carrying value. The fair value of other term deposits is 
of the population of policyholders is sufficiently spread so 
calculated using discounted cash flow models based on the 
that the risk concentration in relation to any particular group 
deposit type and its related maturity. 
is small. Specific processes for monitoring identified key 
concentrations include monitoring sales by product type,  Borrowings 
The fair values are calculated based on a discounted cash 
cover type and corporate partner type.
flow model using a yield curve appropriate to the remaining 
maturity of the instruments.
138 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.7	 FAIR	VALUE	OF	FINANCIAL	INSTRUMENTS	(CONTINUED)
(b) Comparison of fair value to carrying amounts
The tables below disclose the fair value of financial instruments where their carrying value is not a reasonable approximation of their 
fair value:
Consolidated Entity
Carrying value Fair value
2019  2018  2019  2018 
Note $m $m $m $m
ASSETS CARRIED AT AMORTISED COST
Loans and advances  3.3 45,983 45,078 46,225 45,105
45,983 45,078 46,225 45,105
LIABILITIES CARRIED AT AMORTISED COST
Deposits  3.4 (38,337) (38,017) (38,372) (38,020)
Borrowings   3.5 (11,986) (10,077) (11,981) (10,074)
(50,323) (48,094) (50,353) (48,094)
Bank
Carrying value Fair value
2019  2018  2019  2018 
Note $m $m $m $m
ASSETS CARRIED AT AMORTISED COST
Loans and advances  3.3 40,836 40,571 40,958 40,585
Debt instruments at amortised cost  3.2 5,468 4,867 5,469 4,868
46,304 45,438 46,427 45,453
LIABILITIES CARRIED AT AMORTISED COST
Deposits  3.4 (38,528) (38,266) (38,563) (38,269)
Borrowings   3.5 (7,372) (6,503) (7,372) (6,504)
(45,900) (44,769) (45,935) (44,773)
The estimated fair values disclosed do not include the assets and liabilities that are not financial instruments.
Annual Report 2019 139
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.7	 FAIR	VALUE	OF	FINANCIAL	INSTRUMENTS	(CONTINUED)
(c) Fair value hierarchy
The Consolidated Entity measures fair values using the following fair value hierarchy and valuation techniques, which reflect the 
significance of the inputs used in making the measurements: 
•  Level 1: This category includes assets and liabilities for which the valuation is determined from inputs based on unadjusted quoted 
market prices in active markets for identical instruments. 
•  Level 2: This category includes assets and liabilities for which the valuation is determined from inputs other than quoted prices 
included within level 1, which are observable either directly or indirectly. This includes the use of discounted cash flow analysis, option 
pricing models and other market accepted valuation models. 
•  Level 3: This category includes assets and liabilities for which the valuation includes inputs that are not based on observable market data. 
This includes equity instruments where there are no quoted market prices.
The fair value hierarchy classification of instruments in Note 3.7 (b):
•  Loans and advances - Level 3
•  Deposits and borrowings - Level 2
•  Debt Instruments at amortised cost - Level 2
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method:
2019
Level 1  Level 2  Level 3  Total 
Consolidated Entity $m $m $m $m
Financial instruments measured at fair value
Derivative financial assets - 229 - 229
Financial assets at FVTPL 1,013 1,573 - 2,586
Debt instruments at FVOCI 3,097 472 - 3,569
Equity instruments at FVOCI  - - 6 6
4,110 2,274 6 6,390
Derivative financial liabilities - (687) - (687)
4,110 1,587 6 5,703
2018
Level 1  Level 2  Level 3  Total 
Consolidated Entity $m $m $m $m
Instruments carried at fair value
Derivative financial assets - 135 - 135
Financial assets available-for-sale (1) 2,580 1,363 3 3,946
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (1) - 1,385 - 1,385
2,580 2,883 3 5,466
Derivative financial liabilities - (294) - (294)
2,580 2,589 3 5,172
(1)  Due to the adoption of AASB 9 from 1 September 2019, there have been changes in the classifications of financial instruments. See Note 1.5 for more information on the 
Implementation of AASB 9.
There were no transfers between level 1 and 2 during the period. Level 3 movements from the prior period include:
•  $4 million fair value increase on adoption of AASB 9. Refer to Note 1.5 for further information; and
•  $1 million current period fair value loss in other comprehensive income.
140 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.7	 FINANCIAL	INSTRUMENTS	(CONTINUED)
(c) Fair value hierarchy (continued)
2019
Level 1  Level 2  Level 3  Total 
Bank $m $m $m $m
Financial instruments measured at fair value
Derivative financial assets - 145 - 145
Financial assets at FVTPL 1,013 1,573 - 2,586
Debt instruments at FVOCI 3,097 472 - 3,569
Equity instruments at FVOCI  - - 6 6
4,110 2,190 6 6,306
Derivative financial liabilities - (687) - (687)
4,110 1,503 6 5,619
2018
Level 1  Level 2  Level 3  Total 
Bank $m $m $m $m
Instruments carried at fair value
Derivative financial assets - 80 - 80
Financial assets available-for-sale (1) 2,580 1,392 3 3,975
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (1) - 1,385 - 1,385
2,580 2,857 3 5,440
Derivative financial liabilities - (293) - (293)
2,580 2,564 3 5,147
(1)  Due to the adoption of AASB 9 from 1 September 2019, there have been changes in the classifications of financial instruments. See Note 1.5 for more information on the 
Implementation of AASB 9.
Annual Report 2019 141
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.8  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING
(a) Fair value of derivatives
The following tables summarise the notional and fair value of the Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s commitments to derivative 
financial instruments at reporting date. Fair value in relation to derivative financial instruments is estimated using net present value 
techniques. The tables below set out the fair values of the derivative financial instruments.
Consolidated
2019 2018
Notional   Notional  
Amount Fair Value Amount Fair Value
Asset   Liability   Asset   Liability  
$m  $m 
$m $m $m $m
DERIVATIVES AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS
Interest rate swaps 11,500 50 (48) 14,729 21 (7)
Foreign exchange forwards 139 2 (1) 120 1 (1)
Futures 2,308 - - 2,364 3 -
13,947 52 (49) 17,213 25 (8)
DERIVATIVES HELD AS CASH FLOW HEDGES
Interest rate swaps 26,636 41 (159) 29,731 32 (33)
Cross currency swaps 2,183 125 (8) 1,163 65 (2)
Foreign exchange forwards 687 11 (1) 730 13 (1)
29,506 177 (168) 31,624 110 (36)
DERIVATIVES DESIGNATED AS FAIR VALUE HEDGES
Interest rate swaps 2,637 - (470) 2,267 - (250)
DERIVATIVES DESIGNATED AS NET INVESTMENT HEDGES 
Foreign exchange forwards 26 - - 23 - -
46,116 229 (687) 51,127 135 (294)
 
142 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.8	 DERIVATIVE	FINANCIAL	INSTRUMENTS	AND	HEDGE	ACCOUNTING	(CONTINUED)
(a) Fair value of derivatives (continued)
Bank
2019 2018
Notional   Notional  
Amount Fair Value Amount Fair Value
Asset   Liability   Asset   Liability  
$m  $m 
$m $m $m $m
DERIVATIVES AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS
Interest rate swaps 11,500 50 (48) 14,729 21 (7)
Foreign exchange forwards 165 3 (1) 144 1 (1)
Futures 2,308 - - 2,364 3 -
13,973 53 (49) 17,237  25 (8)
DERIVATIVES HELD AS CASH FLOW HEDGES
Interest rate swaps 27,596 59 (159) 29,864 33 (32)
Cross currency swaps 463 22 (8) 357 9 (2)
Foreign exchange forwards 687 11 (1) 730 13 (1)
28,746 92 (168) 30,951 55 (35)
DERIVATIVES DESIGNATED AS FAIR VALUE HEDGES
Interest rate swaps 2,637 - (470) 2,267 - (250)
45,356 145 (687) 50,455 80 (293)
(b) Hedging strategy
The Consolidated Entity and Bank used derivative financial instruments for both hedging and trading purposes in the current year and 
prior year. Refer to Note 3.6 (a) for an explanation of the Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s risk management framework. The Consolidated 
Entity uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operating, 
financing and investing activities. 
The Consolidated Entity’s hedging strategy is to protect Net Interest Income (NII) from variability in interest rates in Australian dollars. 
This requires the Consolidated Entity to enter into interest rate swaps allowing for the reduction in interest rate risk. 
Foreign currency exposures are swapped to Australian dollars using cross-currency interest rate swaps. These cross currency swaps will 
be matched to the underlying interest rate exposure of fixed or floating, respectively.
The majority of exposures are managed under the above strategy. Where a risk is within agreed limits, the Consolidated Entity may 
decide not to apply hedge accounting to that risk. Instead, the Consolidated Entity will manage its exposure under broader risk 
management processes. 
(c) Accounting for derivatives
In accordance with its treasury risk policies, the Consolidated Entity can hold derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. 
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments. 
Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, gains or losses on derivatives are 
recognised in the Income Statement, unless they are entered into for hedging purposes.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Consolidated Entity would receive or pay to terminate the swap at 
the reporting date, taking into account current interest rates and current creditworthiness of the swap counter parties. 
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the reporting date, being the present value of the quoted 
forward price. The fair value of futures contracts is their quoted market price.
Annual Report 2019 143
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.8	 DERIVATIVE	FINANCIAL	INSTRUMENTS	AND	HEDGE	ACCOUNTING	(CONTINUED)
(c) Accounting for derivatives (continued)
Liquidity risk arises from the possibility that the Bank is unable to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. Liquidity risk is managed 
through a series of detailed policies. This includes the management of cash flow mismatches, the maintenance of a stable, core retail 
deposits base, the diversification of the funding base and the retention of adequate levels of high quality liquid assets. 
The Consolidated Entity manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and 
actual cash flows, matching maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities and monitoring liquidity scenario analysis. 
The following table shows the maturity profile of hedging derivatives based on their notional amounts.
2019 2018
0 to 12   1 to 5   Over   0 to 12   1 to 5   Over  
Consolidated Entity  months  years  5 years  Total   months  years  5 years  Total  
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Interest rate swaps 29,908 8,999 1,866 40,773 35,620 9,090 2,017 46,727
Foreign exchange forwards  852 - - 852 873 - - 873
Futures 2,308 - - 2,308 2,364 - - 2,364
Cross currency swaps 132 2,049 2 2,183 45 1,116 2 1,163
(d) Hedging relationships
Cash flow hedges 
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability of the cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, 
or a highly probable forecasted transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised 
directly in other comprehensive income and accumulated in reserves in equity. The ineffective portion of any gain or loss is recognised 
immediately in profit or loss in the Income Statement. If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a 
financial asset or a financial liability, then the associated gains and losses previously recognised directly in other comprehensive income 
are reclassified to profit or loss in the Income Statement in the same period or periods in which the asset acquired or liability assumed 
affects the Income Statement (i.e. when interest income or expense is recognised).
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the Consolidated Entity revokes designation of the hedge 
relationship, and the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in 
other comprehensive income and is recognised in profit or loss in the Income Statement when the transaction occurs. If the hedged 
transaction is no longer expected to take place, then the cumulative unrealised gain or loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss in the 
Income Statement.
Net investment hedge 
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. Any foreign currency gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income. To the extent the hedge is 
ineffective, a portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement within other income or other expenses.
144 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.8	 DERIVATIVE	FINANCIAL	INSTRUMENTS	AND	HEDGE	ACCOUNTING	(CONTINUED)
(d) Hedging relationships (continued) 
The following table shows the executed rates for the most significant hedging instruments that have been designated in cash flow hedges 
and net investment hedges that are in place at the balance date.
Consolidated entity
Hedging Instruments Currency 2019 2018
Cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps AUD 0.863% - 4.145% 1.500% - 6.093%
Cash flow hedges Cross currency swaps AUD/USD 0.761 - 0.793 0.761- 0.793
AUD/JPY 83.100 - 83.178 83.100 - 83.178
AUD/HKD 5.940 - 5.940 5.940 - 5.940
AUD/EUR 0.617 - 0.672 0.641 - 0.672
NZD/AUD 0.984 - 0.885 0.984 - 0.885
Net Investment hedges Foreign exchange forwards AUD/NZD 1.049 1.098
Fair value hedges
Fair value hedges are used by the Consolidated Entity to manage exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset. Changes in fair values 
arise from fluctuations in interest rates. The Consolidated Entity principally uses interest rate swaps to protect against such fluctuations.
Changes in the value of fair value hedges are recognised in the Income Statement, together with changes in the fair value of the hedged 
asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. 
All gains and losses associated with the ineffective portion of fair value hedge relationships are recognised immediately in the  
Income Statement.
If the hedge relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, it is discontinued. The fair value adjustment to the hedged 
item is amortised to the Income Statement from the date of discontinuation over the period to maturity of the previously designated 
hedge relationship using the effective interest method. If the hedged item is sold or repaid, the unamortised fair value adjustment is 
recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Annual Report 2019 145
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.8	 DERIVATIVE	FINANCIAL	INSTRUMENTS	AND	HEDGE	ACCOUNTING	(CONTINUED)
(d) Hedging relationships (continued) 
The following table shows the carrying value of hedged items designated in fair value hedge accounting relationships and the cumulative
fair value hedge accounting adjustment that has been recognised as part of that carrying value. These balances are being amortised
to the Income Statement on an effective yield basis. The Consolidated Entity does not hedge its entire exposure to a class of financial
instruments, nor does it apply hedge accounting in all instances, therefore the carrying amounts below will not equal the total carrying
amounts disclosed in other notes to these financial statements. As noted in the Consolidated Entity’s accounting policies, since the
hedged item is adjusted only for the hedged risk, the hedged item’s carrying value disclosed in the table will not be equivalent to its fair
value as disclosed in other notes to these financial statements. The accumulated amount of fair value hedge adjustments remaining in the
Balance Sheet for hedged items that have ceased to be adjusted for hedging gains and losses is a nil balance (2018: nil) for the Consolidated 
Entity. This amount will be amortised to the income statement as a gain on an effective interest rate basis.
Consolidated Entity
2019 2018
Fair value hedge  Fair value hedge 
adjustments  adjustments 
Carrying value(1)  Debit/(Credit)  Carrying value(1)  Debit/(Credit) 
$m $m $m $m
ASSETS
Debt instruments at FVOCI 3,085 (297) 2,529 (75)
(1)   The carrying amounts in the table above exclude accrued interest from the carrying amount of hedged items.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting 
Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does not 
qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the Income Statement and are included in other income.
(e) Hedging ineffectiveness
Hedge ineffectiveness, in the case of a fair value hedge, is the extent to which the changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument differ 
to that of the hedged item, and in the case of cash flow and net investment hedge relationships, the extent to which the change in the 
hedging instrument exceeds that of the hedged item. Sources of hedge ineffectiveness primarily arise from basis and timing differences 
between the hedged items and hedging instruments.
The following table contains the hedge ineffectiveness associated with cash flow hedge and fair value hedge relationships during the period, 
as reported in Other operating income in the Income Statement:
Consolidated
2019 2018
Gains/(losses)  Gains/(losses) 
on hedge  Gains/(losses)  Hedge  on hedge  Gains/(losses)  Hedge 
instruments  on hedge items  Ineffectiveness  instruments  on hedge items  Ineffectiveness 
$m $m $m $m $m $m
INTEREST RATE RISK
Fair value hedges
Interest rate swaps (231) 230  (1) (23) 23  - 
Cash flow hedges
Interest rate swaps (114) 111  (3) (7) 11  4 
INTEREST RATE AND FOREIGN 
EXCHANGE RISK
Fair value and cash flow hedges
Cross currency swaps 49  (49) -  63  (63) - 
146 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.8	 DERIVATIVE	FINANCIAL	INSTRUMENTS	AND	HEDGE	ACCOUNTING	(CONTINUED)
(f) Master netting or similar arrangements
The Consolidated Entity enters into derivative transactions under International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) master netting 
agreements. Amounts owed by each counter party are aggregated into a single net amount that is payable by one party to another. The 
Consolidated Entity receives and gives collateral in the form of cash in respect of derivatives and such collateral is subject to standard 
industry terms. The Consolidated Entity has not offset these amounts in the Balance Sheet as their ISDA agreements do not meet the 
criteria to do so. The Consolidated Entity has no current legally enforceable right to offset recognised amounts as the right to offset is 
only enforceable on the occurrence of future events. The Consolidated Entity normally settles on a net basis or realises the derivative 
assets and liabilities simultaneously.
The following tables set out the effect of netting arrangements on derivative financial assets and derivative financial liabilities if they 
were to be applied.
2019
Gross amounts as  Net amounts of recognised  Net amounts if 
presented in the  assets and liabilities  Cash  offsetting applied in 
Balance Sheet available for offset  collateral the Balance Sheet 
Consolidated $m $m $m $m
Derivative financial assets 229 (82) - 147
Derivative financial liabilities (687) 82 609 4
2018
Gross amounts as  Net amounts of recognised  Net amounts if 
presented in the  assets and liabilities available  Cash offsetting applied in  
 Balance Sheet for offset   collateral the Balance Sheet 
Consolidated $m $m $m $m
Derivative financial assets 135 (39) (8) 88
Derivative financial liabilities (294) 39 250 (5)
2019
Gross amounts as  Net amounts of recognised  Net amounts if 
presented in the  assets and liabilities   Cash  offsetting applied in  
 Balance Sheet available for offset  collateral the Balance Sheet 
Bank $m $m $m $m
Derivative financial assets 145 (82) - 63
Derivative financial liabilities (687) 82 609 4
2018
Gross amounts as  Net amounts of recognised  Net amounts if 
presented in the  assets and liabilities   Cash  offsetting applied in  
 Balance Sheet available for offset collateral the Balance Sheet 
Bank $m $m $m $m
Derivative financial assets 80 (39) (8) 33
Derivative financial liabilities (293) 39 250 (4)
Annual Report 2019 147
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.9  CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Bank and Consolidated Entity’s capital management strategy aims to ensure adequate capital levels are maintained to protect 
deposit holders. The Bank’s capital is measured and managed in line with Prudential Standards issued by APRA. The capital management 
plan is updated annually and submitted to the Board for approval. The approval process is designed to ensure the plan is consistent with 
the overall business plan and for managing capital levels on an ongoing basis. 
The Board has set the CET1 capital target range to be between 8.25 per cent and 9.5 per cent of risk weighted assets and the total capital 
range to be between 11.75 per cent and 13.5 per cent of risk weighted assets. 
2019  2018 
Qualifying capital for Level 2 entities(1)
$m $m
Common Equity Tier 1 Capital
Paid-up ordinary share capital 3,497 3,418
Reserves 171 4
Retained profits, including current year profits 132 394
Total Common Equity Tier 1 Capital 3,800 3,816
Regulatory adjustments
Goodwill and intangibles (923) (875)
Deferred expenditure (183) (178)
Other deductions 67 (1)
Total regulatory adjustments (1,039) (1,054)
Net Common Equity Tier 1 Capital 2,761 2,762
Additional Tier 1 Capital 500 500
Net Tier 1 Capital 3,261 3,262
Tier 2 Capital
Tier 2 Capital 350 350
General reserve for credit losses 175 174
Net Tier 2 Capital 525 524
Capital base 3,786 3,786
Risk Weighted Assets 30,533 29,669
Common Equity Tier 1 Capital 9.04% 9.31%
Net Tier 1 Capital ratio 10.68% 10.99%
Total Capital Adequacy Ratio 12.40% 12.76%
(1)  APRA Prudential Standard APS 001 Definitions defines Level 2 as the ADI and all of its subsidiary entities other than non-consolidated subsidiaries. The non-consolidated 
subsidiaries excluded from Level 2 are:
• Bank of Queensland Limited Employee Share Plans Trust;
• Home Credit Management Pty Ltd;
• St Andrew’s Australia Services Pty Ltd;
• St Andrew’s Life Insurance Pty Ltd;
• St Andrew’s Insurance (Australia) Pty Limited;
• Series 2012-1E REDS Trust;
• Series 2013-1 REDS Trust;
• Series 2015-1 REDS Trust;
• Series 2017-1 REDS Trust; 
• Series 2018-1 REDS Trust; and
• Series 2019-1 REDS Trust.
148 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
3.10 CAPITAL AND RESERVES
(a) Ordinary shares
Ordinary shares
 Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares and share rights are 
recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.
Treasury shares
Ordinary shares of the Bank may be purchased from time to time by a controlled entity of the Bank, pursuant to the Awards Right, 
Restricted Share and Employee Share Plans. Where these shares remain unvested to employees they are treated as treasury shares and 
deducted from capital as required by AASB 132 Financial Instruments: Presentation. No profit or loss is recorded on purchase, sale, issue 
or cancellation of these shares.
Consolidated Bank
2019  2018  2019  2018 
No of shares No of shares No of shares No of shares
MOVEMENTS DURING THE YEAR
Balance at the beginning of the year – fully paid 397,311,850 391,739,729 397,311,850 391,739,729
Dividend reinvestment plan  8,472,959  4,719,312 8,472,959 4,719,312
Issues of ordinary shares (1)  - 852,809 - 852,809
Balance at the end of the year – fully paid 405,784,809 397,311,850 405,784,809 397,311,850
Treasury shares (included in ordinary shares above):
Balance at the beginning of the year 587,515 565,308 - -
Net acquisitions and disposals during the year 56,519 22,207 - -
Balance at the end of the year 644,034 587,515 - -
(1)  On 26 October 2017, 850,000 ordinary shares were issued at $13.28 and on 17 May 2018, 2,809 ordinary shares were issued at $10.02 to the trustee of the Bank of Queensland 
Limited Employee Share Plans Trust to satisfy the exercise of award rights and issue of shares under the Award Rights Plan and issue of shares under the BOQ Restricted 
Share Plan and BOQ Employee Share Plan.
Terms and conditions
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as determined by the Bank and are entitled to one vote per share at 
shareholders’ meetings. In the event of winding up of the Bank, ordinary shareholders rank after preference shareholders, wholesale 
capital note holders and creditors and are fully entitled to any residual proceeds of liquidation.
(b) Nature and purpose of reserves
Employee benefits reserve  Other reserves 
The employee benefits reserve is used to record the value of  FVOCI - Changes in the fair value of financial assets classified as 
share based payments provided to employees, including key  debt and equity instruments at FVOCI are recognised in other 
management personnel, as part of their remuneration. Refer to  comprehensive income as described in Note 3.2 and accumulated 
Note 6.1 for further details of these plans. in a separate reserve within equity. For debt instruments at 
FVOCI, amounts are reclassified to Other operating income in 
Equity reserve for credit losses  the Income Statement when the associated assets are sold or 
 The Bank is required by APRA to maintain a general reserve  impaired. For equity instruments at FVOCI, amounts are not 
for credit losses. Consistent with the requirements of APRA  subsequently transferred to the Income Statement when the 
Prudential Standard APS 220 Credit Quality, the equity reserve for  associated assets are sold or impaired, but can be reclassified to 
credit losses represents the difference between the accounting  retained profits. 
collective provisions for impairment and the estimate of credit 
Cash flow hedge reserve - The hedging reserve is used to record 
losses across the credit cycle. The equity reserve for credit 
gains or losses on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that 
losses and the eligible component of the collective provision for 
are recognised in other comprehensive income, as described 
impairment are aggregated for the purpose of satisfying the APRA 
in Note 3.8 (d). Amounts are reclassified to Other operating 
requirement for a general reserve for credit losses. 
income in the Income Statement when the associated hedged 
transaction affects the Income Statement. There is $34 million 
Profit reserve 
(2018: $33 million) remaining in the hedging reserve from hedging 
The profit reserve represents accumulated profits available for 
relationships for which hedge accounting is no longer applied.
distribution as a dividend. 
Annual Report 2019 149
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
NOTE 4. OTHER ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 
4.1  INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Consolidated Bank
Customer 
related 
intangibles   Computer  Customer  Computer 
Goodwill and brands software (1) Other Total Goodwill contracts  software Other Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
COST
Balance as at  
1 September 2017 682 130 411 22 1,245 619 89 389 17 1,114
Additions - - 71 3 74  -   -   68   3   71 
Disposals - - (1) - (1)  -   -   (1)  -   (1)
Reclassified to held 
- (32) - - (32) - - - - -
for sale (2)
Balance as at  
31 August 2018 682 98 481 25 1,286  619   89   456   20   1,184
Balance as at  
1 September 2018 682 98 481 25 1,286  619   89   456   20   1,184
Additions - -  95   3  98   -   -   93   3   96 
Impairment - -  (2)  -   (2)  -   -   (2)  -   (2)
Reclassified from  
held for sale (2) - 32  -   -   32   -   -   -   -   - 
Balance as at  
31 August 2019  682   130   574   28   1,414   619   89   547   23   1,278 
AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT LOSSES
Balance as at  
1 September 2017 - 114 238 21 373 - 75 229 17 321
Amortisation for  
the year - 6 60 2 68  -  5   57   1  63 
Impairment - - 2 - 2  -   -   2   -  2 
Reclassified to held 
for sale (2) - (32) - - (32) - - - - -
Balance as at  
31 August 2018 - 88 300 23 411  -   80   288   18   386 
Balance as at  
1 September 2018 - 88 300 23 411  -   80   288   18   386 
Amortisation for  
the year  -   1   41   4   46   -   1   38   4   43 
Impairment  -   -   1  -   1  -   -   1   -   1 
Reclassified from 
held for sale (2)  -   32   -   -   32   -   -   -   -   - 
Balance as at  
31 August 2019  -   121   342  27   490   -   81  327   22   430 
CARRYING AMOUNTS
Carrying amount as 
at 1 September 2017 682 16 173 1 872 619 14 160 - 793
Carrying amount as 
at 31 August 2018  682   10   181   2   875   619   9   168   2  798 
Carrying amount as  
682 9 232 1 924 619 8 220 1 848
at 31 August 2019
(1)  Included within the Computer software cost is $117 million of Assets under construction (2018: $69 million). Assets under construction are not amortised, amortisation only 
commences once the software is complete and is ready for use.
(2) The St Andrew’s Group was classified as held for sale as at 31 August 2018 but has ceased to be held for sale as at 31 August 2019. Refer to Note 6.5(d) for presentation of the 
comparatives.
150 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
4.1	 INTANGIBLE	ASSETS	(CONTINUED)
Initial recognition and measurement Amortisation
 Intangible assets are stated at cost less any accumulated  Except for goodwill, amortisation is charged to profit or loss 
amortisation and any impairment losses. Expenditure on internally  in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the 
generated goodwill, research costs and brands is recognised in the  estimated useful life of the intangible asset unless the life of 
Income Statement as an expense as incurred.  the intangible asset is indefinite. Where applicable, intangible 
assets are amortised from the date they are available for use. 
Subsequent expenditure
The amortisation period and method are reviewed on an annual 
 Subsequent expenditure on intangible assets is capitalised only when  basis. The amortisation rates used in the current and comparative 
it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific  periods are as follows:
asset to which it relates. All other expenditure is expensed as incurred. 
Years
Computer software 3-15
Customer related intangibles and brands 3-12
Impairment testing of the cash generating units containing goodwill
For the purpose of the annual impairment test, goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units (CGUs) which represent the 
Controlled Entity’s operating segments - Retail Banking and BOQ Business (refer Note 2.5). The carrying amount of each CGU is 
compared to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is based on the CGU’s value in use. 
Value in use was determined by discounting the future cash flows generated from the continued use of the CGU. The values assigned to 
the key assumptions represent management’s assessments of future trends in retail and business banking and are based on both external 
and internal sources. Below are the key assumptions used in determining value in use:
•  Cash flows were initially based on the Group’s Board approved budget (2018: three year projections);
•  Subsequent cash flows were extrapolated for a further nine years beyond the Board approved budget incorporating key growth rate 
assumptions; 
•  A terminal growth rate of 2.7 per cent (2018: 2.7 per cent) was used to extrapolate long-term growth; and
•  A post-tax discount rate of 9.7 per cent (2018: 10.0 per cent) and a pre-tax discount rate of 13.6 per cent (2018: 14.3per cent) was used.
The key assumptions described above may change as economic and market conditions change. The Group estimates that reasonably 
possible changes in these assumptions would not cause the recoverable amount of either CGU to decline below the carrying amount.
The aggregate carrying amounts of goodwill for each CGU are:
2019 2018
$m $m
Retail Banking 288 288
BOQ Business 394 394
Total 682 682
Annual Report 2019 151
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
4.2  PROVISIONS 
A provision is recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Consolidated Entity has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result 
of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, 
provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of 
the time value of money and, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. The carrying amounts of the provisions recognised are:
Consolidated Bank
2019  2018  2019  2018 
$m $m $m $m
Employee benefits (1) 27 24 24 22
Leases  2 1 2 1
Provision for non-lending loss 3 7 - 6
Other 8 2 - 1
Total provisions 40 34 26 30
(1)   Employee benefits provision consist of annual leave (represents present obligations resulting from employees’ services provided up to the reporting date, calculated at 
discounted amounts based on remuneration wage and salary rates that the Consolidated Entity expects to pay as at reporting date including related on-costs) and long 
service leave entitlements for employees (represents the present value of the estimated future cash outflows to be made resulting from employees’ services provided to 
reporting date). The provision is calculated using expected future increases in wage and salary rates including related on-costs, and expected settlement dates based on 
turnover history and is discounted using the rates attached to Australian 10 year corporate bonds at reporting date which most closely match the terms of maturity of the 
related liabilities. $22 million (2018: $ 20 million) of this provision balance is classified as current.
Movements in provisions
Movements in each class of provision during the year, other than employee benefits, are as follows:
Consolidated Bank
Non- Non-
Leases  lending loss  Other  Leases  lending loss  Other 
2019 $m $m $m $m $m $m
Carrying amount at beginning of year 1 7 2 1 6 1
Additional provision recognised 3 4 2 3 1 1
Amounts utilised during the year (2) (2) (1) (2) (1) (2)
Release of provision - (6) (1) - (6) -
Reclassification from liabilities held for sale - - 6 - - -
Carrying amount at end of year 2 3 8 2 - -
Current 2 3 8 2 - -
Non-current - - - - - -
2 3 8 2 - -
 
152 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
NOTE 5. INSURANCE BUSINESS
5.1  INSURANCE BUSINESS
(a) Basis of preparation (b) Processes used to determine actuarial assumptions 
The effective date of the actuarial report on life insurance policy 
Premium earning pattern
liabilities and regulatory capital requirements is 31 August 2019.  
For single premium products, the Unearned Premium Reserve 
The actuarial report was prepared by Mr Stephen Jones, Fellow of 
(UPR) is based on a premium earning pattern that is similar to  
the Institute of Actuaries of Australia. This report indicates that  
the pattern of expected future claim payments. The future claim 
Mr Jones is satisfied as to the accuracy of the data upon which  
payments are based on an assessment of the future sum insured 
life insurance policy liabilities have been determined.
(e.g. outstanding loan balances for mortgage and loan protection) 
The amount of life insurance and general insurance policy  and future claims frequencies. 
liabilities have been determined in accordance with methods 
Past experience is used to set these assumptions. This earning 
and assumptions disclosed in this financial report and the 
pattern is also used to recognise commissions incurred. For 
requirements of applicable accounting standards. Specifically, 
regular premium products, the UPR is based on the unearned 
policy liabilities for life insurance contracts and general insurance 
proportion of premium for the given premium payment 
contracts are determined in accordance with AASB 1038 Life 
frequency.
Insurance Contracts and AASB 1023 General Insurance Contracts 
respectively, and LPS 340 Valuation of Policy Liabilities. These 
Mortality and morbidity
require policy liabilities to be calculated in a way which allows  
Mortality and morbidity assumptions have been based on 
for the systematic release of planned margins as services are 
recent St Andrew’s Life Insurance Pty Ltd (insurance company) 
provided to policyholders and premiums are received.
experience, or where data was limited, on the experience of similar 
At the reporting date, the projection method was used to  products issued by the insurance company. The disputed claims 
determine the life insurance policy liabilities of the level premium  provision is based on individual claim estimates and an assumed 
funeral cover business. Policy liabilities for all other business were  50 per cent probability of disputed claims being incurred.
determined using the accumulation method.
Future maintenance expenses
The accumulation method values policy liabilities as the provision  For life insurance contracts valued using the projection method, 
for unearned premium reserve less a deferred acquisition  
maintenance unit costs are based on budgeted expenses in the year 
cost component. 
following the reporting date. 
The projection method values life insurance policy liabilities as 
Voluntary discontinuances
the net present value of projected policy cash flows (premiums, 
For life insurance contracts valued using the projection method, 
benefits, expenses and profit margins to be released in future 
voluntary discontinuance assumptions have been based on recent 
periods), using best estimate assumptions about the future.  
insurance company experience. These rates are derived from the 
Future cash flows are discounted at a risk-free discount rate 
overall discontinuance rate for the individual product group and 
derived from Government bond yields at the reporting date.
then further adjusted for duration and premium structure.
Outstanding claims liabilities and Incurred But Not Reported 
(IBNR) liabilities are included in provisions.
Variable Impact of movement in underlying variable
Mortality rates For contracts providing death benefits, greater mortality rates would lead to higher levels of claims occurring 
sooner than anticipated, increasing associated claims cost and therefore reducing profit and shareholder’s equity.
The cost of disability related claims depends on both the incidence of policyholders becoming disabled and the 
Morbidity rates duration which they remain so. Higher than expected incidence and duration would be likely to increase claim costs, 
reducing profit and shareholder equity.
Higher than expected policy discontinuance rates reduces future premium income, however this is offset by 
Discontinuance rates reduced future claims costs, commissions and maintenance expenses. The likely impact would be to reduce future 
profit and shareholder equity.
Maintenance expenses Higher than expected maintenance expenses would reduce future profit and shareholder equity.
For life insurance contracts valued using the projection method, changes in the risk-free discount rate, such as 
Risk-free discount rate changes in market yields caused by changes in investment markets and economic conditions, impact both life 
insurance policy liabilities and asset values at the reporting date.
Annual Report 2019 153
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
5.1	 INSURANCE	BUSINESS	(CONTINUED)
(b) Processes used to determine actuarial assumptions (continued)
Risk-free discount rates
For life insurance contracts valued using the projection method, a risk-free discount rate based on Government bond yields at the 
reporting date is used. Risk-free rates are term-dependent and as at 31 August 2019 varied from 0.681 to 0.908 per cent.
(c) Sensitivity analysis
Under Margin on Services (MoS) reporting, changes in assumptions for life insurance contracts valued using the projection method are 
generally recognised by adjusting the value of future profit margins in the life insurance policy liabilities. Therefore, where a change in 
assumptions does not result in loss recognition, there is no impact on the policy liabilities in the current period. As at 31 August 2019, no 
related product groups were in loss recognition. Changes in assumptions will however give rise to a difference in the emergence of profit 
margins in future periods. Changes in assumptions will not affect policy liabilities determined using the accumulation method, however, 
claims provisions would be affected in the current period.
(d) Reconciliation of movements
2019  2018 
$m $m
RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN INSURANCE POLICY LIABILITIES
Life insurance contract policy liabilities
Gross life insurance contract liabilities at the beginning of the financial year 6 11
Increase / (decrease) in life insurance contract policy liabilities (i) 3 (5)
Gross life insurance contract liabilities at the end of the financial year 9 6
Liabilities ceded under reinsurance
Opening balance at the beginning of the financial year (2) (1)
Increase in life reinsurance assets (ii) (2) (1)
Closing balance at the end of the financial year (4) (2)
Net life policy liabilities at the end of the financial year 5 4
(i) plus (ii) = change in life insurance contract liabilities reflected in the profit for the year 1 (6)
Components of net life insurance contract liabilities
Future policy benefits 23 28
Future charges for acquisition costs (18) (24)
Total net life insurance contract policy liabilities 5 4
Components of general insurance liabilities
Unearned premium liability  3 4
Outstanding claims liability 1 1
4 5
Total insurance policy liabilities 9 9 (1)
(1)  Total insurance policy liabilities were disclosed in Liabilities held for sale as at 31 August 2018.
  Future policy benefits include the unearned premium components of the liability. The accumulation method has been used to calculate policy liabilities and components 
relating to expenses and profits are not separately calculated.
154 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
5.1	 INSURANCE	BUSINESS	(CONTINUED)
(e) Life insurance regulatory capital requirements
The regulatory capital requirement of each fund and for the subsidiary in total is the amount required to be held in accordance with  
LPS 110 Capital Adequacy. These are amounts required to meet the prudential standards prescribed by the Life Insurance Act 1995  
to provide protection against the impact of fluctuations and unexpected adverse circumstances on the insurance company.
The methodology and basis for determining the capital base and regulatory capital requirements are in accordance with relevant 
prudential requirements. 
2019 2018
Statutory   Shareholders’  Statutory   Shareholders’  
Fund No. 1  Fund   Fund No. 1  Fund  
 $m $m  $m $m
CAPITAL BASE        
Net assets  30   1  34 1
Add / (subtract) regulatory adjustments to net assets (11)   -  (15) -
Total capital base 19 1 19 1
Asset risk charge  1   -  1 -
Insurance risk charge  2   -  - -
Operational risk charge  2   -  2 -
Aggregation benefit (1)   -  - -
Total prescribed capital amount 4 - 3 -
Assets in excess of prescribed capital amount  15   1  16 1
Capital adequacy multiple  5   73  7 72
2019  2018 
$m $m
COMPOSITION OF CAPITAL BASE    
Common Equity Tier 1 Capital  31  35
Subtract regulatory adjustments to Common Equity Tier 1 Capital (11)  (15)
Total capital base 20 20
 
PRESCRIBED CAPITAL AMOUNT
Statutory Fund No. 1 4 3
Additional amount to meet insurance company minimum 6 7
Total prescribed capital amount 10 10
Assets in excess of prescribed capital amount 10 10
Capital adequacy multiple 2 2
Annual Report 2019 155
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
5.1	 INSURANCE	BUSINESS	(CONTINUED)
(e) Life insurance regulatory capital requirements (continued)
Disaggregated information on life insurance (before consolidation adjustments) is as follows:
2019  2018 
SUMMARISED INCOME STATEMENT $m $m
Revenue
Life insurance premium revenue  44  52
Investment income  1  1
Net life insurance revenue  45  53
Expenses
Net claims and other liability expense from insurance contracts  39  37
Other expenses  9  7
 48  44
Profit / (loss) before income tax  (3)  9
Income tax expense / (income)  1  (3)
Profit / (loss) after income tax (2)  6
Statement of sources of profit for statutory funds
Operating profit after income tax arose from:
Components of profit related to movement in life insurance liabilities:
Planned margins of revenues over expenses released 3 7
Difference between actual and assumed experience (6) (2)
Investment earnings on assets in excess of life insurance policy liabilities and provision 1 1
SUMMARISED BALANCE SHEET
Assets
Investment assets 42 50
Other assets 5 4
47 54
Liabilities
Net life insurance liabilities 5 4
Liabilities other than life insurance liabilities 11 14
16 18
Issued capital, reserves and retained profits
Directly attributable to shareholders 31 36
31 36
The life insurance business has no life investment contracts.
(f) Accounting policy 
The life insurance operations of the Consolidated Entity are  Insurance contracts include those where the insured benefit is 
conducted within separate funds as required by the Life Insurance  payable on the occurrence of a specified event such as death, 
Act 1995 and is reported in aggregate with the shareholders’ fund  injury or disability caused by accident or illness. 
in the Income Statement, Balance Sheet and Statement of Cash 
The insured benefit is either not linked or only partly linked to the 
Flows of the Consolidated Entity. The life insurance operations of 
market value of the investments held by the Consolidated Entity. 
the Consolidated Entity comprise the selling and administration  
Financial risks are substantially borne by the Consolidated Entity.
of life insurance contracts.
 Monies held in the statutory fund are subject to distribution and 
Life insurance contracts involve the acceptance of significant 
transfer restrictions and other requirements of the Life Insurance 
insurance risk. Insurance risk is defined as significant if, and only 
Act 1995.
if, an insured event could cause an insurer to pay significant 
additional benefits in any scenario, excluding scenarios that lack  Under AASB 1038 Life Insurance Contracts, the financial 
commercial substance (i.e. have no discernible effect on the  statements must include all assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses 
economics of the transaction).  and equity, irrespective of whether they are designated as relating 
to shareholders or policy owners. Therefore, the Consolidated 
Entity’s financial statements comprise the total of all statutory 
funds and the shareholders’ fund.
156 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
5.1	 INSURANCE	BUSINESS	(CONTINUED) Claims expense – insurance contracts
 Claims incurred all relate to the provision of services, including the 
 (f)  Accounting policy (continued)
bearing of risks, and are treated as expenses. 
Insurance contract liability
 Claims are recognised when the liability to the policyholder under 
Profits of the insurance contract business are brought to account 
the policy contract has been established. Claims recognition is 
on a MoS basis in accordance with guidance provided by LPS 340 
based upon:
Valuation of Policy Liabilities as determined by APRA. Under MoS, 
•   cost estimates for losses reported to the close of the 
profit is recognised as fees are received and services are provided 
financial year; and
to policyholders. When fees are received but the service has  
not been provided, the profit is deferred. Losses are expensed  •  estimated incurred but not reported losses, based upon past 
when identified.  experience.
Consistent with the principle of deferring unearned profit is the  Deferred acquisition costs - life insurance contracts
requirement to defer expenditure associated with the deferred   The fixed and variable costs of acquiring new life insurance 
profit. MoS permits costs associated with the acquisition of policies  business are deferred to the extent that such costs are deemed 
to be charged to profit or loss in the Income Statement over the  recoverable from future premiums or policy charges. These 
period that the policy will generate profits. Costs may only be  costs include commission, policy issue and underwriting costs, 
deferred to the extent that a policy is expected to be profitable. certain advertising costs and other sales costs. Acquisition 
costs deferred are limited to the lesser of the actual costs 
Profit arising from life insurance is based on actuarial assumptions, 
incurred and the allowance for the recovery of such costs in 
and calculated as the excess of premiums and investment 
the premium or policy charges. The actual acquisition costs 
earnings less claims, operating expenses and the amortisation 
incurred are recorded in profit or loss in the Income Statement. 
of acquisition costs that will be incurred over the estimated life 
The value and future recovery of these costs are assessed 
of the policies. The profit is systematically recognised over the 
in determining policy liabilities. This has the effect that 
estimated time period the policy will remain in force.
acquisition costs are deferred within the policy liability balance 
Under MoS, insurance contract liabilities may be valued using  and amortised over the period that they will be recovered from 
a projection approach or an accumulation approach where  premiums or policy charges.
this does not result in a material difference to the projection 
approach. The insurance company’s Directors and the appointed  Critical accounting judgements and estimates
actuary have deemed the projection approach appropriate for   The Consolidated Entity’s insurance subsidiaries make estimates 
the level premium funeral cover portion of the business, and the  and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and 
accumulation approach appropriate for the remainder of the  liabilities within the next financial year. Estimates and judgements 
business. Under the accumulation approach, premiums received  are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience 
are deferred and earned in accordance with the underlying  and other factors, including expectations of future events that 
incidence of risk. Costs of acquiring insurance contracts, both  are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The 
direct and indirect, are deferred to the extent that related product  areas where critical accounting judgements and estimates are 
groups are expected to be profitable. Under the projection  applied are noted as:
approach, insurance contract liabilities are valued as the net  Policy liabilities
present value of projected policy cash flows (premiums, benefits,   Policy liabilities for life insurance contracts are computed using 
expenses and profit margins to be released in future periods),  statistical or mathematical methods, which are expected to give 
using best estimate assumptions about the future. Future cash  approximately the same results as if an individual liability was 
flows are discounted at a risk-free discount rate.  calculated for each contract. The computations are made by 
suitably qualified personnel on the basis of recognised actuarial 
Where a related product group is not expected to be profitable, 
methods, with due regard to relevant actuarial principles. 
the insurance contract liability is increased by the excess of the 
present value of future expenses over future revenues. The methodology takes into account the risks and uncertainties 
of the particular classes of life insurance business written. The key 
Revenue recognition factors that affect the estimation of these liabilities and related 
 Premiums in respect of life insurance contracts are recognised as  assets are: 
revenue in the Income Statement from the date of attachment 
•  The cost of providing benefits and administering these 
of risk. Premiums with no due date are recognised as revenue on  insurance contracts;
a cash basis. Premiums with a regular due date are recognised 
•  Mortality and morbidity experience on life insurance products, 
as revenue on an accruals basis. Unpaid premiums are only  including enhancements to policyholder benefits; and
recognised as revenue during the days of grace or where secured 
•  Discontinuance experience, which affects the Bank’s ability  
by the surrender value of the policy and are included in the  to recover the cost of acquiring new business over the lives  
intergroup balance in the Balance Sheet. of the contracts.
Investment income is recognised on an accruals basis. Realised   In addition, factors such as regulation, competition, interest 
and unrealised gains and losses are included in the Income  rates, taxes, securities market conditions and general economic 
Statement as investment income. conditions affect the level of these liabilities.
Annual Report 2019 157
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
NOTE 6. OTHER NOTES
6.1  EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 
(a) Superannuation commitments
Superannuation plan PARs  
 The Bank contributes to a number of superannuation plans which  The vesting framework for PARs will depend upon when the 
comply with the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act  issue has been granted.
1993. Contributions are charged to profit or loss in the Income 
For PARs granted prior to December 2015 the vesting 
Statement as they are made.
framework will be based on the Total Shareholder Return 
(TSR) of the Bank measured against a peer group over a 2 to 3 
Basis of contributions
year period. That peer group consists of the S&P / ASX 200 
Employee superannuation contributions are based on various 
from time to time, excluding selected entities in resources, 
percentages of employees’ gross salaries. The Consolidated 
real estate investment trusts, telecommunications (offshore 
Entity’s contributions are also based on various percentages of 
headquartered), energy and utilities and such other inclusions 
employees’ gross salaries. 
and exclusions the Board considers appropriate. TSR is a 
The Consolidated Entity is under no legal obligation to make  measure of the entire return a shareholder would obtain from 
superannuation contributions except for the minimum  holding an entity’s securities over a period, taking into account 
contributions required under the relevant superannuation  factors such as changes in the market value of the securities 
guarantee legislation. and dividends paid over the period.
One half of an employee’s PARs will vest if the Bank’s TSR 
(b) Share based payments
performance over the three year period is in the top 50 per 
The Consolidated Entity currently operates an Award Rights 
cent of the peer group. All of the PARs vest if the Bank’s TSR 
Plan for equity-settled compensation. The plan allows the 
performance is in the top 25 per cent. For TSR performance 
Consolidated Entity’s employees to acquire shares in the Bank. 
between those targets, a relative proportion of the PARs 
The fair value of rights granted is recognised as an employee 
between 50 per cent and 100 per cent would vest. If the 
expense with a corresponding increase to the Employee Benefits 
Bank’s TSR performance is below 50 per cent of the Peer 
Reserve. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over 
Group, no PARs vest.
the period during which the employees become unconditionally 
entitled to the rights. The fair value of the rights granted is  For issues granted from December 2015, the vesting 
measured using industry accepted pricing methodologies, taking  framework will also contain an EPS component, with 80 per 
into account the terms and conditions upon which the rights are  cent of the employee’s PARs to vest based on the Bank’s TSR 
granted. The fair value of the rights is expensed over the vesting  performance measured against a peer group over a three 
period. Where rights do not vest due to failure to meet a non- year period. The remaining 20 per cent of PARs vest based on 
market condition (e.g. employee service period) the expense is  the Bank’s EPS performance, measured against a financial 
reversed. Where rights do not vest due to failure to meet a market  services peer group over a three year period. 
condition (e.g. total shareholder return test) the expense is not 
For issues granted from December 2018, the performance 
reversed.
testing and vesting period for both the TSR and the EPS 
tranches was extended to four years.
(i)  Description of share based payments
Long-term incentives - Award Rights  PARs may be exercised by the employee once they have vested.
The Award Rights Plan was first introduced and approved  DARs  
by shareholders on 11 December 2008, the current Award 
There are no market performance hurdles or vesting 
Rights Plan was approved by shareholders on 30 November 
conditions for DARs but the holder must remain an employee 
2017. It is an equity based program under which Award Rights 
of the Bank. DARs vest over three years in the ratio of 20 per 
are granted as long-term incentives. The two types of award 
rights currently granted to employees under the plan are  cent at the end of year one, 30 per cent at the end of year 
Performance Award Rights (PARs) and Deferred Award Rights  two and 50 per cent at the end of year three. DARs may be 
(DARs). No amount is payable by employees for the grant or  exercised by the employee once they have vested.
exercise of these award rights.
Restricted shares 
The Consolidated Entity has used shares with restrictions on 
disposal as a non-cash, share based component of both short 
term and long term incentive awards.
158 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
6.1	 EMPLOYEE	BENEFITS	(CONTINUED)
(b) Share based payments (continued)
(ii) Award rights on issue
The number of award rights and restricted shares on issue for the Bank is as follows:
Deferred award rights Performance award rights Restricted shares
2019  2018  2019  2018  2019  2018 
’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000
Balance at beginning of the year   999   1,045   2,278   2,377   234   228
Granted   665  480   811  822   178   156 
Forfeited / expired  (108)  (159)  (1,203)  (610)   -   - 
Exercised  (304)  (367)  (99)  (311)  (210)  (150) 
Outstanding at the end of the year  1,252  999  1,787  2,278  202   234
(iii) Measurement of fair values
The fair value of the PARs and DARs has been measured using the trinomial pricing methodology.
Restricted shares have been valued based on the volume weighted average price of ordinary shares in the Bank sold on the ASX 
during a 5 day trading period. The shares vest on the respective expiry dates and meeting certain service conditions.
The weighted average of the inputs used in the measurement of the long term incentive award rights grants during the year were as follows:
Deferred award rights Performance award rights Restricted shares
2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
Fair value at grant date ($)  8.21   11.05   4.91   7.14   10.71   13.03
Share price at grant date ($) 9.61   12.63  9.64   12.66  9.96   12.68
Expected volatility (%) 19.0 22.5 19.0 22.5 20.1 22.5
Risk free interest rate (%) 2.0 1.9 2.0 1.9 2.0 1.9
Dividend yield (%) 7.8 6.6 7.8 6.6 7.4 6.6
6.2  COMMITMENTS
Consolidated Bank
2019  2018  2019  2018 
$m $m $m $m
(A) LEASE COMMITMENTS
Future rentals in respect of operating leases (principally in respect of 
premises) not provided for in these financial statements comprise 
amounts payable:
Within 1 year  38  39  38  39
Between 1 year and 5 years  85  118  85  118
Later than 5 years  72  43  72  43
195 200 195 200
(B) CUSTOMER FUNDING COMMITMENTS
Guarantees, indemnities and letters of credit 301 304 301 304
Customer funding commitments 1,498 1,449 651 691
1,799 1,753 952 995
In the normal course of business the Consolidated Entity makes commitments to extend credit to its customers. Most commitments 
either expire if not taken up within a specified time or can be cancelled by the Consolidated Entity within one year. Credit risk is 
significantly less than the notional amount and does not crystallise until a commitment is funded. Guarantees are provided to third 
parties on behalf of customers. The credit risks of such facilities are similar to the credit risks of loans and advances.
Annual Report 2019 159
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
6.3  CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
As at 31 August 2019, the Consolidated Entity does not have any contingent liabilities.
6.4  RELATED PARTIES INFORMATION
(a) Controlled entities
Details of interests in material controlled entities are set out in Note 6.5.
During the year there have been transactions between the Bank and its controlled entities. The Bank conducted normal banking 
business with its operating controlled entities. Amounts owing to or from controlled entities generally attract interest on normal terms 
and conditions, except in respect of Virgin Money (Australia) Pty Limited, Virgin Money Financial Services Pty Ltd, BOQ Specialist Pty Ltd, 
BOQ Home Pty Limited, Home Credit Management Pty Ltd and dormant entities as set out in Note 6.5(a).
The Bank receives management fees from its operating controlled entities except Virgin Money Financial Services Pty Ltd, BOQ Specialist 
Pty Ltd, BOQ Home Pty Limited, Home Credit Management Pty Ltd and dormant entities as set out in Note 6.5(a). 
The Bank has a related party relationship with equity accounted joint ventures and associates, refer to Note 6.6.
(b) Key management personnel compensation
KMP have authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Bank and the Consolidated Entity, 
including Directors and other Group Executives. 
KMP compensation included in ‘administrative expenses’ and ‘employee expenses’ (refer to Note 2.2) is as follows:
Consolidated and Bank
2019  2018 
$ $
Short term employee benefits           6,958,085  8,893,945
Long term employee benefits               156,398  86,018
Post employment benefits               316,392  311,532
Share based employment benefits           1,719,578  4,754,422
Termination benefits               975,000  -
10,125,453 14,045,917
Individual Directors and Group Executives compensation disclosures
Information regarding individual Directors and Group Executives compensation and some equity instruments disclosures as permitted 
by Regulation 2M.3.03 of the Corporations Regulations 2001 is provided in the Remuneration Report section of the Directors’ Report.
Apart from the details disclosed in the Remuneration Report, no Director has entered into a material contract with the Bank since the 
end of the previous financial year and there were no material contracts involving Directors’ interests existing at year end.
160 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
6.4	 RELATED	PARTIES	INFORMATION	(CONTINUED)
(c)  Other financial instrument transactions with key management personnel and personally-related entities
A number of the KMP and their close family members hold positions in other entities that result in them having control or 
significant influence over the financial or operating policies of those entities. These entities, as well as the KMP and their close family 
members, are related parties to the Consolidated Entity. Financial instrument transactions with KMP and their related parties during 
the financial year arise out of the provision of banking services, the acceptance of funds on deposit, the granting of loans and other 
associated financial activities. The terms and conditions of the transactions entered into with KMP and their related parties were no more 
favourable than those available, or which might reasonably be expected to be available on similar transactions to non-related entities, on 
an arm’s length basis. No amounts have been written down or recorded as impaired during the year (2018: nil).
The transactions undertaken between the Consolidated Entity and KMP or their related parties up to 31 August 2019 are:
Balance as at For the period (1)
Total loan  Total loan /  Total fees  
1 September   31 August  drawdowns /  overdraft   on loans /  
2018 2019 (repayments) interest overdraft
$ $ $ $ $
Term products (loans / advances)
KMP  1,928,903  1,536,789   314,022  78,824  240 
Other related parties   1,460,422  186,543  (33,809)  20,962  60 
Total  3,389,325  1,723,333  280,213 99,786  300 
(1)	 	Amounts	are	included	only	for	the	period	that	the	Director/Executive	is	classified	as	a	member	of	KMP.	Jon	Sutton	resigned	effective	5	December	2018	and	Brendan	White	
ceased employment 6 March 2019. On this basis, loans and advances between the Consolidated Entity and Mr Sutton and Mr White are not included in the closing balance as 
at 31 August 2019.
Balance as at For the period (2)
Total loan  Total loan /  Total fees  
1 September   31 August drawdowns /  overdraft   on loans /  
2017  2018 (repayments) interest overdraft
$ $ $ $ $
Term products (loans / advances)
KMP  1,788,768   1,928,903   2,004,249   140,768   600 
Other related parties  1,487,199   1,460,422  (84,727)   57,711   240 
Total  3,275,967   3,389,325   1,919,522   198,479   840
(2)  Amounts are included only for the period that the Director/Executive is classified as a member of KMP. Michelle Thomsen resigned as an Executive on 29 June 2018.  
On this basis, loans and advances between the Consolidated Entity and Ms Thomsen are not included in the closing balance as at 31 August 2018. 
Annual Report 2019 161
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
6.4	 RELATED	PARTIES	INFORMATION	(CONTINUED)
(c)  Other financial instrument transactions with key management personnel and personally-related entities 
(continued)
Other transactions
Transactions with KMP and their related parties (other than loans and shares) during the financial year were related to personal banking, 
investment, finance leasing, insurance policy and deposit transactions. These transactions are on normal commercial terms and 
conditions, in the ordinary course of business and are considered trivial or domestic in nature. 
On 26 May 2015, the Bank issued 15,000 Wholesale Capital Notes at a price of $10,000 per note. Details of those notes issued to Directors 
are set out below:
2019 2018
Interest  Interest 
Balance earned Balance earned
$ $ $ $
Roger Davis 200,000  8,785   200,000  8,798
David Willis 70,000  3,075   70,000  3,079
Total 270,000  11,860   270,000  11,877
On 28 December 2017, the Bank issued 3,500,000 Capital Notes at a price of $100 per note. Details of those notes issued to Directors are 
set out below:
2019 2018
Interest  Interest 
Balance earned Balance earned
$ $ $ $
Roger Davis  50,000  1,537  50,000 1,317
Roger Davis’s related parties 50,000  1,537  50,000 1,317
Total 100,000  3,074  100,000 2,634
162 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
6.5  CONTROLLED ENTITIES 
(a) Particulars in relation to material controlled entities
The Group’s controlled entities at 31 August 2019 are set out below. Unless otherwise stated, they have share capital consisting solely  
of ordinary shares that are held directly by the Group. The country of incorporation or registration is also their principal place of business.
Place of 
business/
country of  Parent entity’s 
incorporation interest Amount of investment Principal activities
2019  2018 2019 2018
Controlled entities:
% % $m $m
Alliance Premium Funding Pty Ltd New Zealand 100% 100% - - Dormant
Bank of Queensland Limited  
Australia 100% 100% - - Trust
Employee Share Plans Trust
BOQ Asset Finance and Leasing Pty Ltd Australia 100% 100% - - Asset finance & leasing
BOQ Covered Bond Trust Australia 100% 100% - - Issue of covered bonds
BOQ Credit Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% - - Asset finance & leasing
BOQ Equipment Finance Limited Australia 100% 100% 15 15 Asset finance & leasing
BOQF Cashflow Finance Pty Ltd Australia 100% 100% - - Professional finance
BOQ Finance (Aust) Limited Australia 100% 100% 230 230 Asset finance & leasing
BOQ Finance (NZ) Limited New Zealand 100% 100% 22 22 Asset finance & leasing
BOQ Funding Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% - - Dormant
BOQ Home Pty Ltd  Australia 100% 100% 157 157 Investment holding entity
BOQ Share Plans Nominee Pty Ltd Australia 100% 100% - - Dormant
Professional finance and  
BOQ Specialist (Aust) Limited Australia 100% 100% 13 13
asset finance & leasing
BOQ Specialist Pty Ltd Australia 100% 100% - - Professional finance
B.Q.L. Management Pty Ltd Australia 100% 100% - - Trust management
B.Q.L. Nominees Pty Ltd Australia - 100%  - - Dormant
Home Credit Management Pty Ltd  Australia 100% 100% - - Investment holding entity
Home Financial Planning Pty Ltd Australia 100% 100% - - Dormant
Impala Trust No. 1 - Sub-Series 2 Australia 100% 100% - - Securitisation
Pioneer Permanent Pty Ltd  Australia 100% 100% 32 32 Dormant
Series 2008-1 REDS Trust Australia 100% 100% - - Securitisation
Series 2009-1 REDS Trust Australia 100% 100% - - Securitisation
Series 2010-1 REDS Trust Australia 100% 100% - - Securitisation
Series 2010-2 REDS Trust Australia 100% 100% - - Securitisation
Series 2012-1E REDS Trust Australia 100% 100% - - Securitisation
Series 2013-1 REDS Trust Australia 100% 100% - - Securitisation
Series 2015-1 REDS Trust Australia 100% 100% - - Securitisation
Series 2015-1 REDS EHP Trust Australia - 100% - - Securitisation
Series 2017-1 REDS Trust Australia 100% 100% - - Securitisation
Series 2018-1 REDS Trust Australia 100% 100% - - Securitisation
Series 2018-1 REDS EHP Trust Australia 100% - - - Securitisation
Series 2019-1 REDS Trust Australia 100% - - - Securitisation
Annual Report 2019 163
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
6.5	 CONTROLLED	ENTITIES	(CONTINUED)
(a) Particulars in relation to material controlled entities (continued)
Place of 
business/
country of  Parent entity’s 
incorporation interest Amount of investment Principal activities
2019  2018 2019 2018
Controlled entities:
% % $m $m
St Andrew’s Australia Services Pty Ltd  Australia 100% 100% - - Insurance holding entity
St Andrew’s Insurance (Australia) Pty Ltd Australia 100% 100% - - General insurance
St Andrew’s Life Insurance Pty Ltd Australia 100% 100% - - Life insurance
Statewest Financial Planning Pty Ltd Australia 100% 100% - - Dormant
Virgin Money (Australia) Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% 53 53 Financial services
Virgin Money Financial Services Pty Ltd Australia 100% 100% - - Financial services
Virgin Money Home Loans Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% - - Dormant
522 522
(b) Significant restrictions
In accordance with APS 222 Associations with related entities, the  Contingent Liabilities
Bank and its subsidiaries that form part of the Extended Licensed   A contingent liability of the acquiree is assumed in a business 
Entity have various restrictions. This includes not having unlimited  combination only if such a liability represents a present 
exposures to related entities, including general guarantees. obligation and arises from a past event, and its fair value can 
be measured reliably. 
(c) Acquisition of controlled entities
Transactions Costs
(i)  Accounting for business combinations
All business combinations occurring on or after 1 July 2009  Transactions costs that the Group incurs in connection with 
are accounted for by applying the acquisition method. For  a business combination, such as a finders fee, legal fees, due 
every business combination, the Group identifies the acquirer,  diligence fees and other professional and consulting fees are 
which is the combining entity that obtains control of the  expensed as incurred.
other combining entities or businesses. The Group controls an 
(ii) Entities established during the year
entity if it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from 
The following entities were established during the  
its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect 
financial year:
those returns through its power over the investee.
•  Series 2018-1 REDS EHP Trust was opened on 13 November 
2018; and
•  Series 2019-1 REDS Trust was opened on 29 August 2019.
164 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
6.5	 CONTROLLED	ENTITIES	(CONTINUED)	
(d) Operations classified as held for sale
On 17 April 2018, the Bank announced it had entered into an agreement to sell the Group’s controlled entities, St Andrew’s Australia 
Services Pty Ltd, St Andrew’s Insurance (Australia) Pty Ltd and St Andrew’s Life Insurance Pty Ltd (St Andrew’s Group). As at 31 August 
2019, this agreement is no longer in place and the St Andrew’s Group has ceased to be held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
The St Andrew’s Group was classified as held for sale as at 31 August 2018. The assets and liabilities held for sale were measured at the 
lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs of disposal, except for assets such as deferred tax assets, financial assets and 
contractual rights under insurance contracts, which are specifically exempt from this requirement. The comparative period balances are 
shown below. 
2018 (1) 
$m
Cash and cash equivalents 6
Due from other financial institutions - term deposits 46
Other assets 5
Total assets 57
Insurance policy liabilities (1) 9
Other liabilities 13
Total liabilities 22
(1)  Refer to Note 5 for further information on insurance business disclosures. 
(e) Disposal of controlled entities
The following entities were closed during the financial year:
•  Series 2015-1 REDS EHP Trust was closed on 24 May 2019. 
BQL Nominees Pty Ltd was deregistered during the year, effective 21 February 2019 (2018: 5 entities were deregistered). 
Annual Report 2019 165
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
 
6.6   INVESTMENTS IN JOINT ARRANGEMENTS AND ASSOCIATES
The Consolidated Entity holds interests in a number of collectively  (b) Details of joint venture and associates
and individually immaterial joint ventures and investments in 
Set out below are the joint ventures and associates of the 
associates that are accounted for using the equity method.
Consolidated Entity as at 31 August 2019 which, in the opinion of 
the Directors, are immaterial to the Consolidated Entity. Australia 
(a) Accounting for joint arrangements and associates
is the place of business and also the country of incorporation for 
The Consolidated Entity’s investments in joint venture entities  all joint ventures and associates. 
and associates are accounted for under the equity method 
of accounting in the consolidated financial statements. 
Joint ventures are entities in which the Consolidated 
Entity has joint control over all operational decisions and 
activities. Associates are entities in which the Consolidated 
Entity has significant influence over, but not control.
Ownership Interest Carrying amount
2019  2018  2019  2018 
(%) (%) $m $m
Joint arrangements (1)
Ocean Springs Pty Ltd (Brighton) 9.31 9.31 6 6
Dalyellup Beach Pty Ltd (Dalyellup) 17.08 17.08 7 8
East Busselton Estate Pty Ltd (Provence) 25.00 25.00 - 1
Coastview Nominees Pty Ltd (Margaret River) 5.81 5.81 - -
Provence 2 Pty Ltd (Provence 2) 25.00 25.00 - -
Associates
MiFund Pty Ltd (2) 35.00 - 3 -
Total equity accounted investments 16 15
(1)  The principal activity of the joint venture entities is land subdivision, development and sale. These investments were acquired as part of the Home Building Society 
acquisition in 2007.
(2) The investment in MiFund Pty Ltd is held by the Bank.
Summary financial information for equity accounted joint ventures and associates, adjusted for the share of ownership held by the 
Consolidated Entity and the Bank, is contained below:
2019 2018 
$m $m
Loss from continuing operations (1) -
Total comprehensive loss (1) -
166 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
6.7  AUDITOR’S REMUNERATION
Consolidated Bank
2019 2018 2019 2018
KPMG AUSTRALIA $000 $000 $000 $000
Audit services 
-  Statutory audits and reviews of the financial reports  1,773  1,737   1,324  1,279 
-  Regulatory audits and reviews as required by regulatory authorities  462   346   325  244
Total audit services  2,235  2,083   1,649   1,523 
Audit related services 
-  Other assurance services  534  532   397 399
-  Regulatory assurance services  94  235   -  235
Total audit related services 628  767  397  634 
Non-audit services 
-  Taxation services  169   171   169 171
-  Other  333  103   263 103
Total non-audit services 502  274  432  274 
6.8  EVENTS SUBSEQUENT TO BALANCE DATE
Other than as disclosed below, the Directors are not aware of any matters or circumstances that have arisen in the interval between 
the end of the financial year and the date of this report, or any item, event or transaction which significantly affects, or may 
significantly affect the operations of the Consolidated Entity in future financial years.
On 11 October 2019, the Bank entered into a Subscription Agreement in relation to a debt for equity swap for the purchase of 8,128 fully 
paid ordinary shares issued by its subsidiary, St Andrew’s Australia Services Pty Ltd, for the value of $30,000,000.
Annual Report 2019 167
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
6.9  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The transferred assets are equitably assigned to the Trusts. 
The investors in the securities issued by the Trusts have full 
The accounting policies set out below have been applied 
recourse to the assets transferred to the Trusts. 
consistently to all periods presented in the consolidated financial 
statements, and have been applied consistently across the 
Bank 
Consolidated Entity.
Interest rate risk from the Trusts is transferred back to the 
(a) Basis of consolidation Bank by way of interest rate and basis swaps. Accordingly, 
under AASB 9 the original transfer of the mortgages from 
(i)  Subsidiaries the Bank to the Trusts does not meet the derecognition 
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Bank. Control  criteria set out in AASB 9. The Bank continues to reflect 
exists when the Bank has the power, directly or indirectly, to  the securitised loans in their entirety and also recognises a 
govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as  financial liability to the Trusts. The interest payable on the 
to benefit from its activities. In assessing control, potential  intercompany financial asset / liability represents the return 
voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are  on an imputed loan between the Bank and the Trusts and is 
taken into account. The financial statements of subsidiaries  based on the interest income under the mortgages, the fees 
are included in the consolidated financial statements from  payable by the Trusts and the interest income or expense not 
the date that control commences until the date that control  separately recognised under the interest rate and basis swaps 
ceases. In the Bank’s financial statements, investments in  transactions between the Bank and the Trusts.
subsidiaries are carried at cost.
 All transactions between the Bank and the Trusts are 
(ii) Securitisation eliminated on consolidation.
The Consolidated Entity conducts a loan securitisation 
program whereby mortgage loans are packaged and sold to  (iii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
the RMBS Trusts. The Consolidated Entity also securitises hire  Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or 
purchase, chattel mortgages and finance leases which are  income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, 
packaged and sold to the REDS EHP Trusts. The Bank acquired  are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial 
Impala Trust No. 1 - Sub-Series 2 (Impala Trust) through  statements.
the acquisition of Investec Bank (Australia) Limited. Assets 
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised 
securitised to the Impala Trust are financed by the Bank 
gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of 
through the BOQ Specialist channel and consist of medical 
impairment. 
finance equipment.
Consolidated Entity (b) Foreign currency
The Consolidated Entity receives the residual income 
(i)  Foreign currency transactions
distributed by the RMBS and Impala Trust (Trusts) after 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the 
all payments due to investors and associated costs of the 
foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. 
program have been met. As a result, the Consolidated Entity 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
is considered to retain the risks and rewards of the Trusts and 
currencies at the reporting date are translated into Australian 
they do not meet the derecognition criteria of AASB 9.
dollars at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Non-
The Trusts fund their purchase of the loans by issuing  monetary items in a foreign currency that are measured at 
floating-rate debt securities. The securities are issued by  historical cost are translated using the exchange rate at the 
the Trusts. These are represented as borrowings of the  date of the transaction. Foreign exchange differences arising 
Consolidated Entity, however, the Consolidated Entity does  on translation are recognised in the profit or loss.  Where a 
not stand behind the capital value or the performance of the  foreign currency transaction is part of a hedge relationship it 
securities or the assets of the Trusts. The Consolidated Entity  is accounted for as above, subject to the hedge accounting 
does not guarantee the payment of interest or the repayment  rules set out in Note 3.8.
of principal due on the securities. The loans subject to the 
securitisation program have been pledged as security for  (ii) Foreign operations
the securities issued by the Trusts. The Consolidated Entity  The Consolidated Entity carries out its foreign operations in 
is not obliged to support any losses that may be suffered by  New Zealand through the wholly controlled subsidiary, BOQ 
investors and does not intend to provide such support. Finance (NZ) Limited, and through the non-incorporated 
branch of BOQ Equipment Finance Limited.
The Bank provides the securitisation programs with arm’s 
length services and facilities, including the management and 
servicing of the leases securitised. 
The Bank has no right to repurchase any of the securitised 
assets and no obligation to do so, other than in certain 
circumstances where there is a breach of warranty within  
120 days of the sale or when certain criteria are met under the 
clean up provision per the Trust Deed Supplement.
168 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 August 2019
6.9	 SIGNIFICANT	ACCOUNTING	POLICIES	(CONTINUED)
(iv) Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the profit or loss in the Income 
(c) Operating Leases 
Statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful 
Operating leases, in which the Consolidated Entity is the lessor,  lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment. 
are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
accumulated impairment losses. Depreciation is calculated to   The estimated useful lives are as follows:
write off the cost of operating lease assets  
Years
less their estimated residual values using the straight-line basis 
over the term of the lease. This is generally recognised in profit or  IT equipment 3-10
loss. Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are 
Plant, furniture and equipment 3-20
reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate.
Leasehold improvements (1) 6-12
Operating leases, in which the Consolidated Entity is the lessee, 
are expensed on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease,  (1)   Or term of lease if less.
except where an alternative basis is more representative of 
The useful lives are reassessed annually.
the pattern of benefits to be derived from the leased property. 
When an operating lease terminates before the lease period 
(f) Impairment of non-financial assets
expires, any payment required to be made to the lessor by way 
 Non-financial assets, other than deferred tax assets, are reviewed 
of penalty is recognised as an expense in the period in which 
for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
termination takes place.
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. 
For goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life, the 
(d) Goods and services tax
recoverable amount is estimated at the same time each year.
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount 
of goods and services tax (GST), except where the amount of GST  The Bank conducts an annual internal review of non-financial 
incurred is not recoverable from the Australian Tax Office (ATO).  asset values to assess for any indicators of impairment. If any 
In these circumstances the GST is recognised as part of the cost  indication of impairment exists, an estimate of the asset’s 
of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense. recoverable amount is calculated.
Receivables and payables are stated with the amount of GST included. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped 
at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable 
 The net amount of GST recoverable from or payable to the ATO is 
cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows 
included as a current asset or current liability in the Balance Sheet.
from other assets or groups of assets – a CGU. An impairment 
Cash flows are included in the Statements of Cash Flows on a 
loss is recognised in profit or loss in the Income Statement for 
gross basis. The GST components of cash flows arising from 
the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its 
investing and financing activities which are recoverable from or  recoverable amount. Impairment losses recognised in respect of 
payable to the ATO are classified as operating cash flows. CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of goodwill 
allocated to the units, and then to reduce the carrying amounts of 
(e) Property, plant and equipment
the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
(i)  Recognition and initial measurement 
This grouping is subject to an operating segment ceiling test. Non-
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at 
financial assets, other than goodwill, that suffered impairment are 
cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and 
tested for possible reversal of the impairment whenever events or 
accumulated impairment losses. The cost of self-constructed 
changes in circumstances indicate that the impairment may have 
assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an 
reversed. An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
appropriate proportion of production overheads.
(ii) Subsequent costs  (i)  Calculation of recoverable amount
Subsequent additional costs are only capitalised when it  The recoverable amount of a non-financial asset or CGU is 
is probable that future economic benefits in excess of the  the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use. 
originally assessed performance of the assets will flow to  In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
the Consolidated Entity in future years. Where these costs  discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount 
represent separate components, they are accounted for  rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
as separate assets and are separately depreciated over  value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
their useful lives. Costs that do not meet the criteria for 
subsequent capitalisation are expensed as incurred.
(iii) Subsequent measurement
 The Consolidated Entity has elected to use the cost model to 
measure property, plant and equipment after recognition. The 
carrying value is the initial cost less accumulated depreciation 
and any accumulated impairment losses.
Annual Report 2019 169
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
DIRECTORS’ DECLARATION
1.  In the opinion of the Directors of Bank of Queensland Limited:
  (a)    the consolidated financial statements and notes and the remuneration report included within the Directors’ Report set out on 
pages 58 to 169 , are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), including:
  (i) g iving a true and fair view of the financial position of the Bank and Consolidated Entity as at 31 August 2019 and of their 
performance, for the year ended on that date; and
  (ii) c omplying with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Regulations 2001; and
  (b)  there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Bank and Consolidated Entity will be able to pay its debts as and when they    
    become due and payable.
2.  T he Directors have been given the declarations required by Section 295A of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) from the Managing 
Director & CEO and Chief Financial Officer for the financial year ended 31 August 2019.
3.  T he Directors draw attention to Section 1.2 (a) to the financial statements, which includes a statement of compliance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards.
Signed in accordance with a resolution of the Directors:
Roger Davis  George Frazis 
Chairman  Managing Director & CEO 
16 October 2019 16 October 2019
170 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
 
   
 
 
   
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
  Independent Auditor’s Report 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
 
 
To the shareholders of Bank of Queensland Limited 
To the shareholders of Bank of Queensland Limited 
Report on the audits of the Financial Reports 
Report on the audits of the Financial Reports 
 
 
Opinions 
Opinions 
We have audited the consolidated Financial  The respective Financial Reports of the 
Report of Bank of Queensland Limited (the  Consolidated Entity and Bank comprise:  
We have audited the consolidated Financial  The respective Financial Reports of the 
Consolidated Entity Financial Report). We 
Report of Bank of Queensland Limited (the  C onBsoallaidnactee dS hEenetittsy  aasn da tB 3a1n kA ucogmuspt r2is0e1: 9  
have also audited the Financial Report of 
Consolidated Entity Financial Report). We 
Bank of Queensland Limited (the Bank     IBnacloamncee  SSthaeteemtse anst sa,t  S3t1a tAeumgeunstts 2 o0f1 9 
have also audited the Financial Report of 
Financial Report).  Comprehensive Income, Statements of Changes 
Bank of Queensland Limited (the Bank    Income Statements, Statements of 
in Equity, and Statements of Cash Flows for the 
FInin oaunrc oiapl iRnieopno, ret)a. ch of the accompanying  Comprehensive Income, Statements of Changes 
year then ended 
Consolidated Entity Financial Report and Bank  in Equity, and Statements of Cash Flows for the 
In our opinion, each of the accompanying 
Financial Report are in accordance with the    Nyeoatre sth iennc leunddinegd a  summary of significant 
Consolidated Entity Financial Report and Bank 
Corporations Act 2001, including:   accounting policies 
Financial Report are in accordance with the    Notes including a summary of significant 
C orpgoirvaintigo nas t rAucet  a2n0d0 1fa, iirn vcileuwdi nogf : t he    Dacirceocutnotrisn’g D peoclliacrieatsi on. 
Consolidated Entity’s and of the Bank’s 
  giving a true and fair view of the  Th eD Ciroencstoorlsid’ aDteecdl aEranttiiotny.  consists of the Bank of 
financial position as at 31 August 2019 
Consolidated Entity’s and of the Bank’s  Queensland Limited (the Bank) and the entities it 
and of its financial performance for the  The Consolidated Entity consists of the Bank of 
financial position as at 31 August 2019  controlled at the year-end or from time to time 
year ended on that date; and  Queensland Limited (the Bank) and the entities it 
and of its financial performance for the  during the financial year. 
controlled at the year-end or from time to time 
  yceoamr pelnyidnegd w ointh t hAauts dtraatleia; na nAdc counting   
during the financial year. 
Standards and the Corporations 
  complying with Australian Accounting   
Regulations 2001. 
Standards and the Corporations 
R  egulations 2001. 
 
Basis for opinions 
Basis for opinions 
We conducted our audits in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. We believe that the audit 
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. 
We conducted our audits in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. We believe that the audit 
eOvuidr erenscpeo wnsei bhialitviee so ubntadineer dth ioss seu sfftiacniednatr dasn da raep fpurrotphreiar tdee tsoc rpibroevdi dine  tah bea Asiusd fiotor ro’su rre osppinoinosnibsi.l ities for 
the audits of the Financial Reports section of our report.  
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for 
tWhee  aaured iitnsd oefp tehned Feinnta onfc itahle R Ceponosrtosl isdeactetido nE notfi toyu ar nrdep Boartn.k   in accordance with the Corporations Act 
2001 and the ethical requirements of the Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Board’s 
We are independent of the Consolidated Entity and Bank in accordance with the Corporations Act 
APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (the Code) that are relevant to our audits of 
2001 and the ethical requirements of the Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Board’s 
the Financial Reports in Australia. We have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance 
APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (the Code) that are relevant to our audits of 
with the Code.  
the Financial Reports in Australia. We have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance 
w  ith the Code.  
 
                                                                                               
                                                                                                 
KPMG, an Australian partnership and a member firm of the KPMG  Liability limited by a scheme approved under 
network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG    Professional Standards Legislation. 
KInPteMrnGa,t iaonn aAl uCsotroapliearna tpivaert n(“eKrPshMipG a Inndte arn mateiomnbael”r) ,f iarm S owfi sthse e nKtPitMy. G  Liability limited by a scheme approved under 
network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG  Professional Standards Legislation. 
International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. 
Annual Report 2019 171
 
 
INDEPENDE  NT AUDITOR’S REPORT         
 
 
 
           
 
 
Key Audit Matters  lifetime basis.   including estimates of default on both a 12 
month and lifetime basis. 
We applied significant judgement to assess the 
The Key Audit Matters we identified for  Key Audit Matters are those matters that, in our  impact of the forward-looking macroeconomic    Testing the completeness and accuracy of  
the Consolidated Entity and Bank are:  professional judgement, were of most significance in  assumptions and factors outside of the control  relevant data elements used within ECL 
  Expected Credit Loss (ECL)  for loans  our audits of the Financial Reports of the current period.   of the Consolidated Entity and Bank on their  models for a sample of customers, such as 
ECL models. 
and advances at amortised cost  These matters were addressed in the context of our  checking year end balances to the general 
audits of the Financial Reports as a whole, and in  Significant judgement is applied by the  ledger, and repayment history and risk ratings 
  Valuation of goodwill  
forming our opinions thereon, and we do not provide a  Consolidated Entity and Bank in determining  to source systems. 
  Valuation of intangible computer  separate opinion on these matters.  the nature and level of out of model 
  Re-performing the ECL calculation for loan 
software   adjustments. It is the Consolidated Entity’s and 
portfolios using the Consolidated Entity’s and 
Bank’s policy to use out of model adjustments 
  Valuation of financial instruments at  where the underlying models may not  Bank’s provisioning methodology and relevant 
fair value   represent emerging risks or trends in the loan  data used within the ECL models, as tested 
above. We compared our results to the 
portfolios.  
  Information technology (IT) systems 
amount recorded by the Consolidated Entity 
controls     and Bank. 
    Determining key assumptions within the ECL 
Expected credit loss (ECL) for loans and advances at amortised cost- Consolidated Entity and  models including SICR and assessed the 
 
Bank  Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s analysis over 
  these assumptions including whether the 
Refer to Note 3.3(a) to the Financial Reports  methodology used in developing the 
 
assumption was appropriate and in line with 
  accounting standards requirements.  
The key audit matter  How the matter was addressed in our audits 
    Assessing the ECL assumptions against 
  forward-looking publicly available macro-
Our procedures for ECL (collective provision for 
On 1 September 2018, the Consolidated Entity  economic information, such as forecasts for 
impairment)  included:   
and Bank adopted AASB 9 Financial  Real-GDP, residential house price index and 
Instruments (AASB 9).    Understanding the key controls on the    unemployment rates. 
Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s estimate of 
The accounting standards require ECLs to      Assessing the out of model adjustments 
the ECL, including: 
incorporate forward–looking assumptions,  applied by the Consolidated Entity and Bank to 
reflecting the Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s    review and approval by Management of    the ECL estimates. We compared the loan 
view of future economic scenarios.  
key forward-looking assumptions used in    portfolios’ underlying performance and 
ECL (collective provision for impairment) for  the model;   characteristics to current market conditions, 
 
loans and advances at amortised cost is a key  emerging risks and trends, using our 
  review and approval by Management of 
audit matter due to the significance of loans    knowledge of the industry and public views of 
key data elements used in the ECL 
and advances balances and judgement applied  commentators. 
models;   
by the Consolidated Entity and Bank in 
 
determining the ECL, and the resulting    monitoring mechanisms to identify loans   
judgement required by us in challenging these  with a SICR or default event; and  For credit–impaired loans, it is the Consolidated  Our procedures for specific provision for 
estimates.  Entity’s and Bank’s policy to determine specific  impairment for credit-impaired loans included: 
  review and approval mechanisms in place 
The Consolidated Entity and Bank has exercised  to assess the ECL output and out of  provision for impairment in addition to the    Testing key credit risk monitoring controls, 
judgement in developing ECL models and also  model adjustments.  collective provision based on their judgement.  including controls for loan risk ratings, annual 
in determining assumptions such as defining a  This focuses on estimating when an  assessments of loans and security valuations. 
significant increase in credit risk (SICR). This  With the assistance of our credit risk specialists,  impairment event has occurred and the present 
estimation is inherently challenging and uses  our further procedures included:  value of expected future cash flows, which    Performing credit assessment, on a sample of 
complex models based on the Consolidated  have high estimation uncertainty. We focused  loans and advances including business and 
Entity’s and Bank’s ability to predict probability    Assessing the appropriateness of the  on the high degree of estimation uncertainty  agribusiness loans for which specific 
of default and loss given default. The ECL  Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s provisioning  related to the business and agribusiness loans,  impairment provisions are held. This included:  
methodology against the requirements of the 
staging requirements in the models incorporate  as the forecast cash flows are dependent on    Considering the latest developments 
estimates of default on both a 12 month and  accounting standards and industry practice  future and uncertain events, for example, the 
in relation to the borrower by 
timing and proceeds from the future sale of 
inspecting the Consolidated Entity’s 
collateral.    
  and Bank’s latest loan strategy papers 
172 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
 
 
           
 
lifetime basis.   including estimates of default on both a 12 
month and lifetime basis. 
We applied significant judgement to assess the 
impact of the forward-looking macroeconomic    Testing the completeness and accuracy of  
assumptions and factors outside of the control  relevant data elements used within ECL 
of the Consolidated Entity and Bank on their  models for a sample of customers, such as 
ECL models. 
checking year end balances to the general 
Significant judgement is applied by the  ledger, and repayment history and risk ratings 
Consolidated Entity and Bank in determining  to source systems. 
the nature and level of out of model 
  Re-performing the ECL calculation for loan 
adjustments. It is the Consolidated Entity’s and 
portfolios using the Consolidated Entity’s and 
Bank’s policy to use out of model adjustments 
Bank’s provisioning methodology and relevant 
where the underlying models may not 
data used within the ECL models, as tested 
represent emerging risks or trends in the loan 
above. We compared our results to the 
portfolios.  
amount recorded by the Consolidated Entity 
  and Bank. 
    Determining key assumptions within the ECL 
models including SICR and assessed the 
 
Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s analysis over 
  these assumptions including whether the 
methodology used in developing the 
 
assumption was appropriate and in line with 
  accounting standards requirements.  
    Assessing the ECL assumptions against 
  forward-looking publicly available macro-
economic information, such as forecasts for 
 
Real-GDP, residential house price index and 
  unemployment rates. 
    Assessing the out of model adjustments 
applied by the Consolidated Entity and Bank to 
 
the ECL estimates. We compared the loan 
  portfolios’ underlying performance and 
characteristics to current market conditions, 
 
emerging risks and trends, using our 
  knowledge of the industry and public views of 
commentators. 
 
 
 
Our procedures for specific provision for 
For credit–impaired loans, it is the Consolidated 
Entity’s and Bank’s policy to determine specific  impairment for credit-impaired loans included: 
provision for impairment in addition to the 
  Testing key credit risk monitoring controls, 
collective provision based on their judgement. 
including controls for loan risk ratings, annual 
This focuses on estimating when an 
assessments of loans and security valuations. 
impairment event has occurred and the present 
value of expected future cash flows, which    Performing credit assessment, on a sample of 
have high estimation uncertainty. We focused  loans and advances including business and 
on the high degree of estimation uncertainty  agribusiness loans for which specific 
related to the business and agribusiness loans,  impairment provisions are held. This included:  
as the forecast cash flows are dependent on 
  Considering the latest developments 
future and uncertain events, for example, the 
in relation to the borrower by 
timing and proceeds from the future sale of 
inspecting the Consolidated Entity’s 
collateral.    
and Bank’s latest loan strategy papers 
Annual Report 2019 173
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
   
   
                       
   
for evidence of occurrence of  Valuation of goodwill – Consolidated Entity and Bank 
 
impairment events and inquiries with 
  Management;  Refer to Note 4.1 to the Financial Reports 
  Examining the forecasts of future 
cash flows prepared by the  The key audit matter  How the matter was addressed in our audits 
Consolidated Entity and Bank, 
including key assumptions in relation 
to the amount and timing of  The assessment of the valuation of goodwill is  Our procedures included: 
recoveries, by:  considered a key audit matter due to the 
  Considering the appropriateness of the VIU 
significant forward-looking assumptions used in 
I.  Checking the collateral valuation  method applied by the Consolidated Entity and 
the Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s value-in-
and other sources of repayment 
Bank to perform the annual test of goodwill for 
use (VIU) model.  
underlying the Consolidated 
impairment against the requirements of the 
Entity’s and Bank’s determination  We focused on the significant forward-looking  accounting standards. 
of the impairment to external  assumptions applied in the VIU model, 
evidence where available,  including:    Assessing the integrity of the VIU model used, 
including the Consolidated  including the accuracy of the underlying 
Entity’s and Bank’s external  •  Forecast operating cash flows, forecast  calculations. 
growth rates and the terminal growth rates. 
valuation expert reports; and 
Estimating the projected cash flow forecast    Assessing the historical accuracy of the 
II.  Checking the consistency of  is inherently uncertain. The sector in which  Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s forecast 
methods applied by the  the Consolidated Entity and Bank operates  operating cash flows by comparing to actual 
Consolidated Entity and Bank in  in is highly competitive and experiencing  past performance, to inform our evaluation of 
estimating the expected future  slower growth and regulatory change,  forecasts incorporated in the VIU model.  
cash flows, including timing, from  which increases the risk of inaccurate 
  Challenging the key forecast cash flow 
the estimated sale proceeds from  forecasting; and 
assumptions used in the VIU model using our 
the collateral in calculating the 
recoveries.  •  Discount rate – this is judgemental in  knowledge of the Consolidated Entity and 
nature and varies according to the specific  Bank, their past performance, and our inquiries 
  Challenging the Consolidated Entity’s  conditions and environment of the relevant  with Management.  We also compared key 
and Bank’s judgement with respect to  cash-generating unit (CGU).   assumptions to the Consolidated Entity’s and 
estimated recoverable values by  Bank’s Board approved FY20 Budget.  
 
considering current economic 
We involved valuation specialists to supplement    Using our industry knowledge and published 
conditions and specific areas of credit 
our senior audit team members in assessing  studies of industry trends and expectations, 
risk concentration (industries and 
geographies), which may impact  this key audit matter.  assessing the impact of the regulatory change 
and increased competition on the 
security values. 
Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s key 
  Assessing the appropriateness of the  assumptions, specifically growth rates and 
Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s disclosures  terminal growth rates, for indicators of bias 
in the financial reports using our  and inconsistent application. 
understanding obtained from our testing 
  Working with our valuation specialists, using 
against the requirements of the accounting 
our knowledge of the Consolidated Entity and 
standards. 
Bank and its industry, to independently 
  develop a discount rate range considered 
comparable using publicly available market 
 
data for comparable entities adjusted by risk 
factors specific to the Consolidated Entity and 
 
the industry it operates in.  
 
  Performing sensitivity analysis by varying key 
  assumptions, in particular discount rates, 
forecast growth rates and terminal growth 
  rates, within a reasonably possible range, to 
identify those assumptions at a higher risk of 
 
bias or inconsistency in application and to 
  focus our further procedures. 
174 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
   
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
 
 
           
 
Valuation of goodwill – Consolidated Entity and Bank 
Refer to Note 4.1 to the Financial Reports 
The key audit matter  How the matter was addressed in our audits 
The assessment of the valuation of goodwill is  Our procedures included: 
considered a key audit matter due to the 
  Considering the appropriateness of the VIU 
significant forward-looking assumptions used in 
method applied by the Consolidated Entity and 
the Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s value-in-
Bank to perform the annual test of goodwill for 
use (VIU) model.  
impairment against the requirements of the 
We focused on the significant forward-looking  accounting standards. 
assumptions applied in the VIU model, 
  Assessing the integrity of the VIU model used, 
including: 
including the accuracy of the underlying 
•  Forecast operating cash flows, forecast  calculations. 
growth rates and the terminal growth rates. 
Estimating the projected cash flow forecast    Assessing the historical accuracy of the 
is inherently uncertain. The sector in which  Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s forecast 
the Consolidated Entity and Bank operates  operating cash flows by comparing to actual 
in is highly competitive and experiencing  past performance, to inform our evaluation of 
slower growth and regulatory change,  forecasts incorporated in the VIU model.  
which increases the risk of inaccurate 
  Challenging the key forecast cash flow 
forecasting; and 
assumptions used in the VIU model using our 
•  Discount rate – this is judgemental in  knowledge of the Consolidated Entity and 
nature and varies according to the specific  Bank, their past performance, and our inquiries 
conditions and environment of the relevant  with Management.  We also compared key 
cash-generating unit (CGU).   assumptions to the Consolidated Entity’s and 
Bank’s Board approved FY20 Budget.  
 
We involved valuation specialists to supplement    Using our industry knowledge and published 
our senior audit team members in assessing  studies of industry trends and expectations, 
this key audit matter.  assessing the impact of the regulatory change 
and increased competition on the 
Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s key 
assumptions, specifically growth rates and 
terminal growth rates, for indicators of bias 
and inconsistent application. 
  Working with our valuation specialists, using 
our knowledge of the Consolidated Entity and 
Bank and its industry, to independently 
develop a discount rate range considered 
comparable using publicly available market 
data for comparable entities adjusted by risk 
factors specific to the Consolidated Entity and 
the industry it operates in.  
  Performing sensitivity analysis by varying key 
assumptions, in particular discount rates, 
forecast growth rates and terminal growth 
rates, within a reasonably possible range, to 
identify those assumptions at a higher risk of 
bias or inconsistency in application and to 
focus our further procedures. 
Annual Report 2019 175
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
   
   
                       
   
Bank, results of our testing and inquiring with 
  Assessing the disclosures in the financial 
Project Managers. 
report using our understanding of the 
information obtained from our testing and 
against the requirements of the accounting  Valuation of financial instruments at fair value – Consolidated Entity and Bank 
standards. 
Refer to Note 3.7 and 3.8 to the Financial Reports 
Valuation of intangible computer software – Consolidated Entity and Bank 
The key audit matter  How the matter was addressed in our audits 
Refer to Note 4.1 to the Financial Reports 
The valuation of financial instruments measured  Working with our valuation specialists, our 
at fair value is considered a key audit matter as  procedures included: 
The key audit matter  How the matter was addressed in our audits 
determining the fair value of financial 
  Checking the Consolidated Entity’s and the 
instruments involves a significant level of 
Bank’s valuation of a sample of financial 
The assessment of the valuation of intangible  Our procedures included:  judgement by the Consolidated Entity and 
instruments (asset and liabilities), by 
computer software is considered a key audit  Bank. The level of judgement increases where 
  Evaluating the Consolidated Entity’s and  comparing the observable inputs, including 
matter due to the significant:  key inputs to the valuation are not readily 
Bank’s intangible computer software  quoted prices, to independently sourced 
available in the market and require additional 
  amount of costs capitalised during the year.  capitalisation policy against the capitalisation  market data. 
judgement.  This increases the risk of error and 
criteria and guidance in the relevant 
  judgement applied by us to assess the  adds complexity to our audit.    Using independent models, reperforming the 
accounting standards. 
Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s  valuation for a sample of derivative assets and 
We involved valuation specialists to supplement 
determination of:     For a sample of internally generated computer  liabilities where fair value was determined 
our senior audit team members in assessing 
software projects currently under  using observable inputs. This included 
  capitalised costs – the nature and  this key audit matter. 
development, challenging the Consolidated  comparing a sample of observable inputs in 
amount of costs to be capitalised in 
Entity’s and Bank’s application of the  the Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s 
accordance with the requirements of 
capitalisation policy. Specifically, we  valuations to independently sourced market 
the accounting standards. This can be 
challenged:  data, such as interest rates, foreign exchange 
inherently subjective for internally 
rates and volatilities. 
generated computer software projects.    the nature of project costs capitalised by 
testing a sample of capitalised costs to    Where the fair value of derivatives and other 
  expected useful life – on completion of   
the project scope of work and underlying  financial assets were determined using 
internally generated computer 
invoices and timesheets, as well as  unobservable inputs (‘level 3’ instruments), 
software, the accounting standards 
inquiries with Management; and  challenging the Consolidated Entity’s and 
require the Consolidated Entity and 
Bank’s valuation by testing the key inputs 
Bank to estimate the useful life of the    the Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s 
used to comparable data in the market, 
computer software and amortise the  assessment of projects not yet classified 
including the use of proxy instruments and 
asset over this period. This assessment  as ‘ready for-use’ for indicators of being in 
available alternatives. We also checked the 
is based on the intended use of the  use, such as checking the phase of 
Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s valuation 
asset.  This can be judgemental and  implementation with Project Managers, 
methodology to industry practice and the 
dependent upon future events,  and hence being subject to amortisation. 
criteria in the accounting standards. 
including advances in technology, 
  For a sample of internally generated computer 
thereby increasing the complexity in    Assessing the appropriateness of the 
software classified as ‘in-use’, challenging the 
estimating useful life.   Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s disclosures 
Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s estimated 
in the financial reports using our understanding 
  We also focused on the analysis of  period of economic benefit from the use of the 
obtained from our testing against the 
impairment indicators performed by the  software compared to the original project plan. 
requirements of the accounting standards. 
Consolidated Entity and Bank.  We also specifically focused on the 
continuation of the original project feasibility   
for those projects behind schedule, 
 
considering emerging technology.     
 
  Considering the Consolidated Entity’s and 
Bank’s assessment of intangible computer   
software impairment indicators by using our 
 
knowledge of the Consolidated Entity and 
176 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
   
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
 
 
           
 
Bank, results of our testing and inquiring with 
Project Managers. 
Valuation of financial instruments at fair value – Consolidated Entity and Bank 
Refer to Note 3.7 and 3.8 to the Financial Reports 
The key audit matter  How the matter was addressed in our audits 
The valuation of financial instruments measured  Working with our valuation specialists, our 
at fair value is considered a key audit matter as  procedures included: 
determining the fair value of financial 
  Checking the Consolidated Entity’s and the 
instruments involves a significant level of 
Bank’s valuation of a sample of financial 
judgement by the Consolidated Entity and 
instruments (asset and liabilities), by 
Bank. The level of judgement increases where 
comparing the observable inputs, including 
key inputs to the valuation are not readily 
quoted prices, to independently sourced 
available in the market and require additional 
market data. 
judgement.  This increases the risk of error and 
adds complexity to our audit.    Using independent models, reperforming the 
valuation for a sample of derivative assets and 
We involved valuation specialists to supplement 
liabilities where fair value was determined 
our senior audit team members in assessing 
using observable inputs. This included 
this key audit matter. 
comparing a sample of observable inputs in 
the Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s 
valuations to independently sourced market 
data, such as interest rates, foreign exchange 
rates and volatilities. 
  Where the fair value of derivatives and other 
financial assets were determined using 
unobservable inputs (‘level 3’ instruments), 
challenging the Consolidated Entity’s and 
Bank’s valuation by testing the key inputs 
used to comparable data in the market, 
including the use of proxy instruments and 
available alternatives. We also checked the 
Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s valuation 
methodology to industry practice and the 
criteria in the accounting standards. 
  Assessing the appropriateness of the 
Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s disclosures 
in the financial reports using our understanding 
obtained from our testing against the 
requirements of the accounting standards. 
 
 
 
 
 
Annual Report 2019 177
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
   
   
                       
   
Information Technology (IT) systems and controls – Consolidated Entity and Bank  In connection with our audits of the Financial Reports, our responsibility is to read the Other 
Information. In doing so, we consider whether the Other Information is materially inconsistent with 
Refer to Basis of Preparation in Note 1 to the Financial Reports  the Financial Reports or our knowledge obtained in the audits, or otherwise appears to be materially 
misstated. 
The key audit matter  How the matter was addressed in our audits  We are required to report if we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this Other 
Information, and based on the work we have performed on the Other Information that we obtained 
prior to the date of this Auditor’s Report we have nothing to report. 
The Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s business  We tested the general controls over key IT 
utilises a number of complex, interdependent  applications (systems) used in processing 
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Reports 
Information Technology (IT) systems to process  significant transactions and recording balances in 
and record a high volume of transactions.  the general ledger. We also tested automated 
The Directors are responsible for: 
Controls over user access, change  controls embedded within these systems. 
management, program development and other  Working with our IT specialists, our procedures    preparing the Financial Reports that give a true and fair view in accordance with Australian 
operational controls in IT systems are critical to  included:  Accounting Standards and the Corporations Act 2001. 
the recording of financial information and the 
  Testing the governance controls used by the    implementing necessary internal controls to enable the preparation of a Financial Report that 
preparation of financial reports. The IT systems 
Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s IT team to  gives a true and fair view and is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or 
and controls, as they impact the financial 
monitor system integrity, by checking matters  error. 
recording and reporting of transactions, is a key 
impacting the operational integrity of core 
audit matter, and significantly affect our audit    assessing the Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern and 
systems for escalation and action in 
approach.   whether the use of the going concern basis of accounting is appropriate. This includes 
accordance with the Consolidated Entity’s and 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis 
Our IT specialists were used throughout the  Bank’s policies. 
of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Consolidated Entity or Bank or to 
engagement as a core part of our audit team. 
  Testing the access rights (including privileged  cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.  
users) given to staff by checking them to 
approved records and inspecting the reports  Auditor’s responsibilities for the audits of the Financial Reports 
for granting and removal of access rights. 
Our objective is: 
  Testing preventative controls designed to 
enforce segregation of duties between users    to obtain reasonable assurance about whether each of the Financial Reports as a whole are 
within particular IT systems.  free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; and  
  Testing the change management controls    to issue an Auditor’s Report that includes our opinions.  
related to code development and workflows 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
approval. 
accordance with Australian Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it 
  Testing the automated controls, principally  exists. 
relating to the automated calculation of certain 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error. They are considered material if, individually or in the 
transactions and the generation of certain 
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on 
reports. For a sample of automated 
the basis of the Financial Reports. 
calculations, we tested the inputs used within 
the calculations to source data and also tested  A further description of our responsibilities for the audits of the Financial Reports is located at the 
the accuracy of the calculations.  Auditing and Assurance Standards Board website at: 
http://www.auasb.gov.au/auditors_responsibilities/ar1.pdf. This description forms part of our Auditor’s 
  Report. 
 
Other Information   
 
Other Information is financial and non-financial information in Bank of Queensland Limited’s annual   
reporting which is provided in addition to the Financial Reports and the Auditor's Report. The   
Directors are responsible for the Other Information.    
 
Our opinions on the Financial Reports do not cover the Other Information and, accordingly, we do not 
 
express an audit opinion or any form of assurance conclusion thereon, with the exception of the 
 
Remuneration Report and our related assurance opinion. 
 
 
178 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
   
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
 
 
           
 
In connection with our audits of the Financial Reports, our responsibility is to read the Other 
Information. In doing so, we consider whether the Other Information is materially inconsistent with 
the Financial Reports or our knowledge obtained in the audits, or otherwise appears to be materially 
misstated. 
We are required to report if we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this Other 
Information, and based on the work we have performed on the Other Information that we obtained 
prior to the date of this Auditor’s Report we have nothing to report. 
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Reports 
The Directors are responsible for: 
  preparing the Financial Reports that give a true and fair view in accordance with Australian 
Accounting Standards and the Corporations Act 2001. 
  implementing necessary internal controls to enable the preparation of a Financial Report that 
gives a true and fair view and is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or 
error. 
  assessing the Consolidated Entity’s and Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern and 
whether the use of the going concern basis of accounting is appropriate. This includes 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis 
of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Consolidated Entity or Bank or to 
cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.  
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audits of the Financial Reports 
Our objective is: 
  to obtain reasonable assurance about whether each of the Financial Reports as a whole are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; and  
  to issue an Auditor’s Report that includes our opinions.  
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with Australian Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it 
exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error. They are considered material if, individually or in the 
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on 
the basis of the Financial Reports. 
A further description of our responsibilities for the audits of the Financial Reports is located at the 
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board website at: 
http://www.auasb.gov.au/auditors_responsibilities/ar1.pdf. This description forms part of our Auditor’s 
Report. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annual Report 2019 179
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
 
 
           
 
Report on the Remuneration Report 
Opinion  Directors’ responsibilities 
In our opinion, the Remuneration Report  The Directors of the Bank are responsible for the 
of Bank of Queensland Limited for the  preparation and presentation of the Remuneration 
year ended 31 August 2019, complies  Report in accordance with Section 300A of the 
with Section 300A of the Corporations Act  Corporations Act 2001. 
2001. 
 
Our responsibilities 
We have audited the Remuneration Report included in 
pages 58 - 84 of the Directors’ report for the year ended 
31 August 2019.  
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Remuneration Report, based on our audit conducted in 
accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. 
 
 
KPM_INI_0                  
1 
 
PAR_SIG_01  PAR_NAM_01  PAR_POS_01  PAR_DAT_01  PAR_CIT_01           
 
 
 
 
 
KPMG  Robert Warren  
  Partner 
  Sydney  
  16 October 2019 
 
180 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
 
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
SHAREHOLDING DETAILS
As at Thursday 26 September 2019, the following shareholding details applied:
1.  TWENTY LARGEST ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS
No. of ordinary 
SHAREHOLDER shares %
HSBC CUSTODY NOMINEES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED  68,742,849 16.94
J P MORGAN NOMINEES AUSTRALIA PTY LIMITED  33,021,389 8.14
CITICORP NOMINEES PTY LIMITED  18,537,408 4.57
NATIONAL NOMINEES LIMITED  14,890,010 3.67
MILTON CORPORATION LIMITED  7,306,078 1.80
BNP PARIBAS NOMINEES PTY LTD  3,245,708 0.80
BNP PARIBAS NOMS PTY LTD  2,528,756 0.62
NATIONAL NOMINEES LIMITED  1,500,189 0.37
AMP LIFE LIMITED  1,119,548 0.28
CITICORP NOMINEES PTY LIMITED  1,062,511 0.26
CS THIRD NOMINEES PTY LIMITED  1,051,790 0.26
NAVIGATOR AUSTRALIA LTD  1,018,524 0.25
HSBC CUSTODY NOMINEES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED  949,885 0.23
HSBC CUSTODY NOMINEES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED-GSCO ECA  886,042 0.22
CARLTON HOTEL LIMITED  767,873 0.19
PRUDENTIAL NOMINEES PTY LTD  750,000 0.18
KARATAL HOLDINGS PTY LTD  692,344 0.17
THE MANLY HOTELS PTY LIMITED  655,540 0.16
PACIFIC CUSTODIANS PTY LIMITED  622,840 0.15
BNP PARIBAS NOMINEES PTY LTD HUB24 CUSTODIAL SERV LTD DRP  559,232 0.14
Total 159,908,516 39.41
The above table includes shareholders that may hold shares for the benefit of third parties.
Voting rights
On a show of hands every person present who is a holder of ordinary shares or a duly appointed representative of a holder of ordinary 
shares has one vote, and on a poll each member present in person or by proxy or attorney has one vote for each share that person holds.
Annual Report 2019 181
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
SHAREHOLDING DETAILS
As at Thursday 26 September 2019, the following shareholding details applied:
2.  TWENTY LARGEST CAPITAL NOTES SHAREHOLDERS
No. of capital 
SHAREHOLDER notes %
HSBC CUSTODY NOMINEES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED  154,365 4.41
BNP PARIBAS NOMINEES PTY LTD HUB24 CUSTODIAL SERV LTD DRP  88,304 2.52
DIOCESE DEVELOPMENT FUND - CATHOLIC DIOCESE OF PARAMATTA  65,000 1.86
HSBC CUSTODY NOMINEES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED - A/C 2  57,123 1.63
JOHN E GILL TRADING PTY LTD  54,593 1.56
NATIONAL NOMINEES LIMITED  52,040 1.49
DOMER MINING CO PTY LTD  32,200 0.92
TRUSTEES OF CHURCH PROPERTY FOR THE DIOCESE OF NEWCASTLE  27,499 0.79
FEDERATION UNIVERSITY AUSTRALIA  21,935 0.63
INVIA CUSTODIAN PTY LIMITED  21,310 0.61
HAVENFLASH PTY LTD  21,000 0.60
J P MORGAN NOMINEES AUSTRALIA PTY LIMITED  20,726 0.59
NETWEALTH INVESTMENTS LIMITED  18,058 0.52
CITICORP NOMINEES PTY LIMITED  17,179 0.49
NAVIGATOR AUSTRALIA LTD  16,097 0.46
PACIFIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PTY LTD  15,500 0.44
NETWEALTH INVESTMENTS LIMITED  15,154 0.43
SIMPLY BRILLIANT PTY LTD  15,000 0.43
NAVIGATOR AUSTRALIA LTD  14,161 0.40
SEYMOUR GROUP PTY LTD  14,000 0.40
Total 741,244 21.18
The above table includes shareholders that may hold shares for the benefit of third parties.
Voting rights
Capital Notes do not give the holders any voting rights at any general shareholders meetings, except in certain circumstances.
3.  DISTRIBUTION OF EQUITY SECURITY HOLDERS
Ordinary Shares Capital Notes
Category 2019 2018 2019 2018
1 - 1,000 57,361 58,232 5,148 5,078
1,001 - 5,000 31,527 31,460 403 420
5,001 - 10,000 6,764 6,240 30 28
10,001 - 100,000 4,017 3,406 26 23
100,001 - and over 93 77 1 2
Total 99,762 99,415 5,608 5,551
The number of ordinary shareholders holding less than a marketable parcel is 3,177.
The number of capital notes holders holding less than a marketable parcel is 19.
182 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
SHAREHOLDING DETAILS
4.  PARTLY PAID SHARES
   There are no partly paid shares.
5.  S  UBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS 
   The names of substantial shareholders in the Bank, per the meaning within the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), and the number of shares 
   in which each has an interest as disclosed in substantial shareholder notices given to the Bank were:
No. of ordinary shares in which 
interest is held (at date of 
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDER notification) Date of notification
The Vanguard Group Inc.  19,929,774  9 July 2018
BlackRock Group  23,980,966  2 November 2018
6.  SECURITIES EXCHANGE LISTING
   T he shares of Bank of Queensland Limited (BOQ) and Capital Notes (BOQPE) are quoted on the Australian Stock Exchange.
   BOQ’s medium-term notes and covered bonds are listed on the London Stock Exchange. 
7.  OPTIONS
   At 31 August 2019, there were no options over unissued ordinary shares.
8.	 ON	MARKET	BUY-BACK
   There is no current on market buy-back.
9.  OTHER INFORMATION 
   BOQ is a publicly listed company limited by shares and is incorporated and domiciled in Australia.
Annual Report 2019 183
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
SHARE REGISTRY COMPANY DETAILS CUSTOMER SERVICE
Link Market Services Limited Bank of Queensland Limited  Australia: 1300 55 72 72 
ABN 32 009 656 740  International: +61 7 3336 2420
Level 21, 10 Eagle Street 
ACN 009 656 740
Brisbane Qld 4000 Postal address:  
Registered office:  GPO Box 898 
Australia: 1800 779 639 
Level 6, 100 Skyring Terrace  Brisbane Qld 4001
International: +61 1800 779 639 
Newstead Qld 4006
Email: boq@linkmarketservices.com.au
Telephone: +61 7 3212 3333 
linkmarketservices.com.au
Investor Relations: +61 7 3212 3990
boq.com.au 
twitter.com/boq 
facebook.com.au/BOQOnline
KEY SHAREHOLDER DATES
Dividend dates for ordinary shares only are:
2019
Financial full year end 31 August 2019
Full year results and dividend announcement 17 October 2019
Final ex-dividend date 6 November 2019
Final dividend record date 7 November 2019
Final dividend payment date 27 November 2019
Annual General Meeting 10 December 2019
184 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
Financial Statements  90  |  Signed Reports  170  |  Shareholding Details  181  |  5 Year Summary  185
5 YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY
2019 2018  2017  2016  2015 
$ millions (unless otherwise stated) $m $m $m $m $m
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE (1)
Net interest income  961   965   926   937   907 
Non interest income  128   145   175   173   180 
Total income  1,089   1,110   1,101   1,110   1,087 
Operating expenses  (550)  (527)  (513)  (520)  (500)
Underlying profit before tax (2)  539   583   588   590   587 
Loan impairment expense   (74)  (41)  (48)  (67)  (74)
Cash earnings before tax  465   542   540   523   513 
Cash earnings after tax attributable to ordinary shareholders (3)  320   372   378   360   357 
Statutory net profit after tax   298   336   352   338   318 
FINANCIAL POSITION
Gross loans and advances (4)  46,216   45,279   43,817   43,152  40,975 
Total assets  55,597   52,980   51,658   50,853   48,018 
Customer deposits  32,428   31,325   30,190   29,122   26,914 
Total liabilities  51,738   49,124   47,869   47,266   44,549 
Total equity  3,859   3,856   3,788   3,587   3,469 
SHAREHOLDER PERFORMANCE
Market capitalisation at balance date  3,721   4,565   4,932   4,020   4,698 
Share price at balance date ($)  9.17   11.49   12.59   10.55   12.67 
Cash basic earnings per share (cents)   79.6   94.7   97.6   95.6   97.3 
Cash diluted earnings per share (cents)   74.0   89.3   93.9   90.7   92.2 
Fully franked dividend per ordinary share (cents)  65   76   76   76   74 
Fully franked special dividend per ordinary share (cents) - - 8 - -
Cash dividend payout ratio to ordinary shareholders  82% 81% 78% (5) 80% 77%
CASH EARNINGS RATIOS (6) 
Net interest margin (7)  1.93%   1.98%   1.87%   1.94%   1.97% 
Cost-to-income ratio  50.5%   47.5%   46.6%   46.8%   46.0% 
Return on average ordinary equity  8.3%   9.9%  10.4% 10.3% 10.7%
CAPITAL ADEQUACY
Common Equity Tier 1 ratio   9.04%   9.31%   9.39%   9.00%   8.91% 
Total Capital Adequacy ratio   12.40%   12.76%   12.37%   12.29%   12.72%
(1)   All amounts disclosed are on cash basis except statutory net profit after tax.
(2) Underlying profit before tax is profit before impairment on loans and advances, significant items and tax.
(3)		Cash	earnings	after	tax	exclude	significant	items	(tax	effected).
(4) Before specific and collective provisions.
(5) This ratio was 87 per cent including special dividend.
(6) Excludes impact of significant items.
(7)	2019	and	2018	NIM	is	net	of	offset	accounts.
Annual Report 2019 185
GLOSSARY
TERM DESCRIPTION
APRA Prudential Standard (APS) Prudential standards issued by APRA which are applicable to ADIs.
Australian Accounting Standards Board  The AASB produces a series of technical pronouncements that set out the 
(AASB) measurement and recognition requirements when accounting for particular types of 
transactions and events, along with the preparation and presentation requirements of 
an entity’s financial statements.
Australian Finance Industry Association   AFIA is the national association for the equipment leasing and financing industry. 
(AFIA) Formerly Australian Equipment Lessors Association.
Australian Prudential Regulation Authority  APRA is the prudential regulator of the Australian financial services industry. APRA is an 
(APRA) independent statutory authority that supervises institutions across banking, insurance 
and superannuation and promotes financial system stability in Australia.
Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) Australian Securities Exchange or ASX Limited (ABN 98 008 624 691) and the market 
activities operated by ASX Limited.
Authorised deposit-taking institution (ADI) A corporation which is authorised under the Banking Act 1959 and includes banks, building 
societies and credit unions.
Available stable funding (ASF) ASF is the portion of capital and liabilities expected to be reliable over the time horizon 
considered by the NSFR, which extends to one year.
Average interest earning assets Average balance over the period for a bank’s assets that accrue interest income.
Bank of Queensland Limited (the Bank or  The Bank is a for-profit entity primarily involved in providing retail banking, leasing finance, 
BOQ) and insurance products to its customers.
Basel II and III A global regulatory framework to improve the regulation, supervision and risk 
management within the banking system developed by the Basel Committee on Banking 
Supervision.
Basis points (bps) One per cent of one per cent (0.01 per cent).
Capital Notes (BOQPE) Capital Notes are perpetual, convertible, unguaranteed and unsecured notes issued 
by BOQ, with preferred, discretionary, non-cumulative distributions. Capital Notes 
may convert into common shares in certain circumstances as described in the offer 
documentation of the notes.
Cash earnings Cash Earnings is a non-accounting standards measure commonly used in the banking 
industry to assist in presenting a clear view of underlying earnings.
Committed liquidity facility (CLF) The RBA provides a CLF to certain ADIs as part of Australia’s implementation of the Basel III 
liquidity standards. The facility is designed to ensure that participating ADIs have enough 
access to liquidity to respond to an acute stress scenario, as specified under the relevant APS.
Common equity tier 1 (CET1) Capital that is recognised as the highest quality component of capital under APS.
Common equity tier 1 ratio (CET1 ratio) CET1 capital divided by total RWA calculated in accordance with relevant APS.
Consolidated Entity (the Group) BOQ and its subsidiaries
Cost to income ratio (CTI) Operating expenses divided by net operating income.
Corporations Act 2001 The Corporations Act 2001 (Cth)
Covered bond guarantor Perpetual Corporate Trust Limited ABN 99 000 341 533, incorporated with limited liability 
in the Commonwealth of Australia and having its registered office at Level 18, 123 Pitt 
Street, Sydney, NSW 2000, as trustee of the BOQ Covered Bond Trust (the Trustee).
Days past due (dpd) A loan or lease payment that has not been made by a customer by the due date.
Dividend payout ratio Dividends paid on ordinary shares divided by earnings.
Dividend reinvestment plan (DRP) A plan which provides shareholders with the opportunity to convert all or part of their 
entitlement to a dividend into new shares.
Dividend yield Dividend shown as a percentage of the share price.
Earnings per share (EPS) Measure of earnings attributed to each equivalent ordinary share over a twelve month 
period. This is calculated by dividing the company’s earnings by the weighted average 
number of shares on issue in accordance with AASB 133 Earnings per share.
Effective tax rate Income tax expense divided by profit before tax.
Equipment hire purchase trust (EHP trust) EHP trust under the REDS securitisation program, issuing asset backed securities to the 
term market.
Euro-Commercial Paper (ECP) ECP is an offshore short term commercial paper program.
Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN) EMTN is an offshore medium term note program.
Full time equivalent (FTE) A calculation based on number of hours worked by full and part time employees as part of 
their normal duties.
186 Bank of Queensland Limited and its Controlled Entities
GLOSSARY
TERM DESCRIPTION
General reserve for credit losses (GRCL) An estimate of the reasonable and prudent expected credit losses over the remaining life 
of the portfolio and on non-defaulted assets, not covered by provisions for impairment.
Gross loans and advances (GLA) Initially recognised at fair value plus incremental direct transaction costs and 
subsequently measured at each reporting date at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
High Quality Liquid Asset (HQLA1) Comprises of the Bank’s notes and coins and marketable securities representing claims 
on or guaranteed by the Australian Government or Semi-Government authorities. 
Impaired assets Exposures that have deteriorated to the point where full collection of principal and 
interest is in doubt.
Interest bearing liabilities The Bank’s liabilities that accrue interest expense.
International Financial Reporting Standards  IFRS and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
(IFRS)
Issued capital Value of securities allotted in a company to its shareholders.
Line of credit (LOC) A flexible facility that allows a customer to draw down on their approved available credit at 
any time, as long as the customer does not exceed the approved credit limit.
Liquid assets  All unencumbered RBA repurchase eligible liquid assets including HQLA1 and assets able 
to be pledged as collateral to the RBA under the CLF.
Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) The ratio of HQLA1 that can be converted into cash easily and immediately in private 
markets, to total net cash flows required to meet the Group’s liquidity needs for a 30 day 
calendar liquidity stress scenario as determined in accordance with APS.
Net interest margin (NIM) Net interest income divided by average interest-earning assets.
Net stable funding ratio (NSFR) The NSFR is defined as the amount of ASF relative to the amount of required stable 
funding. This ratio should be equal to at least 100% on an on-going basis. ASF is defined 
as the portion of capital and liabilities expected to be reliable over the time horizon 
considered by the NSFR, which extends to one year. The amount of such stable funding 
required of a specific institution is a function of the liquidity characteristics and residual 
maturities of the various assets held by that institution as well as those of its off-balance 
sheet exposures. 
Net tangible assets (NTA) Net tangible assets are calculated as the total assets of a company minus any intangible 
assets such as goodwill, less all liabilities and the par value of preferred stock.
Non-interest earning assets The Bank’s assets that do not accrue interest income.
Owner Managed branch (OMB) A branch which is run by a franchisee.
REDS Term to describe the BOQ securitisation programmes. 
Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) The RBA is Australia’s central bank and derives its functions and powers from the Reserve 
Bank Act 1959 (Cth). Its stated duty is to contribute to the stability of the currency, full 
employment, and the economic prosperity and welfare of the Australian people.
Residential mortgage backed securities  BOQ’s securitisation program which enables the trustee to issue debt securities backed 
(RMBS) by assets originated by the Group such as mortgages and equipment finance receivables.
Return on average equity (ROE) Net profit attributable to the owners of the Bank divided by average ordinary equity.
Return on average tangible equity (ROTE) Net profit attributable to the owners of the Bank divided by average ordinary equity less 
goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. 
Required stable funding (RSF) RSF is an input to the calculation of the NSFR for bank prudential management purposes. 
A bank’s RSF is calculated from its assets, weighted according to their maturity, 
credit quality and liquidity, together with an amount in relation to off balance sheet 
commitments.
Risk weighted assets (RWA) A quantitative measure of various risks including credit, operational, market and 
securitisation as defined by APS. 
Total capital adequacy ratio Total capital divided by total RWA calculated in accordance with relevant APS.
Treasury shares Shares that the Bank has issued but are held by a trust included within the Bank’s 
consolidated results. Treasury shares are not considered shares outstanding and are not 
included in ‘per share’ calculations.
Virgin Money Australia   Virgin Money (Australia) Pty Ltd and its subsidiaries. The VMA entities are subsidiaries 
(VMA or Virgin Money) of the Group that engage in the provision of financial services (e.g. insurance, 
superannuation and home lending) on behalf of business partners, including BOQ.
Weighted average number of shares  Calculated in accordance with AASB 133 Earnings per share.
(WANOS)
Wholesale Capital Notes (WCN) WCNs are notes that may convert into common shares in certain circumstances as 
described in the offer documentation of the notes. 
Annual Report 2019 187
Bank of Queensland Limited
ABN 32 009 656 740