
BNP Paribas REIM
 TAKING ACTION TO   
 DELIVER SUSTAINABLE    
 PERFORMANCE
Real Estate
for a changing
world
TABLE OF ESG-driven for
 
CONTENTS
long-term performance
BNP  Paribas  Real  Estate  Investment  will be classified as “Sustainable”3  under 
02. ESG-driven for long-term performance Management invests in real estate as a  the framework of Europe’s new Sustainable 
living asset. The assets we manage live  Finance  Disclosure  Regulation  (SFDR), 
03. BNP Paribas REIM in two senses. They are assets in which  rising to 90% by 2025. Already in 2022, 
life happens, buildings in which people  100% of our funds for private investors 
05. Context, challenges and key achievements
work, live and have fun. And they are  will be classified as “Sustainable”. At the 
06. Convictions driving long-term assets  that  have  their  own  lifecycle,  same time, we are adopting advanced 
with each stage clearly defined; assets  Impact Investing strategies. Our European 
06. sustainable performance
we treat as if they were living beings. Impact Property Fund (EIPF), launched 
07 in 2020, is the first real estate fund to 
This  view  drives  our  convictions  and  target CO emissions reduction in line 
OUR ESG ACTION PLAN FROM 2021 TO 2025 2
approach  in  terms  of  Environmental  with the Paris Agreement.
09. Our action plan for Environment Social Governance (ESG) integration. It is 
reinforced by our positioning and expe- Second, we take a pragmatic approach. 
11.  Our action plan for Social rience as a pan-European investment  Our CSR Brand new assets tend to attract a lot 
13.  Our action plan for Governance manager, part of the BNP Paribas group  of noise. To be an effective European 
strategy
committed to Positive Banking. investment  manager,  we  need  to  work 
15
meticulously  to  improve  the  ESG 
 is pragmatic,
HOW WE MANAGE ESG INTEGRATION A PRAGMATIC APPROACH performance of existing assets, delivering 
FOCUSED ON PROGRESS relevant and  more  impact  through  our  “Best  in 
16. External stakeholders Progress” investment approach.
First, being ESG-driven is one of our  embedded into
17.  Internal stakeholders
five  strategic  investment  pillars,  ENGAGEMENT DRIVING
19. Our 2020 Materiality study embedded into our business. Integrating  our business MEANINGFUL CHANGE
ESG  criteria  into  our  investment 
20. Collecting trustworthy ESG data decisions enables us to both manage  as a leading I have a deep personal conviction that 
21 risk and drive performance by future- there are no monolithic solutions when 
European
proofing our assets in anticipation of  it comes to ESG integration. Instead, we 
OUR FUND SEGMENTATION
environmental legislation and evolving  must engage with investors and partners 
investment
market demand. at corporate, fund and asset levels to agree 
22. Impact funds
manager. on practical solutions to achieve progress 
23. ESG funds Under our new ESG strategy, launched at  – something that we have been doing for 
the end of 2020, we have chosen to focus  many years to drive asset performance.
24. ESG integration funds
on three ESG objectives: cutting carbon 
25. A circular economy approach emissions, managing assets responsibly  Nathalie CHARLES As one of Europe’s longstanding financial 
and boosting stakeholders’ awareness to  groups,  we  know  that  markets  and 
Global Head of 
27. Mainstream funds achieve positive change. Each objective  society evolve. Right now, there is no 
Investment Management
is  monitored  through  specific  key  yield premium for ESG-driven assets. But 
BNP Paribas Real Estate
performance indicators (KPIs). real estate is a long-term business. Our 
30.  A baseline for green refurbishment
new strategy – and our renewed focus on 
31.  Regional highlights Our target is that, by 2022, 70%1 of our  real estate as a living, breathing asset – 
funds2 open to subscription to investors  will ensure we are ready for a future that 
33. Glossary / Our publications values sustainability.
34. Mazars certification
1/ By market value of assets, based on assets under management at 31 December 2021
2/ Pooled funds for private and institutional investors, excluding funds trading only on secondary markets
3/ Classification as “Sustainable” in compliance with Article 8 and Article 9 of SFDR – European Regulation (EU) 2019/2088
1 BNP Paribas REIM - ESG Report 2020 2
BNP PARIBAS REIM
How we create shared value
BNP Paribas REIM’s strategy is aligned with that of our parent 
company, BNP Paribas Real Estate: to create shared value through 
BNP Paribas REIM invests in real estate as a living asset. We 
an innovative approach to real estate investment management.
deliver sustainable performance for both institutional and private 
investors through our investments in European real estate assets.
AS FUND MANAGERS  We structure investment products, including funds, and separate 
accounts and club deals, providing opportunities for institutional and retail investors.
BNP  Paribas  REIM  is  a  real  estate  of one of the international real estate 
investment manager with more than 50  market’s most prominent and experienced 
€28.9bn  AS ASSET MANAGERS  We deploy capital raised to acquire, manage and improve assets, 
years’ experience working in all sectors  players. Our teams can access the wealth 
and build trust-based relationships with our tenants.
of the European market. We are active in  of  experience  earned  by  both  parent 
eight countries and regulated in France,  companies, and lean on all BNP Paribas 
Assets under management
Germany, Italy and Luxembourg. We offer  entities to help us perform our activities.
long-term  real  estate  investments  for 
clients in Europe, managing a diversified  The BNP Paribas REIM business model 
portfolio  and  providing  investment  closely  follows  that  of  BNP  Paribas   
9.5m
solutions that match clients’ needs and  Real  Estate.  We  manage  a  resilient, 
risk profiles. integrated, diversified portfolio of funds 
and assets with an excellent track record  Total square metres of assets
BNP  Paribas  REIM  is  owned  by  BNP  for performance and growth. We have 
Paribas Real Estate, a company that is  a strong and robust risk management 
in turn 100% owned by the BNP Paribas  strategy  that  has  been  successfully 
banking  group.  This  means  that  our  tested and verified.
1,600+
business  benefits  from  being  a  part 
Buildings managed ECONOMY ENVIRONMENT CLIENTS
OUR ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT
As part of Europe’s second largest  BNP Paribas REIM first formalised our  BNP Paribas REIM takes an 
— AS OF 31 DECEMBER 20201 —
  banking group, BNP Paribas REIM  commitment to improving sustainability  interactive approach to working 
17
has an economic impact on more  performance in 2013, adopting the UN  with our investors and tenants, 
than 200 institutional clients and  Principles for Responsible Investment  encouraging dialogue and 
Countries with assets
OFFICES under management over 150,000 private clients in more  (PRI). Since then, we have progressively  collaboration. Our teams are 
59% €17.14bn than a dozen countries. We have  improved the ESG profile and strategy  attentive to changing client 
built a robust financial model, and  of various products, (e.g., EIPF, NEIF III,  needs, conducting regular 
our experts work to anticipate future  BNP Paribas Diversipierre, BNP Paribas  surveys of investor and tenant 
RETAIL  
15% 8
evolutions in the financial market  Macstone). In 2019, ESG integration  satisfaction. We aim to uphold 
€4.41bn
to stay ahead of new developments.  became one of BNP Paribas REIM’s five  the highest standards of ethics 
Countries where BNP  We constantly look to optimise our  pillars, and in 2020, ESG criteria were  and compliance for investors, and 
TOTAL RESIDENTIAL Paribas REIM operates
assets, increasing their value while  officially adopted into our investment  occupational safety and wellbeing 
€28.9bn €2.48bn
taking a responsible approach. and fund management strategy. With  for tenants.
9%
sustainable investing at the heart of our 
TECHNICAL 4 approach, BNP Paribas REIM aims to 
AND LOGISTIC
minimise our environmental footprint, as 
9% €2.20bn
Alternative investment well as that of our investors and tenants.
fund managers (AIFM)
4%
4% HEALTHCARE
2%
€1.13bn
   
150,000+ 200+ 370
MIX
HOTEL
AND LEISURE €1.06bn BNP Paribas REIM BNP Paribas REIM  BNP Paribas REIM
€0.5bn 1/ Non-audited data private clients institutional clients real estate specialists
3 BNP Paribas REIM - ESG Report 2020 4
Context, challenges Convictions driving long-term 
and key achievements sustainable performance
New legislation and social expectations are reshaping the face of real 
estate investment management. BNP Paribas REIM is taking a holistic 
approach to integrating ESG concerns across our business.
A major shift toward sustainable living  INTEGRATING ESG ACROSS In  a  changing  world,  BNP  Paribas  is  dedicated  to  monitoring  trends  in 
KEY ACHIEVEMENTS
KEY ACHIEVEMENTS
is underway. Stakeholders increasingly  OUR BUSINESS REIM  is  focused  on  achieving  long- European  real  estate  capital  markets, 
expect environmental protection, social  term  sustainable  investment  returns  analysing  fund  performance,  and 
responsibility and internal accountability  To successfully integrate an ESG strategy  for its investors by implementing new  developing new products for a changing 
to  be  priorities  for  investors  and  across our business, we are taking on  European Impact strategies to improve ESG performance.  economic,  environmental,  social  and  The SFDR enters into force
investment managers. ESG challenges at all levels: Property Fund As an organization, our largest impacts  financial ecosystem. in Europe in March 2021
are linked to assets – the more than 
Launched
This has been bolstered by waves of local,  •  At an industry level, we are participating  1,600  buildings  we  manage  across  From the outset, we have involved our 
November 2020
national  and  international  legislation,  in working groups to advance sustaina- Europe. Our overall strategy is focused  investors and tenants in ESG strategy  BNP Paribas Diversipierre
including the SFDR and EU Taxonomy.  bility across the real estate market on  implementing  clear,  quantifiable  definition and development, a process  Achieves compliance
Both  frameworks  require  financial  •  As a company, we are taking a  Healthcare Property actions that will improve sustainability  facilitated  by  our  framework  for  with SFDR Article 8
companies to adhere to specific standards  consistent approach to ESG integration  Fund Europe across our funds and assets, while acting  systematic  stakeholder  engagement. 
for  measuring  and  classifying  their  across departments, and increasing  as an ESG-driven organization. This close collaboration has enabled us 
Launched
European Impact Property Fund
assets’ impact. This approach enables  employee awareness of and buy-in for  to gather essential ESG data, increase 
March 2020
Achieves compliance
investors  to  make  informed  decisions  ESG initiatives Beyond  complying  with  European  and  buy-in  from  stakeholders,  develop 
with SFDR Article 9
about investments, based on ESG criteria  •  Our fund managers are working to  local legislation to improve real estate  measurable  targets  for  improvement 
that  are  comparable  across  funds. implement a selection of ESG criteria  BNP Paribas Diversipierre asset sustainability, BNP Paribas REIM  and  start  delivering  improved  asset 
across funds and collaborating  earned SRI label sees  ESG  integration  as  a  key  factor  performance.  Moreover,  this  approach 
Funds to be classified as “Sustainable” 
At BNP Paribas REIM, this means adopting  with investors to develop long-term  in  future  investing.  Our  approach  invites  stakeholders  to  go  beyond 
From the French under the SFDR framework
a new approach to investment, asset and  strategies that deliver ongoing  reflects  the  Principles  for  Responsible  baseline  compliance  with  legislation 
government 70% of funds open to subscription
fund management that integrates ESG  performance Investment, to which we are a signatory,  and consider the long-term benefits of 
in November 2020 to investors by 2022 (90% by 2025); 
considerations  into  all  aspects  of  our  •  For individual assets, our transaction  and asserts the belief that sustainable  implementing ESG early on.
100% of funds for private investors
business. We have classified our funds  and asset managers are including ESG  investment is smart investment. In 2020, 
by 2022
under a new segmentation based on ESG  criteria in acquisition and management  REFI award for we  received  an  A  score  on  the  PRI’s  Implementing ESG is further giving BNP 
commitments,  and  incorporated  ESG  processes, while finding sustainable,  best Green Fund Strategy & Governance module and a B  Paribas  REIM  the  opportunity  to  take 
criteria at corporate, fund and asset levels.  cost-effective solutions to transform  score for the property module. action  as  a  company,  communicating 
Received for NEIF
assets into ESG compliant assets clearly  about  our  values  and  aligning 
III in 2019
As of 2020, BNP Paribas REIM has set  We view improving ESG as a long-term  them with those of our stakeholders. We 
concrete targets for ESG improvement,  Increasingly, changing international and  priority  which  will  increasingly  shape  have defined ambitious and measurable 
determined a set of practicable actions,  European climate targets are pushing the  Annual the  financial  industry,  drive  investors’  aspirations  and  objectives,  holding 
and  begun  implementing  appropriate  real estate industry to rapidly accelerate  satisfaction surveys decision-making  process  and  impact  ourselves to the same standards as our 
monitoring and reporting mechanisms.  decarbonization.  This  has  traditionally  asset  performance.  To  support  our  clients in all regions and across business 
Sent to tenants
And as of March 2021, our business line  been a challenge for asset managers, as  clients,  our  in-house  research  team  activities.  With  ESG  integration  at  the 
in France
has been compliant with the first level of  the investment profile of existing funds  core of our strategy, we will be able to 
and Germany
SFDR requirements. does not always allow for major CAPEX  coordinate  with  internal  and  external 
work of the type required to dramatically  stakeholders and revitalise our investment 
cut emissions. Six funds participated process and governance policies.
in GRESB
This  is  why  BNP  Paribas  REIM  is 
With an overall
collaborating  with  stakeholders  to 
10% score increase
define measurable emissions reduction 
between 2019 and 2020 50% 15 11%
targets, improve assets’ environmental 
   
performance as far as possible, launch 
new  ESG-driven  funds  and  prove  Assets under Funds with ambitious Assets with
the  long-term  value  of  sustainable  management  with ESG objectives and an In-Use
investments. ESG KPIs measured measured KPIs in 2021 certification
5 BNP Paribas REIM - ESG Report 2020 6
OUR ESG ACTION PLAN 2021   2025
GO BEYOND MANAGING RISK TO DRIVE PERFORMANCE 
CUT CARBON MANAGE ASSETS
EMISSIONS RESPONSIBLY
5 KPIs  to monitor asset  4 KPIs  to improve tenants' 
adaptation to climate change  comfort, encourage soft
(energy efficiency programmes,  mobility, promote waste
in-use certification sorting and ensure access
TAKE TO ACHIEVE to people with disabilities
ESG
ACTION
BY 2025
at corporate, fund OBJECTIVES
90% and asset level BOOST
OF FUNDS1 STAKEHOLDER
AWARENESS
4 KPIs  to commit to environmental 
open to subscription to investors
and social initiatives with property 
managers and tenants
will be classiﬁed as Sustainable2
(70% in 2022)
WE SEGMENT
MAINSTREAM
OUR FUNDS ACCORDING 
TO THEIR ESG PROFILE,
FUND ESG INTEGRATION FUND ESG FUND IMPACT FUND
AND STRENGTHEN 
— — — —
ESG-DRIVEN FUNDS’ 
ESG essentials ESG roadmap with KPIs ESG roadmap with KPIs ESG roadmap with KPIs
COMMITMENTS ESG assessment at acquisition +  Binding legal commitments +  Binding commitments
+  Impact investing strategy
EACH YEAR.
SFDR Article 6
SFDR Article 6 SFDR Article 8 SFDR Article 9
FUND SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY
1 / Pooled funds for private and institutional investors, excluding funds trading only on secondary markets
2/ Under the framework of Europe’s Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation (SFDR); European regulation (EU) 2019/2088 equal to compliance with Article 8 and Article 9
7 BNP Paribas REIM - ESG Report 2020 8
ENVIRONMENT
KPIs / Achievements 2020
OUR ACTION PLAN
Obtain significant coverage of energy 
Set up an Energy Efficency plan  consumption data for both common
Our first objective has a principal goal at its heart: to reduce the carbon footprint and private areas
to cut carbon emissions across the assets we manage.
Transitioning  to  a  low-carbon  economy  demands  •  Reduce CO emissions via the implementation 
2
significant effort from the real estate sector. BNP  of energy efficiency plans
Paribas REIM has a major role to play as a leading  •  Obtain significant data on energy consumption  ACHIEVED
21%
European investment manager. from both private and common areas ACHIEVED
•  Target in use certification for non-residential assets  9%
This is why our ESG strategy takes a robust, pragmatic  (e.g., BREEAM In-Use)
approach to minimizing the environmental impact of  •  Remove existing sources of onsite pollution 
our assets, funds and business. We are working to  (e.g., lead, asbestos, soil pollutants)
gradually reduce the carbon footprint of the assets  •  Develop biodiversity initiatives for green spaces, 
B ON E
we manage. At the same time, we are taking measures  light, water, flora and fauna R M
A I
to increase their adaptability in the face of climate  C S
change. We know that today 30% of energy savings  PRIORITIZING CARBON EMISSIONS REDUCTION T  SI
can be achieved simply through the behaviour of  U O
tenants: this is why we are engaging actively with  Commercial and residential buildings are responsible  C N
tenants to collect and share energy and CO data. for nearly 39% of global greenhouse gas emissions4,  S
2
  making real estate a primary source of these emissions. 
Our focus is on the assets that comprise our CSR  Because  of  this,  BNP  Paribas  REIM’s  ESG  strategy 
panel: around 400. These assets are part of our ESG- includes significantly cutting carbon emissions for 
driven funds and tend to increase progressively. individual assets and overall funds as one of three 
key objectives.
HOW WE MEASURE PROGRESS
Over the past four years, we have worked on collecting  C
BNP Paribas Real Estate has developed operational  all necessary energy and CO data for assets in our  S U
2
roadmaps for three key topics: low carbon, biodiversity  CSR panel, in order to set concrete and quantitative  N T
and circular economy. At BNP Paribas REIM we have  targets  for  improving  environmental  performance,  OI C 
S A
set five measurable KPIs to improve the environmental  reducing carbon emissions for assets across all ESG- SI B R
ME NO
performance of assets and funds: driven funds by 2025. In addition, BNP Paribas REIM 
intends to increase our scope of data collection for 
both single- and multi-let assets.
Remove existing  Set up biodiversity 
pollution on site initiatives
5 384 207
kWh/m2
KPIs for improving fund  Assets with energy 
ACHIEVED  ACHIEVED1
and asset environmental  consumption and CO2 emissions  Estimated energy  28% 15%
performance  data collected in 20205 consumption6
40 2025
ACHIEVED
Set up in-use certification 1/  Refers to assets with 
11%
at least one biodiversity 
kgCO /m2 initiative in place
2 Target date for reducing 
4/ Source : World Green Business Council 2018
Estimated emissions for assets across 
5/ As compared to 334 assets in 2019
CO2 emissions6 all ESG-driven funds 6/ Based on a panel of 218 offices
% achieved represents the unweighted average across 384 assets representing the CSR panel managed by BNP Paribas REIM at 31 December 2020.
9 BNP Paribas REIM - ESG Report 2020 10
SOCIAL
KPIs / Achievements 2020
Improve comfort and  Work with tenants to encourage 
wellbeing of tenants sustainable mobility
OUR ACTION PLAN
ACHIEVED ACHIEVED
19% 27%
Investing in real estate as a living asset means focusing 
on the wellbeing of tenants and end-users.
S S ETS R
BNP Paribas REIM integrates social responsibility into  ENABLING ACCESS FOR PEOPLE   A ES
the management of our assets, putting an emphasis  WITH REDUCED MOBILITY E P
G
O
on  the  wellbeing  and  comfort  of  our  tenants. 
A
N
Our  approach  includes  increasing  accessibility  A key goal for BNP Paribas REIM is to ensure access  N
S
for  people  with  reduced  mobility  and,  where  to buildings for fully or partially disabled people. We  A I
possible, acquiring buildings near public or green  define accessibility for buildings at four levels: B
M
transportation options. L
Y
•  Level 0: inaccessible to people with reduced 
HOW WE MEASURE PROGRESS mobility
•  Level 1: partially accessible from the ground floor 
M
•  Improve the comfort and wellbeing of tenants  or street level, with an onsite lift and reduced- Y
(e.g., air quality, onsite services) mobility accessible facilities L A
•  Ensure reduced mobility access to buildings •  Level 2: partially accessible from the ground floor,  B N
I
•  Promote dedicated spaces that are appropriately  with access to upper floors from a disabled parking  S A
G
equipped for sorting waste space and separate reduced-mobility facilities for  N
E
•  Make sustainable mobility available for tenants  men and women OP A  
(e.g., bike parks, electric vehicles) •  Level 3: complete accessibility to all floors,  SER STE S S
separate reduced-mobility facilities for men and 
We  regularly  assess  the  progress  of  our  social  women on each floor, wheelchair-friendly lifts, and 
initiatives,  and  undertake  an  annual  tenant  compliance with all disability standards
satisfaction survey in France and Germany, which 
we aim to progressively extend to other European  As of December 2020, 85% of our buildings were at 
countries. This enables us to determine areas for  least at Level 1 accessibility. Our goal is to move a 
improvement and collaborate directly with tenants  substantial portion of buildings to Level 3 by the end 
ACHIEVED ACHIEVED
to improve end-users’ living and working conditions. of 2025. 79% 61%
Ensure access for Promote waste sorting 
disabled people with a dedicated space
ENGAGING DIRECTLY
WITH OUR TENANTS
4 79%
At BNP Paribas REIM, there is a direct line of communication that passes from fund managers, to asset managers, 
Levels of accessibility  BNP Paribas REIM buildings  to property managers, to tenants. We believe in engaging with tenants to achieve our objectives, earning their trust 
for buildings with at least Level 1  and buy-in on social initiatives, and obtaining needed data before proposing changes. We follow up with tenants 
(0 to 3) accessibility regularly via our annual survey of tenant satisfaction, which was expanded in 2020 to include tenants across Europe.
% achieved represents the unweighted average across 384 assets representing the CSR panel managed by BNP Paribas REIM at 31 December 2020.
11 BNP Paribas REIM - ESG Report 2020 12
GOVERNANCE
KPIs / Achievements 2020
OUR ACTION PLAN
Ensure energy data collection  Set up initiatives and dialogue 
is integrated in new leases  between asset manager and 
Driving meaningful ESG performance across the board starts  and lease renewals property manger
with stakeholder engagement – and managing reliable data.
*or equivalent person
BNP Paribas REIM is taking an active approach to  HOW WE MEASURE PROGRESS
governance  by  boosting  ESG  awareness  among 
stakeholders  and  increasing  engagement  among  Communication and transparency are at the heart of 
investors, managers and tenants. By transparently  our four KPIs for embedding governance into our fund 
ACHIEVED ACHIEVED
and regularly communicating about our initiatives,  and asset management strategy:  
5% 31%
and  collaborating  with  stakeholders  to  develop 
actionable  ESG  roadmaps,  we  can  make  positive  •  Increase initiatives and collaboration between 
changes to our assets and our industry. asset managers and property managers to ensure 
H OLDE
agreement on and proper implementation of  K E R 
A key aspect of this approach is collaborating with  ESG roadmaps A A
tenants to collect and measure energy and water  •  Formalize meetings among asset managers,  T W
S
A
consumption and CO2 emissions from their buildings.  property managers and tenants to discuss ESG  T  R
We can do this thanks to our partner, DEEPKI, whose  topics and develop action plans
S E
digital platform collects both energy consumption  •  Sign an environmental appendix when mandatory 
O N
and CO emissions data general ESG information. The  (e.g., leases on French buildings larger than 2,000 m2) 
2 E
O
platform also provides reporting and analysis specific  or on a voluntary basis, agree to ESG actions with  S
to the real estate sector. This enables BNP Paribas  tenants  B S
REIM to accurately determine the impact of ESG  •  Integrate energy data collection into lease renewals 
initiatives and increases accountability at all levels  and new releases to help directly obtain data on 
of management. tenants’ energy and water consumption E
T G
Having  regularly  scheduled  meetings  to  discuss,  O  N
A
develop  and  implement  ESG  initiatives  will  be  a  A
C H
mESuGs ts-thaatvues  bfoyr  2s0t2a5ke.holders looking to improve their  HIEVE POSI T I V E  C
BNP Paribas REIM anticipates that all funds will 
have at least one dialogue or initiative in place 
with their stakeholders by the end of 2021. We also 
expect the number of leases with environmental 
appendices and integrated data collection clauses 
to more than double.
ACHIEVED ACHIEVED
31% 21%
Sign an environmental  Set up environmental and / or civic initatives 
4 50% appendix in leases and engage dialogue between asset manager / 
property manager and tenant
KPIs for improving  Expected increase in signed 
governance across environmental appendices 
all funds and assets by end 2021
% achieved represents the unweighted average across 384 assets representing the CSR panel managed by BNP Paribas REIM at 31 December 2020.
13 BNP Paribas REIM - ESG Report 2020 14
HOW WE MANAGE 
External stakeholders
ESG INTEGRATION
We place stakeholder engagement at the centre of our 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy. By creating 
an ongoing dialogue, we can quickly and accurately identify 
evolving stakeholder needs, enabling our investors and 
tenants to reach their ESG goals.
BNP Paribas REIM integrates ESG considerations at corporate,  InIvNeVsEtoSrTsORS
We are dedicated to meeting our investors’ high 
fund  and  asset  levels.  We  engage  with  our  external  and 
expectations on asset and fund performance 
and ESG improvement. Our relationships are 
internal stakeholders, adjusting our approach to address  Developing and 
built  on  trust  and  transparency,  prioritizing 
their individual concerns and needs. responsiveness  and  flexibility  in  our  fund  maintaining a 
and asset managers. We work directly with  strong relationship 
investors to improve asset resilience and drive 
with our stakeholders is 
stable, long-term performance.
OUR GOVERNANCE OUR INVESTMENT PROCESS
fundamental to integrating 
BNP Paribas REIM has a longstanding  For several years, BNP Paribas REIM has  TeTnEaNnAtNsTS CSR and ESG at every level of 
We listen to our tenants and manage our assets 
CSR  policy  in  place  to  ensure  that  been adapting its CSR policy to further  fund and asset management. 
to  meet  their  expectations.  These  include 
all  of  our  investments  are  conducted  encompass ESG criteria. In addition to 
onsite  services,  environmental  performance, 
safely, ethically and in compliance with  creating a specific offer for clients looking  We strive to ensure that all 
proximity  to  public  transport,  and  building 
regulatory standards.  to  invest  in  responsible  products,  we 
our collaborators have access 
adaptability  and  accessibility.  BNP  Paribas 
have developed a new approach to asset 
REIM  provides  asset  optimization,  quality  to the necessary resources 
BNP  Paribas  REIM’s  governance  is  acquisition that highlights and prioritizes 
monitoring,  technical  and  environmental 
aligned with that of BNP Paribas Group  ESG performance. We embed ESG  for prioritising ESG, while 
improvement services, tenant support and CSR 
and BNP Paribas Real Estate, although 
aspects into  awareness campaigns at each of our locations. complying with BNP Paribas 
we  have  our  own  management  and  BNP Paribas REIM systematically consi-
decision-making  bodies  with  ultimate  ders ESG criteria when evaluating new  every aspect of  REIM’s CSR policies.
OUR COMMITMENT TO RESPONSIBLE INVESTING
authority. Several of our employees are  investment  opportunities,  measuring  our strategic 
members of BNP Paribas Real Estate’s  their performance against our in-house
CSR  Leaders  Network,  a  committee  ESG grid. A specific grid exists for each  and operational  BNP  Paribas  REIM  is  a  proud  member  or  Nehla KRIR
dedicated to integrating CSR issues in  type  of  asset  (e.g.,  offices,  logistics,  activities, enabling  signatory  of  numerous  local,  national  and  Head of Sustainability and CSR
the overall company’s business line and  residential and healthcare buildings) and  us to improve  international organizations and initiatives that  BNP Paribas REIM
promote responsible investing practices.
functions. CSR policies are also reviewed  covers selection criteria including energy, 
and promote 
by the management board of each of our  biodiversity, accessibility and health and 
national entities, and BNP Paribas REIM’s  comfort.  This  ESG  grid  supports  the  transparency, and 
Executive Committee. Laurent Ternisien,  assessment  of  sustainability  risks  at  have developed 
our Chief Client Officer, is the sponsor  acquisition. Our Investment Committee   INREV   Global Real Estate   Principles of   Global Investor 
robust policies to 
of all CSR activities within the Executive  then signs off on the acquisition of those  Sustainability  Sustainability  Responsible  Coalition on 
Committee. assets that meet our sustainability criteria. protect and enhance  Committee Benchmark Investment Climate Change
our investments.
In  addition  to  being  applied  to  our 
assets, ESG criteria are integrated across 
our value chain and are a priority for 
Laurent TERNISIEN  Observatoire   Association Française   Association   Association of 
all our teams, from sales, to product 
Chief Client Officer de l’Immobilier  des Sociétés de  Française de la  the Luxembourg 
development, to asset management. A 
BNP Paribas REIM Durable Placement Immobilier Gestion Financière Fund Industry
dedicated team of researchers further 
supports  our  investment  process, 
providing  insight  into  ESG  topics  for 
assets, funds and companies.
 Bundesverband   Associazione  Royal Institution 
Investment und  dell’Industria  of Chartered 
Asset Management Immobiliare Surveyors
15 BNP Paribas REIM - ESG Report 2020 16
HOW WE MANAGE ESG INTEGRATION
Internal stakeholders Our CSR Champions
CSR principles are fundamental to our approach to internal  BNP Paribas REIM is home to 25 CSR Champions sponsored by top 
stakeholders. We believe in creating a diverse workplace for  management across the company. Representing every country of 
our teams, providing excellent working conditions and career  operation, their goal is to help all business teams collaborate and 
opportunities for employees of all backgrounds. deploy our CSR strategy.
BUILDING A DIVERSE WORKPLACE   BNP  Paribas  REIM’s  CSR  Champions  CSR  Champions  are  expected  to  be 
are internal ambassadors for our CSR  at  the  forefront  of  our  CSR  and  ESG 
379
We  believe  that  diversity  makes  our  strategy and ESG roadmap, bridging the  development, proposing new ideas and 
company  a  good  place  to  work  and  gap between BNP Paribas REIM, BNP Real  helping  their  teams  better  integrate 
contributes to our success. We aim to  Estate and BNP Group. They are specialists  CSR  priorities  into  their  work.  They 
Total employees
hire and promote employees of all ages,  on a range of topics, including operations,  participate in workshops throughout the 
backgrounds and genders, bringing a mix  investor relations, acquisitions, fund and  year, develop local initiatives and attend 
 
of skills and experiences to our everyday  asset management, data and reporting,  quarterly meetings to discuss progress 
activities. 47% and  communications.  Their  mission  is  on CSR and ESG initiatives. Our CSR Champions 
built around three pillars – Understand, 
take an active role 
From providing youth training programs,  Act and Share – with the goal of helping 
to eliminating gender wage gaps, BNP  Female employees implement our ESG roadmap across all  OUR CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS in the day-to-day 
Paribas REIM strives to take a proactive  divisions and functions. Our champions  development and 
approach to building and maintaining a    do this by working as key contact points  BNP  Paribas  REIM  encourages  our 
implementation of 
diverse workplace. for ESG information for their regional  internal stakeholders to adopt a CSR-
50% and national teams. oriented mindset in their everyday lives  our strategy across 
We  apply  BNP  Paribas  Real  Estate’s  by giving back to their local communities.  the business.
Diversity  Policy  and  HR  policies:  our  Each of our CSR Champions has a specific  Our employees in Paris once more took 
Women on our
hiring  processes  focus  exclusively  on  role in implementing our CSR strategy  part in the annual race for Imagine for 
Executive Committee
each  candidate’s  skills,  professional  and contributes to a working group. For  Margo,  with  12  participants  raising 
Astrid CADELANO
experience  and  qualifications.  At  least  example, they are responsible for sharing  nearly €15,000, thanks to BNP Paribas 
CSR Development Officer
one woman is included on the shortlist  asset  management  best  practices.  REIM  France’  sponsorship.  Meanwhile, 
BNP Paribas REIM
for every management position. Additionally, CSR Champions support our  BNP Paribas REIM Luxembourg helped 
Sales and Product Development teams,  six  employees  raise  €4,000  for  the 
ENCOURAGING GROWTH ACROSS ROLES answering CSR and ESG questions and  Foundation  Kriibskrank  Kanner,  an 
approving marketing materials. organization that supports research for 
Our employees work in multiple European  paediatric cancer.
countries across a variety of different 
disciplines,  including  sales,  asset 
management,  product  development, 
acquisitions and more. BNP Paribas REIM  Understand
believes  in  developing  the  skills  and 
expertise of our collaborators, providing  Build knowledge through
internal training programs, mentorships  ESG workshops and training
and many paths to career development.
We  value  employee  buy-in  for  our  Act
Achieve change by implementing 
initiatives, encouraging our collaborators 
asset ESG roadmaps and fund strategy; 
to  embed  ESG  into  their  everyday  Community
carry out portfolio climate assessment
activities  and  take  an  active  part  in 
implementing our new strategy.
3 pillars
Share
Carry out communications 
campaigns; develop reporting 
17 BNP Paribas REIM - ESG Report 2020 18
HOW WE MANAGE ESG INTEGRATION
Our 2020 MATERIALITY STUDY Collecting trustworthy ESG DATA
BNP Paribas Real Estate carries out a  For investors and financial regulators to accurately measure assets’ ESG 
STAKEHOLDERS CONSULTED
regular study to understand stakeholders’  performance, they must have access to reliable data. BNP Paribas REIM uses 
INCLUDED
perception of its commitment to CSR,  specific data collection and reporting tools to ensure that our assets’ ESG 
and to identify the issues most relevant   performance is tracked meticulously and assessed uniformly.
to the company.
In 2020, 10,260 stakeholders were invited  For  us,  being  able  to  accurately  and  ASSESSING ESG PERFORMANCE  
to take part in an online consultation,  regularly evaluate an asset or fund’s ESG 
ECONOMIC PARTNERS MARKET REGULATORS
6
available  in  six  languages.  A  total  of  performance serves two purposes. Once ESG data has been collected at 
1,026 replied from 10 countries across  Investors and clients, corporate  Public authorities, professional  the most granular level, a fund’s ESG 
Europe, including investors and tenants  partners, occupiers, local authorities,  bodies, certification and  First,  this  information  enables  our  performance can be measured against  BNP Paribas REIM funds with 
of BNP Paribas REIM. suppliers and distributors accreditation bodies investors and tenants to keep track of  sustainability  benchmarks  like  the 
annual GRESB assessment
assets’  ESG  performance.  We  support  Global ESG Benchmark for Real Assets 
them in defining a baseline, using accurate (GRESB). Aligned with trusted reporting 
 
data to determine an ESG action plan,  frameworks like the GRI and PRI, the 
57% of respondents rate 
track key metrics over the short- and long- GRESB evaluates the ESG performance of 
10%
our level of CSR  INTERNAL PARTNERS  INFLUENCERS term, and evaluate ESG improvement. assets and funds, providing standardized 
as pioneering or  data to capital markets. For BNP Paribas 
committed Employees, supervisory board,  Media, analysts Second,  for  regulatory  bodies,  data  REIM, GRESB is a key measure for our  Overall increase in GRESB 
management board, executive  and rating enables auditors to assess the conformity  assets’  ESG  performance,  with  six  of  scoring in 2020
committees, shareholders agencies, NGOs of an asset with ESG requirements. For  our funds undertaking a yearly GRESB 
European  investments  subject  to  the  assessment. This enables us to follow 
 
SFDR and EU Taxonomy, data will be  the  ESG  evolution  of  our  assets  and 
crucial to determining if and to what  funds, and uncover areas for further ESG 
400+
OUR MATERIALITY MATRIX degree  our  investment  decisions  can  improvement.
Building have impact.
resilience and Wellbeing, Our property managers are key partners  BNP Paribas REIM assets with 
adaptability
health and safety in the challenging mission of collecting  Deepki integration
Our external and internal stakeholders ranked 22 
in buildings
data from our tenants. We rely on their 
sustainability issues. The matrix below shows each  Sustainable water 
issue ranked by strategic priority. The top three were:  management expertise and knowledge, and the strong 
Energy efficiency relationships they have built with tenants 
wellbeing and health and safety in buildings; energy 
and savings
Ethics and to successfully collect data.
efficiency and savings; and building resilience and 
transparency
adaptability. Our three key ESG objectives are aligned  Air quality and
with the top priorities identified by our stakeholders. Incorporating building comfort COLLECTING ACCURATE DATA
CSR into
business lines Resources BNP Paribas REIM ensures that our asset 
Low carbon products  the circular managers,  fund  managers  and  clients 
and services economy
can collect, evaluate and report on ESG 
Human rights and  data through the support of our partner 
Engagement non-discrimination Anticipating changes Deepki, who provides us with a digital 
in the real estate sector
with stakeholders
Diversity and solution that is now widely used across 
professional Positive local contribution the real estate industry. This technology 
equality
Adapting employees' enables BNP Paribas REIM to gain an 
EXTERNAL Biodiversity
skills to future professions
and biophily in-depth  understanding  of  our  assets’ 
stakeholders
ESG  performance.  By  collecting  and 
Sustainable mobility
Land artificialisation analysing information for each building 
Co-design with
and urban sprawl in our CSR panel, we can pinpoint areas 
our clients and
business partners Excellent for improvement and develop an ESG 
environmental Information
Risk prevention and  efficiency and networks and strategy specific to clients’ needs.
business continuity certification connectivity
MOST
IMPORTANT  INTERNAL
ISSUES FOR stakeholders
19 BNP Paribas REIM - ESG Report 2020 20
OUR FUND 
IMPACT funds
SEGMENTATION
Impact is the next frontier in responsible investing. Impact investing refers 
to investing with the intention of generating positive, measurable social or 
EIPF 
FUND
environmental impacts alongside financial returns.
An Impact fund aligned
Starting in 2020, BNP Paribas REIM has chosen to focus part of our new product 
At BNP Paribas REIM, we aim to put ESG integration at the heart of our real estate  with the Paris Agreement 
development on an Impact Investing fund. This fund will set concrete, science-
investment strategy. Our new fund segmentation divides funds into four categories 
and compliant with Article 9 
based targets for emissions reduction that align with the Paris Agreement.
based on their ESG profile and according to the SFDR. BNP Paribas REIM’s new fund 
of the SFDR
segmentation takes an ESG-focused approach, classifying funds by both their current 
Impact funds tend not to invest in assets that already boast strong ESG 
ESG performance and potential for improvement. 
performance: rather, they target existing assets with low ESG performance, but 
In December 2020, BNP Paribas REIM 
high potential for improvement. In doing so, they make a meaningful contribution 
launched  the  first  property  fund  that 
to society’s transition to a low-carbon, sustainable economy.
Funds are divided into OUR APPROACH sets out to be compliant with the Paris 
Agreement and the International Energy
4 categories For investors focused on sustainable investing, who have themselves made
In developing this segmentation, BNP Paribas REIM Agency’s  proposed  climate  trajectory. 
firm ESG commitments, holding assets in Impact funds represents a strong
had several goals: The fund aims to reduce greenhouse gas 
step forward.
MAINSTREAMfund (GHG) emissions by 40% across the entire 
 
•   Focus on a limited number of ESG objectives and KPIs European portfolio over the next decade 
Compliant with Article 6 of the SFDR •    Improve progress and results monitoring through a core, diversified, income-driven
•    Track ESG performance at the fund level strategy.
Complies with our ESG essentials, including
•    Better differentiate each fund’s positioning
an ESG assessment at acquisition, checks  This will enable BNP Paribas REIM to 
•    Align with the principles of the EU Taxonomy
on the seller and verification that no tenants  quantify the fund’s positive impact on 
•    Account for stakeholder values and expectations
are on the BNP Paribas Group ban list assets and measure the ongoing reduc-
•    Give stakeholders a clear way to define ESG performance
tion of GHG emissions through a detailed 
ESG INTEGRATION fund In adopting an ESG-driven approach to fund segmentation,  reporting system.
BNP Paribas REIM is committing to regularly strengthening  EIPF  had  raised  over  €160  million  of 
Compliant with Article 6 of the SFDR funds’ ESG performance. By developing and following an  equity  capital  commitments  as  of  31 
Has a dedicated ESG roadmap ESG roadmap, funds can progressively and cumulatively  December 2020, with investments from 
with 13 KPIs for all assets improve ESG performance, moving from one level of the  leading  European  insurance  compa-
segmentation to the next. nies and institutional investors. By May 
ESG fund 2021,  EIPF  had  attracted  more  than 
€300 million of equity and completed 
What is
two closings (with the initial closing in 
Compliant with Article 8 of the SFDR
November 2020). The fund has already 
Has a dedicated ESG roadmap with 13 KPIs an ESG roadmap? For funds to change categories   studied more than €3.3 billion of op-
for all assets with specific engagements  and move on to greater levels 
portunities,  and  should  close  its  first 
included in legal documentation of ESG commitment, they must have an ESG roadmap. 
acquisition  by  the  end  of  June  2021.
An ESG roadmap is specific to each fund, and is 
developed collaboratively by fund, asset and property  We anticipate that this fund will be com-
 IMPACT fund
managers. It is measured through 13 KPIs, which aim  pliant with Article 8 of the SFDR in 2021.
to deliver on three ESG objectives. In proposing and 
Compliant with Article 9 of the SFDR
defining an ESG roadmap, BNP Paribas REIM accounts 
Has an impact investing approach for investor demand, short- 
aimed at delivering measurable, positive  and long-term feasibility, 
environ-mental or social impacts market evolution, changing 
regulations and potential  LUXFLAG -40%  25-75  €300m 
obsolescence.
  — BY 2025 — label being targeted GHG emissions reduction  assets to be included Equity capital
for EIPF target for EIPF portfolio  in the EIPF fund commitments
90%1 of our funds2 open to 
within 10 years by May 2021
subscription to investors will be 
1/ By market value of assets, based on assets under management at 31 December 2021
classified as “Sustainable”3 2/ Pooled funds for private and institutional investors, excluding funds trading only on secondary markets
3/ Classification as “Sustainable” in compliance with Article 8 and Article 9 of SFDR – European Regulation 
(EU) 2019/2088
21 BNP Paribas REIM - ESG Report 2020 22
OUR FUND SEGMENTATION
ESG funds
  BREMBATE
 A LOGISTICS    
BUILDING WITH 
BNP Paribas REIM’s ESG funds are those with  STRONG ESG 
binding commitments to take action on ESG criteria 
included in the relevant legal documentation. ESG  CREDENTIALS
funds must also have an ESG roadmap established 
by stakeholders that defines which ESG criteria 
they intend to prioritize, and describes how  In 2020, BNP Paribas REIM acquired the Brembate, 
a logistics platform building in the municipality 
those improvements will be accomplished. 
of Bergamo in Milan. Built in November 2020, 
BNP Paribas REIM managers are expected to 
the building, now being let to a 3PL operator, was 
implement these ESG objectives at the fund    BODIO CENTER acquired after construction and will receive LEED 
Silver certification.
and asset level, identifying and implementing 
the necessary ESG actions. A GREEN BUSINESS 
While ESG funds aim to legally commit and fulfil general 
SPACE IN THE 
or overall ambitions for improving ESG, they are not 
bound by specific numbers (e.g., percentage reduction 
of carbon emissions). These funds are compliant with 
CENTRE OF MILAN
Article 8 of the SFDR.
The Bodio Center is located in the heart of Milan’s business district. The    51-53 HAUSSMANN
BNP PARIBAS  65,000 m2 office complex is made up of seven buildings. These include five 
office buildings, a fitness centre and a building with a cafeteria, bar and  RENOVATING A 
DIVERSIPIERRE  FUND café. The centre offers an underground parking lot with over 500 parking 
spaces, and is surrounded by common green areas, squares and fountains.
 taking a best-in-progress approach
HISTORIC PARISIAN 
In August, the Bodio Center earned a LEED Gold 
One of the first BNP Paribas REIM funds to earn the status  certification, primarily due to improvements to 
of ESG fund is BNP Paribas Diversipierre OPCI. Historically,  the buildings’ energy consumption. This was  BUILDING
this fund has employed an SRI approach, dividing funds into  achieved in close collaboration with tenants, 
two categories: real estate and finance. Diversipierre applies  who were enthusiastic about integrating 
a practical, sustainable methodology to the selection and  ESG criteria into building management. 
management of real estate assets, aiming to improve the  The complex also leans heavily into  Situated in Paris’ 9th district, and built in the 
ESG performance and resilience of all individual assets. green transportation, providing access  classic Haussmann style, the 3,170 m2 building
to electric vehicle charging stations and  at 51-53 Boulevard Haussmann is currently being 
In 2020, BNP Paribas Diversipierre earned France’s SRI  bike parks. The Bodio Center is located  reconstructed. Acquired in 2019 on behalf of 
label, a reflection of its commitment to boosting ESG.  near a train station, and is accessible BNP Paribas Diversipierre, the building has since 
Assets under consideration for acquisition by BNP Paribas  by bus and tram, encouraging the use undergone substantial renovations, with improving 
Diversipierre are scored by BNP Paribas REIM teams and  of public transportation. ESG performance at the centre of the asset 
their external partners against a customized SRI analysis  management strategy.
grid. To be acquired by the fund, the asset score should 
not be below 15/100. In addition, assets must meet specific  13 65 58% Construction incorporates sustainability best 
ESG criteria, such as the absence of pollution that presents  practices, with construction waste separated and 
a risk to tenants’ health. The score accounts for the current  recycled, green dredging activities, and efforts 
ESG themes  ESG criteria for  Expected 
state of the asset, as well as a potential three-year action  to minimize carbon consumption onsite. Once 
assessed  potential  increase in 
and improvement plan. completed, 51-53 Boulevard Haussmann should 
for potential  BNP Paribas  BNP Paribas 
attain an HQE certification for energy use, waste 
BNP Paribas  Diversipierre  Diversipierre SRI 
management and choice of construction materials 
Diversipierre  acquisitions scoring by 2023
and methods.
acquisitions
23 BNP Paribas REIM - ESG Report 2020 24
OUR FUND SEGMENTATION
ESG INTEGRATION funds
BNP Paribas REIM’s ESG Integration funds are those with a dedicated ESG roadmap for assets that 
will improve their performance over time. For these funds, we evaluate each asset’s current ESG 
NEIF III 
FUND
performance through 13 KPIs, and its potential for short- and long-term improvement, using data 
collected via our ESG data hub. A focus on green office 
buildings 
Our asset and fund managers then define ESG performance targets for 2022 and 2025 that reflect our 
13 KPIs and 3 ESG objectives. Based on this, BNP Paribas REIM develops and implements a dedicated 
The Next Estate Income Fund III (NEIF 
ESG roadmap that enables us to meet the objectives set for each ESG Integration fund and asset. III) is an ESG Integration fund that ac-
quires  certified  office  buildings  in  key 
European cities. Launched in 2017, NEIF 
III specifically targets already developed, 
recently refurbished and newly delive-
red offices, primarily those being used by 
NEIF II 
FUND high-growth industries, such as health-
care and technology. Almost 50% of NEIF 
A pan-European fund 
III assets are located in France and Ger-
prioritizing ESG  many, and another third are located in 
capital  cities  or  leading  commercial 
centres in Italy, Spain and Belgium.
The Next Estate Income Fund II (NEIF 
II) is an ESG Integration fund focused 
NEIF III has undergone a GRESB assessment 
on acquiring buildings with high envi-
every year since 2019, and as of 2020, 
ronmental performance in major cities 
the fund achieved a score of 70/100. 
across  seven  key  European  countries. 
This is thanks to the fund’s fully green 
Established in 2014, the fund holds 19 
certified portfolio and the integration 
assets, all with green labels, including 
HQE, DGNB, BREEAM IN-USE and LEED  of improved energy data collection. As    FAIRWAY BUILDING
the fund continues to acquire assets 
Certification. More than 60% of these la-
with sustainable labels and those that 
bels were obtained or improved after BNP  LIMITING ENERGY 
  HANOVER QUAY can  easily  obtain  green  certification, 
Paribas REIM acquired the asset as part 
we expect overall ESG performance to 
of the NEIF II fund.
continue improving.
FROM WAREHOUSE CONSUMPTION
From 2021 to 2025, NEIF II aims to further 
We anticipate that this fund will be com-
improve the ESG performance of existing 
pliant with Article 8 of the SFDR in 2021.
assets, focusing on energy consumption.  TO GREEN OFFICE IN A PARIS SUBURB
BNP Paribas REIM is also looking into po-
tential green refinancing of the fund.
Located at the heart of Dublin’s South  BNP Paribas REIM is also working to improve other 
Built in 2014, BNP Paribas  In December 2020, the 
Docks, 8 Hanover Quay is a 3,570 m2,  ESG aspects of the building, including installing 
75% REIM acquired the Fairway  Fairway further earned a 
three-story modern office building that  daylight sensors, movement sensors, low-flush 
building at 57, avenue Pierre  BREEAM IN-USE label, with 
 
serves as the European headquarters toilets and water meters. Water management is a 
Brossolette in the Parisian  a Very Good level of asset 
of Airbnb. particularly key element for the Hanover Quay, which  Energy management 
suburb of Montrouge in  performance. In addition to 
sits next to a canal and must avoid contributing to  performance1
2018, as part of the NEIF  limiting energy consumption, 
BNP Paribas REIM acquired the building  surface water runoff. In collaboration with tenants, 
III fund. The seven-story  the Fairway also scores 
as part of the NEIF II fund in 2017,  BNP Paribas REIM 
85% office building covers over  highly on other ESG metrics, 
when it had just been renovated from  property managers  1ST 15,000 m2 and has earned  including waste management, 
a warehouse to create a flagship office.  collected detailed ESG   
multiple environmental labels,  wellbeing and green 
The Hanover Quay was designed with a  information in 2020,    Health and wellbeing  including HQE Conception and  transportation.
strong emphasis on energy efficiency and  and will use this to  BNP Paribas REIM  performance1 HQE Exploitation certification, 
sustainability, and will undergo a renewal  inform further steps  acquisition in Ireland and the BBC Effinergie label.
of its BREEAM Very Good label in 2021. from 2021 to 2025.
1/ Figures from BREEAM certification
25 BNP Paribas REIM - ESG Report 2020 26
OUR FUND SEGMENTATION
MAINSTREAM funds
The majority of assets managed by BNP Paribas REIM – around 75% of assets under management 
– are currently held in the category of Mainstream funds, which are compliant with Article 6
of the SFDR. Mainstream funds are subject to a common baseline of ESG essentials criteria 
that BNP Paribas REIM considers important.
Inclusion of an ESG grid at acquisition to assess sustainability risks, and exclusion of tenants on BNP 
Paribas Group’s ban list are powerful steps to ensure a baseline level of ESG performance. In addition, 
renovations of assets held in mainstream funds apply standard ESG best practices in choice of materials 
and energy solutions. This is how we upgrade the performance of assets in mainstream funds even without 
formal ESG targets in place.
A CIRCULAR
 ACCÈS VALEUR
PIERRE 
ECONOMY APPROACH FUND
Renovating buildings to 
improve ESG performance
Circular economy systems promote the reuse, refurbishment and recycling Their teams worked closely with BNP 
Paribas REIM to help choose recycled 
of products and assets, while minimizing emissions, waste and resource use. Consisting  of  68  buildings  and  over 
materials with a minimal environmental 
200,000 m2 of office space, Accès Valeur 
In 2020, BNP Paribas REIM took a circular economy approach to refurbishing 
impact for the refurbishment.
Pierre is a good example of a mainstream 
an office building the Paris’ 19th district, emphasizing sustainable and socially retail fund looking to improve ESG per-
OUR SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES
responsible construction methods. formance. The fund primarily consists 
INCLUDED:
of office buildings in the Paris area, with 
The Magellan, a 600 m2 office buil- asset managers undertaking major reno-
•   Working with a zero-waste construction 
vation projects when possible.
ding  located  at  30  rue  de  Cambrai 
site where all materials are recycled
in  Paris’  19th  district,  was  partial-
•  Using recycled paint, which offers the 
In 2021, asset managers are looking to 
ly  reconstructed  in  the  summer 
same quality as new paint, but without 
define a long-term plan for ESG per-
of 2020 as part of a pilot program 
requiring additional resources or 
formance that will enable Accès Valeur 
for  circular  economy  construction.
materials
Pierre to move from Mainstream fund 
•  Collaborating with Interface, a 
As one of the assets in the BNP Pari-   30 RUE DE CAMBRAI to ESG Integration fund. Depending on 
company that uses renewable and 
tenant turnover in the next few years, 
bas Diversipierre fund, the Magellan 
recyclable materials for carpets and 
Accès Valeur Pierre is aiming to achieve 
is subject to high standards for sustai-
flooring, to fully carpet the Magellan 
ESG fund status by 2022 and become 
nability. In refurbishing the building, 
with recycled materials  made from 
BNP Paribas REIM worked with the  compliant with Article 8 of the SFDR.   185 CHARLES DE GAULLE
carbon-neutral processes
French Institute for Building Perfor-
mance (IFPEB), a business-led coali- THE FIRST OF TWO SUCCESSFUL PROJECTS €1.7B Assets under  MAJOR RENOVATION
tion seeking to achieve an ambitious  management in
and efficient energy and environmen- Accès Valeur Pierre
Following the refurbishment of the Ma-
tal transition in the real estate and 
gellan, BNP Paribas REIM took the same  OF A PARIS OFFICE
building sectors. approach to another office building in  68 Buildings in
Paris’ 17th district. The 1,200 m2 building  Accès Valeur
at 33 rue de Wagram was successfully  Pierre portfolio
A notable example of a major renovation project is the 185 Charles de Gaulle, an 18,200 m² 
refurbished as part of a circular economy 
building located in Neuilly-Sur-Seine, a western suburb of Paris and prime office location. 
program, and was let to new tenants in  CO  emissions
-30% 2 The office is held in the Accès Valeur Pierre fund. After longstanding tenants moved out
December 2020. Looking forward, BNP  at  185 Charles
of the building, BNP Paribas REIM was able to completely renovate the asset with recycled 
Paribas REIM expects to see additional  de Gaulle
materials, minimizing energy consumption and improving biodiversity. We are working 
assets take this route to green refurbish-
toward earning BREEAM Excellent, WiredScore and WELL certifications and labels.
ment and reconstruction.
27 BNP Paribas REIM - ESG Report 2020 28
OUR FUND SEGMENTATION
ACCIMMO   
P  IERRE 
FUND
A mainstream fund with
strong ESG potential
Accimmo Pierre is an open-ended retail 
fund that contains mostly office buildings 
around France, with over 80% of assets 
located in the Paris area. The fund strategy
is built around the acquisition of new buil-
dings, with around 90% of its assets being
under 20 years old.
While the fund manager does not for-
mally  seek  out  buildings  with  strong 
ESG  performance,  many  assets  added 
to the fund hold ESG labels. A handful 
A BASELINE FOR
of buildings held by Accimmo Pierre are 
refurbished, including a new building in 
Saint-Ouen, delivered in early 2020 with 
GREEN REFURBISHMENT
a BREEAM Very Good certificate and an 
HQE Conception label. The fund is targe-
ting the French SRI label within the next 
DEVELOPING GREEN 
18 months. In addition to addressing asset-specific ESG needs, BNP Paribas REIM systematically 
performs certain ESG actions when refurbishing buildings. This provides a baseline 
for ESG assessment and improvement of assets across funds.
TRANSPORTATION
OPUS REAL 
FUND
Every year, when BNP Paribas REIM entities launch UPGRADING HEATING AND COOLING SYSTEMS
FOR RETAIL PARKS A growing Germany-based  partial renovations or refurbishments, we undertake 
fund baseline ESG commitments. We systematically address  We improve heating and air conditions (HVAC) systems, 
six areas for improvement: heating and cooling systems, installing double-flux ventilation systems with energy 
energy consumption, water consumption, lights, car- recovery mechanisms. By installing fan coolers, heat 
BNP Paribas REIM manages seven retail parks across France,  Launched  in  2017,  Opus  Real  is  a 
peting and paint. pumps, and VRV recovery pipes, we can improve hea-
representing over 115,000 m2 of space split across three funds: mainstream retail fund for German assets, 
ting and cooling coefficients, ensuring that energy is 
BNP Paribas Diversipierre, Accimmo Pierre and SPF2. A growing  with a capitalization of over €150 million as 
MINIMIZING ENERGY CONSUMPTION more evenly distributed and successfully recovered. 
focus for retailers is green transportation, with renters looking  of September 2020. The fund holds assets 
Our teams also take into account the orientation of the 
to increase sustainable methods of travelling to shopping centres.  in Germany’s six major population hubs: 
Limiting energy consumption is a priority for our  asset, using specific tubes to heat the areas of the buil-
In late 2020, BNP Paribas REIM helped the Electro Depot in Brest  Berlin,  Cologne,  Düsseldorf,  Frankfurt, 
buildings. BNP Paribas REIM conducts an initial energy ding that sit primarily in shadow, and cool the areas 
add electric vehicle charging stations and retailers in La Ciotat  Hamburg and Munich.
audit, performing a simulation of thermodynamic sys- that receive direct sunlight.
install new bike racks.
tems that helps us determine which areas need im-
The portfolio includes over 25,000 m2 of
provement. Our property and asset managers can then  LIMITING WATER CONSUMPTION
office  and  retail  space,  logistics  buil-
develop an action plan, calculating the investment 
dings and hotels, with a focus on new 
costs and ROI from energy gains. To reduce water consumption, we install dual-flush 
buildings.  While  the  fund  does  not 
water  tanks  and  low-flow  faucets  in  all  facilities 
€3.5B €150m specifically target ESG-friendly assets, it 
We then install electrical boxes, meters and sub-meters  around the building. BNP Paribas REIM also installs 
does acquire certified buildings, such as 
   
throughout the buildings, enabling us to measure overall  flow reducers for all valves and pipe fittings in kitchen 
an office building near Frankfurt with a 
Assets under management  Market capitalization energy consumption from lights, electricity, heating  and bathroom areas.
LEED Gold certification. Looking forward, 
in Accimmo Pierre in 2020 of Opus Real and cooling systems, etc.
Opus Real will see further certified assets 
ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY LIGHTS, CARPET
join the portfolio.
This data can then be tracked, and with the tenant’s  AND PAINT
approval, be fed into our Deepki system, providing BNP 
Paribas REIM with exact information about how energy  For every building, BNP Paribas REIM installs LED 
is used on the premises. lighting and motion detectors in every lighted area to 
7
help limit energy consumption. The carpet installed in 
 
our buildings is made from recycled fibres and mate-
Retail parks managed rials, and we use paint made from organic compounds 
by BNP Paribas REIM for building interiors and exteriors.
in France
29 BNP Paribas REIM - ESG Report 2020 30
REGIONAL highlights
BNP Paribas REIM is a leading European real estate investment manager, acquiring 
and managing assets in major cities across Western Europe on behalf of its clients.
In 2020, our fund, asset and property managers acquired numerous assets, 
choosing buildings with strong ESG performance or the potential to improve.
FOR OUR 2020 CSR PANEL OF 384 ASSETS
BENELUX
BENELUX   GERMANY
5
ESG
GERMANY
ASSETS
Renewing certification for 28 Major acquisitions in the 
ESG
a Dutch warehouse healthcare sector
ASSETS
The first addition to the ELF fund, the ‘S-Heerenberg was  BNP Paribas REIM made two major acquisitions in 
acquired in 2017 and is fully let to DSV, a Danish logistics  Germany for the HPF Europe fund in late 2020 and 
company. The warehouse is located in the Ruhr region on  early 2021. One portfolio comprises five nursing 
the German border, and is preparing to renew its BREEAM  homes representing over 23,500m2. A second 
New Excellent certification. In 2021, BNP Paribas REIM  acquisition, the 20,200m2 VAMED Klinik hospital, 
asset managers will be able to review data from the  specialises in the treatment of children and adults 
‘S-Heerenberg, and determine next steps for maintaining  suffering from neurological illnesses as well as in 
or improving ESG performance. treatment following neurological surgery.
IRELAND FRANCE
The One Building: big ESG plans Heron Parc: making retail accessible 
for a Dublin-based office AUSTRIA via sustainable transportation
The One Building, a 7,000 m2 office space on Lower Grand  IRELAND FRANCE 1ESG Located in Villeneuve-d’Ascq, a suburb outside of 
Canal Street in Dublin, was acquired by BNP Paribas REIM  334 ASSET the northern French city of Lille, Heron Parc is one of 
2 ESG
in 2019 as part of the BNP Paribas Diversipierre fund.  ESG ASSETS IN  the numerous retail assets managed by BNP Paribas 
ASSETS
The building has a BREEAM Very Good certification and is  UK AND IRELAND  REIM in France. Acquired on behalf of BNP Paribas 
located near a major transportation hub, making it a key  Diversipierre OPCI, the complex stretches over 13,000 m2 
asset for further ESG development. of retail space. It includes twelve restaurants, a movie 
theatre and a variety of shops.
BNP Paribas REIM has budgeted for a number of ESG 
initiatives to begin between 2021 and 2023, including  Acquired in 2016, Heron Parc underwent several ESG 
undergoing an ecological survey to increase biodiversity  improvements in 2019 and 2020, including studies   
around the building. Reducing energy and water  for the instillation of outdoor light sensors and the 
consumption are also key goals, with the installation renovation of technical installations. Most notably, 
of energy submeters, internal light control systems, 2020 saw the installation of electric vehicle recharging 
water meters and a rainwater capture system. stations, enabling shoppers to use sustainable 
transportation methods to get to Heron Parc.
SPAIN
ITALY
Manoteras 48: envisioning next 
steps for an ESG-friendly asset  Improving water and energy 
consumption in Milan
Acquired in September 2019 by the NEIF III fund, 
Manoteras 48 is located in the heart of Madrid’s business  The 25 Via Tortona, an office located in the furniture 
district. The two office buildings stretch over 13,000 m2, district of the southwest of Milan, was acquired by 
providing a home for national and international corporations  BNP Paribas REIM in 2017 as part of the Concepto 
in the industrial, financial and technology sectors. fund. The building is let to Deloitte, with whom
BNP Paribas REIM is working closely to improve 
Having earned a BREEAM In-Use Very Good certification 
ITALY overall ESG performance.
in 2019, Manoteras 48 is already a high-performing 
asset in terms of ESG. Thanks to data collected from the  12ESG The building already has BREEAM In-Use certification, 
SPAIN
buildings and the GRESB assessment undertaken in 2020,  ASSETS and in August 2020, the Tortona received LEED 
BNP Paribas REIM asset and property managers can now  2 Gold. In 2021, BNP Paribas REIM property and asset 
ESG
determine next steps for further reducing energy and  ASSETS managers are putting a focus on limiting water 
water consumption in 2021. consumption, looking to install automatic sensors 
for sinks in bathrooms and break areas.
31 BNP Paribas REIM - ESG Report 2020 32
Glossary S  tatutory auditor’s report
on a selection of social, environmental and governance 
indicators published by BNP Paribas REIM
CSR ESG GRESB
Corporate  Environmental,  Global Real Estate  —
Social  Social and  Sustainability  Financial year ending December 31st, 2020
Responsibility  Governance Benchmark
To the President,
PRI SFDR SRI
In our capacity as statutory auditor of BNP  Our work consisted of the following: CONCLUSION
Paribas REIM and upon your request, we   
Principles for  Sustainable  Socially 
have drafted this report on the basis of  •  taking note of the reporting procedures  Based on the work performed, we do 
Responsible  Finance Disclosure  Responsible  work conducted to enable us to express a  introduced by the company for producing  not have any observations regarding the 
Investment Regulation Investment moderate level of assurance concerning  the information set out in the document  conformity, in all its significant aspects 
a selection of social, environmental and  attached  herewith  and  examining  of  the  selected  social,  environmental 
governance indicators (cf. Appendix 1)  their  relevance,  comprehensiveness,  and  governance  Indicators  published 
published by BNP Paribas REIM in 2020  reliability, neutrality and clarity,  by  the  company  (cf.  Appendix  1), 
and set out in the document entitled  with the principles and procedures of 
Our publications
«ESG Report 2020» (hereinafter referred  •  implementing  analytical  procedures  determination outlined in the Guidelines, 
to  as  the  «Indicators»),  herewith  and, based on surveys, checking the  nor the sincerity of the information that 
attached and drafted in the framework  calculations and the consolidation of  is the subject of this attestation.
of a voluntary inspection of these items. data for producing social, environmental 
These  Indicators  were  drafted  under  and governance indicators. This work 
the  responsibility  of  the  management  was based in particular on interviews  One of the statutory auditor
BNP Paribas Real Estate’s BuzzWords collection explains the everyday jargon  of  BNP  Paribas  REIM,  in  accordance  with personnel in the Asset Management  Mazars SA
of the real estate business and its environment, with a focus on recent trends. with the protocol (Asset ESG Roadmap)  Division to check that the procedures  —
used by the Company (hereinafter the  ensuing  from  the  Guidelines  have  Paris La Défense, June 11th, 2020
«Guidelines») available on request from  been properly understood and applied,    —
the company’s head office.  Claire GUEYDAN
•  implementing  tests  on  the  basis  of  Partner
Our  responsibility  is  to  attest  this  sampling, consisting of checking the cal- —
information.  We  specify  that  the  culations made and comparing the data  Edwige REY 
conclusions drawn in our report concern  with the supporting documentation,  CSR & Sustainable Development Partner
only  this  selection  of  Indicators  and 
not  all  the  social,  environmental  and  •  checking  the  compliance  of  these 
governance  data  published  by  the  Indicators  with  the  principles  and 
company in 2020. procedures for determination applied 
by  the  company  as  set  out  in  the 
NATURE AND EXTENT OF THE WORK Guidelines, 
We performed our work, which consti- •  assessing whether this information has 
tutes neither an audit nor a limited exam,  been presented in good faith.
in accordance with the French professio-
nal standards. The  selected  sample  thus  represents 
57% of the funds and 21% of the assets of 
We have performed the following reviews, the CSR panel managed by BNP Paribas 
BuzzWords BuzzWords   #4 BuzzWords   #5
which lead to a moderate level of assu- REIM  at  31  December  2020  for  the 
rance that the selected social, environ- environmental,  social  and  governance 
We explain the term “smart  We dig into the differences  We examine how cities are 
mental and governance indicators as set  indicators selected.
building”, digging into the three  between certifications, labels  rethinking infrastructure in 
out in the annex to this document contain 
major influences behind this  and standards, and the future  terms of mobility, the driving 
no significant anomalies. A higher level  To assist us in implementing this work, 
phenomenon and its benefits  criteria against which buildings  forces behind this change and 
of assurance would have required more  we used the services of our specialized 
for personal wellbeing. will be assessed. the future of electric mobility.
extensive work. sustainable development teams
33 BNP Paribas REIM - ESG Report 2020 34
KEEP UP-TO-DATE WITH BNP PARIBAS REAL ESTATE’S NEWS 
WHEREVER YOU ARE 
#BEYONDBUILDINGS
1
4
0 
2
2 
6
3 
8
1 
3 
3
+
m / 
o
n.c
a
e
b
ollis
h
n: 
g
esi
D
& 
al 
ori
dit
E
Real Estate
for a changing 
world