
The Board’s Oversight 
of Racial and Ethnic 
Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion
The Board’s Oversight of Racial and Ethnic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  1
rrrr--00223388--110077000099--RRaacciiaall  aanndd  EEtthhnniicc  DDiivveerrssiittyy..iinndddd      11 0077--JJuull--2211      11::4422::2244  PPMM
Foreword
In summer 2020, State Street enhanced its commitment  We first consulted academic and policy experts to identify 
to advancing racial justice both inside and outside the  the main risks and opportunities related to strong oversight 
organization. As part of this effort, the company launched  of racial diversity, equity, inclusion and justice. We then 
“10 Actions Against Racism and Inequality” and made  conducted interviews with 27 experienced directors from 
these commitments public to increase accountability and  S&P 500 and FTSE 100 companies. These conversations 
motivate peer companies to take action too. informed the development of this paper, and our analysis 
of directors’ comments resulted in our enclosed “10 
Commitment #7 tasked the Asset Stewardship team at 
Responsibilities of Boards in the Effective Board Oversight 
State Street Global Advisors, one of the world’s largest 
of Racial and Ethnic Diversity.” 
asset managers, to leverage their engagements with 
thousands of investee companies to glean best practices  Board oversight is about ensuring that management is 
for advancing racial and ethnic diversity, equity and  focused on risks and opportunities that are relevant for the 
inclusion. The Asset Stewardship team chose to focus on  firm. Our hope is that boards will incorporate this guidance 
the topic of board oversight, given the team’s governance  into their oversight practices in a way that is tailored to 
expertise and the relative lack of literature regarding this  their particular company’s context. We believe the following 
dimension of diversity. The State Street team partnered  insights provide a view into boardroom discussions and also 
on this effort with Russell Reynolds Associates due to their  offer a roadmap for how companies can more effectively 
board governance expertise and extensive relationships  manage and mitigate risks related to racial justice, thus 
with corporate directors, and the Ford Foundation, given  making our world more equitable.
their connection to movements for racial justice. The 
three organizations worked together on this study of the 
best practices for effective oversight of racial and ethnic 
diversity, equity and inclusion. 
Cyrus Taraporevala Darren Walker Clarke Murphy
Chief Executive Officer President Chief Executive Officer
State Street Global Advisors Ford Foundation Russell Reynolds Associates
The Board’s Oversight of Racial and Ethnic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  2
rrrr--00223388--110077000099--RRaacciiaall  aanndd  EEtthhnniicc  DDiivveerrssiittyy..iinndddd      22 0077--JJuull--2211      11::4422::2244  PPMM
Acknowledgements
As part of our research, we interviewed 27 directors from the S&P 500 and FTSE 
100.The group was approximately half women and nearly two-thirds people of
color. The companies on whose boards they serve represent all sectors.
We extend our gratitude to these directors:
• Tom Baltimore (American Express, Park Hotels & Resorts, Prudential 
Financial)
• Les Brun (Broadridge Financial, CDK Global, Corning, Merck)
• Ursula Burns (Exxon Mobil, Waystar, Uber)
• Lisa Caputo (Best Buy)
• Ken Chenault (Airbnb, Berkshire Hathaway, General Catalyst)
• Maggie Chan Jones (Avast)
• Ken Denman (Costco, Motorola, VMware)
• Bill Easter (Delta Airlines, Emerson Electric)
• Dame Amelia Fawcett (State Street)
• Jamie Gorelick (Amazon, VeriSign)
• Carla Harris (Cummins, Walmart)
• Mellody Hobson (Ariel Investments, JPMorgan Chase, Starbucks)
• Tom Ilube (BBC, WPP)
• Andrea Jung (Apple, Unilever, Wayfair)
• Tanuj Kapilashrami (J Sainsbury)
• Bill Kennard (AT&T, Ford, MetLife)
• Risa Lavizzo-Mourey (Better Therapeutics, GE, Intel, Merck)
• Paula Reynolds (BP, GE, National Grid)
• Jon Rubinstein (Amazon, Robinhood)
• Steve Reinemund (Marriott, Walmart)
• Ron Sargent (Five Below, Kroger, Wells Fargo)
• Christiana Smith Shi (Mondelez, UPS)
• Gaby Sulzberger (Eli Lilly, Mastercard)
• Joe Swedish (CDW, IBM)
• Jackson Tai (Eli Lilly, HSBC, Mastercard)
• Darren Walker (PepsiCo, Ralph Lauren, Square)
• Ireena Vittal (Compass Group, Diageo, Wipro)
While most directors spoke to us with an understanding they would be quoted 
anonymously, several chose to waive that and have their quotes attributed to 
them in the paper.
We also appreciate the academics, policy experts and thought leaders who 
contributed to our understanding of the key business risks and opportunities 
related to racial and ethnic diversity, equity, inclusion and justice.
The Board’s Oversight of Racial and Ethnic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  3
rrrr--00223388--110077000099--RRaacciiaall  aanndd  EEtthhnniicc  DDiivveerrssiittyy..iinndddd      33 0077--JJuull--2211      11::4422::2266  PPMM
Executive Summary
• What motivates board oversight of racial equity: The • Where boards are focusing their attention: Directors
following risks and opportunities motivated directors’ indicated a heightened focus on racial and ethnic
increased focus on racial and ethnic diversity, equity, diversity as it relates to workforce diversity and
& inclusion (DE&I): reputation, strategy, financing, representation; inclusion and belonging; retention,
regulatory and compliance, and human capital. Directors promotion and succession planning; and engagement
did not cite the potential economic impact of racial on social and political issues. Few directors spoke about
inequity as a key motivator. oversight of the potential impacts of their company’s
products, services or operations on communities of color.
• Oversight in practice: Directors referenced one or more
of the three major committees—audit, compensation, and • Metrics and performance management: Directors—
nominations and governance—as having explicit oversight especially those who sit on the compensation
of racial and ethnic DE&I. Most boards undertake a hybrid committee—seek to identify the proper metrics to
approach to oversight—discussing the issue in committee, measure progress on DE&I and then to link executive
but also making it a full-board topic. The full-board compensation to performance against those goals.
discussions often center on the interplay between DE&I Directors also described the challenge of getting good
and strategy and on DE&I as a component of corporate data and interpreting it correctly.
culture.
• Challenges in a global context: Multinational
corporations face a particular challenge when it comes to
overseeing racial and ethnic diversity. Different regions
and countries define and collect data on diversity in
different ways. It is important to obtain the right data and
to interpret it correctly.
The Board’s Oversight of Racial and Ethnic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  4
rrrr--00223388--110077000099--RRaacciiaall  aanndd  EEtthhnniicc  DDiivveerrssiittyy..iinndddd      44 0077--JJuull--2211      11::4422::2288  PPMM
• Guidance: Our conversations with directors led to the
development of “10 Responsibilities of Boards in the
Effective Board Oversight of Racial and Ethnic Diversity,”
a roadmap for boards that wish to elevate their focus on
DE&I. We fully recognize that boards need to incorporate
this guidance into their oversight practices in a way that
is tailored to their particular company’s context:
Ensure the CEO and board chair have the 
1 capacity and commitment to drive the 
organization’s racial equity efforts long-term
Build a board whose directors are racially and 
2 ethnically diverse and have experience with 
oversight of DE&I
Make racial equity an active part of the 
3 business strategy and work toward clear and 
quantitative key performance indicators
Make racial and ethnic diversity, equity, and 
4 inclusion both a committee and full-board 
responsibility
Regularly evaluate the potential impacts of 
the company’s operations on communities of 
5
color, embracing relevant opportunities and 
mitigating relevant risks
Facilitate boardroom discussions that are 
thoughtful, balanced, and intentional, and 
6
build a culture where directors are 
empowered to challenge ideas
Include the perspectives of stakeholders 
7
(including employees) in board discussions
Create a structured onboarding and ongoing 
8 training process that prepares all directors for 
effective oversight of DE&I
Build a coalition, share best practices, and 
9
learn from peers and experts
Realize this is a long journey – be patient and 
10
don’t give up
The Board’s Oversight of Racial and Ethnic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  5
rrrr--00223388--110077000099--RRaacciiaall  aanndd  EEtthhnniicc  DDiivveerrssiittyy..iinndddd      55 0077--JJuull--2211      11::4422::3300  PPMM
What motivates board oversight of racial equity
Racial and ethnic diversity “has been on the board agenda” in the past, as one director said, “but it’s certainly never 
had the focus it has now. On one hand, what took so long? On the other hand, at least we can now move the needle.” 
Another director agreed: “It keeps coming up, but in the last 18 months, it has become more of an imperative.”
Given State Street Global Advisors’ perspective as a long- • Financing: Investors are increasingly focused on
term investor, and with input from diversity, equity and  managing portfolio risks related to racial and ethnic
inclusion (DE&I) experts, our organizations identified six  diversity, and research suggests that companies with
key business risks and opportunities related to racial and  effective environmental, social and governance (ESG)
ethnic diversity. Our discussions with directors helped us  risk management practices benefit from a lower cost of
understand which risks and opportunities are motivating  capital.3 At least half of directors interviewed referenced
their increased attention to the issue of racial diversity,  the role of institutional investors in increasing the board’s
equity and inclusion (they are listed below in descending  focus on DE&I. While some directors seemed to bristle
order based on how often they were raised in our  at the outsized influence of external stakeholders and
conversations with directors): investors, others were more appreciative: “I’m glad
institutional shareholders and Nasdaq are now having an
• Reputation: Brand is a key component of enterprise value
impact on director diversity,” said one director. Another
and stock price.1 As highlighted in 2020, companies that
remarked that institutional investors “are saying, ‘You
genuinely and consistently promote racial and ethnic
could end up on a list of companies that we do not invest
diversity, equity and inclusion can attract customers
in because you do not have diversity.’ That’s been a huge
and other stakeholders, increasing the value of a firm’s
impact. They will be measuring and tracking, and they will
brand. Conversely, companies that do not take action
make proxy voting decisions based on this.”
on this issue risk damaging their reputation. Almost
every director we interviewed spoke to the importance • Regulatory and Compliance: Prioritizing racial and ethnic
of considering the reputational risks and opportunities diversity, equity and inclusion can prevent a company
related to action on racial equity. Many referenced the from violating local and federal regulations and laws
murder of George Floyd as an inflection point which and protect it from litigation being filed by employees,
motivated companies to start focusing on DE&I or to investors and other stakeholders. One third of directors
accelerate their efforts in that area. interviewed said that this has motivated their board’s
oversight of DE&I, especially in markets outside the US.
• Strategy: Companies that prioritize racial and ethnic
One director who has served on both US and European
diversity, equity and inclusion can have a competitive
boards noted that the increase in diversity regulations
advantage over peers and access new markets,
has led to an uptick in board discussions about the topic.
customers and ideas, as well as enhance the long-
“The primary conversation in Europe over the last several
term viability of their firms.2 At least half of directors
years had been more about gender diversity, given EU
interviewed spoke to the importance of DE&I in driving
requirements and the push by Angela Merkel,” they said.
performance. “My view is best-in-class CEOs, even before
In the US, given California’s legislative requirements
George Floyd’s death, took ownership of this issue,
on board diversity, “the NomCo and full board are now
understanding that it’s key to competitive advantage
spending more time on this. I certainly don’t think anyone
in the marketplace,” one director said. Another agreed:
believes this issue will live and die in California. It will
“It translates to being a more successful company. The
happen in other states, and it will be on the national
literature is clear: Diversity is a business imperative, not a
agenda, so boards are trying to get ahead of it.”
favor the company is doing for its workers of color.”
The Board’s Oversight of Racial and Ethnic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  6
rrrr--00223388--110077000099--RRaacciiaall  aanndd  EEtthhnniicc  DDiivveerrssiittyy..iinndddd      66 0077--JJuull--2211      11::4422::3311  PPMM
• Human Capital: Companies that build a diverse, inclusive
and equitable workforce can have an advantage in
recruiting and retaining talent of all backgrounds,
particularly younger professionals. Research indicates
that companies that build diverse workforces and
inclusive cultures are more likely to generate above-
average revenue, earnings and market share growth.4 One
third of directors interviewed pointed to the importance
of managing risks related to DE&I in order to attract
and retain high-quality talent. “‘Employee belonging’ is
very important,” Maggie Chan Jones said. “As there are
more conversations about race, employees are going
to demand better representation in the C-suite and in
the boardroom as well” or else leave for more diverse
employers. Pressure from the workforce is a growing
concern for boards. “In the last 18 months, you’ve seen
the competitiveness for the most marquee potential
people of color get really intense, particularly for the
board,” one director said. “If they don’t see people who
look like them at the top two levels of the company, it
impacts the longevity of diverse talent if they don’t see a
way to progress in your company.”
• Economic Impact: Research has demonstrated the
impact that racial injustice has imposed upon the broader
US economy, leading to trillions of dollars in lost GDP.5
Even though companies could address these systemic
risks by advancing racial justice and preventing negative
externalities, this topic rarely came up in discussions. One
director speculated that directors “are not there yet and
do not yet fully understand” the opportunities companies
have to empower communities of color outside their firm.
[See appendix for examples of indicators boards can use to 
assess performance in each of these six areas.]
The Board’s Oversight of Racial and Ethnic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  7
rrrr--00223388--110077000099--RRaacciiaall  aanndd  EEtthhnniicc  DDiivveerrssiittyy..iinndddd      77 0077--JJuull--2211      11::4422::3322  PPMM
Oversight in Practice
As with other dimensions of corporate governance, the board must decide who has responsibility for the oversight of 
racial and ethnic diversity: the full board or a specific committee? And if a committee, which one? Answers varied among 
the directors we interviewed. Only a few boards addressed the issue solely in full-board meetings. Each of the major 
board committees was mentioned as having relevant responsibility for issues related to the oversight of racial and ethnic 
diversity:
• Nomination and Governance Committee: Due to
the direct relationship between DE&I and director and  In a recent survey of NomCo chairs, when asked to 
executive recruiting, compensation decisions, and  identify the top three most important organizational 
succession planning, the nominations and governance  efforts the NomCo was involved with:6
committee often has responsibility for oversight of DE&I.  91% identified balancing the board’s level of 
Similarly, these committees are also often responsible for  management experience with the need for 
external and reputational risk, which can be a key driver of  diverse skill sets and backgrounds
the board’s focus on DE&I and ESG. A recent Russell  84% identified increasing diversity of slates 
Reynolds Associates survey of nominations for CEO role and other senior executive leaders
and governance committee (NomCo) chairs shows they 
are engaging on this topic, with 91 percent indicating a  78% named addressing gender equity and 
focus on increasing diverse skill sets and backgrounds in  gender bias
management.
• Compensation Committee: Compensation committees 
Several directors indicated that corporate social 
often maintain responsibility for the oversight of racial and 
responsibility, public policy or similar committees have 
ethnic diversity, given their focus on human capital 
responsibility for DE&I, but these board committees are 
management and talent development more broadly. 
less common given that only the three aforementioned 
Some committees are also tasked with incorporating 
committees are required by most exchanges.
diversity-related performance metrics into executive 
compensation plans. It is worth noting that the UK  While the discussion often starts in one committee, it rarely 
Governance Code explicitly requires the compensation  stays there. One director noted that “While each committee 
committee and other directors to engage with the wider  is seeing a piece of it, it bubbles up to discussion at the 
workforce, which can give them valuable insight into DE&I  full board because it is coming from several committees.” 
issues in the business. Discussions at the full-board level can also advance a more 
coordinated approach to DE&I: “What we want to see is a 
• Audit Committee: While a limited number of directors 
concerted, integrated, comprehensive strategy to address 
reference DE&I as part of the audit committee’s remit,
inclusion and diversity across the company.” 
one director noted that “the audit committee has
to reconcile issues which are internal audit matters,  The oversight of corporate culture seems to be one of the 
including issues raised by employees” related to DE&I.  driving forces behind these discussions. Corporate culture 
Similarly, a few boards address the topic in the audit  is increasingly recognized as one of the intangible value 
committee because it is seen as being directly related to  drivers affecting a company’s ability to execute its long-
risk management or corporate social responsibility, both of  term strategy.7 “If you look at companies that have had the 
which are often captured within the audit committee’s  biggest problems recently, it is always about the culture,” 
charter. one director said. “The culture conversation is a lot more 
subtle and nuanced and is the responsibility of the full 
board.” 
The Board’s Oversight of Racial and Ethnic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  8
rrrr--00223388--110077000099--RRaacciiaall  aanndd  EEtthhnniicc  DDiivveerrssiittyy..iinndddd      88 0077--JJuull--2211      11::4422::3322  PPMM
Where Boards Are Focusing Their Attention
While every board has a unique set of priorities, there are a number of common areas that most, if not all, directors 
reported focusing upon:
• Workforce Diversity and Representation: “The most  • Retention, Promotion and Succession Planning:
important topic was gender balance until 2020,” Jackson  Boards are increasingly aware of the challenges
Tai said. “Then it moved to addressing racial imbalance.  associated with retaining diverse employees and are
Now we’re looking at racial, ethnic, gender and diversity  expecting action from senior management to improve.
statistics for board as well as for senior management and  “Where you see diverse employees leaving is after the
middle management ranks.” Many directors spoke about  first promotion,” one director said. “You have to say, ‘This
similar shifts. “The quality of the conversation is evolving  is where we can’t lose people.’ We have to understand
to really understand the impact on the shareholder, which  this problem, set the metrics to keep them, keep them
is our job,” one director said. “It started much more  productive, keep them moving forward.” Gaining this
focused on the NomCo and about representation on the  level of insight requires something more detailed than
board and has become about representation at every level,  high-level statistics, which can paint a misleading picture
including on the board. Do your workforce and board  of the state of DE&I in the enterprise. “Historically, the
represent the diversity of the customer base, of your  numbers, to the extent they have been reported to boards
future growth, the communities you serve, your  at all, are done so in aggregate,” one director told us.
customers?” “It’s easy to pat yourself on the back for your aggregate
numbers relative to your peers’, but things get pretty
• Inclusion and Belonging: Many boards go beyond 
appalling when disaggregated.” Directors noted the
diversity to focus on inclusion and belonging within the 
importance of setting the strategy, getting the right data
organization. “It’s not just a numbers game, having a 
and focusing on the desired outcomes.
certain number of people of color in ranks; it is more about 
creating a sense of belonging for employees, unlocking the  • Engagement on Social and Political Issues: Several
talent that’s inherent in every person,” one director said.  directors also described an increase in conversations
Companies take various approaches to measuring  about the company’s political positions and activities.
inclusion and belonging, from pulse surveys to  This is an especially complex issue for board leaders
discussions with employees to formal inclusion indexing  and is an area where directors must have “courage to
tools, the results of which are shared with the board. One  challenge, to be curious and to be prepared to do things
director shared that “We have an inclusion index which  that are maybe not fully embraced by shareholders,” as
measures inclusion for every team of more than six  one director told us. Picking where and when to engage
people. […] Inclusion for us, in terms of representational  requires thoughtfulness. One board leader pointed out
diversity, is one element, but we look at many other  that “Some social issues affect how your company goes
elements such as: Is it safe to speak up? Do you have the  to market [or] have a reputational impact. Often these
tools to be able to do your job very well? We think about  are intangibles and are difficult to measure, at least in
inclusion in its broadest sense.” the immediate term.” One clear lesson from 2020 is the
importance of having a process for sorting through those
issues before they arise: “You have to think about this
framework ahead of time.”
The Board’s Oversight of Racial and Ethnic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  9
rrrr--00223388--110077000099--RRaacciiaall  aanndd  EEtthhnniicc  DDiivveerrssiittyy..iinndddd      99 0077--JJuull--2211      11::4422::3322  PPMM
Addressing racial equity: A stakeholder perspective
Directors might consider the priorities articulated by 
PolicyLink, FSG, and JUST Capital in their “2021 CEO 
Blueprint for Racial Equity:”
Embed accountability within corporate 
1
governance and leadership performance; 
Design HR policies and practices that are 
2
actively antiracist; 
3 Expand worker power and voice; 
Design products, services, operations and 
4 supply chain to center on racially equitable 
outcomes; 
Invest directly in low-income communities of 
5
color; and 
Advocate for local and federal policies that 
6
address structural inequities.1
Beyond these topics, issues as wide-ranging as board 
diversity, pay equity, supplier diversity and corporate 
philanthropy were all raised during our discussions, 
highlighting the myriad issues directors are facing, the 
complexity of the topic and the depth of the board’s role. 
Despite an awareness of reputational and other risks 
associated with a lack of attention to racial justice, very few 
directors spoke about oversight of the potential impacts 
of their company’s products, services or operations on 
communities of color. “I had a conversation, literally on 
a board call, where I was explaining equity and equality,” 
one director said. “Part of it has been getting people to 
understand the difference, prioritizing and elevating voices 
and communities that have been ignored in the past. You’ve 
got to figure out a way to get them more equity, to give up 
capital so they can become owners with you.”
The Board’s Oversight of Racial and Ethnic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  10
rrrr--00223388--110077000099--RRaacciiaall  aanndd  EEtthhnniicc  DDiivveerrssiittyy..iinndddd      1100 0077--JJuull--2211      11::4422::3366  PPMM
Metrics and Performance 
Measurement 
In a recent global survey of executives, CEOs and other C-level executives 
at companies with over $1B in annual revenue reported a link between 
compensation and major corporate goals:9 
CEOs C-suite CEOs C-suite
Have compensation tied 
25% 47% 29% 21%
to DE&I outcomes
Have compensation tied 
25% 47% 43% 3%
to ESG goals and metrics
Setting goals is essential to directing a company’s DE&I strategy and holding 
management accountable for progress. “We set targets for how you move along 
the D&I journey,” one director said, “and those should be stretch goals so people 
can feel they have something to reach for but that they’re not out of reach. We 
set goals for increasing diversity in the organization at different levels and across 
different areas.” 
A number of directors indicated not only a willingness to tie executive 
compensation directly to DE&I, but a belief that it is a critical step to bringing 
about positive change. “Things moved when you tied compensation to it,” Tom 
Baltimore told us. “Compensation is always important; it gets measured, and 
people are held accountable—executives will respond” to the goals the board 
established. Analysis by RRA shows that while a sizable minority of CEOs in 
the US (43 percent) have their compensation tied to ESG goals, it is relatively 
uncommon for CEOs in the US or the UK to have their compensation clearly 
connected specifically to DE&I outcomes—only 29 percent of US CEOs and 25 
percent of UK CEOs surveyed indicated their compensation was tied to DE&I 
outcomes.
The Board’s Oversight of Racial and Ethnic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  11
rrrr--00223388--110077000099--RRaacciiaall  aanndd  EEtthhnniicc  DDiivveerrssiittyy..iinndddd      1111 0077--JJuull--2211      11::4422::3399  PPMM
Directors at companies with DE&I-related compensation plans acknowledged 
that there was often concern with how executives would be measured, what 
data would be used and whether the executives were being set up for success. 
“It was difficult. There was lots of pushback,” one told us. “It’s difficult to 
have that conversation, but that’s where, if you agree on the goals that affect 
compensation, it’s easy for the CEO to charge HR and the executive team to 
come back with an appropriate team and proposal that makes it happen. They 
have to sell it, and the executives have to buy it.” Another director agreed, but 
noted that some topics—like having an inclusive culture or ensuring employee 
safety—should be table stakes for leadership, not something that in and of itself 
is rewarded with more compensation.
Several directors cited data quality and availability as an ongoing challenge. “The 
more data you have, the more you’re able to do something about it,” one director 
said. But quantitative employee demographic data can be hard to come by—and 
easily misunderstood. Employee surveys also present their own challenges. 
“Longitudinal satisfaction surveys are important, but they’re often too high level,” 
one director said. Another admitted that “with the surveys we do of employees, 
we are still grappling with how to understand the feedback.”
The Board’s Oversight of Racial and Ethnic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  12
rrrr--00223388--110077000099--RRaacciiaall  aanndd  EEtthhnniicc  DDiivveerrssiittyy..iinndddd      1122 0077--JJuull--2211      11::4422::4411  PPMM
Challenges in a Global Context
The oversight of racial and ethnic diversity is challenging  as well, is a very important distinction.” Compounding all 
when operating within a single country—it gets significantly  of this is a risk that international diversity and racial and 
more complex in a multinational organization. “It is not  ethnic diversity can be confused. “Adding an African is not 
one size fits all,” one director told us. “Diversity has a  the same as adding an African American,” one US director 
different meaning in India, in the Middle East and in the  said. “We have to do both.”
United Kingdom. It’s not the same as in the United States. 
Another part of the challenge is directors’ mindsets. “I think 
Things are not quite so clear when you’re looking across 
a lot of US-centric executives haven’t been exposed to 
international borders.”
global issues, and they try to impose US diversity thinking 
Access to data is one hurdle boards must overcome.  onto an international population, which I don’t think is 
While companies in the United States can use the federal  appropriate or helpful,” one director said. “There are real 
government’s EEO-1 data to get a view of workforce  diversity issues around the world, and US solutions are 
demographics, a director pointed out that “in some  not necessarily the right solutions elsewhere. I think the 
countries in Europe, it’s illegal to ask for diversity data—and  issues we talk about in global companies are far different 
that makes it even trickier.” from what most US-centric companies talk about.” 
The same is true for US-based companies with non-US 
Companies also risk having robust data but reaching 
directors. Conversations about DE&I differ so significantly 
incorrect conclusions. “As you can imagine, it is actually 
across countries and regions that directors need specific 
very important to track someone’s ethnicity as it relates to 
education from each board they sit on regarding DE&I 
the market,” a director said. “If you look at the number of 
in that particular context, including available data and 
senior Black leaders we have in our company, it’s a pretty 
applicable laws. It is also important for directors of global 
high number. That’s because all of our senior leaders across 
companies to consider their shareholders and to be 
each one of our African markets is Black, and we are in every 
prepared to discuss DE&I with US- and UK-based investors.
market in Africa. So, for us not to track just Black ethnicity, 
but specifically British or American Black people 
The Board’s Oversight of Racial and Ethnic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  13
rrrr--00223388--110077000099--RRaacciiaall  aanndd  EEtthhnniicc  DDiivveerrssiittyy..iinndddd      1133 0077--JJuull--2211      11::4422::4433  PPMM
Guidance
Our conversations with directors led to the development of “10 Responsibilities of Boards in the Effective Board Oversight 
of Racial and Ethnic Diversity,” a roadmap for boards that want to elevate their focus on DE&I. We encourage boards to 
consider integrating these recommendations into their oversight practices in a manner tailored to their organization’s 
culture and governance frameworks.
1.   Ensure the CEO and board chair have the capacity  2.  Build a board whose directors are racially and 
and commitment to drive the organization’s racial  ethnically diverse and have experience with 
equity efforts long term. “Everything flows from the  oversight of DE&I. Boards must prioritize DE&I in 
tone at the top,” one director reminded us. The best- their director recruitment efforts, both to improve the 
intentioned board will struggle to catalyze change  diversity of the board itself and to recruit directors who 
if the board chair and CEO are not committed to the  understand the importance of overseeing DE&I within 
effort. “Companies that do this well are those that  the business (including HR and DE&I professionals). 
don’t see it as a check-the-box initiative,” another  A recent RRA survey of NomCo chairs indicates that 
director said, “but rather as a part of their corporate  67 percent felt DE&I expertise is important for new 
purpose in serving the community and unlocking  board directors (77 percent said the same about new 
potential in the employee base. Once you get over  senior executives). Directors from underrepresented 
that, and get aligned, things change. You must  communities can play an active role in helping recruit 
have a CEO who is willing to do it, because purpose  other directors of color. It is important that boards 
is driven at the highest level of the company.”  create an environment where directors of color are 
not expected to speak on behalf of every person who 
shares their identity. As boards are regularly refreshed, 
In a recent survey of NomCo chairs:10
recruiting directors who value diverse perspectives is 
essential. One director we interviewed, who serves as 
67% 77% a nominating and governance committee chair, asks 
director candidates “how they advance greater D&I 
in their various walks of life. […] If they say it can’t be 
agreed that DE&I  felt the same way  done, that is concerning. A fatalistic response is sure 
expertise is important for  about new senior  death. They won’t be helpful and may be obstructionist. 
new board directors executives So, they’re a burden not worth putting on the board.”
The Board’s Oversight of Racial and Ethnic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  14
rrrr--00223388--110077000099--RRaacciiaall  aanndd  EEtthhnniicc  DDiivveerrssiittyy..iinndddd      1144 0077--JJuull--2211      11::4422::4455  PPMM
3.  Make racial equity an active part of the business  5.  Regularly evaluate the potential impacts of the 
strategy and work toward clear and quantitative  company’s operations on communities of color, 
key performance indicators. As one director said,  embracing relevant opportunities and mitigating 
“You need to get the board to treat DE&I like any other  relevant risks. Few directors were focused on the 
important part of the strategy—we shouldn’t be treating  potential negative externalities of their business 
this any differently than any other business process we  on communities of color. Similarly, few focused on 
oversee.” Integrating DE&I into the business strategy  the opportunities presented by serving diverse 
requires boards to regularly review performance against  communities. “I never thought that it was reasonable 
specific metrics and KPIs related to DE&I. “Be sure that  to try to govern a company without understanding 
as you define issues, you also develop metrics to use  that you are in a community and a society and using 
to determine if you are meeting or exceeding what you  resources,” one director said. Boards could consider 
are trying to do,” one director said. “Lay them out and  their company’s efforts to engage diverse suppliers, 
own them. Own the bad news if you are intending to  tap into new customer segments, provide charitable 
change it and resolve it.” This effort can involve publicly  contributions to racial justice organizations and 
setting targets related to the diversity of board and staff  enable economic growth and development through 
and being open about progress. Executives should be  the use of corporate resources, etc. They should 
tasked with identifying and addressing inequality in the  also make sure to avoid offering products and 
organization and held to account for their performance,  services that disadvantage communities of color. 
including through their variable compensation.
6.  Facilitate boardroom discussions that are 
4.  Make racial and ethnic diversity, equity and  thoughtful, balanced and intentional, and build a 
inclusion both a committee and a full-board  culture where directors are empowered to challenge 
responsibility. Acknowledging the complexity of  ideas. Numerous directors agreed that “the role of 
DE&I and its relevance across board committees is  the chair is absolutely key” to creating an inclusive 
important. Boards should address racial DE&I “at the  boardroom culture that welcomes diverse directors 
full board as a strategic conversation,” one director  and effectively oversees DE&I. Board leaders should be 
said, but also in committees “at a tactical level.”  proactive on racial equity and embrace uncomfortable 
Tom Baltimore agreed: “A lot of the initial work may  conversations. The role of the chair in building an 
be in NomCo, around director selection, or comp  inclusive board culture is critical and takes intentional 
committee, because you want to look at the data and  leadership: Research on board culture has shown that 
facts, and the reality is that what gets measured gets  highly effective boards of high-performing companies 
focused on,” but ultimately, “at most companies that  have chairs who are 17 percentage points (pp) more 
do this well, it’s a board discussion.” Details about  likely to foster and facilitate high-quality debates, 17 pp 
oversight practices (e.g., frequency of discussions,  more likely to actively seek different points of view and 
specific risks addressed, committee responsibilities,  13 pp more likely to draw out the relevant experience 
etc.) should be addressed in public governance  of directors compared to all boards.11 One director, 
documents and in engagements with stakeholders.  who is a woman of color, spoke highly of her board 
chair and noted: “He has done a phenomenal job to 
ensure that when we have too many people speaking 
on the same topic, he will always create room for me 
to speak or amplify something that I’m saying.” 
The Board’s Oversight of Racial and Ethnic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  15
rrrr--00223388--110077000099--RRaacciiaall  aanndd  EEtthhnniicc  DDiivveerrssiittyy..iinndddd      1155 0077--JJuull--2211      11::4422::4455  PPMM
7. Include the perspectives of stakeholders (including 9. Build a coalition, share best practices and learn
employees) in board discussions. One director from peers and experts. “If you look at the issue of
reflected on the importance of engaging with employees 95 percent of mergers and acquisitions failing, there’s
and understanding their experiences: “You’ve got to talk a bible on that, examining the 5 percent who succeed,
to people in the organization. You can’t just parachute what they did and what we can learn from it,” one
in a half dozen times a year for a board meeting and director said. The relative lack of resources for directors
really understand internal dynamics. If you really believe seeking to elevate their oversight of DE&I was part
that D&I is key to unlocking shareholder value, then of the catalyst for this study and related guidance.
you have an obligation as a director to understand However, there are people who have gone through it
whether the company is doing well or not. You must already and who can talk about their experience. One
have conversations with people. I want to meet with director said the most important thing is to “get help.
African American employees at the company, where Having real conversations with people is something
I’m the first African American chair, because I want leaders need. They get some of it, but they often don’t
to understand how people feel about how they’re truly understand because of their worldview. There are
being treated and what opportunities they have for organizations and individuals that can help educate
advancement, but I want to do it without excluding them and their organization about the pitfalls and
people. It goes beyond pulse surveys. It’s a hard thing to tips and tricks. … There is strength in numbers.”
do, but you have to get out there and talk to folks.” It’s
also important to include impacted stakeholders from 10.Realize this is a long journey—be patient and
outside the organization who can speak to the role the don’t give up. “This is a long game, and you must
company plays in the communities where it operates. have short- and long-term goals to meet it,” one
director said. Given the scale of change required, the
8. Create a structured onboarding and ongoing training journey toward diversity, equity and inclusion can be
process that prepares all directors for effective challenging, especially at the start. “Any company
oversight of DE&I. One director reflected, “When that’s reporting or intends to report, they’re going
you don’t have the opportunity to share different to report some gloomy numbers at the outset,”
views, you don’t come to good conclusions. A good one director told us. “It’s not pretty. You have to
board is collective wisdom, and the best boards are have the conversation about what you’re going to
demonstrations of that, with no towering figure and report, own up to failures or lack of movement, but
a willingness and respectfulness to listen to other have a plan of action to improve things.” Another
points of view. That’s the value a board gets from agreed: “This is a long journey—be ready for that.”
diversity.” The value of having the right board cannot
The increased risks and opportunities associated with 
be overstated. “At the end of the day, you must have the
racial and ethnic diversity, equity, and inclusion necessitate 
right board,” a director said. “I believe that’s true and
a sharper focus on this topic from boards. We hope that 
there has never been a more important time to have the
directors will internalize the insights from this paper, 
right board than today. The CEO needs it, the company
generating more value for investors, employees, and other 
deserves it, but you can’t change it overnight.” However,
stakeholders.
very few directors interviewed have onboarding or
training processes related to DE&I and thus might miss
out on the full potential of having a diverse board. “I
know when I came onto the board, and it wasn’t that
long ago, there wasn’t really any formal introduction
to the topic” of DE&I, one director told us. “It came up
in the natural order of conversations, presentations
at committee or the full board as part of talent
development discussions, but it wasn’t highlighted.”
The Board’s Oversight of Racial and Ethnic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  16
rrrr--00223388--110077000099--RRaacciiaall  aanndd  EEtthhnniicc  DDiivveerrssiittyy..iinndddd      1166 0077--JJuull--2211      11::4422::4455  PPMM
Appendix: Key Risks, Opportunities and 
Examples of Indicators for the Board
Key Risk or  Example Indicators 
Scope Opportunity (might not apply to all companies/industries)
• Ongoing board and management engagement with racial and ethnic
diversity, equity and justice versus a reactive crisis management approach
Strategy  • Specific and timebound racial and ethnic diversity, equity and inclusion
Overall Reputation  goals and progress against relevant metrics
Financing • Executive team focused on advancing racial and ethnic diversity, equity
and inclusion that reports to CEO
• Disclosures aligned with State Street Global Advisors’ expectations
• Racial diversity of workforce and leadership reflects racial diversity of the
country or countries in which operations are based
• High levels of inclusion and engagement
• Promotion, advancement and low turnover of employees from
underrepresented communities
Strategy • Equitable representation across job levels
• Pay equity across salary, bonus and stock options
Human Capital
• Effective mechanisms to amplify employee voices
Human Capital  Compliance
• Nondiscrimination policy and equitable process for resolution of
Management Economic
harassment and discrimination claims
Reputation
• Living wage and benefits, including emergency financial support and
Financing opportunities to invest and save for retirement
• Access to training, education and professional development to reduce
turnover and increase opportunities for employees to advance
• Employee health and safety across all communities
• Employees are incentivized to advance racial and ethnic diversity through
their compensation and performance plans
Strategy • Diverse representation
Board Reputation • Formal and publicly disclosed board oversight for racial and ethnic
Financing diversity
• Products and services do not disproportionately harm people of color
Reputation • Diverse teams designing and marketing products to ensure they resonate
Products and 
Economy with diverse consumers
Services
Compliance • Clients share a commitment to racial equity and will use products and
services in alignment with these values
• Diverse suppliers and vendors (both minority-owned businesses and
Reputation businesses that have a credible commitment to diversity, equity and
Operations
Economy inclusion)
• Positive impact on local community, environment and economy
Lobbying and  Reputation • Transparent lobbying practices and political contributions advance (rather
Political or 
Economy than undermine) commitment to racial justice
Charitable 
Compliance • Charitable contributions address the root causes of racial inequity
Contributions
The Board’s Oversight of Racial and Ethnic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  17
rrrr--00223388--110077000099--RRaacciiaall  aanndd  EEtthhnniicc  DDiivveerrssiittyy..iinndddd      1177 0077--JJuull--2211      11::4422::4455  PPMM
References
1. “Intangible Asset Market Value Study.” Ocean Tomo, July 2020.
2. Abate, Alessandra, Dee Fitzgerald, Ryoko Komatsuzaki, Harsonal Sachar,
Alix Stuart and Ulrike Wieduwilt. “Diversity and Inclusion: What Separates
the Best from the Rest.” Russell Reynolds Associates, October 2019.
3. “From Evolution to Revolution: ESG Considerations Beginning to
Re-Shape Investment Management.” Citi, September 2020.
4. Dixon-Fyle, Sundiatu, Kevin Dolan, Vivian Hunt and Sara Prince. “Diversity
Wins: How Inclusion Matters.” McKinsey & Company, May 2020.
5. Langston, Abbie. “Race and the Work of the Future: Advancing Workforce
Equity in the United States.” National Equity Atlas, 2020; Peterson,
Dana, and Catherine Mann. “Closing the Racial Inequality Gaps: The
Economic Cost of Black Inequality in the U.S.” Citi, September 2020.
6. Crookes, Jemi, Dean Stamoulis, Alix Stuart and Joy Tan.
“The NomCo Chair’s View on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion.”
Russell Reynolds Associates, forthcoming August 2021.
7. “2019 Proxy Letter—Aligning Corporate Culture with Long-Term
Strategy.” State Street Global Advisors, January 2019.
8. Getachew, Mahlet, Shalbya Dalal, et.al. “The 2021 CEO Blueprint for
Racial Equity.” PolicyLink, FSG, and JUST Capital, June 2021.
9. Crookes, Jemi, Tom Handcock, PJ Neal and Alix Stuart. “2021
Global Leadership Monitor: Leadership Preparedness for the
Road Ahead.” Russell Reynolds Associates, May 2021.
10.Crookes, Jemi, Dean Stamoulis, Alix Stuart and Joy Tan.
“The NomCo Chair’s View on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion.”
Russell Reynolds Associates, forthcoming August 2021.
11. O’Kelley, Rusty, Anthony Goodman, Ana-Lisa Jones and PJ Neal.
“Going for Gold: The 2019 Global Board Culture and Director
Behaviors Survey.” Russell Reynolds Associates, March 2019.
3659731.2.1.GBL.RTL
EXP: July 31, 2022
The Board’s Oversight of Racial and Ethnic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  18
rrrr--00223388--110077000099--RRaacciiaall  aanndd  EEtthhnniicc  DDiivveerrssiittyy..iinndddd      1188 0077--JJuull--2211      11::4422::4477  PPMM