
HEADER
ANNUAL 
REPORT
2020
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    1
THE LARGEST 
INDEPENDENT ASSET 
MANAGEMENT GROUP 
IN THE NORDIC 
REGION 
5
Affiliates
48
Products
191
Employees
302
SEK billion  
Assets under  
management
CONTENT
6. 14.
4 CARNEO IN BRIEF
6 CEO STATEMENT
8 STRATEGIC DIRECTION
Building the asset manage- 
ment group of the future
Carneo builds   Helping clients build  Holberg – our new team 
a strong   modern, high quality and  member
Nordic presence sustainable portfolios
The asset management 
industry
14 OFFERING
1X0.. 20.
A world of choice
Carneo offering
The active choice
20 SUSTAINABILITY
Carneo principles for 
sustainability
Active asset manage­ 24 AFFILIATES
Holberg – our new  ment and sustainability 
Affiliates aligned through co- 
team member go hand in hand
ownership and independence
C WorldWide
Carnegie Fonder
24.
Nordic Cross
Alternative Solutions
32 GROUP MANAGEMENT  
TEAM AND AFFILIATE CEOs
33 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
34 ANNUAL ACCOUNTS
Top tier 
asset 
managers
CARNEO IN BRIEF
FOCUSED ON ACTIVE 
ASSET MANAGEMENT
Carneo is the largest independent 
asset management group in the Nordic 
region and has the ability to offer 
investors complete portfolio solutions 
within active asset management.
Key events
RESPONSIBLE 
 Assets under management grew 3.8 
INVESTMENTS
percent to SEK 302 billion at year end. 
 Partnership with Holberg, the largest 
EQUITIES PRIVATE   independent asset manager in Norway. 
ASSETS  Kantar SIFO Prospera ranks two of 
Carneo’s affiliates NO.1 (Carnegie 
Fonder) and NO.3 (C WorldWide) in 
FIXED   ABSOLUTE    the category Fund Distributors & 
INCOME RETURN
Selector based on overall performance. 
The Carneo Group
Carneo has five affiliates, operating as  
independent subsidiaries supported by the  
scale and resources of Carneo.
4    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
CARNEO IN BRIEF
Assets under   
management in 2020
(SEK billion)
 
OY OPM becomes a part 
PERFORMANCE 2016–2020 2021 of Carnegie Fonder.
291 302 ER Carneo acquires Holberg.
238 226
184 O
N
Carneo acquires Alfred Berg’s 
Swedish funds and mandates 
2019
RT through Carnegie Fonder.
2016  2017  2018  2019  2020 S
A
Alternative Solutions is 
BY AFFILIATE I 2017 founded by Carneo in 
CH cooperation with the 
Alternative Solutions team.
Carnegie Asset Manage-
ment changes name to 
C WorldWide.
Carneo acquires OPM.
 C WorldWide  205
 Carnegie Fonder  91*
 Nordic Cross  6
 Alternative Solutions  1 Carneo is founded. Carnegie 
2016 Fonder is separated from 
Carnegie Investment Bank 
and brought together with  
BY PRODUCT GROUP 
C WorldWide (then Carnegie 
Asset Manage ment) under 
the Carneo roof.
Nordic Cross is founded 
by Carneo in cooperation 
with the Nordic Cross team.
 Equity  245
 Fixed income  30 Carnegie Investment Bank 
 Other products  27 2010 acquires HQ Bank and HQ 
Fonder which are merged 
with Carnegie Investment 
Bank. HQ Fonder is 
BY CLIENT TYPE
renamed Carnegie Fonder.
The Private Equity fund 
2009 Altor Fund III becomes the 
majority owner of 
Carnegie Investment 
Bank.
 Institutional clients  187
 Retail  109 C WorldWide (then 
 Other  6 Carnegie Asset Manage-
ment) is separated from 
Carnegie Investment 
BY REGION   Bank.
(by investor domicile)
C WorldWide is formed as 
1986 Carnegie Asset Manage-
ment, a part of Carnegie 
Investment Bank.
 Sweden  132
 Rest of the world   100
 Denmark  56
 Norway  14
 * including OPM SEK 4 billion.
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    5
CEO STATEMENT
 We provide 
investors with a 
complete range of 
investment products, 
combined with 
significant expertise 
in strategic asset 
allocation. 
6    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
CEO STATEMENT
CARNEO BUILDS A STRONG 
NORDIC PRESENCE
WELCOME player in the Swedish market for both private and institu-
Let me introduce you to Carneo. The Group was founded in  tional investors. With our latest member, Holberg, we have 
2016 by Altor, a Swedish private equity firm, with the vision  added the top independent player in the Norwegian market 
to gather world-class Nordic independent asset managers  within active asset management. 
within the Carneo Group. I was excited to join this journey in  In today’s low interest-rate environment, investors seek 
2017 as CEO of the Group. Danish-based C WorldWide and  new ways to secure risk-adjusted returns. Our private asset 
Swedish Carnegie Fonder were in from the start. Since its  funds at Alternative Solutions and absolute return funds at 
inception, Carneo has co-founded Nordic Cross and Alter- Nordic Cross have seen increased flows and interest from 
native Solutions, acquired Alfred Berg’s Swedish assets and  investors during the year. We are just getting started, but we 
most recently acquired Holberg, a prominent Norwegian  see great potential going forward. Hence, we aim to estab-
asset manager. lish a good position in the market for private assets to help 
investors achieve the best possible risk-adjusted returns. My 
CARNEO HAS A UNIQUE OFFERING ambition is that the proportion of alternative investments 
The Carneo Group is unique, and today we are the largest  will constitute a significant part of both investors’ portfolios 
independent asset management group in the Nordic region.  and the Group’s assets under management in the future. 
We have a robust platform with brands associated with 
quality, knowledge, entrepreneurship and a sustainable  AN UNUSUAL YEAR
mindset. Most importantly, we provide investors with a  The covid-19 pandemic turned 2020 into an unusual year. 
complete range of investment products combined with sig- Despite the heavy toll it caused on the global economy, the 
nificant expertise in strategic asset allocation.  financial markets made a speedy recovery due to the signif-
Carneo provides a belonging and a larger context for  icant stimulating measures by central banks and govern-
top-tier independent asset managers. The Group is a long  ments. As a result, most individuals experienced growth in 
term owner and sparring partner supporting entrepreneur- their savings. 
ial minds. We also relieve our affiliates from part of the  Looking back at 2020, I can conclude that Carneo’s 
increasing burdens of new regulations, compliance and risk,  jointly managed capital has grown substantially. Our port-
enabling them to focus on clients and the core business. folio managers have done a great job in several product 
groups, and by year-end, our total assets under manage-
RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS REDUCE RISKS AND  ment amounted to SEK 302 billion. I am proud of the team 
CREATE BETTER RETURNS  at Carneo and our affiliates, who delivered and cared for 
Carneo’s affiliates are active asset managers and can make  investors despite turbulence and the challenges that fol-
a difference for our clients in their quest for return on  lowed the pandemic. 
investments. We are among the best in our field with invest- Then in January 2021, after evaluating more than 50 
ment philosophies based on long term investments, con- companies, we successfully finalised the acquisition of and 
centrated portfolios and close relationships with the com- partnership with Holberg. I am thrilled with the deal as it 
panies where we invest. Equally important is that our affili- gives Carneo a firm foothold on the Norwegian market. Hol-
ates have the ambition to be best in class in sustainable  berg and Carneo are a great match in terms of company 
investments and proactively contribute to a sustainable  values and organisational culture. 
society. A significant gain from a client perspective as 
responsible investments also reduce risks and create better  LOOKING AHEAD
returns long term. Carneo will continue to build a solid Nordic presence. The 
pandemic forced us to pause for a while, awaiting the 
A VOICE ALONGSIDE THE BANKS market to stabilise but now the journey continues. We strive 
Carneo is on a mission; with a population that lives longer  to partner with top-tier asset managers in the Nordic mar-
and pension systems that will not suffice, individuals, cor- kets and aim to double Carneo’s assets under management 
porates and institutions need to take more responsibility for  within the upcoming 3–5 years. I also see that the share of 
their savings. We want to be a part of that solution and con- private assets will continue to grow to support our ambition 
tribute to societal goals by creating the best possible  to provide investors with additional ways to secure high 
risk-adjusted returns on clients’ savings and other estab- risk-adjusted returns. The future looks bright.
lished foundations’ assets. By gathering the best indepen- You are reading Carneo’s first public annual report. We 
dent asset managers, we strive to be relevant and a strong  hope you will gain a good understanding of Carneo’s offer-
voice in society, alongside the banks. ing, our affiliates and the role we want to play in the Nordic 
financial markets – today and in the future. I am proud of 
A STRONG NORDIC LINE-UP  what we have achieved so far and look forward to taking 
Carneo’s foundation is traditional active management. In  the next steps to strengthen Carneo’s presence in the 
Denmark, we have C WorldWide Asset Management with a  Nordic region together with our employees, owner and 
global equity focus and mainly institutional investors.  strategic business partners.
Through Carnegie Fonder, with 30 years of experience and 
a focus on fundamental valuation, we have a powerful  CHRISTOFFER FOLKEBO , CEO
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    7
STRATEGIC DIRECTION
STRATEGIC 
DIRECTION
Vision
Carneo’s vision is to build the asset 
management group of the future.
Mission
Carneo’s mission is to offer clients 
modern, high­quality and sustainable 
asset management solutions provided 
by top­tier affiliates that benefit from 
a combination of entrepreneurship 
and economies of scale. 
Business objective
Carneo’s business objective is to 
establish a strong Nordic presence 
and double the Group’s assets under 
management in 3–5 years.
8    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
STRATEGIC DIRECTION
BUILDING THE  
ASSET MANAGE- 
MENT GROUP  
OF THE FUTURE
The vision to build the asset management group of 
the future stands firm in an industry undergoing sig­
nificant changes. With predicted long term market 
growth and an increasing demand for new saving 
solutions, the opportunities are plentiful. Meanwhile, 
polarisation of flows to passive and alternative invest­
ments is creating price pressure for active strategies, 
which will continue to drive consolidation. In this set­
ting, Carneo has pole position in the Nordic market. 
Carneo drives consolidation in the Nordic asset management industry 
with the ambition to be the preferred owner of leading independent 
asset managers. Carneo aims to establish a solid footprint by providing 
a home for the strongest Nordic brands and double the assets under 
management over the coming years through organic growth 
and acquisitions.
BEST IN CLASS INVESTMENT STRATEGIES AND PORTFOLIO 
SOLUTIONS
The affiliates within the Carneo Group provide top-quality asset man-
agement solutions and a diverse range of investment strategies in both 
traditional and alternative asset classes. The Group also offers clients 
access to proprietary methodologies for portfolio construction.
AUTONOMY AND CO-OWNERSHIP IN COMBINATION WITH A 
LARGER CONTEXT 
Carneo’s affiliates retain their uniqueness and autonomy over their 
investment processes, and key employees are co-owners in their 
respective businesses. Carneo provides the strengths and support of a 
large organisation, enabling affiliates to focus on their clients and core 
business while having access to shared resources. This, in turn, 
enhances growth prospects and operational quality and efficiency. 
RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS
Carneo truly believes that responsible investments make a difference in 
achieving social and environmental change and are drivers for improved 
risk-adjusted returns. As the largest independent asset management 
group in the Nordic region, Carneo takes this responsibility seriously and 
strives to systematically integrate sustainability and ESG factors in all 
aspects of the business and be a driving force in the financial sector.
MOVING INTO 2021
In the short term, the ambition is to establish a strong foothold in the 
Norwegian market following the acquisition of Holberg and to increase 
the scale in Sweden. Carneo’s Danish affiliate C WorldWide will con-
tinue to strengthen its international relevance, primarily in the US 
market. Carneo will also continue to develop the offering of alternative 
asset classes in line with the ambition to provide complete portfolio 
solutions and additional sources of return.
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    9
STRATEGIC DIRECTION
 Carneo will 
give us fuel to 
develop, but we 
get to keep our 
DNA. 
INTERVIEW WITH
Magny Øvrebø  
CEO Holberg
Meet our new team member
Carneo’s solid competence in asset management and  Carneo will be a good sparring partner, for example, by 
the mutual focus on continued growth led to a partner- supporting us to develop the sustainability perspective in 
ship. In January 2021, the two companies declared that  our business further. 
Holberg becomes Carneo’s first affiliate headquartered 
in Norway. Please meet Magny Øvrebø, CEO at Holberg.  – Carneo will give us fuel to develop, but we get to keep 
our DNA. We will also have access to an extensive net-
Holberg was searching for a new owner and partner who  work and new distribution platforms, and we see opportu-
shared the ambition to grow, but it had to be the right fit  nities for cooperations within the Carneo Group. As a first 
on many levels. Magny tells how Carneo was selected. step, we hope to reach the Swedish market with our 
– With Carneo, we had a good dialogue from the start.  products. 
The extensive competence within the Carneo Group, com-
bined with industry experience, made Carneo an excellent  Changes in the Norwegian fund market
choice for us, and they saw Holberg as a great partner for  Banks and affiliated insurance companies dominate the 
them. Our company cultures are a good match. fund market in Norway today, and they also own the most 
extensive distribution channels where their funds are in 
– It was essential for us to partner with an owner who  the majority. Holberg is the largest independent asset 
shared our view on growth and our plan for ownership  manager in the country and distributes funds through 
amongst our employees. Carneo was the number one  platforms, distributors and sells directly to institutional 
choice for the owners, employees and, in our opinion, clients and high net worth individuals.
our clients. – A large proportion of Norway’s pension capital is placed 
in life and pension products, but from March 2021, it will 
New opportunities for growth be possible for pension savers to move part of their capi-
By becoming part of a larger group, Magny believes that  tal to new asset managers. This change opens up new 
Holberg is establishing a new platform for Holberg’s con- opportunities for Holberg, Magny believes.
tinued growth.
– We are a part of a larger context that provides us with  – In 2020, the interest in the stock market exploded in 
support in handling the increased costs and regulatory  Norway, and it will be exciting to see the impact on the 
burdens of running an asset management firm today.  fund market as well, says Magny. 
10    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
STRATEGIC DIRECTION
About Holberg
Holberg is a Norwegian inde-
pendent, active asset man-
ager founded in 2000 and 
based in Bergen. The invest-
ment philosophy is based on 
long term, concentrated port-
folios and a close relationship 
with invested companies, 
combined with active owner-
ship and a sustainability focus. 
Sustainability benefits active investors 9 26
Sustainability has been in focus in the industry for the last 
2–3 years. Norway still has a relatively large carbon foot-
Products Employees
print, and much emphasis is still on oil. Implementing the 
EU taxonomy in 2022 will put more pressure on incorporat-
ing the sustainability perspective in Norway. 
23
– The trend towards passive strategies and index funds 
continues. However, with a sustainability focus, I believe 
investors will be more interested in active asset manage- SEK billion  
ment, where you really can choose where you invest your 
Assets under management
money, says Magny.
A clear focus on active management
Since the start, Holberg has had a consistent approach and 
a clear strategy to focus on active asset management. 
ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT 
Magny speaks proudly about the strong culture at Holberg.
(SEK BILLION)
– Holberg’s investment philosophy uses a bottom-up 
approach, concentrated portfolios with companies we  23
know in-depth and follow closely. Holberg invests long term  22 21
with a sustainable perspective and we are “in the same  19 19
boat” as our clients, as our employees have a large part of 
their savings in our funds and own 30 percent of Holberg. 
– We take our job at Holberg seriously but always with a 
twinkle in the eye and we strive to have fun at work. We 
communicate in a fact-based and direct way with our cli-
ents, and we do it the same way within Holberg. Our port-
folio managers are going the extra mile for our clients, 
being active in every sense of the word.
2016  2017  2018  2019  2020
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    11
STRATEGIC DIRECTION
THE ASSET 
MANAGEMENT INDUSTRY
The asset management industry has a bright future with a  and the lower prices of passives have put pressure on 
market growth rate expected to exceed GDP growth for  many active strategies. At the same time as passive prod-
the forthcoming years based on increased savings and  ucts are gaining attention, significant amounts of capital 
asset prices over time. Changes in the market landscape  are allocated to various types of alternative and private 
and investors’ growing demands for saving solutions will  asset classes.
also generate significant opportunities for the leading 
players in the asset management industry.    Restrained access to distribution channels
Over the past years, there has been an ongoing consolida-
According to Boston Consulting Group, global assets under  tion among fund distributors. Many of these tend to work 
management grew to USD 89 trillion in 2019, corresponding  with fewer and fewer third-party providers and to a larger 
to a compound annual growth rate of 7 percent since 2003.  extent prioritise own investment products. This develop-
The growth is a result of a combination of increased savings  ment is expected to continue and is exposing, in particu-
and positive capital flows to the industry as well as higher  lar, smaller asset managers without a unique edge to risk 
asset prices.  of losing flows.
The long term growth in the industry is set to continue into    Higher operational costs to comply with demands  
the 2020s. There are however several forces impacting the  from investors and regulators
industry that will redraw the game plan for the participants.  The financial industry faces increasingly stricter regula-
The relative profitability of the industry has decreased due  tory supervision. Complying with new regulatory require-
to fiercer competition and price pressure from passive, low  ments has led to substantially increased operating costs 
cost products and higher operational costs. All this is  within the industry. In recent years, more extensive 
expected to continue driving a consolidation of the industry  requirements for sustainability and responsible invest-
which still is very fragmented. ments have further increased operating costs. 
  Polarisation of flows The demands from both investors and regulators regard-
The interest in passive strategies from investors has  ing compliance and reporting transparency will continue 
increased for the past decade. Investors are cost-conscious,  to accelerate going forward. This development adds 
ASSET LEVEL AND MONEY FLOWS GLOBAL AUM NET REVENUES AS A SHARE OF AUM 
USD trillions Basis points
100 30
25
80
7%
20
60
15
40
10
20
5
0 0
2003  2008 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2003  2008 2014  2015  2016  2017  2018  2019
Source: Boston Consulting Group Global Asset Management Market-Sizing Database 2020
12    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
STRATEGIC DIRECTION
additional requirements on asset managers and distribu-
tors, forcing changes in fund product features and
pricing, service provider arrangements, distribution chan-
nels and compliance and risk management functions.
 
 Global investable 
OUTLOOK
Carneo believes that growth in the industry will continue  assets for the asset 
to be driven by demographical changes where an ageing  management industry 
population has increased needs for retirement savings 
will increase to more 
combined with higher asset prices over time. 
than USD 100 trillion 
Passive strategies will continue to challenge active. At the 
by 2020.
same time, the best active players will have an opportu-
nity to develop offerings that meet investor demand for 
long term active ownership, sustainability agendas and  PWC: Asset Management 2020, 
portfolio solutions that address long term risk and return.  “A brave new world.”
Private asset classes will play a significant part in provid-
ing more attractive solutions.
As the largest independent asset management group in 
the Nordic region, Carneo believes that the development 
that the industry participants face will create many oppor-
tunities for the Group to continue consolidating the Nordic 
asset management industry.
SPLIT OF GLOBAL AUM BASED ON INVESTMENT STRATEGY
2012 2020
 Active  79%   Active  65%
 Passive  11%  Passive  22%
 Alternative  10%  Alternative  13%
Source: PWC: Asset management 2020, “A brave new world”
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    13
OFFERING
HELPING CLIENTS 
BUILD MODERN, 
HIGH-QUALITY 
AND SUSTAINABLE 
PORTFOLIOS
14    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
OFFERING
A WORLD OF 
CHOICE
Carneo provides access to top­tier inde­
pendent asset managers and offers clients 
insights into building sustainable portfolios 
through strategic asset allocation. The prod­
uct range is broad and offers products in 
both traditional and alternative asset classes. 
Carneo’s affiliates are active asset managers with an overall 
belief that top-quality active asset management is the best 
way to generate risk-adjusted returns long term. All affili-
ates include ESG factors as an integral part of the invest-
ment process. 
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    15
OFFERING
CARNEO OFFERING
ASSET CLASSES
Bespoke access to a variety of asset classes and investment 
strategies through top­tier active asset managers.
EQUITIES FIXED INCOME
Carneo offers access to a  The asset managers in the 
number of proven and successful  Carneo Group provide prod-
active asset managers with spe- ucts covering short- and long-
cialisations ranging across geog- dated government bonds, 
raphies, sectors and strategies.  investment-grade corporate 
The portfolio managers are char- bonds and high yield credits, 
acterised by an active and long  primarily within the Nordic 
term approach, striving to find  markets, which have offered 
attractive investments to out- attractive risk-adjusted returns 
RESPONSIBLE  perform the market over time. historically.
INVESTMENTS
ABSOLUTE RETURN PRIVATE ASSETS 
Absolute return funds fall out- Private assets are investment 
EQUITIES PRIVATE  
side of the traditional long-only  opportunities unavailable 
ASSETS
categories. These types of  through public markets such as 
assets provide additional  stock exchanges, enabling 
sources of return and diversifi- investors to profit from long 
FIXED   ABSOLUTE  
cation to a portfolio. Carneo  term investment themes. 
INCOME RETURN
offers several absolute return  Carneo offers solutions for 
funds with different exposures.  investing in alternatives such as 
private equity, venture capital 
and real estate. 
PORTFOLIO CONSTRUCTION 
Carneo provides clients access to proprietary methodologies and 
bespoke solutions for portfolio construction to address portfolio perfor­
mance and risk as valuations, risk factors and macro conditions evolve. 
Research shows that, in the long term,  portfolio. With Yale’s research as a starting 
the balance between equities and bonds  point, we have developed fundamental 
affects return and risk ratios more than  methodologies for forecasting asset class   By sharing insights 
the choice of the individual instruments  returns and running long term simulations  with our clients and 
in the portfolio.  using new distribution models. These pro- providing them with 
vide investors with input to improve port-
relevant decision 
– Primarily successful portfolio manage- folio efficiency and offer guidance 
support for strategic 
ment is about defining the asset classes  towards optimal risk-taking based on their 
asset allocation, we add 
and their weight in the portfolio before  investment horizon and risk tolerance. 
choosing funds and securities. However,    value and build long 
with a long investment horizon, it is diffi- Simon Reinius,   term relationships.
cult for even the experienced investor to  portfolio manager Carnegie Fonder and 
intuitively understand the implications of  developer of CF FRIGG, a tool for asset 
different levels of return and risk to the  allocation decision support
16    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
OFFERING
PRODUCT OVERVIEW 
Through its top­tier asset managers, Carneo offers more 
than 40 different investment products.
EQUITIES FIXED INCOME
Regional equities: Sector equities:  High yield
 Global  Private equity  Corporate bond
 Sweden  Real estate  Investment grade
 Norway  Healthcare  Money market
 Nordic  Marine resources
 Asia and  
emerging markets
PRIVATE ASSETS ABSOLUTE RETURN
 Private equity  Long/short equity
 Venture capital  Fixed income
 Real estate  Multi-asset
RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS
Carneo firmly believes responsible investments will 
make a difference in achieving social and 
environmental change. 
In addition, sustainable investments reduce risk and create better returns long 
term. Carneo strives to be a driving force of the sustainability perspective in 
the financial sector. Affiliates within the Carneo Group include ESG factors as 
an integral part of the investment process and actively monitor their holdings. 
All affiliates are signatories of Principles for Responsible Investment, PRI.
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    17
OFFERING
INTERVIEW WITH Active asset management is 
Simon Blecher
CIO & portfolio manager  about making conscious choices
Carnegie Fonder
 Younger  Simon Blecher, one of Sweden’s most  companies with sustainable and future-
knowledgeable fund managers with a  proofed business models, Simon 
generations are 
long history at Carnegie Fonder, shares  explains.
very conscious  his outlook on the savings market and 
and want to  why he believes in active asset  – As active owners, we continuously have 
management.  dialogues with our holdings about ESG 
know where 
topics, and not just as a one-off when we 
their money is  Simon joined Carnegie Fonder in 2006,  invest. We support and encourage ‘our’ 
and today, he is CIO and manages Carne- companies to invest in diversification and 
put to work. 
gie Sverigefond and Carnegie Spin-Off.  more sustainable solutions and products. 
The funds are actively managed and  Why? Because we know it is essential for 
invest in Swedish listed equities, holding  lasting profitability and competitiveness. 
some of Sweden’s most stable  Through our investments, we direct capi-
companies.  tal to the companies we consider to be 
long term attractive and sustainable.
Carnegie Fonder is a Swedish indepen-
dent asset management company with  How do you see the savings market in 
over 30 years of investment experience,  the upcoming years?
offering actively managed equity,  – The need for sustainable investments is 
fixed-income and mixed funds. here to stay, and in particular, I think the 
younger generations are very conscious 
– Our investment philosophy is based on  and want to know where their money is 
classic fundamental analysis paired with  put to work. Therefore, I am convinced 
modern ESG analysis. With megatrends  that our focus on active management is 
such as climate change and a technologi- the right way forward and this is what 
cal shift, ESG analysis has become essen- active management at Carnegie Fonder 
tial. For this reason, we have developed  ultimately is all about; making conscious 
CF THOR, a tool that helps us to identify  choices for long term investments.
18    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
OFFERING
ACTIVE ASSET 
MANAGEMENT FROM 
TWO PERSPECTIVES
Carneo’s ambition is to offer investors modern  assets as an additional source of return, interna-
and sustainable portfolio solutions. For this  tionally and in the Nordic region.
reason, Carneo has partnered with some of the 
most knowledgeable active asset managers in  Simon Blecher, CIO & portfolio manager at Carn-
the Nordic region with a proven track record in  egie Fonder and Roger Johanson, Head of Alter-
their field of expertise. Traditional active invest- natives, share their views from their respective 
ments still dominate investors’ portfolios, but  fields of expertise.
Carneo also sees an increased interest in private 
INTERVIEW WITH
Roger Johanson
Head of Alternatives
 Private assets have 
become a permanent 
element in the 
financial ecosystem.
Increased 
interest in 
private assets
With a solid background in investing in private  – Private equity is the dominating private asset 
assets, Roger Johanson has seen an increased  today. This is an example of the change in the 
interest in the asset class and new types of  financial ecosystem where entrepreneurs do not 
clients.  have to turn to the stock market to raise capital. 
There is also a growing interest in infrastructure 
– When I started working with private assets, the  largely because of longevity and the connection to 
investors were primarily large institutions, but  sustainable investments, Roger continues.
today they are demanded by most professional 
investors, especially foundations, smaller pension  Private assets and sustainability – how are  
funds and family offices. The return from fixed  they connected?
income has decreased, and investors are looking  – Sustainability is a starting point when investing 
for assets not fully correlated with the equity  in private assets since the investments demand a 
market. Private assets have become a more per- long investment horizon. Today you do not invest 
manent element in the financial ecosystem,  in private assets without considering the sustain-
says Roger. ability perspective. 
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    19
SUSTAINABILITY
ACTIVE ASSET 
MANAGE MENT AND 
SUSTAINABILITY 
GO HAND IN 
HAND
20    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
SUSTAINABILITY
CARNEO  
PRINCIPLES FOR 
SUSTAINABILITY
Carneo fundamentally believes that responsible 
investments can make a difference in achieving 
social and environmental change. Therefore, 
Carneo is determined to help both investors and 
affiliates follow this path and Carneo strives to be 
a driving force within sustainability in the finan­
cial sector.
As an investor, Carneo believes that responsible investments 
reduce risks, create better returns long term and increase 
Carneo’s competitive position.
CARNEO’S AFFILIATES EMBRACE SUSTAINABILITY IN THEIR 
INVESTMENTS
Carneo invests through its affiliates. Their portfolio managers are 
responsible for ensuring that each fund invests according to their 
policy on responsible investments and integrates sustainability in 
the investment decisions. The portfolio managers initiate sustain-
ability dialogues, exercise voting rights, and all that comes with 
being an active owner. Carneo’s affiliates are all signatories of PRI 
(Principles for Responsible Investment). Carneo views PRI as a 
benchmark but also a valuable forum for engagement and 
exchanging knowledge. Some of Carneo’s affiliates have taken 
further steps; for example, Carnegie Fonder has worked with CDP 
(formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) since 2017 and encour-
ages all their holdings to report greenhouse gas emissions. 
CARNEO ADDS VALUE AND SUPPORT
The affiliates in the Carneo Group have operational and invest-
ment autonomy, meaning that they follow their own approach for 
responsible investing. Carneo adds value by enabling collabora-
tion and knowledge sharing, and providing continuous support. 
Carneo respects and acknowledges that integrating ESG factors 
will be done differently depending on geography, asset class and 
investment process. 
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    21
SUSTAINABILITY
INTERVIEW WITH
Mats Andersson 
Board member Carneo and 
Carnegie Fonder 
 Integrating the 
sustainability 
perspective is a way 
to reduce risks and 
increase returns in 
the long run.
The financial sector is critical 
in a sustainable transition
Mats Andersson is the former CEO of  former employer AP4 was one of the  essential to point out the direction and 
AP4, managing part of Sweden’s  initiators of the Portfolio Decarboniza- set clear KPIs to guide society and com-
national pension system’s buffer capi­ tion Coalition, which committed to  panies in the right direction. The chal-
tal. Mats is today a board member of  raise pension capital worth USD 100  lenge is how to proceed and do this in 
Carneo and explains why he believes  billion and invest in various strategies  the best possible way, Mats continues. 
that the sustainability perspective is a  to address the climate issue. 
prerequisite for long term success in  Sustainability is in focus within the 
asset management.  – It was a challenging task for us, but  Carneo Group
since then the development has pro- Mats sees a strong dedication and a 
From his former role as CEO of AP4,  gressed rapidly. Today, numerous  focus on sustainability within the 
Mats Andersson has a long history of  investors have concluded the need to  Carneo Group, with an overall strategy 
integrating sustainability aspects in  consider sustainability in the invest- in place and a common path. 
investment analysis and decision pro- ment process and the significant role  – Carneo’s affiliates are all dedicated 
cesses. Mats sees a significant and  the financial industry has in ensuring  to integrating sustainability in their 
positive change in how sustainability is  success, says Mats.  investment processes. The affiliates 
viewed today in the financial sector,  have come far in doing so and their 
with an increasing understanding that  Governance is today an essential  portfolio managers use the toolbox 
sustainability has a natural place on  ESG factor they have as active owners, says Mats.
the investment agenda. When the sustainability factors were 
– My firm belief is that integrating the  established, the focus was on environ- Sustainability – future development
sustainability perspective is a way to  mental and social aspects. The under- After more than a decade of focusing 
reduce risks and increase returns in the  standing of governance was lower.  on sustainability, Mats sees significant 
long run. Climate risk is an absolute  Today, governance is acknowledged as  progress but also that a substantial 
risk that needs to be addressed by all  an essential factor and investors partici- amount of work lies ahead. Mats hopes 
long term investors, says Mats. pate in shareholder meetings, exercise  that the climate meeting in Glasgow in 
voting rights and initiate sustainability  2021 will generate increased willing-
The financial sector plays a significant  dialogues more frequently.  ness to cooperate and powerful initia-
role in the sustainable transition – Sustainability is a complex area and  tives that set a clear future direction.
In 2014, before the UN Climate and  there is no one way or a single strategy 
change conference, Mats and his  to manage climate risk. Therefore, it is 
22    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
SUSTAINABILITY
INTERVIEW WITH
Anna Tropp
Head of Communications 
and Sustainability
 Carneo has an 
ambition to be a 
modern and 
sustainable asset 
manage  ment group.
We can make a 
great difference
Just as Carneo’s affiliates are top tier active asset  – Carneo provides support and forums for knowledge 
managers, our goal is also to be amongst the best  sharing, discussions and problem-solving. The 
in class in sustainability, says Anna Tropp, Head of  demands on ESG- reporting and governance are rap-
Communications and Sustainability at Carneo. idly increasing, and this is one area where we as a 
group can provide support. It is also helpful that col-
Carneo has affiliates in Sweden, Denmark and  leagues within the group can discuss matters and 
Norway, working in various markets with different  form common opinions and positions.
asset classes, segments and geographies. This 
means that they need different approaches to drive  Active asset management goes hand in hand with 
successful sustainability work but have a high ambi- successful sustainability work. 
tion level in common. Anna describes Carneo’s view 
on sustainability: – Carneo has come a long way since the start. The 
– Carneo is a modern and sustainable asset man- overall aim is to be at the forefront and change the 
agement group, and as a group, we can make a  financial industry towards a more sustainable way 
great difference and leverage the ESG focus and  of working where ESG issues are a given, ends 
progress of Carneo’s affiliates.  Anna Tropp.
Carneo’s affiliates are active owners
596 183 11
Meetings voted Direct engagements Nomination committees
Activities consolidated 
at group level 2020
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    23
AFFILIATES
TOP-TIER ASSET 
MANAGERS AND 
INDEPENDENT 
AFFILIATES
COPENHAGEN STOCKHOLM BERGEN
Global, Asian and  Nordic and global  Nordic and global  
Nordic equities equities, and fixed  equities, and fixed 
income income
Assets under management  Assets under management  Assets under management 
SEK 205 billion SEK 91 billion SEK 23 billion
Employees  Employees  Employees 
121  43  26 
STOCKHOLM STOCKHOLM
Absolute return Private equity,  
venture capital, and  
US real estate
Assets under management  Assets under management 
SEK 6 billion SEK 1 billion
Employees  Employees 
9  7 
24    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
AFFILIATES
AFFILIATES 
ALIGNED 
THROUGH CO-
OWNERSHIP AND 
INDEPENDENCE 
Carneo’s affiliates are leading independent asset 
managers in their respective regions and fields of 
expertise. They have a strong belief in common 
that true active asset management generates 
superior risk­adjusted returns long term. Carneo’s 
affiliates represent a diverse set of asset classes, 
investment strategies and operating geographies. 
AFFILIATES AND THE PARTNERSHIP WITH CARNEO
Carneo provides its affiliates with the capabilities, strengths and 
support of a large organisation while maintaining affiliate indepen-
dence. Each affiliate retains its uniqueness and autonomy over its 
investment process, culture, and brand identity, to create an 
environ ment where they can focus on their clients and core busi-
ness while having access to shared resources.
Carneo encourages an entrepreneurial mindset where affiliates 
strive to develop and grow their businesses. Through Carneo, affili-
ates have access to strategic capabilities and financial resources to 
enhance their growth prospects and support functions to drive 
operational quality and efficiency. 
Carneo strives to be a driving force within sustainability in the 
financial sector. All affiliates are signatories to the United Nations 
Principles for Responsible Investments (PRI), and Carneo offers 
affiliates support in their commitment and work to incorporate 
responsible investing practices. 
Being part of the Carneo Group means belonging to a greater 
context while keeping your independence. 
CARNEO IS EXPANDING
Carneo has an ambitious growth agenda and is continuously 
seeking to add additional affiliates to the Carneo Group. In line with 
this ambition, Carneo is looking for high-performing teams with 
strong corporate cultures and entrepreneurial mindsets that want 
to become part of a larger context, accelerate growth prospects 
and improve operational efficiency.
Carneo can also take a vital role in facilitating generational shifts 
and reduce dependency on single individuals. Being part of Carneo 
means retaining independence and autonomy in core activities 
while leveraging the scale of the largest independent asset manage-
ment group in the Nordic region. Carneo encourages you to contact 
us if you represent an asset manager who could be a good match.
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    25
AFFILIATES – C WORLDWIDE
C WorldWide was founded under the name Carnegie Asset 
Management in 1986. The name was changed to C World-
wide in March 2017 to enhance its global identity and inde-
pendence. C WorldWide has been part of the Carneo Group 
since the start in 2016.
C WorldWide’s objective is to deliver consistent, long term 
asset growth for clients through active investments in listed 
equities on global stock exchanges. A majority of C World-
Wide’s clients are institutional investors. 
The product range includes discretionary asset manage-
ment services and mutual fund products. Combining a 
unique investment philosophy based on careful stock- 
picking and long term global trends with a stable team of 
experienced portfolio managers has resulted in world-class 
investment results.
ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT  ACHIEVEMENTS & AWARDS 
(SEK BILLION)
Kantar SIFO Prospera 
205
196 Fund Distributors & 
Selectors 2020
161 156 Number 3 Overall 
performance
117
2016  2017  2018  2019  2020
11 205 121
Products SEK billion  Employees
Assets under 
management
26    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
AFFILIATES – C WORLDWIDE
INTERVIEW WITH
Bo Almar Knudsen
CEO C WorldWide 
 Carneo 
understands the 
value of 
independence.
When you are good at something, 
make that everything
Bo Almar Knudsen, CEO at C WorldWide, describes  An active approach and long term investments
C Worldwide as an international asset manager. The  Bo reflects on the asset management industry and the 
clients are primarily institutional investors, of which a sig­ many different factors that currently affect investors.
nificant number are from Australia and Canada.   – With interest rates at zero, finding a more lucrative 
investment environment than equities is difficult. Still, it 
– We are one of the world’s best equity-focused asset  invites speculation, which inevitably will cause higher vola-
manage ment boutiques, specialising in lasting investments  tility in the market, says Bo.
through global insights.
– Our primary asset is a stable team of experienced port- – The increasing interest in passive strategies continues and 
folio managers and a focused investment model with care- creates price pressure, but our active approach, long term 
fully selected stocks worldwide. Our core strategy has no  investments and value creation during 2020 again showed 
more than 30 companies in a fund, which is a strength, and  that fundamentals matter. 
it was even more so in 2020. 
Bo sees several significant global shifts that will have posi-
C WorldWide has been a part of the Carneo Group since  tive effects on active asset management strategies. In par-
the start in 2016 and is the largest affiliate in the Group. For  ticular, he highlights the focus on sustainability.
C WorldWide, it is crucial to be an independent affiliate.  – Sustainability is a megatrend. C WorldWide has worked 
– Carneo is an owner who knows our core business. At the  with sustainability for many years, and as active investors, 
same time, they understand the value of independence. It is  we aim to do our share. 
important for our clients and us that we are an independent 
asset manager who can put our clients’ interests first.  – We firmly believe that what we do today defines tomor-
row, and for us as active asset managers, we need to be 
Fundamentals matter more selective. Our clients trust their investments with us 
At the end of 2020, Bo looked back at a year with slightly  and we take that responsibility seriously. We conduct dia-
lower net flows than an ordinary year but with good perfor- logues around sustainability with the companies in our 
mance in the funds and increased assets under  portfolios, and we are active shareholders, voting and 
management. trying to steer the companies in the right direction.
– Many of our funds have had relatively good returns; 
Swedish Small Cap and Global Emerging Markets, for  Looking ahead
example, had significant outperformance, Bo says. Bo concludes by quoting tennis player Roger Federer, 
“when you are good at something, make that everything”. 
– It shows that fundamentals matter; we invest in companies  Our ambition is to continue growing and being better at 
with long term potential and sustainable business models.  what we already do well, equity-focused asset manage-
These companies were more resistant during the crisis, and  ment within lasting investments through global insights. 
in a year like 2020, this made the difference, Bo explains.
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    27
AFFILIATES – CARNEGIE FONDER
Founded in 1988 and with over 30 years of investment experi-
ence, Carnegie Fonder offers actively managed equity, fixed 
income and mixed funds, in addition to customised solutions 
and discretionary management. 
Carnegie Fonder has an investment philosophy based on fun-
damental analysis, modern portfolio theory and innovation. 
Carnegie Fonder has longstanding experience of active asset 
management in varying market climates. Staff turnover within 
the organisation is low, which results in continuity and 
retained experience. 
Carnegie Fonder offers a wide range of funds. Common to 
these is that they are actively managed and concentrated in 
terms of holdings.
ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT   ACHIEVEMENTS & AWARDS 
(SEK BILLION)
87 91* Kantar SIFO Prospera 
Fund Distributors & 
71 Selectors 2020
63 64 Number 1 Overall 
performance
2016  2017  2018  2019  2020
20 91* 43
Products SEK billion  Employees
Assets under 
management
* including OPM 
SEK 4 billion.
28    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
AFFILIATES – CARNEGIE FONDER
INTERVIEW WITH
Andreas Uller
CEO Carnegie Fonder
 We have 
broadened and 
sharpened our 
offering.
A deep-rooted focus on active management
Andreas Uller, the recently appointed CEO at Carnegie  We have also developed a proprietary tool, CF THOR, that 
Fonder, starts by thanking his predecessor Hans Hed­ enables a more systematic approach for decision-making 
ström for a fantastic achievement in leading Carnegie  and identifying risks and opportunities from a sustainabil-
Fonder to what it is today, one of Sweden’s top indepen­ ity perspective. Today it is a fully integrated part of the 
dent asset managers.  investment process. 
Carnegie Fonder, future-proofed asset management – In 2020, we have welcomed Anna Strömberg as our Head 
Andreas Uller has been with Carnegie Fonder since 2010,  of Sustainability. Anna is the fund manager of Carnegie All 
most recently as deputy CEO. He has in his different roles  Cap, Sweden’s first Nordic Eco-labelled fund with a five-
seen the development close up and is proud of where Car- star Morningstar rating, and she will also head our sustain-
negie Fonder is today.  ability board. Anna brings with her a long and solid experi-
– Investors and third-party advisors know what Carnegie  ence in sustainable investments.
Fonder represents and its deeply rooted focus on active 
asset management. We always think independently and we  Acquisitions widen our offering
do our own analysis. We do not look at any indexes and  In 2020, Carnegie Fonder broadened the product offering 
only invest in companies we believe in from a financial and  by acquiring three funds from OPM, Global Quality Compa-
sustainability perspective. Integrity is key in our investment  nies, Listed Private Equity and Vega. 
process, says Andreas. – We have ambitions to grow. The funds from OPM 
broaden our product offering, especially since they are 
A good year for long term savings global, focus on quality companies and have an ambitious 
Andreas looks back on a turbulent year for both employees  sustainability approach, which fits well with our 
and clients. During the second half of the year, it was clear  philosophy. 
that the majority of investors with long term savings had 
seen them grow as the markets recovered from the initial  – The acquisition of the OPM funds is an excellent example 
shock of the pandemic. of the benefits of being part of the Carneo Group. Carneo 
– Several of our funds performed strongly during 2020 and  has competence within asset management and is an owner 
I would especially like to highlight our MicroCap fund,  with financial muscles. Carneo also played an essential role 
which increased by almost 50 percent, making it one of the  when Carnegie Fonder acquired the Swedish funds from 
best performing Swedish funds.  Alfred Berg in 2019.
Significant steps in sustainable investing Continuous growth
Andreas sees sustainability as more than a trend in the  Andreas has high ambitions to drive growth in Carnegie 
market, and the focus accelerated during 2020. Carnegie  Fonder. 
Fonder has a long history of working with sustainability  – Now, we will take the next step. With our deep-rooted 
issues, and in recent years the company has taken signifi- focus on active management and long term investments in 
cant steps in responsible investing.  sustainable companies, I see many opportunities. We will 
– As one of just a few asset managers, Carnegie Fonder  continue to sharpen our offering and strengthen our 
has signed the UN Global Compact’s principles, and we  client presence.
also require our funds’ holdings to follow them.
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    29
AFFILIATES – NORDIC CROSS
Nordic Cross was founded in 2016 by a 
ACHIEVEMENTS & AWARDS 
team where the portfolio managers 
are still active. The funds at Nordic 
HFM Euro Hedge  The Hedge Fund  Fondmarknaden.se
Cross are all absolute return funds, 
Awards 2020 Journal Ucits Hedge 
striving to have a positive performance  The Hedge Fund of 
Awards 2021
Nordic Cross Stable  the Year 2020
regardless of the market and long-only 
Return Fund Nordic Cross Small 
benchmarks. All funds are actively  Nordic Cross Stable 
Cap Edge Fund
managed with consistent risk monitor- Winner of the Ucits   Return Fund
– Macro, fixed income  Best Performing Fund 
ing to offer clients competitive risk-  Based on returns 
& relative value 2020 in 2020 and over 2- 
adjusted returns. during 2020, average 
and 3-year periods in 
returns over the past 
long/short equity 
36 months, risk level 
Europe (Small Cap)
6 9 and Sharpe ratio
SEK billion   Employees
Assets under 
management
Ulf Strömsten looks back at a turbulent but  perceive Nordic Cross as a black box. It is 
exciting 2020. Nordic Cross’s funds per- key that clients know what risks we take and 
formed well overall, but most of the  how we reason to achieve good returns.
increase in assets under management 
came from new clients.  Looking ahead
Nordic Cross had funds that passed the 
– We had an inflow to our funds of nearly  critical three-year timeline in 2020. A three-
SEK 1 billion, which is significant in relation  year track record is often required to be on 
to our asset base. We have built a strong  the radar for both investors and distribution 
brand in the hedge fund segment since the  platforms. 
inception in 2016 and we have a devoted  – We have several discussions ongoing right 
INTERVIEW WITH and close team of portfolio managers.  now to find new collaborations with distri-
bution platforms and other parties. We want 
Ulf Strömsten
One of Nordic Cross funds, Nordic Cross  to offer Nordic Cross products on a broader 
Co-founder and 
portfolio manager  Stable Return, was recently named the best  scale and a confirmed track record makes 
fund in the category Ucits – Macro, fixed  this easier.
 It is key that  income & relative value 2020 in the presti-
gious EuroHedge Awards 2020. Ulf sees  Benefits of being part of the Carneo Group
clients know 
several reasons behind this. The Carneo Group has solid competence in 
what risks we  – Of course, this award is a confirmation that  several important areas, providing support 
we have done an excellent job in a challeng- functions in compliance and ESG, enabling 
take and how 
ing market. We were quick to make changes  Nordic Cross to focus on achieving returns 
we reason. when the pandemic struck and again when  for our clients. Carneo also holds strong 
the market began to turn upwards.  brands, giving us possibilities to meet new 
clients and access distribution platforms, 
– Transparency and openness are other keys  says Ulf.
to success. We do not want our investors to 
30    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
AFFILIATES – ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS
Alternative Solutions offers clients bespoke 
access to top-tier alternative asset managers 
in private equity, venture capital and US real 
estate. Alternative Solutions brings a unique 
investment offering to professional investors 
in the Nordic market consisting of a consid-
ered blend of alternative investments and 
immediate access to vintage diversified port-
folios, NAV exposure and returns in a perpet-
ual structure.
1 7
SEK billion   Employees
Assets under 
management
Roger Johanson, Head of Alternatives at  – During 2020, many competitors laid low, 
Carneo, has seen an increased interest in  but we have done the opposite and been 
private assets over the past years. He  very active in meeting potential investors 
believes the current market situation with  digitally. The inflow also increased during 
low-interest rates will continue to make  the second half of 2020, Roger continues.
investors look for assets with limited cor-
relations to the equity markets. Roger believes that being part of Carneo 
brings several advantages to a niche player 
– Alternative Solutions was founded in 2017  like Alternative Solutions. 
and offers investments in private assets  – The competence within the Carneo Group 
such as private equity, venture capital and  is exceptionally high and everyone brings in 
US real estate. Alternative Solutions has  a network leading to even more extensive  INTERVIEW WITH
now passed its third birthday, an important  networks, which is very valuable. 
Roger Johanson
milestone that will increase the interest even 
Head of Alternatives
more. The inflow increased in the second  – We are a small team and the shared ser-
half of 2020, and the year result was great  vice that we can access through Carneo 
for our fund Carneo Private Equity Solution,  enables us to focus on our clients and core   Carneo 
achieving +20 percent in net return. business. It is suitable for us to belong to a 
enables us to 
larger context, and we are a vital part of 
Roger explains that the investment market  Carneo’s vision to build the asset manage- focus on our 
for private assets is growing fast and will  ment group of the future.
clients and 
most probably continue to do so. Alterna-
tive Solutions is one of few Nordic actors  core business.
providing investments in private assets 
today and the clients are mainly small and 
mid-sized pension funds, foundations and 
family offices. 
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    31
GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM AND AFFILIATE CEO’S
GROUP MANAGEM  ENT  AFFILIATE 
TEAM CEOs
CHRISTOFFER FOLKEBO JOHN BLOMBERG BO ALMAR KNUDSEN ANDREAS ULLER
CEO CFO CEO C WORLDWIDE CEO CARNEGIE 
FONDER
ROGER JOHANSON ANNA TROPP MAGNY ØVREBØ MATHIAS WALLERSTRÖM
HEAD OF  HEAD OF  CEO HOLBERG CEO CAAM FUND 
ALTERNATIVES COMMUNICATIONS   SERVICES  
& SUSTAINABILITY (NORDIC CROSS 
AND ALTERNATIVE 
SOLUTIONS)
32    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
BOARD OF 
DIRECTORS
ARNE LINDMAN ANN GREVELIUS HARALD MIX
CHAIRMAN BOARD MEMBER BOARD MEMBER
MATS ANDERSSON PER KLITGÅRD SØREN JOHANSEN
BOARD MEMBER BOARD MEMBER BOARD MEMBER
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    33
FAINNNAUNACLIA ALC SCTOAUTNETMSENTS
ANNUAL 
ACCOUNTS
34    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
ANNUAL ACCOUNTS
CONTENT
MANAGEMENT ADMINISTRATION REPORT 36
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INCOME STATEMENT, GROUP 38
BALANCE SHEET, GROUP 39
INCOME STATEMENT, PARENT COMPANY 40
BALANCE SHEET, PARENT COMPANY 40
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY, GROUP 41
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY, PARENT COMPANY 41
CASH FLOW, GROUP 42
NOTES 43
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    35
MANAGEMENT ADMINSTRATION REPORT
MANAGEMENT 
ADMINISTRATION REPORT
THE CARNEO GROUP
C Asset Management Partners Holding I AB (Reg. no.  ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT (SEK BN)
559035-5995) (“C Asset Management Partners” or the 
“Parent company”) is the parent company in the Carneo 
Group. C Asset Management Partners is owned to 49 per- CAGR  13%
cent by Altor AM Holding 1 S.a.r.l. (Reg. no. B 201109), to 21  300 291 302
percent by Altor AM Holding 2 S.a.r.l. (Reg. no. B 201905)  250 238
226
and to 29 percent by Altor CIB Holding S.a.r.l. (Reg. no. B 
200
145367). In addition to the three majority shareholders, a  184
number of employees and board members within the  150
Carneo Group hold approximately 1.5 percent of the shares. 100
The Group’s operations are managed through the sub-
50
sidiary Carneo AB, in which C Asset Management Partners 
holds 9.2 percent of the capital and 50.3 percent of the  0
votes. Carneo AB, in turn, owns a number of subsidiaries,  2016  2017  2018  2019  2020
through which the operations are carried out.
OPERATIONS SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFTER THE END OF  
Carneo is the largest independent asset management  THE YEAR IN REVIEW
group in the Nordic region and consists of a number of  On 24 January 2021, Carneo AB signed an agreement to 
leading asset management firms, each with their own focus  acquire the Norwegian asset manager Holberg Fonds-
and expertise. forvaltning AS. The acquisition closed on 16 March 2021. 
Carneo was founded in 2016 in conjunction with the  Carneo owns approximately 70 percent of the shares with 
acquisitions of C WorldWide and Carnegie Fonder. Since  the key personnel of the company owning the remaining  
then, Carneo has grown through the acquisitions of OPM,  30 percent.
Alfred Berg’s Swedish assets and Holberg, and by starting  During 2020 and the initial months of 2021, the Group 
the new firms Nordic Cross Asset Management and Carneo  carried out certain internal restructurings, e.g. a transfer of 
Alternative Solutions. Nordic Cross’ operations to CAAM Fund Services as well as 
The Group’s AuM has grown from SEK 184 billion at the  a transfer of the OPM funds, the asset allocation capabilities 
end of 2016 to SEK 302 billion at the end of 2020, corre- and middle office activities from CAAM Fund Services to 
sponding to a compound annual growth rate of 13 percent.  Carnegie Fonder.
The Group covers all key asset classes and has presence in  On 1 April 2021, Andreas Uller replaced Hans Hedström 
Sweden, Denmark and Norway. Over the next five years,  as CEO of Carnegie Fonder. Uller was previously deputy 
Carneo’s ambition is to double its assets under manage- CEO of Carnegie Fonder and CEO of CAAM Fund Services. 
ment. The growth journey is expected to be a combination  Mathias Wallerström replaced Uller as CEO of CAAM Fund 
of organic growth as well as selective acquisitions and  Services as per the same date.
partnerships.
SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE YEAR IN REVIEW
In December 2020, Carneo AB received a notice that the 
Swedish Tax Authorities decided to reassess the reported 
VAT from 2018. Carneo has appealed the case to County 
Administrative Court (Sw.: Förvaltningsdomstolen).
36    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
MANAGEMENT ADMINSTRATION REPORT
SEKm 2020 2019 Change OPERATING EXPENSES AND OPERATING PROFIT
The average number of FTE:s increased to 188 (183 during 
AuM (ultimo) 302,038 290,968 3.8%
2019). Personnel expenses increased to SEK 651 million 
AuM (average) 277,546 261,619 6.1% (SEK 588 million during 2019), primarily due to higher profit 
sharing following a higher operating profit.
Net management fees 1,073 1,005 6.7% Other operating expenses were flat at SEK 255 million 
(SEK 255 million during 2019).
Other revenues 287 133 115.7%
All in all, financial performance has been very strong 
Net operating income 1,360 1,138 19.4% with an operating profit of SEK 430 million (SEK 272 million 
during 2019) corresponding to a margin of 31.6 percent 
Operating profit (EBIT) 430 272 58.0% (23.9 percent during 2019).
Management fee margin 39 bps 38 bps 0.2 bps
BALANCE SHEET
EBIT margin 31.6% 23.9% 7.7 pp The Group’s balance sheet remains strong, enabling us to 
continue to actively invest in and grow our business. As per 
31 December 2020, the Group had assets of SEK 3,903 mil-
ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT lion, consisting of cash, cash equivalents and financial 
The year has to a large extent been affected by the global  investments of SEK 1,406 million and intangible assets 
spread of the coronavirus starting in the first months of   (primarily goodwill) of SEK 1,769 million.
2020, leading to significant falls on equity and fixed income  As per the same date, the Group had liabilities of  
markets in Q1 2020. Due to massive stimulus by states and  SEK 977 million, primarily consisting of current operating 
central banks globally, the recovery was however sharper  liabilities as well as IFRS 16 lease liabilities, and an equity 
than expected. position of SEK 2,927 million.
Despite the significant turmoil and challenges experi- In addition to a strong balance sheet, the Group 
enced during 2020, the year as a whole turned out positive.   con tinues to be highly cash generative with an operating  
After bottoming out at approximately SEK 240 billion at the  cash flow (defined as operating profit less paid tax) of   
end of March 2020, the Group AuM recovered and reached  SEK 370 million.
an all-time-high of SEK 302 billion at the end of December. 
Aggregate AuM growth during the year amounted to   EXPECTED FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
SEK 11 billion, corresponding to 3.8 percent of the opening  The market in which the Group operates is expected to con-
balance. Average AuM during 2020 increased by 6 percent  tinue growing over time, driven by positive flows to the sav-
to SEK 278 billion (SEK 262 billion during 2019). ings system as well as increasing asset prices. There might 
The growth is a result of strong investment performance,  however be short-term fluctuations as has been evident 
absolute and relative to benchmarks, partially offset by net  during the year in review.
outflows. Flows to long-only funds have been challenging  Certain factors will continue to impact the dynamics of 
while there have been positive trends for alternative asset  the market, such as increasing flows to passive low-cost 
classes such as absolute return and private capital  products and a tendency for certain distributors to priori-
strategies. tise own products in relation to those of third-party 
providers.
NET OPERATING INCOME The Group is the largest independent asset management 
Total net operating income increased by 19 percent to   group in the Nordic region and consists of some of the lead-
SEK 1,360 million (SEK 1,138 million during 2019) driven by  ing affiliates within their respective niches. The Group con-
higher average AuM and higher performance related fees.  siders its position in the market as strong with good oppor-
Net management fees increased in line with average  tunities to continue its growth journey through a combina-
AuM at 6.7 percent to SEK 1,073 million (SEK 1,005 million  tion of organic growth as well as additional acquisitions and 
during 2019) and the management fee margin amounted to  partnerships.
39 bps (38 bps during 2019). 
In addition to management fees, there was a significant  PROPOSED ALLOCATION OF PROFIT
impact from performance fees and other variable fees of  In accordance with note 21, the Board of Directors proposes 
SEK 287 million (SEK 133 million in 2019), primarily related  that all available funds of SEK 103,208 are carried forward. 
to C WorldWide and Nordic Cross. In regard of the Group’s and the company’s earnings and 
financial position in general, we refer to the income state-
ment, balance sheet, notes to the financial statements and 
other disclosures.
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    37
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Group
Income statement
SEK (’000) Note 2020 2019
Management fee income 2,266,564 2,076,323
Management fee expenses -1,193,697 -1,070,881
Net management fees 1,072,867 1,005,442
Performance and transaction fee income 287,883 132,423
Performance and transaction fee expenses -3,533 -12,839
Net performance and transaction fees 284,350 119,584
Other revenues 2,533 13,445
Net operating income 1,359,750 1,138,471
Personnel expenses 3 -650,781 -587,662
Other operating expenses 4, 5 -254,597 -255,102
Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets -24,119 -23,316
Total operating expenses -929,497 -866,080
Operating profit 430,253 272,391
Interest income 6 -2,720 -2,457
Interest expenses 6 -4,592 -4,732
Other financial items 6 2,525 -18,622
Net financial items -4,787 -25,811
Profit before tax 425,466 246,580
Income tax expenses 7 -92,207 -59,378
Net income 333,259 187,202
Net income attributable to:
Owners of the Parent company 23,392 15,941
Non-controlling interests 309,867 171,261
Currency exchange gains or losses -9,077 5,565
Other comprehensive income for the period -9,077 5,565
Other comprehensive income for the period attributable to:
Owners of the Parent company -668 512
Non-controlling interests -8,409 5,053
Total comprehensive income 324,182 192,767
38    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Group
Balance sheet
SEK (’000) Note 31 December 2020 31 December 2019
Cash and equivalents 8 1,041,417 853,339
Financial investments 9 364,484 407,234
Prepaid costs and accrued income 10 197,413 132,658
Tax assets 16,986 26,255
Other assets 11 408,667 238,344
Lease assets 12 97,335 108,592
Tangible fixed assets 13 8,335 8,195
Goodwill and other intangible assets 14 1,768,836 1,766,913
TOTAL ASSETS 3,903,475 3,541,530
Accrued costs and prepaid income 15 793,076 719,214
Tax liabilities 18,901 2,866
Other liabilities 16 64,237 50,781
Lease liabilities 12 100,445 108,592
Total liabilities 976,658 881,453
Share capital 101 101
Retained earnings including current year result 254,968 234,559
Total equity attributable to the owners of the Parent company 255,069 234,660
Non-controlling interest 2,671,748 2,425,418
Total equity 2,926,817 2,660,077
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 3,903,475 3,541,530
Equity attributable to:
Owners of the Parent company 255,069 234,659
Non-controlling interests 2,671,748 2,425,418
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    39
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Parent company
Income statement
SEK (’000) Note 2020 2019
Personnel expenses 3 – –
Other operating expenses 5 -145 -47
Total operating expenses -145 -47
Operating profit -145 -47
Other financial items 6 228 0
Net financial items 228 0
Profit before tax 83 -47
Income tax expenses 7
Net income 83 -47
Other comprehensive income:
Currency exchange gains or losses – –
Income tax related to currency exchange gains or losses – –
Total 0 0
Total net income 83 -47
Parent company
Balance sheet
SEK (’000) Note 31 December 2020 31 December 2019
Cash and equivalents 182 15
Financial investments 9 49 49
Other assets 228 96
TOTAL ASSETS 459 160
Accrued costs and prepaid income 35 35
Other liabilities 220 4
Total liabilities 255 39
Share capital 101 101
Retained earnings including this years income 103 20
Equity 204 121
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 459 160
40    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Group
Statement of changes in equity
Total  
Accumulated  owners of   Non- 
Share   retained   Current year  the Parent  controlling   Total 
SEK (’000) capital  earnings result company interest  equity
Balance – 1 January 2019 101  207,327 17,680 225,108 2,325,357 2,550,465
Transfer of prior year result 17,680 -17,680
Prior year tax adjustment -6,901 0 -6,901 -44,189 -51,090
Current year net income -1,374 17,315 15,941 171,261 187,202
Current year other comprehensive 
income 0 512 512 5,053 5,565
Dividends 0  0 0 0 -32,065 -32,065
Balance – 31 December 2019 101  216,732 17,827 234,659 2,425,418 2,660,077
Transfer of prior year result 0  17,827 -17,827
Current year net income 0  0 23,392 23,392 309,867 333,259
Current year other comprehensive 
income 0  0 -668 -668 -8,409 -9,077
Dividends 0  0 0 0 -32,217 -32,217
Group contribution to C Asset 
Management Partners II, net of tax 
effect -2,314 -2,314 -22,838 -25,152
Changes in minority interest 0  0 0 0 -73 -73
Balance – 31 December 2020 101  232,245 22,724 255,069 2,671,748 2,926,817
Parent company
Statement of changes in equity
Share  Other capital  Retained  Net  Total 
SEK (’000) capital contributed earnings  income equity
Equity – 31 December 2019 101 0 67 -47 121
Income previous year -47 47 0
Share issue 0 0
Net income for the year 83 83
Equity – 31 December 2020 101 0 20 83 204
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    41
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Group
Cash flow
SEK (’000) 2020 2019
Operating activities
Profit before tax 425,466 246,580
Depreciation of tangible and intangible fixed assets 24,119 23,316
Unrealised gains from financial investments -2,097 -10,262
Income tax paid -60,055 -54,517
Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 387,433 205,117
Increase (-) / Decrease (+) of operating assets -243,865 -235,010
Increase (+) / Decrease (-) of operating liabilities 38,020 163,271
Cash flow from operating activities 181,588 133,378
Investment activities
Acquisition of shares and participations – -1,453
Purchase of intangible assets -3,678 -75,848
Purchase of tangible assets -2,462 -3,774
Sale of shares and participations 44,847 18,852
Cash flow from investment activities 38,707 -62,223
Financing activities
Issue of share capital 0 0
Dividend -32,217 -32,065
Cash flow from financing activities -32,217 -32,065
Cash flow for the year 188,078 39,090
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 853,339 814,249
Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 1,041,417 853,339
42    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
NOTES
NOTES
NOTE 1. GENERAL INFORMATION
Presentation of financial information reported in equity. Gains and losses on divestments to the 
The presentation of the consolidated financial information  non-controlling interest are also reported in equity. 
has been modified in relation to the annual report for 2019  When the Group no longer has a controlling influence, each 
to better reflect the nature of the current business of the  remaining holding is revalued to fair value and the change in 
Group. The modifications primarily include a reordering of the  carrying amount is reported in the consolidated income state-
consolidated income statement. In the annual report for 2020,  ment. The fair value is used as the first reported value and 
the comparative numbers for 2019 have been adjusted to the  forms the basis for the continued reporting. 
updated presentation format.
Cash flow statement
Accounting and valuation principles The cash flow statement is prepared according to the indirect 
The Group method, whereby adjustments have been made so that the re-
The consolidated financial statements for C Asset Manage- ported cash flow only covers transactions involving payments 
ment Partners Holding 1 AB have been prepared in accor- in or out. Cash and cash equivalents are classified, in addition 
dance with the Annual Accounts Act, RFF 1, supplementary  to cash and bank balances, as balances on the Group account 
rules for groups, and International Financial Reporting Stan- and short-term liquid investments that easily can be converted 
dards (IFRS) and interpretations from the IFRS Interpretations  into a known amount and are exposed to an insignificant risk 
Committee (IFRS IC) as adopted by the EU, with the exception  of value fluctuation.  
of IFRS 8 Operating segments and IAS 33 Earnings per share, 
which do not need to be applied by companies whose shares  Financial instruments
are not subject to public trading.   The Group applies IFRS 9. According to the classification and 
valuation requirements in IFRS 9, financial assets and liabilities 
The Parent company are to be classified as and valued at amortised cost, at fair 
The Parent company’s annual accounts have been prepared  value via the income statement or at fair value through other 
in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and RFR 2 Ac- comprehensive income. 
counting for Legal Entities. The Parent company’s non- current  The Parent company does not apply IFRS 9.
financial assets are reported according to the acquisition 
value method, which means that acquisition costs are included  Financial assets valued at fair value through the income 
in the reported value and that impairment testing takes place.  statement
Equity instruments and derivative instruments are valued at 
Consolidated accounts fair value through the income statement and consist of shares 
The consolidated accounts cover the Parent company and the  and other participations. 
subsidiaries in which the Parent company directly or indirect-
ly owns or controls more than 50 percent of the votes or in  Methods for assessing fair value: 
which it has controlling interest.  Level 1: The fair value of financial instruments traded in active 
The consolidated accounts have been prepared accord- markets is based on quoted market prices at the end of the 
ing to the acquisition method, which means that equity that  reporting period.
existed in the subsidiaries at the time of acquisition is elim-
inated entirely. Therefore, the Group’s equity only includes  Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not 
the part of the subsidiaries’ equity that was added after the  traded in an active market (for example, over-the-counter 
acquisition. derivatives) is determined using valuation techniques which 
Appropriations and untaxed reserves are divided into equity  maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little 
and deferred tax liabilities. Deferred tax attributable to the  as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs 
year’s appropriations is included in the profit for the year. The  required to determine the fair value of an instrument are 
deferred tax liability has been reported as provision, while the  observ able, the instrument is included in level 2.
remaining part has been added to the Group’s equity.  
Goodwill is initially valued as the amount by which the total  Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on 
purchase price and fair value of non-controlling interests  observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.
exceeds the fair value of identifiable acquired assets and 
assumed liabilities. If the purchase price is lower than the fair  Financial liabilities valued at amortised cost
value of the acquired company’s net assets, the difference is  Liabilities in this category primarily refer to accounts payable, 
reported directly in the income statement.  and other liabilities. 
Intra-group profits are eliminated entirely in the preparation 
of the consolidated accounts.  Tangible and intangible fixed assets
In the consolidated accounts, Swedish kronor (SEK) is used,  Tangible and intangible fixed assets are reported at acquisi-
which is the Parent company’s functional currency and the  tion cost less planned depreciation based on an assessment of 
Group’s reporting currency.  the assets’ useful life. Depreciation is reported as an expense 
in the income statement. Estimated useful life is 3–5 years.   
Non-controlling interest
The Group treats transactions with the non-controlling  Goodwill (intangible asset)
interest as transactions with the Group’s shareholders. The  Goodwill arising from business combinations is included in 
non-controlling interest share of assets and liabilities, includ-  intangible assets. Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for 
ing goodwill, has been valued on the basis of the Group’s  impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in 
acquisition value at the time of the acquisition. In the case of  circumstances indicate a possible decrease in value. Goodwill 
acquisitions from the non-controlling interest, the difference  is reported at acquisition cost value less accumulated impair-
between the purchase price paid and the actual acquired  ments. When selling a unit, the reported value of goodwill is 
share of the reported value of the subsidiary’s net assets is  included in the profit/loss incurred.  
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    43
NOTES
Management, performance and other commission income Estimates and assessments are evaluated on an ongoing basis 
Commission income consists of management fees, which are  and are based on historical experience and other factors, 
calculated and recognised as income based on the fund’s  including expectations of future events that are considered 
assets in each fund, and in certain instances the fund’s perfor- reasonable in the current circumstances.
mance, as well as brokerage and advisory fees. 
Management fee expenses
Fees to distributors of the funds are reported as management 
fee expenses and consist mainly of a share of the management 
NOTE 2. TRANSACTIONS WITH GROUP 
fees.  
COMPANIES 
Leasing 
Assets and commitments are reported in the balance sheet in  The Parent company
accordance with IFRS 16.  During the year, the Parent company had no transactions with 
Assets and liabilities arising from a lease are initially mea- Group companies.
sured on a present value basis. Lease liabilities include the net 
present value of the lease payments. The lease payments are 
discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that 
rate cannot be readily determined, which is generally the case 
for leases in the Group, the lessee’s incremental borrowing 
rate is used. Lease payments are allocated between principal  NOTE 3. PERSONNEL EXPENSES
and finance cost. The finance cost is charged to profit or loss 
over the lease period to produce a constant periodic rate 
SEK (‘000) 2020 2019
of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each 
period. Right-of-use assets are generally depreciated over  Fixed salaries and other  
the shorter of the asset’s useful life and the lease term on a  remunerations 236,780 222,032
straight-line basis.
Variable salaries 268,323 223,517
Impairment of assets
Social insurance charges 107,934 100,162
Goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite useful 
life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually  Pensions 34,512 35,041
for impairment, or more frequently if events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that they might be impaired. Other as- Other personnel expenses 3,232 6,910
sets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in 
Total personnel expenses 650,781 587,662
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be 
recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount 
by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable  Salaries and other remunerations  
amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s  to  senior executives and board 
fair value less costs of disposal and value in use.  members* 50,993 56,792
Income taxes * Refers to the CEOs of Carneo AB, C WorldWide and Carnegie Fonder AB 
and the board members of these three companies. 
Accounting for income taxes includes current tax and de-
ferred tax. The tax is reported in the income statement, except 
in cases where it relates to items that are reported directly 
against equity. In such cases, the tax is also reported in equity.  Employees 2020 2019
Deferred tax is reported according to the balance sheet 
Average number of employees 188 183
method on all significant temporary differences. A temporary 
difference exists when the book value of an asset or liability  of which men 100 105
differs from the tax value. 
Deferred tax is calculated by applying the tax rate that has  of which women 88 78
been decided or announced as of the balance sheet date, 
which is currently 20.6 percent in Sweden. The Group also  
has operations in Denmark and Norway where the tax rate is  The Parent company
22 percent. Deferred tax assets are reported to the extent that  In 2020, the Parent company did not pay salaries to the board 
it is probable that future tax surpluses will exist against which  of directors or to employees. All three board members in the 
the temporary differences can be utilised.  Parent company are men. 
Receivables
Receivables have been accounted for at the amounts by which 
they are expected to be received.
NOTE 4. OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The Group makes estimates and assumptions about the future. 
The estimates for accounting purposes that result from these 
SEK (‘000) 2020 2019
will, by definition, rarely correspond to the actual result.
The estimates and assumptions that involve a risk of  Market information 33,745 31,109
significant adjustments in the reported values of assets and 
 liabilities during the next financial year are: Research 26,111 27,578
• Current tax liability for the period and current tax expense
Outsourced services 17,743 12,420
• Fair value of certain financial assets
• Impairment need for goodwill Other 176,998 183,997
• Useful life for intangible fixed assets
• Fair value of contingent liabilities and contingent purchase  Total other operating expenses 254,597 255,102
price in the event of an acquisition
• Recognition of deferred tax assets on loss carryforwards
44    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
NOTES
NOTE 5. AUDIT FEES NOTE 6. NET FINANCIAL ITEMS
SEK (‘000) 2020 2019 SEK (‘000) 2020 2019
Audit fees, PwC 5,661 4,547 Interest income
Audit services in addition to the   Interest income from credit 
audit assignment, PwC 567 1,160  institutions and central banks* -2,728 -2,457
Audit assignments, other audit firms 91 1,121 Other interest income 8 0
Tax consultancy 815 2,163 Total interest income -2,720 -2,457
Other services 2,060 211
Interest expenses
Total 9,194 9,202
Interest expenses -2,370 -1,074
Interest expenses in accordance  
The Parent company
with IFRS 16 -2,223 -3,658
SEK (‘000) 2020 2019
Total interest expenses -4,592 -4,732
Audit fees, PwC 25 25
Total 25 25 Other financial items
Other financial items** 2,525 -18,622
Total other financial items 2,525 -18,622
Net financial items -4,787 -25,811
* Receivables from certain credit institutions have been charged with a 
negative deposit rate.
** 2019 included a group contribution to a non-consolidated owner company.
The Parent company
The Parent company received a dividend of SEK 228,000 (0) 
during the year.
NOTE 7. INCOME TAX EXPENSES
SEK (‘000) 2020 2019
Tax on profit/loss for the year
Tax expense (-) / income (+) for  
the period -87,831 -60,544
Deferred tax -4,317 1,150
Adjustment of taxes from  
previous years -59 16
Total tax expense -92,207 -59,378
Reconciliation of effective tax
SEK (‘000) 2020 % 2019 %
Profit/loss before tax 425,466 246,579
Tax at current tax rate -92,456 21.8 -53,675 21.8
Non deductible cost / Non taxable income -3,137 0.8 -3,459 1.4
Effect of change in tax rate 142 0.0 248 -0.1
Differences due to tax rates in foreign subsidiaries -3,301 0.8 -2,302 0.9
Non recognised loss carry forward -12 0.0 -3,963 1.6
Utilised losses from previous years 6,565 -1.7 3,780 -1.5
Other -8 0.0 -7 0.0
Total reported tax expense -92,207 21.7 -59,378 24.1
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    45
NOTES
NOTE 8. CASH AND EQUIVALENTS NOTE 9. FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS
SEK (‘000) 2020 2019 SEK (‘000) 2020 2019
Cash 751,789 853,339 Shares 300 300
Cash equivalents 289,628 0 Other participations 364,184 406,934
Total cash and equivalents 1,041,417 853,339 Total financial investments 364,484 407,234
Cash is kept with major banks. Cash equivalents refer to cash  SEK (‘000) 2020 2019
deposited with the Danish Tax Agency.  Level 1 249,552 295,351
Level 3 114,932 111,883
Total 364,484 407,234
Parent company shares in Group entities
Ownership 31 December 2020
Capital Votes Number of shares Book  value
Parent company
Ownership in Carneo AB 9.2% 50.3% 9,127 49
Group companies Location Corporate ID Net income Equity
Carneo AB Stockholm 559035-5920 21,615 2,286,470
Carnegie Fonder AB Stockholm 556266-6049 2,029 272,705
Carneo Alternative Investments AB Stockholm 559071-0082 -5 35,301
Nordic Cross Asset Management AB Stockholm 559065-7028 27,557 48,125
CAAM Fund Services AB Stockholm 556648-6832 -3,142 51,791
1787 Carneo AI Holding AB Stockholm 559079-0050 -47 827
Carneo Sirtabla AB Stockholm 559119-1258 3,039 3,465
Carneo Alternative Solutions AB Stockholm 559098-4604 -4 11,852
C WorldWide Group, legal entities: 178,603 600,249
CAM Holding 1 DK ApS (Parent company) Copenhagen 35241485
C WorldWide Group Holding A/S Copenhagen 32657044
C WorldWide Asset Management Holding Denmark A/S Copenhagen 19138100
C WorldWide Fund Management A/S Copenhagen 13412731
C WorldWide Asset Management Fondsmæglerselskab A/S  Copenhagen 78420510
C WorldWide Fund Management Company SA Luxembourg 853022
C WorldWide Holding Norge A/S Oslo 976307852
C WorldWide Investor Service A/S Oslo 893947302
C WorldWide Asset Management A/S Oslo 946479063
46    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
NOTES
Amounts related to lease agreements reported in the 
NOTE 10. PREPAID COSTS AND ACCRUED   consolidated income statement in accordance with IFRS 16
INCOME
SEK (‘000) 2020 2019
SEK (‘000) 2020 2019 Amortisation of right of use-assets -20,042 -20,759
Prepaid costs 28,564 46,529 Interest expense in accordance  
with IFRS 16 -2,223 -3,658
Accrued management fees 168,849 86,129
Total prepaid costs and accrued 
Payments of future nominal lease expenses 
income 197,413 132,658
SEK (‘000) 2020 2019
Within one year 24,818 24,746
NOTE 11. OTHER ASSETS In one to three years 35,533 41,481
Later than three years 43,557 53,433
SEK (‘000) 2020 2019 Total 103,907 119,660
Advisory and management fee 
 receivables 291,931 194,930
The Parent company
Accounts receivables 752 1,318 The Parent company has no lease agreements.
Other receivables 115,984 42,095
Total other assets 408,667 238,344
NOTE 13. TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS 
NOTE 12. LEASE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES SEK (‘000) 2020 2019
Acquisition values
Lease agreements (IFRS 16) 
The Group leases a number of properties. The amounts below  Historic cost 46,851 42,646
are reported in the balance sheet related to lease agreements.
Acquisitions  4,226 3,671
Disposals -907 -119
SEK (‘000) 2020 2019
Currency adjustments -2,235 653
Lease assets
Total acquisition values 47,935 46,851
Right of use-assets (Premises) 97,335 108,592
Total lease assets 97,335 108,592
Accumulated depreciation
Opening balance 38,657 35,376
Lease liabilities
Disposals 398 377
Lease liabilities (Premises) 100,445 108,592
Depreciation, this year 2,322 2,736
Other lease liabilities 0 0
Currency adjustments -1,778 168
Total lease liabilities 100,445 108,592
Total accumulated depreciation 39,600 38,657
Total tangible fixed assets at year end 8,335 8,195
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    47
NOTES
Sensitivity analysis
NOTE 14. GOODWILL AND OTHER  Reasonable changes in key assumptions would result in the 
 INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS  following impairment losses: 
31 December 2020
Goodwill
Impairment losses 
SEK (‘000) 2020 2019 at changes in key 
assumptions Sweden Denmark Total
Opening balance 1,761,999 1,704,817
Change in discount rate 
Acquisitions 5,671 76,734 (WACC): +1% – – –
Disposals -2,440 -886 Change in long-term 
growth rate: -0.5% – – –
Depreciations 0 -2,119
Impairments 0 -16,547
No other assumptions have had a significant impact on the 
impairment test other than what is described above. 
Total goodwill 1,765,230 1,761,999
Other intangible assets
SEK (‘000) 2020 2019 NOTE 15. ACCRUED COSTS AND PREPAID 
Acquisition values INCOME
Historic cost 82,946 81,710
Acquisitions  622 0 SEK (‘000) 2020 2019
Disposals 0 0 Accrued commission costs 142,474 131,525
Currency adjustments -2,837 1,236 Accrued holiday payments 39,150 31,878
Total acquisition values 80,731 82,946 Accrued salaries/bonus 382,657 325,471
Other accrued personnel costs 5,692 4,959
Accumulated depreciation
Other accrued costs  212,794 224,107
Opening balance 78,032 74,994
Prepaid income 10,309 1,275
Disposals 0 0 Total accrued costs and prepaid 
income 793,076 719,214
Depreciation, this year 1,755 1,914
Currency adjustments -2,662 1,124
Total accumulated depreciation 77,125 78,032
NOTE 16. OTHER LIABILITIES
Total other intangible assets 3,606 4,914
SEK (‘000) 2020 2019
Trade liabilities 12,729 27,690
31 December 2020
Personnel related liabilities 4,898 4,505
Goodwill divided by 
 geographical market Sweden Denmark Total Accounts payables, including 
 commission payables 15,401 17,912
Goodwill 946,473 818,757 1,765,230
Other liabilities 31,209 674
Discount rate (WACC), % 11.8 11.8
Total other liabilities 64,237 50,781
Long-term growth rate, % 2.0 2.0
The valuations on the acquisition dates have been carried out 
as follows: The recoverable value of a cash-generating unit 
is determined based on an estimate of the value in use. The 
calculations have been based on estimated future cash flows 
after tax, taking the financial budgets approved by manage-
ment into account. Cash flows that extend beyond five years 
are extrapolated with the help of the estimated the growth 
rate above. The growth rate does not exceed the long term 
growth rate in the market where the relevant cash-generating 
unit is present.
No need for impairment has been identified as of 31 Decem-
ber 2020. 
48    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
NOTES
NOTE 17. PLEDGED ASSETS AND  NOTE 20. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
C  ONTINGENT LIABILITIES
No business combinations were carried out during the year.
SEK (‘000) 2020 2019
Pledged assets 6,520 3,119
Guarantees* 6,837 6,986 NOTE 21. PROPOSED ALLOCATION OF 
* Refers to a potential earn-out payment in relation to a previous   PROFIT
acquisition.
The following funds are available for distribution by the 
In December 2020, Carneo AB received a notice that the 
 Annual General Meeting: 
Swedish Tax Authorities decided to reassess the reported VAT 
from 2018. Carneo has appealed the case to County Admin- SEK
istrative Court (Sw.: Förvaltningsdomstolen) and has made 
a provision for the disputed amount. There is a risk that the  Retained earnings 19,944
Swedish Tax Authorities will make similar reassessments for 
Net income 83,264
subsequent periods.
Total 103,208
The Board of Directors proposes that all available funds are 
NOTE 18. RISK MANAGEMENT carried forward.
In regard of the Group’s and the company’s earnings and 
financial position in general, we refer to the income statement, 
The Group’s companies are exposed to financial risks. The  balance sheet, notes to the financial statements and other 
financial risks can primarily be divided into the following  disclosures.
 categories: credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk.
The credit risk is low as the income mainly consists of 
manage ment fees from own funds. Credit risks also arise in 
connection with the fact that counterparties in securities trad-
ing cannot carry out agreed business transactions and that 
the transaction thereby needs to be closed at a loss. NOTE 22. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFTER THE 
The direct market risk is low as securities or fund unit hold- END OF THE YEAR IN REVIEW
ings in the Group companies are limited. However, the Group’s 
income is indirectly affected by changes in the value of the 
On 24 January 2021, Carneo AB signed an agreement to 
underlying funds’ securities holdings.
acquire the Norwegian asset manager Holberg Fondsforvalt-
Liquidity risk is managed by the companies having access 
ning AS. The acquisition closed on 16 March 2021. Carneo 
to sufficient cash and cash equivalents to cover current costs 
owns approximately 70 percent of the shares with the key 
and investments in the business.
personnel of the company owning the remaining 30 percent.
In addition to the financial risks, the companies in the Group 
During 2020 and the initial months of 2021, the Group car-
are also exposed to operational risks. Operational risks involve 
ried out certain internal restructuring measures, e.g. a transfer 
conscious or unconscious errors in the internal processes. 
of Nordic Cross’ operations to CAAM Fund Services as well 
Operational risks are monitored and internal processes are 
as a transfer of the OPM funds, the asset allocation capabili-
 developed continuously. The companies within the Group 
ties and middle office activities from CAAM Fund Services to 
have their own compliance functions.
Carnegie Fonder.
On 1 April 2021, Andreas Uller replaced Hans Hedström as 
CEO of Carnegie Fonder. Uller was previously deputy CEO of 
Carnegie Fonder and CEO of CAAM Fund Services. Mathias 
Wallerström replaced Uller as CEO of CAAM Fund Services as 
NOTE 19. INFORMATION ON RELATED  per the same date.
 PARTIES
C Asset Management Partners Holding 1 AB’s indirect majority 
owner is Altor Fund III. Altor Fund III owns 99 percent of the 
Carneo Group through holding companies in Jersey and in 
Luxembourg. Altor specialises in acquiring and developing 
medium-sized Nordic companies and owns about thirty com-
panies with a total of just over 60,000 employees. 
The Parent company
During the year, the Chairman of the Board of the Parent 
company received consulting fees of SEK 767,000 from the 
subsidiary Carneo AB.
CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020    49
ADDRESSES
CARNEO
Lästmakargatan 22C
Regeringsgatan 56
SE-111 44 Stockholm
Sweden
www.carneoam.com
C WORLDWIDE ASSET
MANAGEMENT 
Dampfaergevej 26
DK-2100 Copenhagen
Denmark
www.cworldwide.com
CARNEGIE FONDER
Regeringsgatan 56 
SE-103 97 Stockholm
Sweden
www.carnegiefonder.se
HOLBERG
Lars Hilles gate 19
NO–5008 Bergen
Norway
www.holberg.no
NORDIC CROSS
Lästmakargatan 22C 
SE–111 44 Stockholm
Sweden
www.nordiccross.com
ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS
Lästmakargatan 22C 
SE-111 44 Stockholm
Sweden
www.carneosolutions.com
50    CARNEO ANNUAL REPORT 2020
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Production:  
Carneo in cooperation 
CARNEO ANwNiUthA KLo RrpE PKOoRmTm 2u0n2ik0a t  i o5n1
