
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Welcome  to  your  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  
 
 
C0.  Introduction  
C0.1  
(C0.1) Give a general description and introduction to your organization.  
   
Bank  of  America  (BofA)  is  one  of  the  world’s  leading  financial  institutions,  serving  individual  consumers,  small  and  middle-market  businesses and large 
corporations with a full  range of  banking,  investing,  asset  management  and other  financial  and risk management  products and services.  The company 
provides unmatched convenience in the United States,  serving approximately 66 million consumer  and small  business clients with approximately 4,300 
retail financial centers, including approximately 2,700 lending centers, 2,600 financial centers with a Consumer Investment Financial Solutions  Advisor  
and approximately 2,400 business centers;  approximately 17,000 ATMs;  and award-winning  digital  banking  with  approximately  40  million  active  users,  
including  approximately  31  million  mobile  users.  BofA  is  a  global leader  in  wealth  management,  corporate  and  investment  banking and trading across a 
broad range of  asset  classes,  serving corporations,  governments,  institutions and individuals around the world.  BofA  offers industry leading  support  to  
approximately 3 million small  business households through a suite of  innovative,  easy-to-use online products and services.  The company serves clients 
through operations across the United States, its territories and approximately 35 countries. Bank of America Corporation stock (NYSE:  BAC)  is listed 
on the New  York Stock Exchange.  (As of  April  15,  2021)  
 
At  BofA,  we’re  guided  by  a  common  purpose  to  help  make  financial lives  better,  through  the  power  of  every  connection.  We’re  delivering  on  this  
through responsible growth with a focus on our environmental, social and governance (ESG) leadership. The ESG, Capital Deployment  and Public 
Policy  group  works  to  embed  ESG  across  our  eight  lines  of  business  and  reflects  how we  help  fuel  the  global  economy,  build  trust  and credibility,  and 
represent a company that people want to work for, invest in and do business with. It’s demonstrated in the inclusive and supportive workplace we 
1  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
create for  our  employees,  the responsible products and services we offer  our  clients,  and the impact  we make around the world  in  helping  local 
economies thrive.  An important  part  of  this work is forming strong partnerships with nonprofits and advocacy groups,  such as community,  consumer  
and environmental  organizations,  to bring together  our  collective networks and expertise to achieve greater  impact.  
 
As  evidenced  by  the  most  recent  United  Nations  Intergovernmental  Panel  on Climate Change’s Fifth Assessment  Report,  the International  Energy 
Agency  Net  Zero  by  2050  Report  and  the  United  States  government’s  Fourth  National  Climate  Assessment,  urgent  action  is  needed  to address climate  
change and prevent  its increasingly devastating impacts from  accelerating.  At  BofA,  we recognize that  climate change poses a significant  risk to our  
business,  our  clients and the communities where we live and work.  
 
As  one  of  the  world’s  largest  financial  institutions,  BofA has  a  responsibility and an important  role to play in helping to mitigate and build resilience to 
climate change by using our  expertise and resources,  as well  as our  scale,  to accelerate the transition to net  zero.  In alignment  with  more  than  190  
countries,  we support  the Paris Agreement  on climate change,  its commitment  to take action to keep global  temperature rise this century to below  2°C  
above pre-industrial levels,  and  its  efforts  to  limit  the  temperature  increase  to  no  more  than  1.5°C.  Doing  so  will require  changes in all  sectors of  our  
economy,  particularly the transformation of  critical  areas like energy,  power,  transportation and real  estate.  
 
BofA will  mobilize  $1  trillion  in  capital  by  2030  through  the  Environmental  Business  Initiative.  This  continued commitment  increases the company’s 
investment  in  low-carbon business activities as part  of  its focus on deploying capital  for  responsible,  sustainable growth.  Through lending,  investing,  
capital  raising,  advisory services and developing financing  solutions,  this expanded commitment  will  drive innovation and help to accelerate the 
transition to a net zero economy. Since launching our first Environmental Business Initiative in 2007, we have mobilized over  $200 billion of  capital  for  
responsible, sustainable growth.  
C0.2  
(C0.2) State the start and end date of the year for which you are reporting data.  
  Start  date   End date   Indicate if you are providing emissions data for past reporting years  
Reporting  year   January 1,  2020   December  31,  2020   No  
2  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
C0.3  
(C0.3)  Select  the countries/areas for  which  you  will  be supplying  data.  
 
C0.4  
(C0.4) Select the currency used for all financial information disclosed throughout your response.  
USD  
C0.5  
(C0.5) Select the option that describes the reporting boundary for which climate-related impacts on your business are being  
reported. Note that this option should align with your chosen approach for consolidating your GHG inventory.  
Operational  control  
C-FS0.7  
(C-FS0.7)  Which organizational  activities  does  your  organization undertake?  
Bank  lending  (Bank)  
C1. Governance  
C1.1  
(C1.1) Is there board-level oversight of climate-related issues within your organization?  
Yes  
3  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
C1.1a  
(C1.1a)  Identify the position(s)  (do  not  include any names)  of  the individual(s)  on  the board  with  responsibility for  climate-related  
issues.  
Position of   Please  explain  
individual(s)  
Board-level  Our  Board  and  its  committees  oversee  our  sustainability  and  ESG initiatives,  including in relation to climate change.   The Corporate 
committee   Governance,  ESG,  and  Sustainability  Committee  (CGESC)  has  ultimate  responsibility  for  overseeing  management  of  climate  change-
related issues. As stated in its Charter, this Committee is responsible for  periodically reviewing the company’s strategy,  policies and 
practices regarding environmental,  social  and related governance (ESG)  matters that  are significant  to the company.  The CGESC  
receives regular reports from the Global ESG Committee, which is  the management-level committee  responsible  for  significant  ESG  
activities.   Climate change oversight  is assigned to the CGESC  because it  is included within the scope of  ESG  matters that  are significant  
to the company.  
 
As  a  result  of  the  Board’s  increasing engagement  and oversight  of  sustainability and ESG  matters,  they made the decision in early 2020 
to change the name of the CGESC from “Corporate Governance Committee” to the “Corporate Governance, ESG, and Sustainability  
Committee”.  Our  Board  has  further  strengthened its ESG  oversight  by having our  management-level Global ESG  Committee  escalate  
environmental  and social  risks to the Management  Risk Committee,  which in turn reports to the Board’s Enterprise Risk Committee.   In 
addition,  BofA  has named a Global  Climate Risk Executive,  who reports to our  Chief  Risk Officer  and updates our  Board’s Enterprise 
Risk  Committee  on  associated  risks.  
C1.1b  
(C1.1b) Provide further details on the board’s oversight of climate-related issues.  
Frequency  with which Governance  mechanisms   Scope  of  board-level  Please  explain  
climate-related  issues  into which climate-related   oversight  
are a scheduled   issues are integrated  
agenda item  
4  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Scheduled  –  some  Reviewing  and  guiding   Climate-related risks   The  Global  ESG  Committee  meets  at  least  six  times  a  year  and  reports  to  
meetings   strategy   and opportunities to   the CGESC. The chair of our Global ESG Committee discusses ESG topics  
Reviewing  and  guiding  major   our  own operations   with  the  CGESC during  scheduled  meetings.   During  2020,  ESG topics  
plans of  action   Climate-related risks   were  discussed  at  three  of  eight  scheduled  CGESC meetings.  During  2020,  
Reviewing  and  guiding  risk   and opportunities to  the CGESC reviewed with management developments in measuring our 
management  policies   our  bank lending  progress related to the United Nation’s Sustainable Development  Goals,  
activities   our  CEO’s efforts through the International  Business Council  to drive 
Monitoring  implementation  
harmonization of  ESG  reporting and disclosure standards,  the company’s 
and performance of  objectives   Climate-related risks  
efforts to reduce our  environmental  impact  and achieve carbon neutrality in 
and opportunities to 
Monitoring  and  overseeing  
our  operations,  and the focus to achieve net  zero greenhouse gas (GHG)  
our  investment  
progress against  goals and 
emissions in our  financing activities,  operations,  and supply chain.   In 
activities  
targets for addressing climate-
addition,  our  Board’s lead independent  director  and lead independent  
related issues   The  impact  of  our  own  
director  successor  discussed climate and environmental  topics with 
operations on the 
shareholders during their  engagement  meetings in 2020.  
climate  
 
The  impact  of  our  
ESG  metrics  are  included  in  our  Executive  Management  team’s  
bank lending activities 
performance measurement  dashboard.   This team  comprises all  direct  
on the climate  
reports to the CEO. The metrics include, for example, progress towards our 
The  impact  of  our  
Environmental  Business  Initiative commitment. The Global Sustainable  
investing  activities  on  
Finance  and  Environmental  Groups  that  track  this  goal  provides  a  quarterly  
the climate  
update on progress that  is incorporated into the dashboard by our  
Corporate  Strategy  team  and  included  in  an  update  for  Board  members.  
 
Each quarter  the Enterprise Risk Committee and the full  Board receive a 
summary of  key risks facing the bank,  including climate change.  
C1.2  
(C1.2) Provide the highest management-level position(s) or committee(s) with responsibility for climate-related issues.  
5  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Name  of  the  position(s)   Reporting   Responsibility   Coverage  of  responsibility   Frequency  of  reporting to the  
and/or  committee(s)   line   board on climate-related  issues  
Other  C-Suite  Officer,   CEO   Both  assessing and managing climate- Risks  and  opportunities  related  to   Quarterly  
please specify   reporting line   related risks and opportunities   our  bank lending activities  
Vice  Chairman   Risks  and  opportunities  related  to  
our  investing activities  
Risks  and  opportunities  related  to  
our  own operations  
C1.2a  
(C1.2a) Describe where in the organizational structure this/these position(s) and/or committees lie, what their associated  
responsibilities are, and how climate-related issues are monitored (do not include the names of individuals).  
   
The  executive  management  team  member  with direct  responsibility for  leading the company’s ESG  efforts is a Bank of  America Vice Chairman.  The 
Vice  Chairman  reports  to  the  CEO  and  chairs  our  Global  ESG  Committee.  This  Committee  is  composed  of  senior  leaders  across  every major  line  of  
business and support  function and oversees our  strategy and initiatives for  ESG  activities and practices.  The Global  ESG  Committee  informs  the  
Corporate  Governance,  ESG,  and  Sustainability  Committee  of  the  Board  of  Directors  on  environmental  and  social  issues and ensures climate-related  
risk is integrated into strategy. The Global ESG Committee meets six times a year, at a minimum. On matters of environmental  and social  risk,  the 
Global  ESG Committee  reports  out  to  the  Management  Risk  Committee  which falls under  the board level  Enterprise Risk Committee.   BofA’s  Global  
Climate  Risk  Executive,  who  reports  to  our  Chief  Risk  Officer,  updates  the  Management  Risk  Committee  on  matters  related  to  climate  risk.  
 
This  structure  ensures  that  emerging  ESG  issues,  risks and opportunities identified by ourselves,  advocates,  regulators and other  stakeholders are 
integrated  into  our  core  business  decisions  and  are  being  monitored  and  managed  at  the  highest  levels  of  the  company.  In  addition to our global  
governance  of  ESG,  we have established regional  committees in Latin America,  Asia Pacific,  and Europe,  the Middle East  and Africa (EMEA)  to guide  
our  ESG  strategy and ensure accountability at  the regional  level.  
 
The  Global  ESG  Committee  serves  as  an  integration  point  for  various internal  working groups with responsibility for  environmental  and social  issues 
such as the Blended Finance Catalyst  Pool  Working Group.  In 2018 we formed the Blended Finance Catalyst  Pool  with an initial  allotment  of  $60 
6  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
million  to  mobilize  additional  private capital  toward the United Nations Sustainable Development  Goals (SDGs),  with a specific focus on energy access 
(SDG7), affordable housing (SDG11), water and sanitation access (SDG6), and climate resiliency (SDG13). A Working Group comprised  of  several 
senior  executives from  across the bank is responsible for  guiding our  deployment  of  capital  under  this program.    
 
The  Climate  Risk  Steering  Council  oversees  our  climate  risk  management  practices,  shapes  our  approach  to  managing  climate-related risks in line with 
our  Risk Framework and meets monthly.  In 2020,  the Climate Risk management  effort  was bolstered through the appointment  of  a Global  Climate  Risk  
Executive  who  reports  to  the  Chief  Risk  Officer  and  chairs  the  Climate  Risk  Steering  Council,  and the creation of  a new  division within our  Global  Risk 
organization to drive execution of  the climate risk management  program  with the support  of  lines of  business (LOB),  ESG,  support  functions and Risk 
partners.  
 
In 2020, we created a Sustainable Markets Committee,  co-chaired by our  Chief  Operating Officer  and Vice Chairman,  and established a new  position,  
Global  Head  of  Sustainable  Finance,  to  oversee  our  sustainable  finance  activities.  Our  Sustainable  Finance  mission  includes  the mobilization of capital  
and human innovation to accelerate financing of  companies and projects that  advance the transition to a zero carbon and circular  economy.  The  Global 
Sustainable  Finance  Cross-Line of  Business Council  serves to execute the Sustainable Markets Committee’s  mission  across  our  eight  LOBs,  drive  
sustainable finance transactions across the firm,  report  progress and escalate specific initiatives,  transactions,  or  related  issues  to  the  Sustainable  
Markets  Committee.   
 
Within  our  ESG,  Capital  Deployment  and  Public  Policy  group  we  have  a  dedicated  internal  team  that  works  on  our  environmental  initiatives.  The  Global  
Environmental  Group  (GEG)  focuses  on  five  strategic  areas:  Sustainable  Finance,  Responsible  Operations,  Employee  Programs,  Partnerships, and  
Governance and Policy and operates under the direction of our Global Environmental Executive. The GEG in partnership establishes  and has 
accountability for  the company’s environmental  goals –  our  Environmental  Business Initiative,  our  net  zero before 2050 target  and all  associated interim  
commitments.  The team  develops strategies and implements initiatives to ensure that  resources across the company are mobilized to meet  these 
goals.  The GEG  is responsible for  developing internal  policies to support  the goals and to manage risk.  The GEG  works with other  teams across the 
bank to determine our  public policy positions and provides climate related expertise to internal  and external  partners and clients.   
C1.3  
(C1.3) Do you provide incentives for the management of climate-related issues, including the attainment of targets?  
  Provide  incentives  for  the  management  of  climate-related  issues   Comment  
7  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021  
 
 
Row 1   Yes    
C1.3a  
(C1.3a) Provide further details on the incentives provided for the management of climate-related issues  (do not include the names of 
individuals).  
Entitled to incentive   Type  of   Activity   Comment  
incentive   inventivized  
Corporate  executive  team   Monetary   Emissions  reduction   As  part  of  our  Responsible  Growth  strategy  we  have  added  Environmental,  Social  and  
reward   target   Governance  (ESG)  metrics  to  our  Executive  Management  team’s  performance  dashboard.  
These  metrics  include  progress  towards  our  Environmental  Business  Initiative  and  net  
zero commitments,  the value of  ESG  assets under  management,  and our  performance in 
ESG  ratings/rankings.   These  metrics  are  tracked  and  reported  to  the  Board.  
Environment/Sustainability   Monetary   Emissions  reduction   The  Global  Environmental Group  (GEG)  is  tasked  with  catalyzing  and  supporting  the  
manager   reward   target   development  of  low-carbon business activity,  the achievement  of  greenhouse gas 
emissions reductions and carbon neutrality across operations,  development,  development  
and execution of  our  net  zero strategy, and coordinating the monitoring and reporting of 
climate change activities.  The team  is incentivized based on its success in these areas.  
Chief  Procurement  Officer   Monetary   Supply  chain   The  Chief  Procurement  Officer  is  responsible for  BofA’s responsible sourcing strategy and 
(CPO)   reward   engagement   is  incentivized  based  on  its  success  in  these  areas.  
Environment/Sustainability   Monetary   Supply  chain   Global  Procurement  is  tasked  with  engaging  with  our  vendors  on  the  management  of  
manager   reward   engagement   climate change,  including the delivery of  our  climate-related supplier engagement targets. 
The  team  is  incentivized  based  on  its  success  in  these  areas.  
Business  unit  manager   Monetary   Emissions  reduction   Delivering  operational  GHG  emissions  reduction  targets  and  reaching  carbon  neutrality:  
reward   target   teams responsible for our internal operations, including the Global Real Estate Services  
team, the Global Technology & Operations team, Consumer, Global Procurement, the  
Global  Environmental  Group  along  with  others  are  incentivized  to  successfully  implement  
8  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
activities and initiatives that  support  energy efficiency and manage and reduce GHG  
emissions.  
Business  unit  manager   Monetary   Other  (please   Realization  of  climate  change  related  revenue  opportunities:  lines  of  business  that  focus  
reward   specify)   directly on climate innovation and environment-related revenue streams are evaluated  
Managing  climate   based on their  management  of  these opportunities.  For  example,  GSFG  and teams such 
change  as Energy Services and Renewable Energy Finance (energy efficiency,  solar  and wind 
opportunities  
equipment  finance)  are paid based on the volume and scale of  energy efficiency and 
renewable energy transactions they complete.  
All  employees   Monetary   Emissions  reduction   Incentivizing use of low-carbon vehicles for  employees in the U.S.,  Canada,  Ireland and 
reward   project   U.K.  Our  low-carbon vehicle program  has provided over  12,000 reimbursements since its 
inception  in  2006.   Through  this initiative, U.S. employees receive a $4,000 reimbursement 
for the purchase or $2,000 for a lease (reimbursement amount differs by country) of a  
new,  eligible,  highway-capable electric or  hydrogen fuel  cell  vehicle.   In 2020,  new  
participants in the low-carbon vehicle program  achieved an estimated cumulative 
emissions reduction of  over  1,100 metric tons of  CO2e a year.  
 
We  also  have  more  than  200  EV  charging  ports  at  offices  across  the  U.S.  and  U.K.  which  
are free for  employee use.  
All  employees   Monetary   Emissions  reduction   Reducing  cost  of  residential  solar  installation:  In  2019,  we  continued  our  partnership  with  
reward   project   SunPower  to  offer  employees  a  discount  on  residential  solar  power  contracts.  Through  the  
end of  2020,  161 employees have chosen to power  their  homes with solar  energy through 
the program. By educating employees on the benefits of solar energy and addressing the  
barriers to installation,  the program  continued to grow  in 2020,  garnering positive feedback 
from all involved.  
All  employees   Monetary   Efficiency  project   Employee  ideas  for  efficiency  projects:  as  part  of  our  Simplify  and  Improve  program,  
reward   employees are encouraged to submit  ideas on how  to make the company more effective 
and efficient.  Employees submitting ideas through the internal  online forum  and other 
channels are eligible to receive a monetary incentive if  their  idea is the first  of  its kind and 
9  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
selected for  implementation.  Conserving resources and reducing waste through green 
initiatives  has  been  a  common  theme  and  employees  have  been  rewarded  for  their  
suggestions.  
All  employees   Non- Other  (please   Supporting  environmental  volunteerism:  Last  year,  BofA volunteers  donated  over  1  million  
monetary   specify)   hours globally,  helping address critical  needs in the communities where they live and work,  
reward   Volunteer  service   including  over  33,000  volunteer  hours  devoted  to  environmental causes.  Since  2010  
employees have logged 496,979 volunteer  hours on environmental  efforts.  We support  
employee volunteerism  by offering employees up to two hours of  paid time  off  each week 
to volunteer (U.S. only) at organizations of their choice. In addition, employees who  
volunteer  regularly (50 hours per  year  or  more)  may apply for  a volunteer  grant  from  the 
Bank  of  America  Charitable  Foundation.  
All  employees   Non- Other  (please   Employee  Giving:  The  Bank  of  America  Charitable  Foundation  supports  employee  giving  
monetary   specify)   in  various  ways,  including  through  the  Matching  Gifts  program  which  offers  a  way  to  
reward   Charitable   double –  up to $5,000 per  person each calendar  year  –  employees’  cash or  securities 
contributions   contributions to their  favorite charitable organizations.  In 2020,  the foundation provided 
nearly $31 million to support  employee giving.  
C-FS1.4  
(C-FS1.4)  Does  your  organization offer  its  employees an  employment-based retirement  scheme  that  incorporates  ESG  principles,  
including climate change?  
  We  offer  an  employment-based retirement  scheme  that  incorporates  ESG   Comment  
principles,  including climate  change.  
Row  Yes,  as  an  investment  option  for  some plans offered   We  offer  ESG  investment  options  for  employment-based retirement  
1   schemes in the U.S.  and Europe.  
10  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
C2.  Risks  and  opportunities  
C2.1  
(C2.1) Does your organization have a process for identifying, assessing, and responding to  climate-related risks and opportunities?  
Yes  
C2.1a  
(C2.1a) How does your organization define short-, medium- and  long-term time horizons?  
  From  (years)   To (years)   Comment  
Short-term   0   3    
Medium-term   3   6    
Long-term   6   10   Net  Zero  would  be  30  years  (long term)  
C2.1b  
(C2.1b) How does your organization define substantive financial or strategic impact on your business?  
For  CDP reporting,  we  define  a  “substantive  financial  or  strategic  impact”  to  be  a  potential  impact  that  exceeds  a  threshold  of  potential  annual  financial  
implications  for  our  business.  The  quantifiable  indicator  we  use  is  a  $10  million  threshold.  Therefore,  for  CDP  reporting,  we  consider  risks and 
opportunities with potential  financial  implications for  our  business of  over  $10 million  per  year  to  be  substantive.  
C2.2  
(C2.2) Describe your process(es) for identifying, assessing and responding to climate-related risks and opportunities.  
 
Value  chain stage(s)  covered 
11  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Direct  operations 
Upstream 
Downstream 
Risk  management  process  
Integrated into multi-disciplinary company-wide  risk  management  process  
Frequency  of  assessment  
More  than  once  a  year  
Time  horizon(s)  covered  
Short-term  
Medium-term  
Long-term  
Description of  process  
Governance  of  climate-related risks takes place at various  levels  throughout  the  company,  with  ultimate  responsibility  resting  with  the  Chairman  
of  the Board of  Directors and CEO.  The Corporate Governance,  ESG,  and Sustainability Committee of  the Board of  Directors has specific 
responsibility for reviewing activities relating to ESG matters, including climate change. The Enterprise Risk Committee is responsible for 
overseeing management’s handling of  material  risks and the implementation of  the enterprise Risk Framework.  Each quarter  the Enterprise  
Risk  Committee  and the full  Board receive a summary of  key risks facing the bank,  including emerging risks.  Climate change is monitored as 
part  of  this process.  A  Climate Risk Steering Council  oversees our  climate risk management  practices and shapes our  approach to managing 
climate-related risks in line with our enterprise Risk Framework.  
 
Our  enterprise  Risk  Framework  serves  as  the  foundation  for  consistent  and  effective  monitoring  and  management  of  all  risks  we  face. This  
Framework  describes  responsibilities  for  the  management  of  risk,  provides a blueprint  for  how  the Board of  Directors,  through delegation of  
authority to committees and executive officers,  establish risk appetite and associated limits and describes the seven key risk types we face:  
credit,  market,  liquidity,  compliance,  operational,  strategic and reputational  risk.  Increasingly,  ESG  issues,  including climate change,  may impact 
all  of  these.  Monitoring and oversight  of  risks associated with business activity is integrated into the overall  governance process,  as well  as the 
roles and accountabilities of all employees. Our front-line  units  identify  risks  and,  using  a  consistent  scale,  rank  their  likelihood  and  severity.  
Climate-related risk is identified in our risk inventory and integrated into our risk management  framework through its potential  impact  to the 
12  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
seven risk types.  
 
Our  Environmental  and  Social  Risk  Policy  Framework  (ESRPF)  provides  additional  clarity  and  transparency  on  our  approach  to  ESG risks,  
including  how  we  identify,  measure,  monitor  and  control  these risks consistent  with our  enterprise Risk Framework.  As part  of  our  client  due 
diligence and other  on boarding processes,  front  line units and risk teams determine if  a proposed transaction or  relationship presents potential  
ESG  risks.  Subject  matter  experts,  including  GEG members  and  external  consultants,  participate  in  the  environmental  and  social  risk  
management  process  and  help  to  determine  the  relative  significance  of  these  risks  in  relation  to  other  risks.  Recognizing  that certain sectors  are 
of  heightened sensitivity,  we outline certain minimum  client  requirements in our  ESRPF  and we undertake enhanced due diligence for  business 
activities in these sectors to evaluate the associated risks,  including regulatory and reputational  risks.  If  due diligence reveals that  a business 
activity presents environmental  and/or  social  risk,  that  activity may be escalated to the appropriate line of  business reputational risk committee  
for further evaluation prior to the business activity being approved, approved with conditions or  declined.  
 
We  track  and  assess  opportunities  to  finance  the  transition  to  a  net  zero  economy  in  several  ways.  We  conduct  research,  discuss with clients 
and other  stakeholders and incorporate regulatory incentives into our  net  zero  strategic planning and transactional  work.  Members of  the GEG  
closely monitor  research,  regulatory and market  trends which informs the identification of  new  opportunities to participate in financing the 
transition to a net zero economy. We also track relevant  initiatives being led by non-governmental  organizations and engage in regular  
discussions with our  clients,  peers and other  stakeholders which assists us in identifying and evaluating market  needs and opportunities.  In 
2020 we established a Sustainable Markets Committee (SMC),  a Global  Head of  Sustainable Finance position and a Global  Sustainable 
Finance  Group  (GSFG)  to  bring  additional  structure  and  focus  to  our  efforts  to  identify  and  develop  new  opportunities,  products and services to  
help transition to a net  zero economy.   The Sustainable Markets Committee,  co-chaired by our  Chief  Operating Officer  and the ESG,  Capital  
Deployment  and  Public  Policy  Vice  Chairman,  is  responsible  for  overseeing  and  accelerating  our  Sustainable  Finance  strategy  and initiatives  
across all  eight  lines of  business (LOB).  The GSFG  implements the strategy set  by the SMC  and works alongside all  eight  LOB  to mobilize and 
scale capital  deployment  that  is aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development  Goals.  
 
We  provide  climate-related awareness training to our client-facing teammates as well as our Global Risk teammates to increase knowledge of 
climate related risks and opportunities.  Our  aim  is to increase understanding of  specific implications for  clients,  financing  opportunities,  sector  
decarbonization pathways and new,  emerging technologies.  
 
Examples  of  how these  processes  are  applied  to  specific  risks  and  opportunities:  
 
13  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Physical  Risk:  Within  our  operations,  at  the  facility  level,  we  conduct  Proximity  Risk  assessments to consider potential shared risk between  
production and recovery facilities based on probable risks for  a given geography and the specific locations of  the production  and recovery sites.  
For  example,  a  production  and  recovery  facility  located  a  short  distance  apart  from  each  other  on  the  Florida  south  coast  may  have  a  shared  
hurricane risk.  Assessments prioritize risk based on scores derived through the analysis of  the severity and likelihood of  occurrence for  each 
risk category. The assessment results  are reported to business units using the recovery facilities who then remediate the risk (e.g.,  by using 
another  site)  or  escalate the risk for  senior  management  review.  
 
Transitional  Opportunity:  BofA is  engaging  with  stakeholders  and  conducting  research  on green hydrogen –  hydrogen produced from  renewable 
energy.   We estimate that  clean hydrogen has the potential  to provide up to 24%  of  our  energy needs by 2050,  helping to cut  emissions  by  up  to  
30%,  all  while offering the potential  to generate $2.5 trillion  of  direct  revenues  and  $11  billion  of  indirect  infrastructure  investment  opportunity.   In  
its  report  ‘the  Special 1  –  Hydrogen  primer’,  BofA Global  Research  team  that  focuses  on  ESG  topics  describes  how hydrogen  technology  will  
soon enter  the mainstream thanks  to  the  rapidly  falling  cost  of  renewable  energy  and  electrolysers  used  to  produce  green  hydrogen,  increased  
policy support,  fuel  cell  and electrolyser  technology,  efficiency and flexibility improvements and a global  focus on decarbonization  that  is 
expanding potential  end-markets.  We  participate  in  the  Sustainable  Markets  Initiative  Hydrogen  taskforce  which  seeks  to  drive  growth  in  the  
demand for  and supply of  green hydrogen through company and sectoral  public commitments coupled with practical,  demonstrable  projects.  
C2.2a  
(C2.2a) Which risk types are considered in your organization's climate-related risk assessments?  
  Relevance  &  Please  explain  
inclusion  
Current   Relevant,   This  risk  type  is  relevant  and  included  in  our  risk  assessments  because  we  are  both  directly  exposed  to  regulation  and  
regulation   always included   indirectly  exposed  to  credit  and  reputational risk  related  to  regulation  that  affects  our  clients.  
 
Direct  exposure:  
We  are  directly  exposed  to  disclosure  requirements  for  financial  institutions related to climate including emissions and  
processes and controls to identify,  assess,  monitor  and manage climate risk.   Our  CEO  has been supportive of  increased 
disclosure of  climate-related risks; we have been issuing climate-related disclosures for  nearly two decades and in 2020,  
we  issued  our  first  TCFD report.  We  also  included  disclosure  of  how we  manage  climate  risk  in  our  2020  10-K.  We  face  
14  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
risk if our systems or data capabilities are not sufficient to measure, model and disclose climate risks consistent  with 
varying national  and regional  disclosure requirements.   As a global  bank,  we are working to meet  regulatory expectations 
on managing climate for  our  international  entities,  including those under  the supervision of  the European Central  Bank and 
the Bank of England. To that end, we are assessing climate-related risks at the industry, country, legal entity and obligor-
level,  as  well as  developing  climate-scenario stress test  capabilities,  among other  initiatives.  
 
In some countries we are also  subject  to  regulations  related  to  our  energy  consumption  and  GHG  emissions.   An  example  
is  the  U.K.  Streamlined  Energy  and  Carbon  Reporting  Regulation.   Currently  these  types  of  regulations  manifest  
themselves as increased administrative costs.  While  not  deemed substantive for  our  organization,  we are committed to 
complying with such legislation and have processes in place to monitor  regulatory requirements and associated risks.  
 
Indirect exposure:  
Depending  on  the  sector  and  geographic  location,  many  of  our  business clients are already subject  to climate change 
regulation, such as California’s AB 32 or the European Trading Scheme. If not effectively anticipated and managed, such  
regulations could adversely impact our clients’ profitability and in turn  have financial  implications for  our  company by 
affecting their  ability to service debts or  make new  investments.  
Emerging   Relevant,   This  risk  type  is  relevant  and  included  in  our  risk  assessments  because  we  are  directly  exposed  to  emerging  regulation  
regulation   always included   and indirectly exposed to credit  and reputational  risk related to emerging regulation that  affects our  clients.  
 
Direct  Exposure  
We  are  directly  exposed  to  emerging  risk  management,  disclosure  and  diligence  requirements  for  financial institutions  
related to ESG risk, including climate risk. We face risk if our systems or data capabilities are not sufficient to measure, 
model  and  disclose  climate  risks  in  a  way  that  is  consistent  with  potential future  disclosure  requirements  that  are  likely  to  
vary across regions.  
 
We  are  monitoring  the  developing  focus  on  ESG  disclosure,  including  climate  risk,  by  the  US  Securities  and  Exchange  
Commission  (SEC).  In  2020,  the  SEC began  an  effort  to  evaluate  reporting  requirements  for  issuers  to  include  material,  
decision-useful  ESG  factors,  and the SEC  Asset  Management  Advisory Committee recommended that  the SEC  require 
the adoption of standards for corporate  issuer  disclosure  of  material ESG  risks.   The  SEC  is  currently  evaluating  its  
15  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
existing disclosure rules with the goal  of  facilitating the disclosure of  consistent,  comparable,  and reliable information on  
climate change.   BofA  recently provided a detailed response to the SEC’s request  for  public input  on climate-related  
disclosure.  
 
Indirect Exposure  
As  countries  move  to  introduce  regulations  designed  to  promote  a  transition  to  a  net  zero  economy,  these  new regulations  
could have a negative impact  on our  clients,  and in turn on our  business,  if  clients do not  effectively anticipate and plan for  
them.  Clients in the power sector, for example, are potentially exposed to emerging regulations that put a price on GHG  
emissions.   It  is important  that  the future costs of  complying with such regulation are factored into decisions about  new  
long-term investments in this sector.  
 
In 2020 we started monitoring the development of the EU Taxonomy which has now set performance thresholds for 
economic activities that  contribute to climate change and other  environmental  objectives.   As a global  bank which is 
investing  heavily  in  financing  the  transition  to  a  net  zero  future,  we  face  risk  if  various  taxonomies  for  green  finance  are  not  
well  aligned  or  do  not  allow for  climate  finance transition to be recognized.  
 
Technology   Relevant,   This  risk  type  is  relevant  and  is  evaluated  as  part  of  our  credit  risk  management  and  due  diligence  process  where  we  
sometimes  provide financing for  companies that  are bringing new  low-carbon technologies to market. We are exposed to client risk  
included   should such companies and their  technologies fail  to be successful.  We evaluate repayment  sources,  underlying collateral  
(if any), and the expected impacts of the current and forward-looking  economic  environment  on  the  borrowers  or  
counterparties.  
Legal   Relevant,   This  risk  type  is  relevant  in  the  form  of  exposure  to  lawsuits,  investigations  and  regulatory  enforcement  actions  related  to  
always included   our  efforts to manage climate risks,  climate-related  performance  and  disclosures  and  our  compliance  with  laws  and  
regulations.  We consider this risk to be closely linked to reputational risk. As we document in our enterprise Risk  
Framework,  ‘reputational  risk  may  arise  from  negative  perception  on  the  part  of  key stakeholders (e.g.,  clients,  
counterparties,  investors,  regulators,  rating agencies),  scrutiny from  external  parties (e.g.,  policymakers,  consumer  groups,  
NGOs,  media  organizations)  and  the  ongoing  threat  of  litigation.’  
 
One  way  in  which  we  evaluate and address legal  risks is through implementation of  our  ESRPF.  For  example,  recognizing 
16  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
certain client  sectors may be more exposed to climate-related risks than others, for business activities in these sectors we  
engage in enhanced client  and transactional  review  and due diligence,  involving subject  matter  experts and the 
appropriate line of  business reputational  risk committee as needed to evaluate and escalate the associated risks.  
 
Another  way  we  evaluate  legal  risk  is  by  enhancing  disclosures  associated with capital  markets issuances.  We were 
involved  in  the  creation  of  the  Climate  Capital Markets  Playbook  led  by  The  Chancery  Lane  Project  to  provide  those  
drafting disclosure documents associated with capital  markets activity with the tools to better address climate change.  
Market   Relevant,   Changes  in  market  conditions  may  adversely  impact  the  value  of  assets  or  liabilities,  as  well  as  liquidity,  which  can  
sometimes  negatively impact  earnings.  
included    
Both  physical  and  transitional  climate  related changes may impact  market  risk.   For  example,  in the case of  physical  risk,  
weather  related  events  can  impact  asset  valuations  which  in  turn  could  negatively  impact  real  estate  related  securities.  In  
another  example,  if  the finances of  states or  cities are negatively impacted by physical  climate change,  this could impact  
their ability to repay municipal bonds and therefore impact the market value of these instruments, and our ability to either 
liquidate  those  instruments  or  get  repaid  if  we  hold  them.  
 
For  transitional  market  risk,  we are using climate scenario analysis to inform  potential  for  losses to arise from  sudden 
movements/shocks  to  the  financial  markets  which  are  not  adequately  priced  into  the  valuation  of  traded  products  (e.g.,  
equities,  rates,  FX,  commodities,  credit,  structured  assets).  Typically,  gradual  changes  in  the  financial  markets  will  be  
reflected in the asset valuation. However, sudden shocks to certain market factors, such as the sudden introduction of a  
carbon tax may result  in a need for  loss from  the sharp revaluation.   Therefore,  the market  risk component  is most  often 
captured through an instantaneous shock to several  market  risk factors such as equity volatilities,  interest  rates and 
commodity prices.  
 
Some  countries  will  be  particularly  affected  by  the  economic  impact  of  transition  risk  and/or  chronic  physical risk  under  
certain climate scenarios due to the deterioration of  public finances and potential  related geopolitical  instability.  Sovereign 
exposures of  the trading portfolio will  be subject  to re-valuation at  fair  value under  the selected climate scenarios,  as it  
pertains to market  risk exposure.  
 
17  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
As  another  example  of  how this  risk  type  is  relevant,  market  conditions  could  impact  demand  for  our  low-carbon financing 
products  and services and this in turn could adversely affect  our  earnings and our  ability to realize our  significant  
Environmental  Business  Initiative.  We  also  face  competition  in  the  market  from  other  financial  institutions  investing  in  low-
carbon financing products and services.  
Reputation   Relevant,   Environmental  and  social  issues  often  present  reputational  risk,  also  an  aspect  of  our  Risk  Framework  and  a  key  part  of  
always included   our  risk assessment  process.  
 
We  are  subject  to  reputational  risk  directly,  for  example,  if  we are not  considered to be making meaningful  public 
commitments on how  we are addressing climate-related issues or if we do not make substantial progress towards meeting  
our  commitments.  We are subject  to reputational  risk indirectly through our  lending and other  financial  services if  we are 
not  perceived to be adequately evaluating and mitigating environmental  and social  risks associated with client  
transactions.  
 
One  way  in  which  we  manage  this  reputational  risk  is  through  implementation  of  our  ESRPF  and associated policies as 
well  as  ESG  reporting.  Recognizing  that  certain  sectors  may  be  more  exposed  to  climate-related risks than others, in these  
sectors we engage in enhanced client  and transactional  review  and due diligence.  This involves subject  matter  experts 
and the appropriate line of  business reputational  risk committee as needed to evaluate and escalate the associated risks.   
Our  published  ESRPF  is  an  important  way  in  which  we  communicate  our  position  on  financing  in  specific  sectors  to our  
stakeholders.  In 2020 we updated our  ESRPF  to indicate that  we will  not  directly finance petroleum  exploration or  
production activities in the Arctic.  The Framework was also revised to update our  position on coal  extraction and coal-
dependent  industries  which  face  significant  challenges.  Specifically,  we  will not  directly  finance  the  construction  or  
expansion of  new  coal-fired power plants  –  unless those facilities employ technology that  is focused on complete or  near  
elimination of  atmospheric carbon  emissions and will  not  directly finance new  thermal  coal  mines or  the expansion of  
existing mines.  
Acute   Relevant,   This  risk  type  is  relevant  and  we  assess  it  as  an  operational  risk  because  we  have  locations  in  regions  that are vulnerable  
physical   sometimes  to an increase in the severity, duration and/or frequency of tropical storms.  We also have operations in regions which are  
included   experiencing an increase in extreme heat  events and prolonged dry periods increasing the frequency and severity of  
wildfires.   We  conduct  an  annual  assessment  of  physical  risks  to  our  facilities  from  factors  including  severe  weather,  
wildfires  and  flooding.  Our  Business  Continuity  team  assesses  risks  associated  with  our  operations  and  has  planned  
18  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
recovery facilities  for our major locations. The assessment results are reported to business units who then remediate the  
risk (e.g., by using another site) or escalate the risk for senior management review.  
 
Our  clients’  operations  in  such  regions  could  also  be  adversely  impacted which in turn could expose us to credit  risk.  
Impacts to our clients’ assets and businesses from climate driven events could include increasing operational, capital  
maintenance  and  insurance  costs  and  reduced  staff  health,  safety  and  productivity.  If the profitability or viability of a client 
or  a group of  clients is adversely affected this could have a negative effect  on their  repayment  capacity.   To build on our  
existing risk identification process,  we engaged the climate risk team  at  Willis Towers  Watson  to  complete  a  preliminary  
acute physical  risk analysis on a sample portfolio of  BofA  residential  mortgages across the U.S.  We built  on this analysis in  
2020 by examining the potential  impacts of  two Category 5 hurricanes striking the Miami-Dade  area within two weeks of  
each other  as part  of  our  scenario design within the company’s stress testing processes.  
Chronic   Relevant,   This  risk  type  is  relevant  and  included  as  an  operational  risk  because  physical  changes  arising  from  sustained temperature 
physical   sometimes  increases,  such  as  sea  level rise  and  coastal erosion,  storm  surges  and  flooding  effects  could  directly  impact  our  own  
included   operations,  for  example,  where we have facilities in low-lying,  coastal regions.  
 
Annual  assessments  by  our  business continuity team  consider  physical  risks to our  facilities from  factors including severe 
weather,  wildfires  and  flooding.  Our  Business  Continuity  team  manages  planned  recovery  facilities  for  our  major  locations  
prone to physical  risk.  The assessment  results are reported to business units who then remediate the risk (e.g.,  by using 
another  site)  or  escalate the risk for  senior  management  review.  
 
Our  client’s  operations  in  such  regions  could  also  be  adversely  impacted  which  in  turn  could  expose  us  to  credit  risk which 
is  reviewed  through  our  risk  identification  process.  Impacts  to  our  clients’ assets  and  businesses  from  climate  driven  
events could include increasing operational,  capital  maintenance and insurance costs and reduced staff  health,  safety and 
productivity.  If  the profitability or  viability of  a client  or  a group of  clients is adversely affected,  this could have a negative 
effect  on their  repayment  capacity.  
C-FS2.2b  
(C-FS2.2b)  Do you assess  your  portfolio’s  exposure  to climate-related risks and opportunities?  
19  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
  We  assess  the   Please  explain  
portfolio's  
exposure  
Bank  lending   Yes   The  climate  risk  management  program  is  being  implemented across the enterprise under  the leadership of  Global  
(Bank)   Climate  Risk  and  with  oversight  from  our  Climate  Risk  Steering  Council.  The  effort  includes  risk  management  teams  
across all  seven risk types,  the Global  Climate Risk team,  Chief  Financial  Officer  organization,  Global  Risk 
Analytics,  BofA Global  Research  and  ESG.  Together  these  teams  are  leading  our  work  to  assess  climate-related  
risk.  
 
The  goal  is  to  understand  the  environmental  risks  and  opportunities  associated  with  our  portfolios.  In  2020,  we  
expanded our  analysis to include calculating emissions associated with our  financing activities beginning with 
business loans.  This effort  will  include assessment  of  high emitting sectors,  understanding decarbonization 
pathways and deeper  engagement  with clients to understand how  we can support  their  transition plans.  Currently,  
we  monitor  and  report  our  exposure  to  industries  with  a  moderate  and  high  level  of  exposure  to  climate-related  
risks, including financial and carbon metrics.  As we state in our 2020  TCFD  report,  as  of  December  31,  2019,  these  
sectors represented approximately 22%  of  our  total  committed commercial  credit  exposure of  $1.062 billion.  Energy 
and Power  Utilities,  which are generally viewed as particularly susceptible to transition risk made up less than 7%  of  
the total committed commercial credit exposure.  We track and publish our energy utility portfolio emissions intensity  
which  decreased  by  30%  between  2011  and  2020.  We  also  measure  our  low-carbon exposure.  An internal  analysis 
of  the generation fuel  mix associated with our  power  utilities portfolio indicates approximately a third of  our  exposure 
is  low-carbon,  not  inclusive of  our  $10.1 billion portfolio of  tax equity investments in wind and solar  projects 
throughout the U.S.  
 
We  use  a  range of methods to evaluate our portfolio’s exposure to climate-related risks and opportunities. Our 
evaluations draw  from  the leading assessments in the scientific community,  as well  as from  Bank of  America Global  
Research  on  how global  temperature  rises  will  drive  a  range  of  economic,  physical  and  ecological  changes  by  the  
end of  this century.  We engage in regular  discussions with our  clients and other  stakeholders,  and we use tools 
such as scenario analysis,  stress testing and enhanced due diligence in line  with  our  ESRPF.  
20  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Other  products   Not  applicable   The  other  products  or  services  category  does  not  apply  for  our  business.  
and services,  
please specify  
C-FS2.2c  
(C-FS2.2c)  Describe  how  you assess  your  portfolio’s  exposure  to climate-related risks and opportunities.  
  Portfolio  Assessment   Description  
coverage   type  
Bank   All  of  the   Qualitative  and   We  have  selected  all  of  the  portfolio  because  we  have  reviewed  our  entire  portfolio  to  identify  the  sectors  that  
lending   portfolio   quantitative   are likely most  exposed to climate-related risks based on transitional and physical risk attributes such as  
(Bank)   material  contributors  to  greenhouse  gas emissions,  revenue streams highly sensitive to physical  impacts,  
investment  in  technology  and/or  operations  needed,  and  insurance  availability.  We  are  prioritizing  further  
analysis on the most  vulnerable sectors such as Real  Estate and Energy.  
 
For  opportunities,  while high-emitting sectors of  the economy (such as energy and power)  present  significant  
near-term opportunities, all sectors of the economy ultimately will have to evolve their business models and  
operations to address climate change.  So,  we  look  across  our  entire  portfolio  for  opportunities  to  increase  our  
support  for  climate innovation and deliver  on our  Environmental  Business Initiative and Net  Zero commitment.  
 
Establishing  appropriate  governance  structures,  such  as  our  new Global  Sustainable Finance Group and 
Sustainable  Markets  Committee,  and  regular  routines  across  all  business  units  and  support  groups,  as  well  as  
geographies,  has been an important  focus for  us during 2020 and early 2021.   This is driving harmonization and 
collaboration  across the enterprise and optimizing efforts to identify and develop new  opportunities,  products 
and services to drive the transition to a net  zero economy.  
 
To  support  our  clients’  transition  efforts  we  have  established  an  advisory  effort  focused  on  Net  Zero  and  Carbon  
Neutrality  within  the  GSFG  to  educate  clients  about  how our  products  and  services  can  facilitate  achievement  of  
their climate goals.  This will assist us in determining which clients are excelling and which are falling behind in  
21  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
our  collective  journey  to  net  zero  –  enabling us to bring solutions to the table to support  clients at  all  levels,  but  
in  particular  to  help  those  that  are  struggling  to  ultimately  excel.  
 
BofA uses  a  variety  of  tools  to  evaluate  our  portfolio’s  exposure  to  climate-related risks and opportunities.  Our  
evaluations draw  from  the leading assessments in the scientific community,  as well  as BofA  Global  Research,  
on how  global  temperature rises may drive a range of  economic,  physical  and ecological  changes by the end of  
this century.  We engage in regular  discussions with our  clients and other  stakeholders,  and use tools such as 
scenario analysis,  stress testing and enhanced due diligence in line with our  ESRPF.  We also use financial  and 
carbon metrics to track our  exposure to high-risk sectors. For example, we track and publish our energy utility  
portfolio emissions intensity which decreased by 30%  between 2011 and 2020.  The company also measures 
low-carbon exposure.  Per  our  2020 TCFD  report  an internal  analysis of  the generation fuel mix associated with  
our  power  utilities portfolio indicates approximately a third of  our  exposure is low-carbon,  not  inclusive of  our  
$10.1 billion portfolio of  tax equity investments in wind and solar  projects throughout  the U.S.  (2019 data).  
 
Examples of  tools used:  
Scenario  Analysis  and  Stress  Testing:  BofA designs  various  macroeconomic  scenarios  to  incorporate  relevant  
risks from the company’s Risk Inventory and may customize certain macroeconomic variable trajectories as part 
of  the process to test  idiosyncratic risks.  To generate forecasts,  the resulting macroeconomic variables are used 
in  various  models/methodologies  and  the  customized  narratives  are  also  considered  when  generating  
forecasted results. These macroeconomic scenarios and resulting  forecasts  are  used  for  multiple  purposes  
including  assessments  of  capital adequacy  and  overall risk  management.   As  part  of  our  climate  risk  work,  we  
have begun developing models and macroeconomic scenarios to capture physical  and transition risks 
associated with climate change.  
 
Credit  risk:  as  part  of  our  work  to  integrate  climate  risk  to  our  credit  risk  framework  we  started  by  assigning  a  
high,  moderate or  low  climate risk rating to ~1300 industry segments,  leveraging industry research and expert  
opinion from  enterprise industry owners in our  Risk and Wholesale Credit  teams.  At  the Enterprise level,  plans 
include  incorporation  of  climate  risk  within  the  Risk  Appetite  Statement  along  with  the  development  of  
22  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021  
 
 
associated metrics.  We plan to enhance this monitoring by introducing more granularity to the sector  metrics by 
risk rating, tenor, and product.  
C-FS2.2d  
(C-FS2.2d)  Do you assess  your  portfolio’s  exposure  to water-related risks and opportunities?  
  We  assess  the   Portfolio  Please  explain  
portfolio’s   coverage  
exposure  
Bank  lending   Yes   Minority  of   The  parts  of  our  portfolio  that  we  assess  for  water-related risks and opportunities represent less than  
(Bank)   the portfolio   50%  of  our  overall  portfolio.  Therefore,  we selected minority of  the portfolio.  
 
Working  with  Willis  Towers  Watson,  we  completed  a  preliminary  acute  physical  risk  analysis  on  a  
sample portfolio of  BofA  residential  mortgages across the U.S.  Each property was given a score based 
on the level  of  risk associated with 12 potential  hazards.  These included water-related hazards such as  
river flood, flash flood and coastal flood.  
 
Our  business  lines  that  work  with  clients  in  sectors  such  as  agriculture  located  in  water-constrained 
regions have expertise in the local water context and consider  related issues as part  of  the Know  Your  
Customer  process.  If  concerns  are  identified  through  this  process,  enhanced  due  diligence  may  be  
completed to further  evaluate water-related risks.  
 
BofA has  the  only  dedicated  team  of  U.S.  municipal  water  and wastewater  finance professionals 
amongst  its financial  peers.  This top-ranked, specialty water financing team evaluates the market for 
water-related financing opportunities and tracks trends and any emerging risks in this market. 
According  to  the  American  Water  Works  Association,  an  estimated  $1  trillion  is  necessary  to  maintain  
and expand service to meet  water  demands,  including through upgraded transport  and treatment  
infrastructure,  over  the  next  25  years.  Related  investments  are  generally  considered lower  risk due to 
factors including the high credit quality of the sector, stable demand, strong contractual frameworks  
23  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
and considerable pricing flexibility provided through the sector’s largely autonomous rate-setting 
authority.  
Other  products   Not  applicable     The  other  products  or  services  category  does  not  apply  for  our  business.  
and services,  
please specify  
C-FS2.2e  
(C-FS2.2e)  Do you assess  your  portfolio’s  exposure  to forests-related risks and opportunities?  
  We  assess  the   Portfolio  Please  explain  
portfolio's   coverage  
exposure  
Bank  lending   Yes   Minority  of   The  parts  of  our  portfolio  that  we  assess  for  forest-related risks and opportunities represent less than  
(Bank)   the portfolio   50%  of  our  overall  portfolio.  Therefore,  we selected minority of  the portfolio.  
 
A forestry  management  team  in  our  Global  Wealth  Management  LOB provides  focused  products  and  
advisory services for  long-term timber assets. This is a very small part of our overall business, but it is  
the area where we have the most direct exposure to forest-related risk. We have established specific  
policies that  outline risk tolerances and due diligence processes for  clients in the sector.  
 
In our ESRPF we describe our position on forest-related risks as well as opportunities (e.g., financing  of  
reforestation). We have established a Forest Practices Policy which describes due diligence measures  
we  take  to  ensure  that  lending  proceeds  are  not  used  to  finance  commercial  operations  that  result  in  
deforestation of  high value forests,  illegal  logging and/or  negative impacts on indigenous communities.  
 
We  also  describe  in  our  ESRPF  our  specific  requirements  for  clients  focused  on  ownership  and  
management  of  palm oil  plantations.  Transactions  where  the  majority  use  of  proceeds  supports  palm oil  
production  are  subject  to  enhanced  due  diligence.  This  consists  of  a  formal review  by  a  subject  matter  
24  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
expert  on risks attributed to palm  oil.  The reviewer  discusses environmental  and social  risks with the 
client,  reviews client  disclosures,  completes a media search and has the client complete a Palm Oil  
Client  Questionnaire.  We  require  that  clients  whose  business  is  focused  on  ownership  and  
management  of  palm oil  plantations  have  their  operations  certified  to  the  Roundtable  on  Sustainable  
Palm  Oil  standards  or  equivalent,  or  have in place an outlined action plan and schedule for  certification.  
Incorporation of these requirements in our ESRPF helps to mitigate risks associated with potential  
client  exposure to current  and future regulatory requirements in this sector.  
Other  products   Not  applicable     The  other  products  or  services  category  does  not  apply  for  our  business.  
and services,  
please specify  
C-FS2.2f  
(C-FS2.2f)  Do you request  climate-related information from your clients/investees as part of your due diligence  and/or  risk  
assessment  practices?  
  We  request   Please  explain  
climate-related  
information  
Bank  lending   Yes,  for  some   Increasingly we are talking with clients about ESG and collecting various information for evaluation. As part of our 
(Bank)   Know Your  Customer  Policy,  due  diligence,  and  other  on  boarding  processes,  front  line  units  and  risk  teams  will  
determine if  a proposed transaction or  relationship presents any potential  environmental  or  social  risks,  including 
climate risks.  This determination is driven by a number  of  factors,  including cross-referencing our prohibition list 
and any areas of  heightened sensitivity (both part  of  the ESRPF);  understanding our  clients’  business,  industry,  
management  and  reputation;  application  of  our  policies;  adherence  to  regulation;  and  consultation  with  subject  
matter  experts  (SMEs)  and  teams  focused  on  client  screening  and  on  boarding.  
 
Standard due diligence is conducted when environmental  and social  risks are well  understood or  expected to be 
relatively low for the client, business activity, industry or geography. Due diligence begins with the front-line  unit,  
25  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
and this process may include,  but  is not  limited to,  client  engagement,  ESG  disclosure including emissions and 
climate goal  analysis,  reputational  risk searches and other  screening tools.  This standard review  may result  in a 
client  relationship or  transaction being approved,  conditionally  approved  subject  to  specific  mitigating  actions,  or  
declined in line with the line of  business approval  process.  If,  during this due diligence process,  the client,  
business activity,  industry or  geography is identified as posing heightened risk,  then enhanced due diligence is 
conducted.  
 
A client  relationship  or  transaction  may  require  enhanced  due  diligence  related  to  climate  due  to  a  policy  or  
standard;  because a front-line  unit  or  risk  manager  made  a  referral after  standard  due  diligence;  or  if  the  client,  
business activity,  industry or  geography is deemed sufficiently sensitive.  In these instances,  enhanced due 
diligence is conducted before the relationship or  transaction can proceed toward approval.  Enhanced due 
diligence includes a deeper  analysis of  issues related to client  transactions and associated stakeholders and is 
conducted by individuals with subject  matter  expertise (SME)  and an understanding of  a range of  stakeholder  
perspectives.  The enhanced due diligence process may include,  but  is not  limited  to,  direct  client  discussion  on  
relevant risks, review of client disclosures, a comparison of the client’s practices to industry peers, and  
consultation with and assessment  by additional  SMEs.  Reviewed material  may include regulatory filings,  
environmental and social impact reports and assessments, TCFD reporting, ESG reports, and a media search  
that is focused on environmental and social reputation risk.  
 
As  one  of  the  world’s  largest  financial  institutions  we  serve  approximately  66  million  consumer  and small  business 
clients and count  most  of  the Fortune Global  500 companies among our  clients.  We estimate that  approximately 
one-third of our Global Banking and Markets commercial clients are engaged in terms of number of clients and in  
terms of the  proportion of  the associated portfolio value chain.  
Other  products   Not  applicable   The  other  products  or  services  category  does  not  apply  for  our  business.  
and services,  
please specify  
26  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
C2.3  
(C2.3) Have you identified any inherent climate-related risks with the  potential  to have  a  substantive  financial  or  strategic  impact  on 
your  business?  
Yes  
C2.3a  
(C2.3a) Provide details of risks identified with the potential to have a substantive financial or strategic impact on your business.  
 
Identifier  
Risk  1  
Where  in  the value chain does the risk driver occur?  
Downstream  
Risk  type  & Primary  climate-related risk driver  
Current  regulation 
Other,  please  specify 
A variety  of  climate  change  regulations 
Primary  potential  financial  impact  
Increased credit risk  
Climate  risk type mapped to traditional financial services industry risk classification  
Credit  risk  
Company-specific description  
We  have  indirect  exposure  to  legislation  through  clients.  We  have  relationships  with  most  of  the  U.S.  Fortune  100  companies  and the Fortune  
Global  500,  as  we  are  among  the  world’s  largest  global  commercial,  corporate,  investment  banking  and  markets  financial  institutions.  We are 
27  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
indirectly  exposed  to  credit  and  market  risk  because  of  the  potential direct  impacts  of  climate-related regulation  on  our  clients’ profitability  and  
their ability to service debts or make new investments, which in turn could have financial implications for our company.  
 
Many  of  our  clients  are  already  subject  to  climate  change  regulation,  such  as  the  EU  Emissions  Trading Scheme. Others face new regulatory  
requirements such as the European Green Deal, which commits to achieve net zero emissions in the EU by 2050 through actions such as 
decarbonizing the energy sector.  The emissions trading regime under  development  in  China  is  another  example.  
 
As  we  state  in  our  TCFD report  published  in  2020,  we  had  $71.25  billion  of  committed  credit  exposure  to  Energy  and  Power  Utilities  sectors  as  
of  December  31,  2019 which was less than 7%  of  our  overall  committed commercial  credit  exposure.  These sectors are generally viewed as 
more  carbon  emission  intensive  and  therefore  particularly  susceptible  to  transition  risk  from regulation  and  other  factors.  As countries and states 
declare emission reduction targets,  regulation will  follow  to require utility companies to reduce their emissions so the targets can be met. For 
instance,  the  EU  has  recently  increased  its  2030  climate  targets,  committing  to  cut  GHG  emissions  by  55%  from  1990  while  in  the U.S.  the 
Federal  administration  has  announced a 2030 target  to reduce economy wide emissions by 50-52%  from  2005.  These targets could result  in 
new  requirements for  utility companies to invest  significant  funds in technologies to reduce their  emissions.  If  companies do  not  have the funds 
and do not have access to the capital markets to raise funds, it could create a credit risk to the Bank. We are evaluating this potential credit  risk  
and developing and piloting processes to manage it.  
Time  horizon  
Medium-term  
Likelihood  
About  as  likely  as  not  
Magnitude of impact  
Medium-high  
Are  you able  to provide  a  potential  financial  impact  figure?  
Yes,  a  single  figure  estimate  
Potential  financial  impact  figure  (currency)  
10,000,000  
28  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Potential  financial  impact  figure  –  minimum (currency)  
 
Potential  financial  impact figure  –  maximum (currency)  
 
Explanation of  financial  impact  figure  
Our  clients’  profitability  could  be  affected  if  they  do  not  prepare  for  new  legislation,  if  they  face  a  proliferation  of  regional  legislation or  if  
legislation  is  poorly  designed.  This  in turn could impact  their  ability to service debts or  make new  investments,  with potential  negative financial  
implications  for  our  business  of  greater  than  $10  million  annually.  We  arrived  at  this  figure  by  considering  whether  we  expected the potential  
financial  impact  to exceed our  $10 million threshold for  ‘substantive’  for  CDP  reporting.  This estimate is based on professional  judgment  by  our  
subject  matter  experts within the business.  
Cost  of  response  to risk  
18,000,000  
Description of  response  and explanation  of  cost  calculation  
We  are  working  to  embed  climate-related factors into each transaction decision as we set up the internal systems needed to reach our net zero  
and eventual  interim  targets.   We are embedding climate risk management  into the credit risk framework and are training credit and risk officers  
on climate and its impact  on credit  risk.   We have assigned a high,  moderate,  or  low  climate risk rating to ~1300 industry segments and all  
countries in our  coverage universe and have developed  climate risk supplements for  high and moderate risk industries and incorporated it  into 
our  enterprise Industry Risk Guidance documents.  These provide credit  underwriters and risk officers with guidance for  clients in their  industries 
and countries.  The risk  ratings  are  supplemented  by  borrower  level assessment  of  climate  risk  since  two  companies  in  the  same  sector/country  
may  be  impacted  differently  by  climate  change  based  on  their  unique  business  model,  management  awareness,  strategy  and  preparedness to 
deal  with the risks.  We are piloting a borrower  level  risk assessment  in EMEA  before implementing it  more broadly.   These actions  aim  to  
enable credit  underwriters and risk officers to evaluate whether  a risk rating adjustment  is warranted as part  of  the underwriting approvals 
process based on the transition and physical  climate risk faced by borrowers.  
 
We  actively  engage  with  clients  to  accelerate  their  progress  toward  net  zero  business  models.  We  are  encouraging  clients  to  set  net  zero goals 
and short-term, science-based targets to reduce emissions in the transition to net  zero.   To support  our  clients’  environmental  transition efforts,  
we  have  established  a  carbon  advisory  effort  within  the  GSFG  to  educate  clients  about  products  and  services  that  can  facilitate  clients  in  
29  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
reaching their climate goals.  This will assist us in ascertaining which clients are excelling and which are struggling in our collective journey to  
net  zero –  enabling us to bring solutions to the table to support  clients at  all  levels.  
 
We  calculated  the  cost  of  response  based  on  the  combined  annual  operating  costs  for  the  GEG,  Climate  Risk  and  GSFG,  whose  activities  are  
central  to the effective integration of  climate risk and opportunity management  across our  lines of  business.  
Comment  
 
 
Identifier  
Risk  2  
Where  in  the  value  chain  does  the  risk  driver  occur?  
Direct  operations  
Risk  type  & Primary  climate-related risk driver  
Acute  physical 
Increased severity and frequency of extreme weather events such as cyclones and floods 
Primary  potential  financial  impact  
Other,  please  specify 
Business  disruption,  employee  health 
Climate  risk  type  mapped to traditional  financial  services  industry  risk  classification  
Operational  risk  
Company-specific description  
We  operate  4,000+  U.S.  retail  financial centers,  some  of  which  are  vulnerable  to  an  increase  in  the  severity,  duration  and  frequency  of  season  
storms and severe weather  conditions with the potential  to disrupt  the accessibility of  our  retail  outlets to our  customers.  Physical  risks  in  the  
U.S.  take  the  form  of  increased  frequency  and  severity  of  storms  with  related  flooding,  particularly  affecting  the  coastal  southern and eastern 
30  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
states,  and extreme heat  events resulting in drought  conditions and numerous wildfires across the West,  Central  and Southeast  regions.  This 
could lead to temporary or,  in the event  of  severe damage,  permanent  closure of  our  financial  centers.  Physical  climate risks  in  the  U.S.  are  
compounded by aging infrastructure,  critical  infrastructure dependencies,  expanding urban areas in tornado zones,  coastal  population 
expansion,  rising temperatures,  precipitation and sea level  rise,  and a lack of  associated forward investment  as highlighted in  a  November  2018  
report by National Climate Assessment. Our U.S. operations experienced 68 natural  disaster  events related to hurricanes,  tropical  storms,  
flooding, wildfires, heavy snow and earthquakes in 2020. Our Life Event Services supported over 2,000 employees with urgent and unmet  
significant  needs during weather  related events.  Approximately half  of  the employees requesting support  were referred to the Employee 
Assistance  Program  and  the  Employee  Relief  Fund.  Additionally,  approximately  5%  of  those  employees  were  provided  support  for  needs such 
as hotel  accommodations or  food.  
 
Our  operations in Asia Pacific,  Europe,  Latin America,  the Middle East  and Africa are also vulnerable to climate change impacts.   For  example,  
with  offices  in  Hong  Kong,  Japan,  the  Philippines,  Taiwan  and  China  our  Asian  operations  are  vulnerable  to  an  increase in the severity and 
duration of  tropical  storms experienced in these regions.  There were 30 natural  disaster  events (tropical  storms,  typhoons,  flooding,  and  
earthquakes)  in non-US geographies  in  2020.  
 
Climate  change  may  contribute  to  less  predictability regarding the types, timing and location of severe weather events, and we account for this  
in  our  business  continuity  planning.  
Time  horizon  
Short-term  
Likelihood  
About  as  likely  as  not  
Magnitude  of  impact  
Medium  
Are  you able  to provide  a  potential  financial  impact  figure?  
Yes,  a  single  figure  estimate  
Potential  financial  impact  figure  (currency)  
31  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
33,000,000  
Potential  financial  impact  figure  –  minimum (currency)  
 
Potential  financial  impact  figure  –  maximum (currency)  
 
Explanation of  financial  impact  figure  
Implications include retail outlet and/or office closures, facility repair costs, lost work time, increased utility costs, lost  revenue,  and increased 
insurance  premiums.  The  financial impacts  are  driven  in  part  by  the  number  and  severity  of  events  in  a  given  year.  We  arrived  at  this  figure  
based on the total  operational  losses from  the direct  impacts on our  facilities of  approximately $33 million from  Superstorm  Sandy  in  2012.  This  
illustrates  the  potential financial implications  of  a  single,  high  magnitude event  for  our  business.  Total  operational  losses in 2020 were 
approximately $760,000 as a result  of  hurricanes,  winter  storms and wildfires occurring in the U.S.  The costs are based on natural disaster 
tracking records from our real estate and business  continuity  teams.  We  track  work  order  costs  of  repairs  after  severe  weather  events  and  as  
the dataset develops over time, we will use it to understand trends associated with climate risk.  
Cost  of  response  to risk  
2,000,000  
Description of  response  and  explanation  of  cost  calculation  
Our  Building  Disaster  Recovery  Planning  (BDRP)  team prepares  our  facilities  for  natural  disasters.  During  2020,  the  team managed response 
and recovery for  137 global  events,  98 of  which were natural  disasters.  In partnership with vendors,  the team  delivers preparedness and 
response training for natural disasters, including hurricanes. Through the provision of laptop, tablets and fobs, many employees can work 
remotely and are able to support operations should an impact occur.  In response to the coronavirus pandemic, a Technology Enablement Tool  
was  launched  to  enable  work  from  home  provisioning  to  employees  in  functions  who  traditionally  could  not  work  from  home.  In  such an event,  
clients are encouraged to use online banking,  mobile  telephone  banking,  and  contact  centers.  We  have  a  large,  distributed  ATM network  and  
reciprocal agreements for our clients to use ATMs operated by other banks. We have a fleet of mobile financial centers and mobile ATMs 
strategically located within the U.S. for immediate deployment to areas impacted by natural disasters. In 2020, our U.S. Regional Support team  
successfully prepared for  significant  natural  disasters—multiple  hurricanes,  winter  storms,  wildfires  and  flooding,  driving  broader  awareness  of  
the threats and enabling central coordination of continuity plans for business lines. During these natural disasters, our systems, platforms, and  
32  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
applications all  performed without  interruption,  despite record-setting hurricane force winds,  driving rains,  substantial  flooding,  devastating 
wildfires  and  widespread  power  outages.  
 
We  calculated  the  cost  of  response  to  risk  by  summing  the  estimated  additional  annual  costs  of  1)  business  continuity  planning and 2)  recovery 
due to climate-induced  changes.  The  annual  cost  of  the response is greater  than $2 million.  
Comment  
 
 
Identifier  
Risk  3  
Where  in  the  value  chain  does  the  risk  driver  occur?  
Downstream  
Risk  type  & Primary  climate-related risk driver  
Acute  physical  
Increased severity and frequency of extreme  weather  events  such  as  cyclones  and  floods  
Primary  potential  financial  impact  
Increased credit risk  
Climate  risk  type  mapped to traditional  financial  services  industry  risk  classification  
Credit  risk  
Company-specific description  
We  are  exposed  to  the  impacts our clients face from physical climate changes, such as extreme weather events and flooding. Impacts to our 
clients’  assets and businesses could include increasing operational,  capital  maintenance and insurance costs;  reduced staff  health,  safety and 
productivity;  and increased asset  depreciation rates.  If  the profitability or  viability of  a client  or  a group of  clients is adversely affected,  this could 
result in potential credit defaults as well as having a negative economic effect on our business of providing financing services to these clients.  
33  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
 
This  risk  applies  to  our  corporate  clients  and  our  mortgage  customers.  For  our  corporate  clients,  climate  change  risk  can  have an impact  at  the 
level of  individual assets  in  securing  loans  or  entire  sectors.  Industries at  greatest  long-term risk include agriculture, insurance, and travel and  
tourism all of which are vulnerable to the physical effects of climate change. Flooding is an area of potential exposure for the bank as it relates  
to our mortgage business.  There  is  scientific  consensus  that  flood  risks  are  increasing  in  many  regions  due  to  climate  change.  Increased  flood  
incidence  and  severity  could  lead  to  our  customers  defaulting  on  their  mortgage  payments  if,  for  example,  flood  insurance  premiums  become  
unaffordable.  Customers may also find themselves in a negative equity situation due to housing values being impacted when insurance costs 
rise due to expanding flood hazard zones and increased flood incidence and severity.  
Time  horizon  
Short-term  
Likelihood  
Likely  
Magnitude  of  impact  
Medium  
Are  you able  to provide  a  potential  financial  impact  figure?  
Yes,  a  single  figure  estimate  
Potential  financial  impact  figure  (currency)  
10,000,000  
Potential  financial  impact  figure  –  minimum (currency)  
 
Potential  financial  impact  figure  –  maximum (currency)  
 
Explanation of  financial  impact  figure  
34  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Physical  climate  change  could  impose  a  financial  cost  on  our  clients,  for  example  through  direct  damage  to their  facilities,  increased insurance 
premiums,  and lost  revenue due to facility closures,  lost  work time and production or  distribution delays.  This in turn could  impact  their  ability  to  
service debts or  make new  investments,  with potential  negative financial  implications for  our  business of  greater  than $10 million annually.  We 
arrived at  this figure by considering whether  we expected the potential  financial  impact  to exceed our  $10 million threshold for ‘substantive’ for 
CDP reporting.  This  estimate  is  based on professional  judgment  by our  subject  matter  experts within the business.  
Cost  of  response  to risk  
18,000,000  
Description of  response  and explanation of  cost  calculation  
To  understand  how  physical  risks  may  impact  BofA,  we  engaged  Willis  Towers  Watson on a pilot project to assess the potential exposure of 
select  residential  mortgage portfolios.  
Willis  Towers  Watson  completed  a  preliminary  acute  physical  risk  analysis  on  a  sample  portfolio  of  BofA  residential  mortgages  across the U.S.  
Each  property  scored based on the level  of  risk associated with 12 potential  hazards:  tornado,  earthquake,  tropical  cyclone,  hailstorm,  wildfire,  
river flood, flash flood, coastal flood, lightning, tsunami, volcano, and winter storm. The score is an attempt to have a single scale of  severity 
across hazards.  Heatmaps of  the outstanding mortgage balances exposed to the most  relevant  hazards for  acute physical  climate  risk were  
developed.  With increased frequency and severity of  extreme weather  events likely over  time,  these heatmaps serve as a baseline assessment  
of  our  potential  risk exposure.  Following this analysis,  as part  of  the first-generation approach for  scenario analysis,  an acute physical  risk 
scenario incorporating concurrent  hurricanes in Florida was implemented in our  2020 stress testing processes.  We examined the potential  
impacts  of  two  Category  5  hurricanes  striking  the  Miami-Dade  area  within  two  weeks  of  each  other  as  part  of  our  severely  adverse  scenario  
design for  quarterly stress testing.  We are building  upon this approach in 2021,  with plans to test  longer  horizon scenarios to test  chronic 
transmission channels and evolve our capabilities while informing various aspects of climate risk management. We expect these  capabilities to 
be enhanced over  time.  
 
Our  credit  risk is partially mitigated by insurance and borrower  equity,  both of  which insulate us from  potential  losses and have historically 

resulted in de minimis losses for extreme weather events. As climate events are more widely felt, we continue to assess risk mitigation factors. 
This  analysis  builds  upon  our  existing  risk  identification  process,  which  includes  climate-related risks, as well as our disaster response systems, 

both of  which factor  in the severity and potential  impact  of  events. 
We  calculated  the  cost  of  response  based  on  the  combined  annual operating  costs  for  the  GEG,  Climate  Risk  and  GSFG,  whose  activities  are 

central  to the effective integration of  climate risk and opportunity management  across our  business. 
35  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Comment 
 
 
Identifier  
Risk  4  
Where  in  the  value  chain  does  the  risk  driver  occur?  
Direct  operations  
Risk  type  & Primary  climate-related risk driver  
Reputation  
Increased stakeholder concern or negative stakeholder feedback  
Primary  potential  financial  impact  
Decreased  revenues  due  to reduced demand for products and services  
Climate  risk  type  mapped to traditional  financial  services  industry  risk  classification  
Reputational  risk  
Company-specific description  
As  one  of  the  world’s  largest  financial  institutions,  protecting  our  brand  among stakeholders,  including clients,  employees,  shareholders,  
regulators and NGOs, is of vital importance.  
 
We  are  subject  to  reputational  risk  directly,  for  example  if  we  are  not  considered  to  be  making  meaningful  public  commitments  on climate 
change or  if we do not make substantial progress towards meeting our commitments. Examples of those commitments include the $1 trillion  
Environmental  Business  Initiative  and  the  Net  Zero  before  2050  commitment  to  which  the  credibility  and  associated  business  value  of  these  
initiatives  could  be  undermined  by  perceptions  that  seem  to  counter  to  our  commitments.  
 
If we are perceived to fall behind on our commitments, this could affect our standing in ratings and indices that highlight environmental  
credentials and could potentially lead to clients switching their  business to other  financial  institutions.  In addition to direct  client  engagement, we  
36  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
receive a significant number of requests for proposals for banking services that include questions on our ESG policies and practices,  and how  
they align with those of our clients.  
 
We  recognize  there  are  risks  associated  with  our  current  levels  of  energy  financing,  including  reputational  risk  as  negative  stakeholder  
perceptions of  our  financing could adversely impact  our  company.  We  are  actively  engaging  with  clients  in  key  high  emitting  sectors  to  support  
and understand their  climate transition plans and how  we can accelerate their  progress toward net  zero.  In our  ESRPF,  we have  developed 
position statements on how  we evaluate and mitigate the ESG  risks associated with client  relationships and transactions in certain sensitive 
sectors.  
 
As  investor  understanding  of  the  relationship  between  the  effects  of  climate  change  and  business  performance  grows  shareholder advocacy, 
including  through resolutions directed at increasing corporate climate disclosure and action is on the rise.  BofA takes this advocacy  seriously 
and through dialogue,  for  example,  with the proponents of  individual  resolutions we seek to understand our  shareholder  concerns and 
expectations and to consider  these as we evolve our  policies,  practices and disclosures.  
Time  horizon  
Short-term  
Likelihood  
Likely  
Magnitude  of  impact  
Medium  
Are  you able  to provide  a  potential  financial  impact  figure?  
Yes,  a  single  figure  estimate  
Potential  financial  impact  figure  (currency)  
10,000,000  
Potential  financial  impact  figure  –  minimum (currency)  
 
37  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Potential  financial  impact  figure  –  maximum (currency)  
 
Explanation of  financial  impact  figure  
There  are  possible  financial  implications  to  our  company if  we are unable to fulfil  our  climate commitments,  effectively integrate climate change 
considerations into our  lending and investment  activity or  are not  transparent  about  our  impacts and actions.  These implications could include 
loss  of  client  relationships/business,  failure to secure new  business and/or  reduced shareholder  value.  We arrived at  the figure by considering,  
with  regards  to  new business  specifically,  the  typical  revenue  value  of  RFPs  we  receive  each  year  that  incorporate  environmental,  social  and  
governance requirements,  and this is above $10 million.  We consider  this value to be one measure of  the financial  implications to our  business 
of  maintaining and enhancing our  strong ESG  practices.  
Cost  of  response  to risk  
18,000,000  
Description  of  response and  explanation  of  cost  calculation  
We  are  committed  to  setting,  achieving,  and  communicating  impactful  climate  targets.  We  ensure  senior  oversight  of  our  programs  through  our  
Global  ESG Committee,  Sustainable  Markets  Committee,  Climate Risk Steering Council  and supporting governance structure.  We engage in 
regular dialogue with external stakeholders, and we widely communicate our efforts, including in our Annual Report to Shareholders,  ESG  
Performance  Data  Summary,  CDP response,  TCFD report  and our  recent  Net  Zero White Paper.  One way we collect  stakeholder  feedback is 
through our National Community Advisory Council (NCAC). The NCAC is a stakeholder group that provides us with important perspectives on 
consumer  policy,  social  justice,  community development  and environmental  challenges facing the bank,  our  clients,  and the communities we 
serve.  
 
In relation to reputational risk related to financing of environmentally sensitive activities, we communicate our position in  our  publicly available 
ESRPF which  we  periodically  review and  update,  considering  feedback  and  input  we  receive  through  stakeholder  engagement.  In  2020,  we 
revised the ESRPF to describe our policies on financing in the energy, power and extractives sectors. These include no  direct  financing of  
petroleum  extraction or  production in the Arctic,  no direct  financing of  new  thermal  coal  mines or  mine expansions and a phase out  of  financing 
of  companies deriving >25%  revenue from  thermal  coal  by 2025 unless the company has a Paris Agreement  aligned  transition  plan  to  diversify  
away from  thermal  coal.  
 
38  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
In line with our ESRPF, if due diligence reveals that a business activity presents significant environmental risk, the activity will be escalated to a  
line  of  business  reputational risk committee which can approve,  conditionally approve,  or  decline the activity.  We track and externally report  on 
ESRPF related  items  discussed  by  these  committees.  Eight  items  were  referred  to  a  line  of  business  reputational  risk  committee in 2020 due to 
environmental  considerations.  
We  calculated  the  cost  of  response  based  on  the  combined  annual  operating  costs  for  the  GEG,  Climate  Risk  and  GSFG,  whose  activities  are  
central  to the effective integration of  climate risk and opportunity management  across our  business.  
Comment  
 
C2.4  
(C2.4) Have you identified any climate-related opportunities with the potential to have a substantive financial or strategic impact on  
your  business?  
Yes  
C2.4a  
(C2.4a) Provide details of opportunities identified with the potential to have a substantive financial or strategic impact on  your  
business.  
 
Identifier  
Opp1  
Where  in  the  value  chain  does  the  opportunity  occur?  
Direct  operations  
Opportunity  type  
Products  and  services  
39  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Primary  climate-related opportunity driver  
Development  and/or  expansion  of  low emission  goods  and  services  
Primary  potential  financial  impact  
Increased revenues resulting from increased demand for products and services  
Company-specific description  
The  agreement  made  at  the  U.N.  Conference  on  Climate  Change  (COP21)  in  Paris  provides  a  framework  to  drive  international  climate action 
and is generating significant  opportunities to increase our  business.  The Paris Agreement  provides for  international  mechanisms to promote 
climate-friendly finance, carbon trading, technology transfer and adaptation to climate change impacts. It is giving momentum to national  
emission reduction plans and targets,  and the related actions of  international,  sub-national  and private sector  organizations.   Nearly every nation 
on earth is a signatory to the Paris Agreement,  and 192 countries,  including the U.S.  have submitted their  updated emissions reduction  
commitments in the form  of  Nationally Determined Contributions  (NDCs)  to  support  and  implement  the  Paris  Agreement.   These  commitments  
have generated many opportunities;  including our  Blended Finance Catalyst  Pool  which is increasing investment  in developing and emerging 
markets,  green  bonds  to  facilitate  investments in environmental  improvements and other  financial  solutions to accelerate the transition to 
renewables and other low and zero carbon technologies.  
 
These  opportunities  are  being  driven  by  a  ramping  up  of  investment  in  climate  change  mitigation  measures such as renewable energy 
technologies, smart grids and energy storage. The transition creates significant opportunity; a recent Global Financial Markets Association  
report estimates that investments totalling $100-$150 trillion will  be required over  the next  three decades to transition to a low-carbon economy.  
This  translates  to  at  least  $3–$5 trillion of  investment  per  year  –  an increase of  five to eight  times current  levels.  Through lending and capital  
markets  activity,  financial  services  companies  can  help align the capital  needed to reduce the impacts of  climate change and play a pivotal  role 
in  driving  real world  emission  reductions.  
 
Achieving  the  goals  of  the  Paris  Agreement  will  mean  transforming  the  global  economy,  and  the  kind  of  lending  and  investing that  will  be 
needed for  this transformation requires financial  services firms,  such as ours,  with the scale,  expertise and influence to make a real  difference 
and capitalize on new  markets.  Our  Environmental  Business Initiative and Net  Zero commitment, along with the other financial commitments  
made  by  our  peers,  are  helping  to  mobilize  the  capital  needed  for  this  transition  to  a  net  zero  economy  through  sustainable  and environmental  
business activities.  
40  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Time  horizon  
Short-term  
Likelihood  
Virtually  certain  
Magnitude  of  impact  
Medium-high  
Are  you able  to provide  a  potential  financial  impact  figure?  
Yes,  a  single  figure  estimate  
Potential  financial  impact  figure  (currency)  
10,000,000  
Potential  financial  impact  figure  –  minimum (currency)  
 
Potential  financial  impact  figure  –  maximum (currency)  
 
Explanation of  financial  impact  figure  
By  generating  opportunities  for  our  climate  finance  business,  we  anticipate  that  implementation  of  the  Paris  Agreement  will  result  in well  over  
$10 million of  additional  business annually for  us.  We arrived at  this figure by considering whether  we expected the potential  financial  impact to  
exceed our  $10 million threshold for  ‘substantive’  for  CDP  reporting.  This estimate is based on professional  judgment  by our  subject  matter  
experts within the business.  This will  manifest  from  our  Environmental  Business Initiative and specific programs and initiatives including our  
Blended  Finance  Catalyst  Pool.  
Cost  to realize  opportunity  
18,000,000  
Strategy  to realize  opportunity and explanation of cost calculation  
41  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
In response to the opportunity created by the Paris Agreement and NDCs, we have developed and expanded innovative financing structures  
and new  partnerships.  
 
For  example,  our  Blended  Finance  Catalyst  Pool  was  launched  in  late  2018  with  an  initial allotment  of  $60  million  with  a  goal of  stimulating  
additional  private capital  to finance sustainable development  in developing markets.  As part  of  this initiative,  in 2020,  we made  an  investment  in  
the Blue Orchard InsuResilience fund.   This fund provides loans to micro-finance institutions who extend loans to entrepreneurs to enhance  
their climate resilience through micro-insurance.  The  underlying  premise  is  that  insurance  providers  can  play  a  critical role  in  mitigating  the  
financial impacts of adverse climate events on poor and vulnerable populations. Through deployment of our Blended Finance Catalyst  Pool  
funds we aim to support economic growth, drive growth in more sustainable jobs, development and projects as well as to drive climate  
innovation  and  resilience.  
 
As  our  clients  seek  to  decarbonize  their  value  chains  in  line  with  the  goals  of  the  Paris  Agreement,  we  are  providing  innovative  financing  
structures to assist  them.  Our  Global  Transaction Services (GTS)  business consists of  commercial  deposit  and treasury management  services,  
including  account  maintenance  and  other  services,  such  as  cash  management.  A  growing  area  in  our  supply-based financing,  often called 
Supply  Chain  Finance.  This  is  the  provision  of  financing  and risk-mitigation  to  support  implementation  of  sustainable  practices  across  
counterparties in a client  value chain.  For  example,  increasing the accessibility of  supply chain financing for  suppliers that meet certain ESG  
criteria.  This program  also helps clients  identify  suppliers  that  are  performing  well on  ESG  and  therefore  direct  additional spending  to  that  
vendor  if  desired.  This is an area we expect  to continue to grow  as clients increasingly focus on the ESG  impacts within their value chain.  
 
We  calculated the cost  of  response based on the combined annual  operating costs for  the GEG,  Climate Risk and GSFG,  whose activities are  
central  to the effective integration of  climate risk and opportunity management  across our  business.  
Comment  
 
 
Identifier  
Opp2  
Where  in the  value  chain does  the  opportunity  occur?  
42  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Direct  operations  
Opportunity  type  
Products  and  services  
Primary  climate-related opportunity driver  
Development  and/or  expansion  of  low emission  goods  and  services  
Primary  potential  financial  impact  
Increased revenues resulting from  increased demand for  products and services  
Company-specific description  
Policies  that  place  a  price  on  carbon,  require  emission  reductions,  and  incentivize  clean  energy,  clean  infrastructure,  energy efficiency and 
carbon sequestration, are important for enabling the growth needed to deliver the Paris Agreement goals, and they create a framework that 
supports our  financing.   As a result  of  the US  Administration’s recent  decision to re-join  the  Paris  Agreement  and  its  new  target  to reduce US  net  
GHG emissions  by  50-52 percent  from  2005 levels by 2030,  we anticipate the introduction of  new  policies designed to advance decarbonization 
of  the US  economy.  In turn these policies will  create conditions that  are supportive of  our  climate financing goals.  
 
Our  renewable  energy  financing  business  lines  benefit  from tax  incentives  such  as  the  U.S.  federal  investment  tax  credit  and  production tax 
credit  and policies such as renewables portfolio standards,  interconnection standards and net  metering rules. With these regulatory drivers and  
market  dynamics,  including  falling  technology  costs  and  increased  demand  for  renewables,  our  deployment  of  capital  towards  renewables 
projects has grown substantially.  Our  Renewable Energy Finance team  provides  tax equity investments enabled by the U.S. federal tax credits. 
Our  portfolio  at  the  end  of  2020  was  approximately  $10.1  billion  of  tax  equity  renewable  energy  investment.  In  addition  to  tax equity,  we provide 
a full  range of  services to support  the renewable energy sector  –  including  lending,  capital markets  and  advisory  services.  Additionally,  we  have  
been the top tax equity investor  in the US  since 2015.  Our  investments have contributed to the development  of  approximately 17%  (33GW)  of  
total installed renewable wind and solar  energy capacity in the U.S.  and include 193 wind projects,  49 utility scale solar  projects and various 
investments  in  the  C&I,  Community  and  Residential solar  sector.  
 
Real  Estate  is  a  key  portfolio  category  for  BofA and  policies  designed to advance the decarbonization of  buildings through approaches 
including;  increased  energy  efficiency,  smart  meters  and  controls,  electrification  and  refrigerant  phase  out,  create  opportunities  for  us  to  finance  
retrofits and new responsible commercial and  residential development  projects.  With  the  U.S.  Paris  Agreement  goal,  we  expect  to  see  more  
43  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
legislation  and  incentives  be  developed.  An  example  is  the  New  York  City  Greater  Greener  Building  Code  which  is  a  comprehensive set  of  
energy efficiency laws.  
Time  horizon  
Short-term  
Likelihood  
Likely  
Magnitude  of  impact  
High  
Are  you able  to provide  a  potential  financial  impact  figure?  
Yes,  a  single  figure  estimate  
Potential  financial  impact  figure  (currency)  
12,000,000,000  
Potential  financial  impact  figure  –  minimum (currency)  
 
Potential  financial  impact  figure  –  maximum (currency)  
 
Explanation of  financial  impact  figure  
We  expect  regulatory  incentives  to  influence  the  viability  of  renewable  energy  projects  and  large-scale capital  energy efficiency projects.  We 
estimate the possibility of  approximately $10 billion in additional  business towards our  Environmental  Business Initiative over  the next  three 
years from  this opportunity.  This is based on the sum  of  projected business in tax equity,  debt  financing,  and  energy  efficiency  financing.  
Cost  to realize  opportunity  
18,000,000  
Strategy  to realize  opportunity  and explanation of  cost  calculation  
44  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
We  track  and  incorporate  regulatory  incentives  into  our  clean  energy  strategic  planning  and  transactional  work.  We  tailor  development  of  this  
business in response to evolving regulation.  
 
To  demonstrate  how  we  actively  manage  this  opportunity,  in  2020  we  worked  on  several  tax  equity  deals  in  the  U.S.  that  were  facilitated by 
policy incentives.  Examples include provision  of  tax  equity  financing  to  EDP  Renewables  for  405  megawatts  of  onshore  wind  energy,  including  
the 200 megawatt Harvest Ridge project and the 205 megawatt Bright Stalk project, both located in Illinois.  We also provided  tax equity  
financing for several  solar  projects in 2020,  including Lightsource bp’s new  260 megawatt  Impact  Solar  project  in Lamar  County,  Texas.  One 
notable new  development,  where we are deploying our  leadership and expertise,  is offshore wind in the US  where we expect  to make 
investment  in the near  future.  
 
In recognition of our contribution to the U.S. renewable energy sector, we have received a Renewable Energy Leadership Award  from the  
American  Council  on  Renewable  Energy  (ACORE).  ACORE is  a  national  nonprofit  organization  that  unites finance, policy and technology to  
accelerate the transition to a renewable energy economy.  ACORE’s Renewable Energy Leadership Award honors organizations that  have 
made  outstanding  contributions  to  growing  the  renewable  energy  economy.  
 
Having  developed world-class expertise in the U.S.  market,  we are expanding our  asset-based lending,  tax equity,  and placement  activities 
across specific clean energy sub-sectors (wind,  solar,  distributed generation,  and associated infrastructure)  and new  select  markets in  Europe,  
the Middle East, Asia and Latin America.  
 
We  calculated  the  cost  of  response  based  on  the  combined  annual  operating  costs  for  the  GEG,  Climate  Risk  and  GSFG,  whose  activities  are  
central  to the effective integration of  climate risk and opportunity management across our business.  
Comment  
 
 
Identifier  
Opp3  
Where  in  the  value  chain  does  the  opportunity  occur?  
45  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Direct  operations  
Opportunity  type  
Products  and  services  
Primary  climate-related opportunity driver  
Shift  in  consumer  preferences  
Primary  potential  financial  impact  
Increased revenues resulting from increased demand for products and services  
Company-specific description  
Factors  including  increased  understanding  and  awareness  about  climate  change  and  the  associated  impacts,  as  well  as  policy,  reputational  and 
financial factors are driving increased client demand for our low-carbon products and services.  In 2020,  our  Global  Corporate and Investment  
Bank  delivered  $36.4  billion  of  environmental  transition-related advisory, lending, leasing and capital  markets activity and our  Global  Markets 
group delivered almost  $13 billion of  environmental  transition-related capital markets advisory, underwriting and distribution for municipal and  
corporate clients.   In aggregate,  other  business groups delivered another  $1 billion in financial  products and services aimed at  supporting the 
transition to a net zero economy, bringing the 2020 total counted towards our Environmental Business Initiative to $50.5 billion.  
 
Our  Global  Research  team published  the report  “ESG  –  from A to Z,” part of a series of research focused on why investors should pay attention  
to environmental, social and governance factors to both enhance returns and reduce risk. The team found that a strategy of buying stocks that  
rank well  on ESG  metrics would have outperformed the broader  market  by up to 3 percentage points per  year  over  the last  five years.  These 
trends create opportunities for our Wealth Management businesses to support clients in considering ESG factors in their investing decisions.  At  
the end of 2020, Wealth Management clients had almost $37 billion in assets with a clearly defined ESG approach.  
 
We  are  also  seeing  significant  growth  in  our  green  bonds  business.  Green  bonds  are  fixed  income,  liquid  financial  instruments  for raising debt 
capital,  enabling investors to direct  capital  towards climate and other  environmental  protection initiatives.  The green bond market  is  growing  
rapidly and climbed to a record high of $269.5 billion at the end of 2020 (according to the Climate  Bonds  Initiative).  We  actively  engage  in  
industry  level initiatives  to  ensure  a  robust  and  credible  green  bond  market.  BofA  was  a  founding  member  of  the  Green  Bond  Principles  and  
Social  Bond  Principles  Executive  Committee,  and  we  were  re-elected for  a  new  2-year  term  in 2021.   Within the International  Capital  Market  
Association,  we  participate  in  the  Climate  Transition  Finance  and  Sustainability-Linked and Green Bond Working Groups.  
46  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Time  horizon  
Short-term  
Likelihood  
Likely  
Magnitude  of  impact  
High  
Are  you  able to  provide a potential  financial  impact  figure?  
Yes,  a  single  figure  estimate  
Potential  financial  impact  figure  (currency)  
1,000,000,000,000  
Potential  financial  impact  figure  –  minimum (currency)  
 
Potential  financial  impact  figure  –  maximum (currency)  
 
Explanation of  financial  impact  figure  
We  estimate  that  increasing  client  demand  for  low-carbon financing represents an opportunity for  $1 trillion in additional  business for  us from  
2007 to 2030.  As an illustration of  this opportunity,  increasing client  demand  helped  us  deliver  $50.5  billion  towards  our  Environmental Business  
Initiative in 2020.  
Cost  to realize  opportunity  
18,000,000  
Strategy  to realize  opportunity  and explanation of  cost  calculation  
In 2020, we developed the “4 R’s” approach to decarbonization for  our  corporate clients:  Reduce,  Renew,  Retire,  and Realign.  We financed 
energy efficiency projects that  helped clients reduce their  energy usage;  we helped shift  clients’  electricity footprints from fossil  fuels  to  
renewable energy by providing debt  financing,  tax equity and leasing capital  for  wind and solar  power  generation;  we mobilized capital  for  more 
47  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
EV production  and  leasing;  and  we  financed  LEED certified  construction  of  office  facilities  and  manufacturing  sites.  We  are  also  helping  develop 
a more robust,  voluntary carbon-offset  market  and have established a carbon advisory effort  within GSFG  to educate clients about  products and 
services that  can facilitate clients in reaching their  climate goals.  
 
In response to growing client demand,  our  Wealth Management  business has enhanced our  sustainable investing process,  platform  and 
resources to help our advisors gain a deeper understanding of this area, including how to address the needs of a growing number  of  clients.  We 
are increasing the  number  of  available strategies,  and now  have over  150 total  sustainable and impact  investment  options on our  platform.  As of  
March  31,  2021,  over  60% of  our  advisors  use  five  or  more  sustainable  and  impact  investing  solutions  –  40%  more advisors than three years 
ago.  All  advisors have access to training modules created in collaboration with the Money Management  Institute and the firm  also  supports  the  
Chartered  SRI  Counselor  certification  from  the  College  of  Financial  Planning.  
 
Our  ESG Capital  Markets  team leads  our  strategy  to  realize  opportunities  in  the  green  bond  market  by  educating  our  relationship  bankers  
across corporate and investment  banking and public finance to offer  this financing tool  to clients.  2020 examples include the  first green bond for 
a steel  manufacturer,  Big River  Steel,  whose electric arc furnace production is dramatically more energy efficient  than alternative production 
techniques, the first sustainability-linked  bond  for  Suzano  following  the  publication  of  the  sustainability-linked bond principles which we helped 
write,  and  a  sustainability  bond  for  Pfizer,  the  first  ever  globally  in  the  pharmaceutical  industry.  
 
We  calculated  the  cost  of  response  based  on  the  combined  annual  operating  costs  for  the  GEG,  Climate  Risk  and  GSFG,  whose activities are 
central  to the effective integration of  climate risk and opportunity management  across our  business.  
Comment  
 
 
Identifier  
Opp4  
Where  in  the  value  chain  does  the  opportunity  occur?  
Direct  operations  
48  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Opportunity  type  
Products  and  services  
Primary  climate-related opportunity driver  
Reputational  benefits  resulting  in  increased  demand  for  goods/services  
Primary  potential  financial  impact  
Increased revenues resulting from increased demand for products and services  
Company-specific description  
As  one  of  the  world’s  largest  financial  institutions,  we  are  experiencing  increasing  interest  from  our  stakeholders  including  employees,  investors,  
clients,  NGOs and policymakers in our  environmental  performance and initiatives.  To the extent that we can positively differentiate ourselves, 
for example through operational goals and initiatives, innovative financing solutions and partnerships, and environmental risk policies,  we have 
an opportunity to enhance our  brand,  attract  new  employees,  investors and clients and increase employee retention rates.  
 
As  our  clients  and  other  stakeholders  seek  to  address  environmental  challenges  and  opportunities  in  key  growth  markets,  they  are looking to 
work  with  and  learn  from  financial  services partners with a reputation for  building a demonstrable track record and body of  expertise on these 
topics. For example, we are a top underwriter in ESG capital markets globally, and a top underwriter of Green Bonds for U.S. Municipalities  and  
this has  positioned us well  to participate in the rapidly growing green bond market  in other  regions.  In Asia-Pacific  for  example,  we  participated  
in  several bonds  that  were  recognized  by  external awards  programs  in  2020.  These  include  a  green  bond  for  China  Construction Bank (Hong 
Kong)  and  a  corporate  sustainability  bond  for  Posco  which  were  recognized  as  the  Best  Green  Bond  in  China  and  the  Best  Sustainability 
(Corporate) Bond in Korea by the Asset Magazine Triple ‘A’ Awards.  
 
During  2020,  we  were  also  recognized  by Euromoney as the world’s best  bank for  corporate responsibility.  In announcing this award,  
Euromoney  acknowledged  our  commitment  to  helping  finance  the  transition  to  net  zero  emissions.  We  were  also  recognized  for  our efforts to  
reduce our own emissions footprint.  This external  recognition helps to build our  reputation in the marketplace.  
 
Our  environmental  commitments  are  of  interest  to,  and  a  source  of  pride  for,  many  of  our  employees.  Our  employees  are  important  
ambassadors for  our  environmental  leadership both internally with their  colleagues and externally with our  customers and in their  communities 
49  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Our  My  Environment  program drives  positive  change  by  helping  employees  act  as  better  environmental  stewards  at  work,  at  home  and in the 
community and has more than 24,000 members across 33 countries –  making  it  the  second  largest  employee  group  at  the  bank.  
Time  horizon  
Short-term  
Likelihood  
Likely  
Magnitude  of  impact  
Medium  
Are  you able  to provide  a  potential  financial  impact  figure?  
Yes,  a  single  figure  estimate  
Potential  financial  impact  figure  (currency)  
10,000,000  
Potential  financial  impact  figure  –  minimum (currency)  
 
Potential  financial  impact  figure  –  maximum (currency)  
 
Explanation of  financial  impact  figure  
Reputational  opportunities  have  possible financial  implications for  our  company through the potential  to attract  new  clients,  recruit  talent,  drive 
additional  revenue,  improve shareholder  value,  and reduce costs associated with employee turnover.  While it  is very difficult  to comprehensively  
quantify the positive financial  implications,  we estimate the potential  for  over  $10 million of  additional  revenue per  year  to result from a  
reputation for leadership in the environmental financing field. We arrived at this figure by considering whether we expected the potential  financial  
impact  to  exceed  our  $10  million  threshold  for  ‘substantive’ for  CDP  reporting.  This  estimate  is  based  on  professional judgment  by our  subject  
matter  experts  within  the  business.  
Cost  to realize  opportunity  
50  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
18,000,000  
Strategy  to realize  opportunity  and explanation of  cost  calculation  
We  build  our  reputation  in  many  ways,  including  setting,  communicating  and  delivering  ambitious  operational  goals,  following  through on our net 
zero financing commitments and participating  in  external programs  and  partnerships.  To  build  our  reputation  internally  among  employees,  
quarterly newsletters,  which we issue to our  over  24,000 My Environment  members provide progress updates on our  operational  and financing 
commitments and share information about My Environment group wide initiatives and local chapter activities aimed at expanding environmental  
stewardship.  
 
We  have  achieved  carbon  neutrality  for  our  operations  and  are  on  a  path  toward  net-zero before 2050.  We have reduced our  energy use by 
45%  and our  location-based GHG  emissions by 60%,  sourced 100%  renewable electricity,  and purchased and retired high quality,  certified 
carbon offsets for  unavoidable emissions.  By 2030,  we are targeting a 75%  reduction in location-based GHG  emissions and 55%  reduction in 
energy use.  
 
In 2020, we signed some long term agreements to source new renewable electricity for our facilities. Continuing to install onsite renewable 
generation at  60 of  our  locations,  we additionally completed a 10-year  structured renewable energy agreement  with Reliant,  an NRG  company,  
for solar power in Texas that will serve 345 of our facilities in the region.  We also became the first company to participate in Duke Energy’s 
Green  Source  Advantage  program,  agreeing  to  purchase  solar  power  to cover  45%  of  our  North Carolina electricity load.   In support  of  our  
100%  renewable electricity commitment,  we have been members of  the US  EPA  Green Power  Partnership since 2017.  This track record at 
managing  our  own  footprint  positions  us  well  to have comprehensive discussions with our  clients about  net  zero as a business imperative,  to 
encourage clients to establish a concrete and credible glide path plan to reduce their  own carbon footprints and to offer  clients advisory services 
and financial  tools to support  their  decarbonization efforts.  
 
We  calculated  the  cost  of  response  based  on  the  combined  annual  operating  costs  for  the  GEG,  Climate  Risk  and  GSFG,  whose  activities  are  
central  to the effective integration of  climate risk and opportunity  management  across  our  business.  
Comment  
 
51  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
C3.  Business  Strategy  
C3.1  
(C3.1) Have climate-related risks and opportunities influenced your organization’s strategy and/or financial planning?  
Yes,  and  we  have  developed  a  low-carbon transition plan  
C3.1a  
(C3.1a) Is your organization’s low-carbon  transition  plan  a scheduled  resolution  item  at  Annual  General  Meetings (AGMs)?  
  Is your low-carbon  transition  plan  a scheduled  resolution  item  at  AGMs?   Comment  
Row 1   No,  and  we  do  not  intend  it  to  become  a  scheduled  resolution item within the next two years    
C3.2  
(C3.2) Does your organization use climate-related scenario analysis to inform its strategy?  
Yes,  qualitative  and  quantitative  
C3.2a  
(C3.2a) Provide details of your organization’s use of climate-related scenario analysis.  
Climate-related  scenarios  and  models  applied   Details  
Other,  please  specify   To  analyze  how  transition  risk  could  impact  our  clients,  we  tested  two  hypothetical  event-based 
Scenarios  with  sudden  shocks  that  may  affect  our   scenarios to see how  each could impact  companies in one of  the sectors most  exposed to climate-
company over  a relatively short  time horizon (2 to  related risks  –  oil  and gas.  We worked with peer  institutions in the financial  services sector  and in 
4 years),  but  would be generally consistent  with  a  
collaboration with the management  consultancy Oliver  Wyman,  to examine this transition risk with the 
2-degree pathway  
intent  to  better  understand  the  sensitivity  of  the  creditworthiness  of  oil and  gas  companies  to  policies 
and market  changes linked to the transition to a low-carbon economy.  
52  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
 
The  analysis  was  run  under  two  different  potential  scenarios,  both  compatible  with  a  2°C  or  lower  
pathway,  on a sample of  our  oil  and gas portfolio:  
- The  policy  implementation  of  an economy-wide  carbon  tax  
- The  market’s  sudden  widespread  adoption  of  electric  vehicles  (EVs)  
 
The  carbon  tax  scenario  assumed  that  a  global  carbon  tax  of  $50  and  $100  per  metric  ton  of  carbon  
dioxide was adopted over  a three-year  period and applied to upstream producers who then passed on  
part  of  the additional  costs to customers.  The scenario also assumed that  as a result  of  the carbon tax,  
production decreased resulting in a supply curve shift.  
 
The  electric  vehicle  scenario  assumed  a  widespread  increase in EV  sales over  a three year  period 
with  20%  of  new vehicle  sales  being  EVs  versus  ~2%  for  2019.  A 15-year  turnover  rate was applied to 
existing vehicles and the scenario assumed 30%  of  additional  electricity (generated by gas)  would be 
required to  support  the increase in EVs.  
 
Oliver  Wyman  created  a  tool  to  identify  and  assess  key  drivers  of  operating  economics  such  as  
volume,  cost,  price,  and capital  expenditures,  then looked at  how  each could be impacted by the 
scenario and further  result  in impact  to the borrower’s financial  statements based on scenario 
adjustments.  
 
Results:  
This tool was useful in informing  us of  how  oil  and  gas  companies  may  be  impacted  differently  based  
on the policy or  market  change and their  business mix.  Depending on the company,  the carbon tax 
may  negatively  impact  operating  economics,  which  could  lead  to  a  weaker  credit  profile.  However,  the  
EV scenario  indicated  a  longer  timetable  (beyond  three  years)  for  any  potential  material  impact  on  the  
credit  profiles of  oil  and gas companies.  
 
We  learned  that  to  fully  analyze  the  impact  of  a  policy  change,  it  is  necessary  to  assess  a  
53  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
counterparty’s operating economics and supply and demand implications.  There is a wide variation in 
how  the creditworthiness of  oil  and gas companies may  be  affected  by  a  $50  carbon  tax  scenario.  For  
some companies there was little impact  while for  others it  was more significant.  As we improve the 
efficacy of  transition scenario analysis,  it  will  become one of  the array of  tools used to continuously 
monitor  the  ability  of  a  borrower  or  counterparty  to  perform  under  its  obligations.  
 
Influencing strategy:  
 
The  conclusions  from  our  early  climate  scenario  analysis  work  are  informing  our  progress  towards  an  
integrated  multi-generational  strategy for  enterprise-level climate  risk  scenario  analysis  and  stress  
testing capabilities and for embedding such tools into our business planning and decision-making  
processes.  As part  of  our  approach,  we evaluated various scenarios,  considering potential  impacts 
across relevant  risk types.  Given the need to assess transition risk at  the individual  counterparty level,  
we  are  incorporating  an  evaluation  of  transition  risk  into  underwriting  and  credit  risk  management  
practices.  
C3.3  
(C3.3) Describe where and how climate-related  risks and  opportunities have influenced  your  strategy.  
  Have  climate-related  risks  and   Description  of  influence  
opportunities  influenced your  
strategy in  this area?  
Products  and   Yes   How strategy  has  been  influenced:  
services   Increased  awareness of  climate change and its causes and effects,  climate-related policy, reputational  
considerations and financial  factors are driving increased client  demand for  our  low-carbon products 
and services.  The deployment  and mobilization of  capital  is one of  our  biggest  opportunities to have a 
positive environmental  impact.  Under  the Environmental  Business Initiative,  our  businesses have 
developed a full  suite of  products and services to work with clients to direct  capital  to climate innovation 
to address  climate change and other  demands on natural  resources.  An example is green bonds,  which 
54  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
are fixed income,  liquid financial  instruments for  raising debt  capital  for  climate mitigation and 
adaptation initiatives.  BofA  has been a leader  in developing the green bond market  since it  began a 
decade ago and we have a team  dedicated to our  work in this space.  We worked with financial  peers to 
develop the Green Bond Principles,  and more recently the Sustainability Linked Bonds Principles to 
ensure the credibility of the market, we were the first corporation to issue a benchmark sized green  
bond,  and have led the market  in underwriting.  
 
 
Time  horizon  of  strategy:  
Our  strategy  considers  the  short,  medium and  long  time  horizons  (0  to  10  years).  
 
Case  study  of  strategic decision:  
The  establishment  and  expansion  of  our  Environmental  Business  Initiative  is  a  substantial  strategic  
decision influenced by climate-related risks and opportunities. In 2007, we announced a 10-year,  $20 
billion Environmental  Business Initiative to address climate change and natural  resource demands,  
which  we  achieved  early.  In  2013  we  began  a  new target  of  $50  billion  over  10  years,  which  then  
increased  to  $125  billion  in  2015.  In  2019,  we  met  that  target  six  years  ahead  of  schedule.  In  2019  we  
established a new target of $300 billion, and recently increased it to $1 trillion by 2030. Since 2007 we  
have already deployed $200 billion in support  of  environmental  business efforts globally.   Another  
example of  a strategic decision is our  commitment  to achieve net  zero greenhouse gas emissions in our  
financing activities, operations, and supply chain before 2050.  
Supply  chain   Yes   How strategy  has  been  influenced:  
and/or  value  We  are  indirectly  exposed  to  the  impacts  of  climate  risks  on  our  suppliers. This has influenced our 
chain   strategy in a number  of  ways.  We integrate environmental  sustainability criteria into our  supplier  
sourcing processes by providing our  sourcing managers with specific questions regarding supplier  
sustainability practices and scoring criteria for incorporation into Requests for Proposals and Requests  
for Information. In addition, our Responsible Sourcing and Supplier Diversity team is continually  
reviewing ESG issues and opportunities relevant to our supply chain and leading efforts to integrate  
them into our procurement approach.  
55  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
 
We  also  face  risk  if  our  clients’  businesses  are  adversely  impacted  because  they  do  not  effectively  
anticipate and manage new  climate-related regulatory requirements or by physical climate changes.  
 
Time  horizon of  strategy:  
Our  strategy  considers  the  short,  medium and  long  time  horizons  (0  to  10  years).  
 
Case  study  of  strategic  decision:  
Our  most  significant  decisions  have  included  continuing  participation  in  CDP  Supply  Chain  and  setting  
supply chain targets.  Since 2009,  we have invited suppliers to respond to the CDP  questionnaire,  which 
helps us track climate change impacts and associated risks related to our  global  supply chain.  
Following  the  survey,  we  provide  individualized  feedback  regarding  each  vendor’s level  of  transparency 
and performance to the participating vendors and their  vendor  managers.  This has facilitated ongoing 
dialogue between the bank and supplier  which promotes collaboration.  In 2016,  we set  our  first-ever  
goals to address climate change within our  supply chain with two vendor  engagement  goals which we 
track annually: to maintain a response rate to the CDP supply chain questionnaire of at least 90%, and  
for 90% of CDP supply chain responding vendors to disclose GHG emissions. In 2020, we launched a  
vendor  ESG  Assessment  which monitors for  consistency with our  Vendor  Code of  Conduct.  The 
resulting ESG Score is taken into consideration when evaluating third party business capabilities. If a  
vendor  does not  meet  expectations a remediation process follows.  In 2020,  77%  of  assessed vendors 
disclosed environmental  impacts and 61%  had public climate goals.  Through this assessment,  we 
inform  our  vendors  of  our  expectations  and  support  them  to  ensure  these  expectations  are  met.  
Investment in   Yes   How strategy  has  been  influenced:  
R&D   The  global  transition  to  a  net  zero  economy  will  require  new  and  innovative  forms  of  finance.  This  
creates opportunities for  us to develop and bring to market  additional  products and services,  which has 
influenced  our  business strategy.  For  example,  through partnerships such as the Sustainable Markets 
Initiative which our CEO, Brian Moynihan is co-leading  with  His  Royal Highness  The  Prince  of  Wales  
and the Global  Innovation Lab,  we are participating in piloting new  forms of  innovative climate finance 
solutions,  which will  be needed to broaden investment  opportunities in climate mitigation and 
56  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
adaptation.  We are introducing innovative products such as facilities that  link pricing to a client’s carbon 
reduction efforts.  We  are  incorporating  ESG  factors  into  our  regular  engagement  routines  with  clients  to  
encourage their  transition to net  zero and discuss new  innovative ways to finance their  investment  in 
this transition.  
 
Time  horizon  of  strategy:  
Our  strategy  considers  the short, medium and long-time horizons (0 to 10 years).  
 
Case  study  of  decision:  
One  significant  decision  has  been  our  partnership  with  the  Global  Innovation  Lab  for  Climate  Finance.  
We  are  one  of  20  principals  in  the  Global  Innovation  Lab  which  identifies,  develops,  and pilots 
transformative climate finance instruments and aims to drive billions of dollars of private investment into  
climate change mitigation and adaptation in developing countries.  As a principal,  we review  
submissions to the Lab,  discuss  the merits of each proposal, help improve the structure to make each  
idea  more  investable,  and  participate  in  working  groups  to  help  bring  the  finalist  instruments  to  market.  
 
Another  decision  has  been  the  development  of  our  Blended  Finance  Catalyst  Pool  with  an  initial  
allotment  of  $60 million to mobilize additional  private capital  toward the SDGs,  with a specific focus on 
energy access,  affordable housing,  water  and sanitation access,  and climate resiliency.  A  working 
group comprised of  several  senior  executives from  across the bank is guiding our  deployment  of  capital  
under  this program.  In 2020 we invested in Blue Orchard InsuResilience fund which provides loans to 
micro-finance institutions who extend loans to entrepreneurs to enhance their climate resilience  through  
micro-insurance.   We  also  invested  in  SunFunder’s  Solar  Energy  Transformation  Fund.  
Operations   Yes   How strategy  has  been  influenced:  
Climate-related risks and opportunities have influenced our operations strategy in several ways. In  
response to physical  climate risks,  our  Building Disaster  Recovery Planning (BDRP)  team  implements a 
robust business continuity program to prepare our facilities for climate-related severe weather events. 
We  are  increasingly  incorporating  climate  change  considerations into our  resilience and operational  
scenario planning.  As part  of  our  efforts to support  innovation that  can help us rethink how  we use 
57  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
energy and transportation today,  we are installing onsite renewable generation at  60 of  our  locations 
and have more than 200 EV charging ports installed at office locations for employee use. Over 58,000  
bank employees work at  buildings with EV  charging stations.  We have established a dedicated internal  
team that works full-time on our environmental initiatives, including those in operations.  The GEG  
establishes and has accountability for  our  operational  environmental  goals and develops strategies and 
implements  initiatives  to  ensure  that  resources  across  the  company  are  mobilized  to  meet  these  goals.  
 
Time  horizon  of  strategy:  
Our  strategy  considers  the  short,  medium and  long  time  horizons  (0  to  10  years).  
 
Case  study  of  decision:  
In one of our significant operational strategy decisions, we have set a wide range of public business and  
operational  targets to minimize our direct impact on the climate. These targets are continually assessed  
through the appropriate governance routines and recalibrated as we respond to the urgency of the  
climate change challenge.  Our  ultimate goal  is to align our  business with the scientific  consensus of  
what  is  needed  to  prevent  global  temperatures  from  rising  more  than  1.5–2°C,  as outlined in the Paris 
Climate  Agreement.  In  2020  we  developed  new operational  targets  as  part  of  our  Net  Zero  strategy.   
These  including  maintaining  carbon  neutrality  for  operations  (Scopes  1  and  2),  purchasing  100%  zero  
carbon electricity annually,  reducing location-based emissions by 75%,  reducing energy use by 55%  
and achieving LEED®  certification (or  comparable)  for  40%  of  building space.  
C3.4  
(C3.4) Describe  where  and  how climate-related risks and opportunities have influenced your financial planning.  
  Financial  planning  Description  of  influence  
elements that  have 
been influenced  
Row  Revenues   Revenues:  The  deployment  of  financial  capital  is  one of  our  biggest  opportunities to have a positive environmental  impact.  
1   Direct  costs   Through  implementation  of  strategies  to  realize  our  Environmental  Business  Initiative  we  are  realizing  revenue  by  directing  
58  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
capital  to climate innovation.  The establishment  and expansion of  this initiative is an example of  financial  planning 
influenced  by  climate-related risks and opportunities. In 2007, we announced a 10-year,  $20 billion Environmental  
Business  Initiative  to  address  climate  change  and  natural  resource  demands,  which  we  achieved  early.  In  2013  we  began  
a new  target  of  $50 billion over  10 years,  which then increased to $125 billion in 2015.  In 2019,  we also met  that  target  six  
years ahead of  schedule.  In 2019 we established a new  target  of  $300 billion,  and recently increased it to $1 trillion by  
2030.  Since 2007 we have deployed $200 billion in support  of  environmental  business efforts across the globe.  The 
significant  growth in our  commitment  and performance under  the commitment  demonstrates how  integral  this opportunity  
is  to  our  strategy.  This  planning  considers  the  short,  medium  and  long-time horizons (0 to 10 years), as this initiative will be  
implemented  across  those  time  spans.  
 
Direct  costs:  In  order  to  effectively  manage  the  risks  and  opportunities  presented  to  our  business by climate change we 
are investing direct  operating costs toward internal  resources including our  Global  Environmental  Group,  Global  
Sustainable  Finance  and  Climate  Risk  teams.  
C3.4a  
(C3.4a) Provide any additional information on how climate-related  risks and  opportunities have influenced  your  strategy and  financial  
planning (optional).  
 
C-FS3.6  
(C-FS3.6)  Are  climate-related issues considered in the policy framework of your organization?  
Yes,  both  of  the  above  
C-FS3.6a  
(C-FS3.6a)  In which policies are climate-related issues integrated?  
59  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
  Type  of  policy   Portfolio  Description  
coverage of  
policy  
Bank  lending   Credit  policy   All  of  the   Our  Environmental  and  Social  Risk  Policy  Framework  (ESRPF)  defines  our  risk  management  
(Bank)   Risk  policy   portfolio   policies and approach and provides for  the clear  ownership of  and accountability for  managing risk 
well  across  the  company.  Key  to  this  philosophy  is  that  all  employees are accountable for  
Underwriting  policy  
identifying,  escalating  and  debating  risks  facing  the  company.  The  ESRPF  is  applied  across  our  
Policy  related  to  
lending,  underwriting  and  other  financing  products  and  services.  This  is  the  basis  for  our  indication  
other  products and 
of  the portfolio coverage.  
services  
 
Engagement  policy  
Our  ESRPF  is aligned with the Enterprise Risk Framework and provides additional  clarity and 
transparency on our approach to environmental and social risks, including how we identify, 
measure,  monitor  and  control  these  risks  consistent  with  our  enterprise  Risk Framework.  
 
In our ESRPF we set out our position on key environmental and social issues, including climate  
change,  and we describe our  policies for  managing activities with heightened environmental  and/or  
social  sensitivity.  This includes additional  measures we take to identify,  evaluate and mitigate 
environmental  and social  risks for  certain clients,  business activities,  industries and geographies.  
Areas  that  require  additional  enhanced  due  diligence  include  those  that  carry  increased  concern  
related to  climate change,  such as energy and extractives and forestry.  
 
Climate  risk  considerations  are  embedded  into  the  risk  framework  and  are  being  further  integrated  
as applicable.  For  example,  we are re-evaluating our  industry underwriting policies and guidelines.  
Other  products       The  other  products  or  services  category  does  not  apply  for  our  business.  
and services,  
please specify  
60  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
C-FS3.6b  
(C-FS3.6b)  Describe  your  exclusion policies  related to industries  and/or  activities  exposed or  contributing to climate-related risks.  
Type  of   Portfolio   Application   Description  
exclusion  
policy  
Coal   Bank   New business/investment   Transitioning  entire  sectors  of  the  economy  will  take  time.  Like  many  companies,  we  balance  the  
lending   for new projects   need to support  traditional  energy sources in the near  term  with the recognition that  their  emissions 
contribute to climate change and exacerbate risk to our  business and communities in the longer  term.  
Our  engagement  strategy  for  the  energy  and  power  sector  is  reflective  of this challenge. We maintain  
our  strong focus on driving capital  to critical  areas like energy efficiency,  renewable energy,  electric 
vehicles and other  low-carbon technology adoption while working to progress areas like advanced 
nuclear  and carbon capture and storage/use.  
Companies  focused  on  coal  extraction,  particularly  coal  used  in  power  generation  (“thermal  coal”),  
face significant challenges. The focus of power utility clients, investors, regulators and other 
stakeholders on addressing global  climate  change and meeting the goals of  the Paris Climate 
Agreement,  combined  with  the  recent  proliferation  of  natural  gas,  solar,  wind  and  other  lower  carbon  
energy sources,  is intensifying and accelerating these challenges.  
 
We  have  a  Coal  Policy  which  sets  out  our  overall  position on coal  and describes circumstances where 
we  will  not  provide  financing.   Our  position  on  coal  is  also  described  in  our  Environmental  and  Social  
Risk  Policy  Framework  (ESRPF).   We  have  significantly  reduced  exposure  to  coal  extraction  
companies and,  we will  not  directly finance new  thermal  coal  mines or  the expansion of  existing 
mines.   By  2025,  we  will  phase  out  all  financing  (including  facilitating  capital  markets  transactions  and  
advising on mergers and acquisitions)  of  companies deriving ≥ 25% of their revenue from thermal coal  
mining,  unless  the  company  has  a  public  commitment  to  align  its  business  (across  Scope  1,  2  and  3  
emissions)  with the goals of  the Paris Climate Agreement.  
 
Additionally,  we  will  not  directly  finance  the  construction or expansion of new coal-fired power plants  –  
61  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
unless those facilities employ technology that  is focused on complete or  near  elimination of  
atmospheric carbon emissions and we will  not  directly finance new  thermal  coal  mines or  the 
expansion of  existing mines.  
Oil  &  gas   Bank   New business/investment   Our  ESRPF  was  updated  in  2020  to  state  that  we  will  not  directly  finance  petroleum exploration  or  
lending   for new projects   production activities in the Arctic.  
C4.  Targets  and  performance  
C4.1  
(C4.1) Did you have an emissions target that was active in the reporting year?  
Absolute  target  
C4.1a  
(C4.1a) Provide details of your absolute emissions target(s) and progress made against those targets.  
 
Target  reference  number  
Abs  1  
Year  target  was  set  
2015  
Target  coverage  
Company-wide  
Scope(s)  (or  Scope  3  category)  
Scope  1+2  (market-based)  
62  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Base  year  
2010  
Covered emissions  in base  year  (metric  tons  CO2e)  
1,750,939  
Covered emissions  in base  year  as  %  of  total  base  year  emissions  in selected Scope(s)  (or  Scope  3  category)  
100  
Target  year  
2020  
Targeted reduction from  base  year  (%)  
100  
Covered emissions  in target  year  (metric  tons  CO2e)  [auto-calculated]  
0  
Covered emissions  in reporting year  (metric  tons  CO2e)  
0  
% of  target  achieved  [auto-calculated]  
100  
Target  status  in reporting year  
Achieved  
Is this a science-based target?  
Yes,  we  consider  this  a  science-based target,  but  it  has not  been approved by the Science-Based  Targets  initiative  
Target  ambition  
1.5°C  aligned  
63  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Please  explain (including target coverage)  
In 2019, we reached our goal of becoming carbon neutral for Scope 1 and 2 emissions, one year ahead of our plan. To reach this goal,  we 
started by reducing our  location-based emissions by 60%  since 2010.  Second,  we have focused on purchasing renewable electricity in a way 
that supports new solar and wind. This is being done through installing onsite solar and long-term agreements for new utility and small scale  
solar  and wind projects in the U.S.  Finally,  for  unavoidable emissions  we  purchased  high  quality,  certified  carbon  offsets  in  each  region  in  which  
we  operate.  
 
Target  reference  number  
Abs  2  
Year  target  was  set  
2015  
Target  coverage  
Company-wide  
Scope(s)  (or  Scope  3  category)  
Scope  1+2  (location-based)  
Base  year  
2010  
Covered emissions  in base  year  (metric  tons  CO2e)  
1,785,417  
Covered emissions  in base  year  as  %  of  total  base  year  emissions  in selected Scope(s)  (or  Scope  3  category)  
100  
Target  year  
2020  
64  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Targeted reduction from  base  year  (%)  
50  
Covered emissions  in target year (metric tons CO2e) [auto-calculated]  
892,708.5  
Covered emissions  in reporting year  (metric  tons  CO2e)  
711,025  
% of  target  achieved  [auto-calculated]  
120.351940191  
Target  status  in reporting year  
Achieved  
Is this a science-based target?  
Yes,  we  consider  this a science-based target,  but  it  has not  been approved by the Science-Based  Targets  initiative  
Target  ambition  
2°C  aligned  
Please  explain (including target  coverage)  
In tandem with the carbon neutrality goal, we achieved our goal to reduce our location-based emissions by 50%  by 2020.  
 
Target  reference  number  
Abs  3  
Year  target  was  set  
2020  
Target  coverage  
65  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Company-wide  
Scope(s)  (or  Scope  3  category)  
Scope  1+2  (location-based)  
Base  year  
2010  
Covered emissions  in base  year  (metric  tons  CO2e)  
1,785,417  
Covered emissions  in base  year  as  %  of  total  base  year  emissions  in selected Scope(s)  (or  Scope  3  category)  
100  
Target  year  
2030  
Targeted reduction from  base  year  (%)  
75  
Covered emissions  in target  year  (metric  tons  CO2e)  [auto-calculated]  
446,354.25  
Covered emissions  in reporting year  (metric  tons  CO2e)  
711,025  
% of  target  achieved  [auto-calculated]  
80.234626794  
Target  status  in reporting year  
Underway  
Is this a science-based target?  
66  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Yes,  we  consider  this  a  science-based target,  but  it  has not  been approved by the Science-Based  Targets  initiative  
Target  ambition  
Well-below  2°C  aligned  
Please  explain (including target  coverage)  
In tandem with the carbon neutrality goal, we are committing to reduce our location-based emissions by 75%  by 2030.  
C4.2  
(C4.2) Did you have any other climate-related targets that were active in the reporting year?  
Target(s)  to  increase  low-carbon energy consumption or  production 
Net-zero target(s) 
Other  climate-related target(s) 
C4.2a  
(C4.2a)  Provide  details  of  your  target(s)  to increase  low-carbon  energy consumption  or  production.  
 
Target  reference  number  
Low  1  
Year  target  was  set  
2015  
Target  coverage  
Company-wide  
Target  type:  absolute  or  intensity  
Absolute  
67  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Target  type:  energy  carrier  
Electricity  
Target  type:  activity  
Consumption  
Target  type:  energy  source  
Renewable  energy  source(s)  only  
Metric  (target  numerator  if  reporting  an  intensity  target)  
Percentage  
Target  denominator  (intensity  targets  only)  
 
Base  year  
2010  
Figure  or  percentage in  base year  
1  
Target  year  
2020  
Figure  or  percentage  in target  year  
100  
Figure  or  percentage  in reporting year  
100  
% of  target  achieved  [auto-calculated]  
100  
68  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Target  status  in reporting year  
Achieved  
Is this target part of an emissions  target?  
 
Is this target part of an overarching initiative?  
No,  it's  not  part  of  an  overarching  initiative  
Please  explain  (including target  coverage)  
Our  goal  is  to  purchase  100%  of  electricity  globally  from renewable  sources.  To  do  so,  we  have  focused  on  purchasing  renewable electricity in a 
way  that  supports  new solar  and  wind  development.  In  2019  we  reached  this  goal,  one  year  ahead  of  our  plan.  This  is  being  done  through  
installing  onsite  solar  and  long-term agreements for new utility and small scale solar and wind projects in the US. We have executed a variety of 
deals across the U.S.  We partnered with Duke Energy,  NRG  Energy,  3Degrees,  Pine Gate Renewables,  NativeEnergy and Birdseye 
Renewable  Energy  to  support  10  new solar  projects  across  three  states,  including  North  Carolina,  home  to  the  company’s  headquarters.  The 
agreements total  200 megawatts (MW)  of  new  solar  electricity capacity and will  supply  over  340,000  megawatt-hours (MWh)  of  Green-e 
certified RECs annually.  We also executed two long-term contracts to purchase Green-e certified RECs from  renewable energy installations in 
Texas.  One  of  the  contracts  is  to  purchase  500,000  MWh  of  RECs  per  year  for  five years from  the Capricorn Ridge (I  and III)  Wind Farms in 
Texas  in  which  the  bank  has  a  tax  equity  ownership  stake.  These  wind  farms  were  repowered  in  2017  to  improve  wind  energy  production and 
extend the life of  the wind farms,  which were installed over  10 years ago.  The second contract  is to purchase RECs from  a new  240-MW  wind  
farm in Texas. BofA provided the hedge agreement for this project, which is anticipated to be operational in 2021. We will require that  any new  
solar  deals support  enhanced perennial  vegetation that  facilitates increased ecological  services and environmental  benefits including healthy 
habitats for  pollinators.  
C4.2b  
(C4.2b) Provide details of any other climate-related targets, including methane reduction targets.  
 
Target  reference number  
69  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Oth  1  
Year  target  was  set  
2015  
Target  coverage  
Company-wide  
Target  type:  absolute  or  intensity  
Absolute  
Target  type:  category  & Metric  (target  numerator  if  reporting an intensity  target)  
Energy  consumption  or  efficiency  
GJ  
Target  denominator (intensity targets only)  
 
Base  year  
2010  
Figure  or  percentage  in base  year  
13,916,433  
Target  year  
2020  
Figure  or  percentage  in target  year  
8,349,860  
Figure  or  percentage  in reporting year  
7,595,737  
70  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
% of  target  achieved  [auto-calculated]  
113.5473477129  
Target  status  in reporting year  
Achieved  
Is this target part of an emissions target?  
Abs  2  
Is this target part of an overarching initiative?  
No,  it's  not  part  of  an  overarching  initiative  
Please  explain  (including target  coverage)  
We  achieved  our  goal  to  reduce  energy  use  by  40  percent.  This  target  covers  all  our  global  operations.  
 
Target  reference  number  
Oth  2  
Year  target  was  set  
2015  
Target  coverage  
Company-wide  
Target  type:  absolute  or  intensity  
Absolute  
Target  type:  category & Metric (target numerator if reporting an intensity target)  
Low-carbon buildings  
Percentage  of  buildings  with  a  green  building  certificate  
71  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Target  denominator  (intensity  targets  only)  
 
Base  year  
2010  
Figure  or  percentage  in base  year  
10  
Target  year  
2020  
Figure  or  percentage  in target  year  
20  
Figure  or  percentage  in reporting year  
24  
% of  target  achieved  [auto-calculated]  
140  
Target  status  in reporting year  
Achieved  
Is this target part of an emissions target?  
No  
Is this target part of an overarching initiative?  
No,  it's  not  part  of  an  overarching  initiative  
Please  explain  (including target  coverage)  
We  achieved  our  goal  to  maintain  LEED  certification  in  20  percent  of  owned  and  leased  space.  This  target  covers  all  our  global operations.  
72  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
 
Target  reference number  
Oth  3  
Year  target  was  set  
2015  
Target  coverage  
Company-wide  
Target  type:  absolute  or  intensity  
Absolute  
Target  type:  category  & Metric  (target  numerator  if  reporting an intensity  target)  
Engagement  with  suppliers 
Other,  please  specify 
Response  rate  to  our  CDP supply  chain  information  requests 
Target  denominator  (intensity  targets  only)  
 
Base  year  
2010  
Figure  or  percentage  in base  year  
84  
Target  year  
2020  
Figure  or  percentage  in target  year  
90  
73  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Figure  or  percentage  in reporting year  
90  
% of  target  achieved [auto-calculated]  
100  
Target  status  in reporting year  
Achieved  
Is this target part of an emissions target?  
No  
Is this target part of an overarching initiative?  
No,  it's  not  part  of  an  overarching  initiative  
Please  explain  (including target coverage)  
We  achieved  our  goal  to  maintain  a  90  percent  response  rate  to  our  CDP  supply  chain  requests.  
 
Target  reference  number  
Oth  4  
Year  target  was  set  
2015  
Target  coverage  
Company-wide  
Target  type:  absolute  or  intensity  
Absolute  
Target type: category & Metric (target numerator if reporting an intensity target)  
74  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Engagement  with  suppliers  
Percentage  of  suppliers  disclosing  their  GHG  emissions  
Target  denominator  (intensity  targets  only)  
 
Base  year  
2011  
Figure  or  percentage  in base  year  
76  
Target  year  
2020  
Figure  or  percentage  in target  year  
90  
Figure  or  percentage  in reporting year  
86  
% of  target  achieved  [auto-calculated]  
71.4285714286  
Target  status  in reporting year  
Expired  
Is this target part of an emissions target?  
No  
Is this  target part of an overarching initiative?  
No,  it's  not  part  of  an  overarching  initiative  
75  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Please  explain  (including target  coverage)  
Our  goal  was  to  increase  to  90  percent  the  number  of  our  CDP  supply  chain  responding  vendors  who  report  GHG emissions.  We  increased this 
to 86 percent.  
C4.2c  
(C4.2c) Provide details of your net-zero  target(s).  
 
Target  reference  number  
NZ1  
Target  coverage  
Company-wide  
Absolute/intensity  emission target(s)  linked to this  net-zero  target  
Abs1  
Abs3  
Target  year  for  achieving net  zero  
2050  
Is this a science-based target?  
Yes,  but  we  have  not  committed  to  seek  validation  of  this  target  by  the  Science  Based  Targets  initiative  in  the  next  2  years  
Please  explain (including target  coverage)  
Building  on  our  longstanding  support  for  the  Paris  Climate  Agreement,  the  company  outlined  initial steps  to  achieve  our  goal of  net  zero  
greenhouse gas emissions in our  financing activities,  operations and supply chain before 2050.  We are a founding member  of  the Net  Zero 
Banking  Alliance  and  we  plan  to  establish 2030 science based emissions targets for  high-emitting portfolios,  including energy and power  
starting in 2022.  
76  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
C4.3  
(C4.3) Did you have emissions reduction initiatives that were active within the reporting year? Note that this can  include those in the  
planning and/or  implementation phases.  
Yes  
C4.3a  
(C4.3a) Identify the total number of initiatives at each stage of development, and for those in the implementation stages, the 
estimated  CO2e savings.  
  Number  of  initiatives   Total  estimated  annual  CO2e savings in  metric tonnes CO2e (only for  rows marked  *)  
Under  investigation   9    
To  be  implemented*   20   380  
Implementation commenced*   20   380  
Implemented*   700   3,400  
Not  to  be  implemented   53    
C4.3b  
(C4.3b) Provide details on the initiatives implemented in the reporting year in the table below.  
 
Initiative category & Initiative type  
Energy  efficiency  in  buildings  
Other,  please  specify  
Varied  energy  efficiency  projects  
77  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Estimated annual  CO2e  savings  (metric tonnes CO2e)  
3,400  
Scope(s)  
Scope  1  
Scope  2  (location-based)  
Voluntary/Mandatory  
Voluntary  
Annual  monetary  savings  (unit  currency  –  as specified  in  C0.4)  
1,200,000  
Investment required (unit currency  –  as specified  in  C0.4)  
52,000,000  
Payback  period  
>25 years  
Estimated lifetime  of  the  initiative  
3-5 years  
Comment  
Approximately  700  energy  efficiency  projects  were  implemented  in  2020,  including  lighting  and  HVAC equipment  and  controls  upgrades, data  
center  equipment  and controls upgrades,  and decommissioning unneeded equipment.  Since 2004,  we have completed approximately 18,000 
efficiency projects.  Since 2010,  we’ve exited 50 data centers,  consolidating our  computing operations into significantly fewer buildings, which  
reduced overall emissions.  
C4.3c  
(C4.3c) What methods do you use to drive investment in emissions reduction activities?  
78  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Method   Comment  
Dedicated  budget  for  other  emissions  reduction  activities   Dedicated  budget  for  renewable  energy  
Financial  optimization  calculations    
Internal finance mechanisms    
Employee  engagement    
C4.5  
(C4.5) Do you classify any of your existing goods and/or services as low-carbon  products or  do  they enable a third  party to  avoid  
GHG emissions?  
Yes  
C4.5a  
(C4.5a) Provide details of your products and/or services that you classify as low-carbon  products or  that  enable a third  party to  avoid  
GHG emissions.  
 
Level  of  aggregation  
Group  of  products  
Description of  product/Group of  products  
Our  Environmental  Business  Initiative  includes  a  range  of  financial services and products that assist our clients in reducing or avoiding GHG  
emissions and reducing demands on important  natural  resources.  Since 2007 when it  was launched,  we have financed more than $200 billion in 
capital  towards clean energy,  energy efficiency, water conservation, sustainable transportation, and other environmentally supportive activities. 
Our  efforts  consist  of  lending,  equipment  finance,  tax  equity  investments,  capital  markets  and  advisory  activity,  carbon  finance,  and other  advice  
and investment  solutions for  clients.  Our  equipment  finance Energy Services team  supplies financing for  a wide range of  energy efficiency and 
renewable energy assets that meet client needs in municipal, federal, education, institutions, and healthcare  markets.  The  team works  directly  
79  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
with  established  contractors  and  Energy  Services  Companies  (ESCOs)  to  provide  financing  for  energy  conservation  measures  (building  
envelope improvements,  central  plant  retrofits,  solar  assets,  etc.).  Our  Renewable Energy Finance team  provides tax advantaged capital,  debt  
and related financial  solutions to clients developing commercial  and utility-scale renewable energy (wind and solar)  projects.  Our  Commercial  
Real  Estate  Banking  group  provides  financing  for  projects  pursuing and using LEED  certification,  ENERGY  STAR,  brownfields redevelopment  
and the use of  renewable energy tax credits.  The Global  Investment  Banking and Debt  Capital  Markets group facilitates capital  flows to clients  
developing and adopting clean technologies, including through an industry leading green bond platform. Our Consumer Vehicle Lending group  
provides loans for  hybrid/electric vehicle purchases while our  Global  Wealth Management  group offers ESG  investment  solutions  for clients. 
Through  the  provision  of  such financing and advisory services,  we facilitate and enable energy efficiency,  renewable energy and other  
sustainable technologies,  which in turn results in reduced and/or  avoided GHG  emissions.  We help our  employees and clients reduce paper  
consumption through statement suppression, electronic payments, and envelope-free deposit image ATMs. Our expanding mobile and online  
banking capabilities also help reduce clients’  travel  to and from  financial  centers.  
Are  these  low-carbon  product(s)  or  do  they enable  avoided emissions?  
Avoided  emissions  
Taxonomy,  project  or  methodology  used to classify  product(s)  as  low-carbon  or  to  calculate avoided  emissions  
Other,  please  specify  
Sustainability  Impact  Assessment  method  
% revenue  from low carbon  product(s)  in  the reporting  year  
 
% of  total  portfolio  value  
 
Asset  classes/  product  types  
Bank  lending  
Other,  please  specify  
Corporate  Loans,  Commercial  Loans,  Corporate  Real  Estate,  Asset  Financing,  and  Project  Finance  
Comment  
 
80  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
 
Level  of  aggregation  
Group  of  products  
Description  of  product/Group  of  products  
Green  bonds  are  fixed  income,  liquid  financial  instruments  for  raising  debt  capital  for  climate  mitigation  or  adaptation  projects or  programs and 
other  environmentally beneficial  activities.  Since green bonds first  came  onto  the  market  nearly  a  decade  ago,  we  helped  write  the  green  bond  
principles and have been a leader  in developing the market  through collaborating with peers and we are a top ranked green bond underwriter  
globally according to Environmental  Finance Green Bond Database.  Examples of  our  2020 activity include the first  green bond for  Big River  
Steel,  a  manufacturer  whose  electric  arc  furnace  production  is  dramatically  more  energy  efficient  than  alternative  production  techniques. The  
first sustainability-linked  bond  for  Suzano  following  the  publication  of  the  sustainability-linked  bond  principles,  which  we  helped  write.  And  a  
sustainability bond for  Pfizer,  the first  ever  globally in the pharmaceutical  industry.   Proceeds of  which will  primarily support  two  green building 
certified manufacturing facilities.  
 
We  were  the  first  corporate  to  issue  a  benchmark-sized green bond and the first  US  financial  institution to issue five corporate green bonds.  
Through  our  own  issuances,  we  are  advancing  renewable  energy  generation by financing new  projects—  such as a multistate residential  solar  
portfolio and a wind turbine facility in Oklahoma.  
 
In 2020, we issued our first $2 billion Equality Progress Sustainability Bond designed to advance racial equality, economic opportunity,  and 
environmental  sustainability and the first  offering of  its kind in the financial  services industry.  
Are  these  low-carbon  product(s)  or  do  they enable avoided  emissions?  
Avoided  emissions  
Taxonomy,  project  or  methodology  used to classify  product(s)  as low-carbon  or  to  calculate avoided  emissions  
Green  Bond  Principles  (ICMA)  
% revenue  from low carbon  product(s)  in  the  reporting  year  
 
81  
 
Bank of AmericaCDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021Monday, July 26, 2021 
 
 
% of total portfolio value 
 
Asset classes/ product types 
Investing 
Fixed Income 
Comment 
 
C5. Emissions methodology 
C5.1 
(C5.1) Provide your base year and base year emissions (Scopes 1 and 2). 
Scope 1 
Base year start 
January 1, 2010 
Base year end 
December 31, 2010 
Base year emissions (metric tons CO2e) 
106,870 
Comment 
 
Scope 2 (location-based) 
82 
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Base  year  start  
January 1,  2010  
Base  year  end  
December  31,  2010  
Base  year  emissions  (metric  tons  CO2e)  
1,678,547  
Comment  
 
Scope  2  (market-based)  
Base  year  start  
January 1,  2010  
Base  year  end  
December  31,  2010  
Base  year  emissions  (metric tons CO2e)  
1,644,068  
Comment  
 
C5.2  
(C5.2) Select the name of the standard, protocol, or methodology you have used to collect activity data and calculate emissions.  
The  Greenhouse  Gas  Protocol:  A Corporate  Accounting  and  Reporting  Standard  (Revised  Edition)  
The  Greenhouse  Gas  Protocol:  Scope  2  Guidance  
US EPA Center  for  Corporate  Climate  Leadership:  Direct  Fugitive  Emissions  from  Refrigeration,  Air  Conditioning,  Fire  Suppression,  and  Industrial Gases  
83  
 
Bank of AmericaCDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021Monday, July 26, 2021 
 
 
US EPA Center for Corporate Climate Leadership: Indirect Emissions From Purchased Electricity 
US EPA Center for Corporate Climate Leadership: Direct Emissions from Stationary Combustion Sources 
US EPA Center for Corporate Climate Leadership:  Direct Emissions from Mobile Combustion Sources 
C6. Emissions data 
C6.1 
(C6.1) What were your organization’s gross global Scope 1 emissions in metric tons CO2e? 
Reporting year 
Gross global Scope 1 emissions (metric tons CO2e) 
53,390 
Comment 
 
C6.2 
(C6.2) Describe your organization’s approach to reporting Scope 2 emissions. 
Row 1 
Scope 2, location-based 
We are reporting a Scope 2, location-based figure 
Scope 2, market-based 
We are reporting a Scope 2, market-based figure 
Comment 
84 
 
Bank of AmericaCDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021Monday, July 26, 2021 
 
 
 
C6.3 
(C6.3) What were your organization’s gross global Scope 2 emissions in metric tons CO2e? 
Reporting year 
Scope 2, location-based 
657,635 
Scope 2, market-based (if applicable) 
7,685 
Comment 
Our market-based emissions include the impact of renewable energy certificates (RECs) purchased in the United States, Guarantees of Origin 
(GOs) in Europe, REGOs in the United Kingdom, I-RECs in various countries, J-Credits in Japan, and PowerPlus in India. All U.S. RECs we 
purchase are Green-e certified. Emissions reflect supplier-specific emission rates where available, all of which comply with Scope 2 Guidance 
criteria. Emissions reflect residual mix factors for European facilities. Residual mix factors are not currently available for facilities outside of 
Europe. 
C6.4 
(C6.4) Are there any sources (e.g. facilities, specific GHGs, activities, geographies, etc.) of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions that are 
within your selected reporting boundary which are not included in your disclosure? 
No 
C6.5 
(C6.5) Account for your organization’s gross global Scope 3 emissions, disclosing and explaining any exclusions. 
Purchased goods and services 
85 
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Evaluation status  
Relevant,  calculated  
Metric  tonnes  CO2e  
1,573,430  
Emissions  calculation methodology  
Cradle-to-gate emissions from  our  purchased goods and services were calculated using a combination of  two approaches.  The first  approach 
uses vendor-specific emission factors developed based on vendor  emissions disclosures from  CDP  (reported Scopes 1,  2,  &  3 emissions per  
company revenue).  These factors were multiplied by BofA’s spend with the vendor  to calculate scope 3 emissions.  The second approach 
aggregates our  total  spend data into standard vendor  sector  categories.  The spend in each category is multiplied by sector-specific cradle-to-
gate emission factors.  Emissions factors are from  the US  EPA  Environmentally-Extended  Input-Output  (EEIO)  database.  GWPs  are  IPCC  
Second  Assessment  Report  (SAR - 100 year).  
Percentage  of  emissions  calculated using data  obtained from  suppliers  or  value  chain partners  
22  
Please  explain  
 
Capital  goods  
Evaluation status  
Relevant,  calculated  
Metric  tonnes  CO2e  
74,283  
Emissions  calculation methodology  
Cradle-to-gate emissions from  our  capital  goods were calculated using an approach that  aggregates our  total  spend data into standard vendor  
sector  categories.  The spend in each category is multiplied by sector-specific cradle-to-gate emission factors.  Emissions factors are from  the US  
EPA Environmentally-Extended  Input-Output  (EEIO)  database.  GWPs  are  IPCC  Second  Assessment  Report  (SAR  - 100 year).  
86  
 
Bank of AmericaCDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021Monday, July 26, 2021 
 
 
Percentage of emissions calculated using data obtained from suppliers or value chain partners 
0 
Please explain 
 
Fuel-and-energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2) 
Evaluation status 
Relevant, calculated 
Metric tonnes CO2e 
134,786 
Emissions calculation methodology 
The activity data used to quantify these activities’ emissions are the quantity consumed of each energy type, such as electricity or natural gas. 
Consumption by fuel type is then multiplied by emission factors for each of the three activities included in this category. Emission factors for 
upstream emissions of purchased fuels are based on life-cycle analysis software. Emission factors for upstream emissions of purchased 
electricity are based on life-cycle analysis software for the U.S., and on U.K. Defra Guidelines for other countries. Emission factors for 
transmission and distribution losses are location-based and taken from EPA’s eGRID database for the U.S., and on IEA’s CO2 Emissions from 
Fuel Combustion (2020 Edition) for other countries. GWPs are IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4 - 100 year). 
Percentage of emissions calculated using data obtained from suppliers or value chain partners 
0 
Please explain 
 
Upstream transportation and distribution 
Evaluation status 
Relevant, calculated 
87 
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Metric  tonnes  CO2e  
116,149  
Emissions  calculation methodology  
This  figure  encompasses  emissions  from  armored  cars,  check  couriers,  freight  shipments,  mail  and  express  shipments,  and  vehicles  owned  by  
our  facility management  partners that  are dedicated to serving our  facilities.  Activity data for  the emission sources are obtained from  the internal  
group that  manages this transportation.  Emissions were calculated using EPA  Emission Factors for  Greenhouse Gas Inventories and Climate 
Leaders Mobile Source Guidance.  GWPs are IPCC  Fourth Assessment  Report  (AR4 - 100 year).  
Percentage  of  emissions  calculated using data  obtained from  suppliers  or  value  chain partners  
100  
Please  explain  
 
Waste  generated  in  operations  
Evaluation status  
Relevant,  calculated  
Metric  tonnes  CO2e  
15,850  
Emissions  calculation methodology  
This  figure  represents  emissions  associated  with  waste  disposed  of  via  landfilling,  incineration,  composting,  and  recycling.  It does not include  
wastewater  treatment.  Data  on  waste  quantity,  composition,  and  disposal  method are obtained by our  waste management  providers.  Emissions 
from waste are calculated using methodologies and emission factors from the EPA’s Waste Reduction Model (WARM). This model calculates  
emissions based on a life-cycle analysis,  including emissions from the long-term decomposition of waste in a landfill or from upstream  
sources/sinks.  GWPs are IPCC  Fourth Assessment  Report  (AR4 - 100 year).  
Percentage  of  emissions  calculated using data  obtained from  suppliers  or  value  chain partners  
100  
88  
 
Bank of AmericaCDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021Monday, July 26, 2021 
 
 
Please explain 
This figure represents emissions associated with waste disposed of via landfilling, incineration, composting, and recycling. It does not include 
wastewater treatment. Data on waste quantity, composition, and disposal method are obtained by our waste management providers. Emissions 
from waste are calculated using methodologies and emission factors from the EPA’s Waste Reduction Model (WARM). This model calculates 
emissions based on a life-cycle analysis, including emissions from the long-term decomposition of waste in a landfill or from upstream 
sources/sinks. GWPs are IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4 - 100 year). 
Business travel 
Evaluation status 
Relevant, calculated 
Metric tonnes CO2e 
31,481 
Emissions calculation methodology 
Business travel includes air and rail travel, rental cars, contracted black cars, and hotel stays. Air and rail travel activity data were obtained from 
the bank’s travel agency. Rental car and contracted black car activity data is provided by rental car and contracted black car providers. Hotel 
data are aggregated by bank staff. Emissions were calculated using emission factors and methodologies from the Guidelines to Defra / DECC's 
GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, EPA Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories, Climate Leaders Mobile Source 
Guidance, and Climate Leaders Business Travel and Commuting Guidance. GWPs are IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4 - 100 year). 
Percentage of emissions calculated using data obtained from suppliers or value chain partners 
100 
Please explain 
The reported emissions are gross emissions. Starting for 2020, BofA applied carbon offsets to business travel emissions to reach carbon 
neutrality for this Scope 3 category. Thus our net business travel emissions are 0. 
Employee commuting 
Evaluation status 
89 
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Relevant,  calculated  
Metric  tonnes  CO2e  
126,415  
Emissions  calculation methodology  
Commuting  emissions  include  emissions  from  employees’  personal  vehicles  and  from  shuttles  that  transport  employees  to  and  from work.  
Commuting  emissions  for  US and  UK employees  are  based  on  calculations  of  distance  from  employees’  homes  to  primary  work  location.  US 
and UK  averages were applied to other  regions.  The modes of  transportation are based on employee surveys and on publicly available  
information.  Shuttle emissions are calculated based on the miles travelled per shuttle type, amount of fuel consumed, and MPG when the  
amount  of  fuel  was not  available.  Given the impacts of  the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020,  the commuting calculations were split  into two phases 
for the year –  1)  “pre-COVID”  (January-March  15),  under  which  it  was  assumed  that  all  employees  were  commuting  as  usual  and  2)  “post-
COVID”  (March  15-December),  for  which  the  number  of  commuting  employees  was  adjusted  (reduced)  due  to  COVID-19 work from  home 
policies.  Total  emissions for  each mode of  transportation,  plus the shuttle emissions,  were calculated using emission factors  and methodologies 
from EPA Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories, Climate Leaders Mobile Source Guidance, Climate Leaders Business Travel  and 
Commuting  Guidance,  and  Guidelines  to  Defra  /  DECC's  GHG  Conversion  Factors  for  Company  Reporting.  GWPs  are  IPCC Fourth  
Assessment  Report  (AR4  - 100 year).  
 
In addition to adjusting the number of commuting employees due to the COVID-19 pandemic,  emissions from  the use of  laptops and monitors 
by employees at  home were also included to account  for  increased working from  home.  Calculations were completed using the number  of  
employees working from  home during the “post-COVID”  phase  and the average electricity consumption of  the models of  laptops and monitors 
most  frequently  distributed  to  employees.  Total  emissions  associated  with  laptops  and  monitors  were  calculated  using  the  US  average electricity 
emission factor  from  EPA  eGRID  2019 (released February 2021).  
Percentage  of  emissions  calculated using data  obtained from  suppliers  or  value  chain partners  
0  
Please  explain  
 
Upstream  leased assets  
90  
 
Bank of AmericaCDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021Monday, July 26, 2021 
 
 
Evaluation status 
Not relevant, explanation provided 
Please explain 
Under the operational control approach of defining our inventory boundary, emissions from all upstream leased assets are included in our 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. 
Downstream transportation and distribution 
Evaluation status 
Relevant, calculated 
Metric tonnes CO2e 
1,200,000 
Emissions calculation methodology 
This figure represents emissions associated with client travel to and from retail financial centers and ATMs. It currently does not include client 
travel to wealth management facilities or other facilities. Activity data used to quantify these emissions includes measured data on the number of 
teller and ATM visits and the average distance travelled to financial centers and ATMs. The mode of travel was assumed based on the 
availability of parking at facilities. Data were used to calculate total miles and gallons of gasoline consumed. Emissions were calculated using 
emission factors and methodologies from the EPA Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories and Climate Leaders Mobile Source 
Guidance. GWPs are IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4 - 100 year). 
Percentage of emissions calculated using data obtained from suppliers or value chain partners 
0 
Please explain 
 
Processing of sold products 
Evaluation status 
91 
 
Bank of AmericaCDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021Monday, July 26, 2021 
 
 
Not relevant, explanation provided 
Please explain 
We have no emissions in this category because we do not sell intermediate products that require processing into final products. 
Use of sold products 
Evaluation status 
Relevant, calculated 
Metric tonnes CO2e 
4,000 
Emissions calculation methodology 
This figure represents emissions associated with client use of computers and smartphones for online banking. The activity data used to quantify 
these emissions include tracking data on the number and length of online and mobile banking sessions. Based on research, assumptions were 
developed for the mix of laptop and desktop computers as well as tablets and smartphones. The total online time is used to calculate the 
amount of total electricity consumed, which is multiplied by the U.S. average eGRID location-based emission factor for electricity. Computer 
wattage values are based on data from the EPA and industry sources. GWPs are IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4 - 100 year). 
Percentage of emissions calculated using data obtained from suppliers or value chain partners 
0 
Please explain 
 
End of life treatment of sold products 
Evaluation status 
Relevant, calculated 
Metric tonnes CO2e 
15,000 
92 
 
Bank of AmericaCDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021Monday, July 26, 2021 
 
 
Emissions calculation methodology 
This figure represents emissions associated with the disposal of credit and debit cards and client mailings. Activity data used to quantify 
emissions include the number and weight of cards issued and the total weight and type of paper for mailings. This figure represents emissions 
associated with waste disposed via landfilling, incineration, and recycling. Emissions from waste are calculated using methodologies and 
emission factors from the EPA’s Waste Reduction Model (WARM). This model calculates emissions based on a life-cycle analysis, including 
emissions from the long-term decomposition of waste in a landfill or from upstream sources/sinks. GWPs are IPCC Fourth Assessment Report 
(AR4 - 100 year). 
Percentage of emissions calculated using data obtained from suppliers or value chain partners 
0 
Please explain 
 
Downstream leased assets 
Evaluation status 
Not relevant, explanation provided 
Please explain 
Emissions in this category are insignificant, because we have an inconsequential amount of owned spaced that is leased to others. 
Franchises 
Evaluation status 
Not relevant, explanation provided 
Please explain 
We do not operate any franchises. 
Other (upstream) 
Evaluation status 
93 
 
Bank of AmericaCDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021Monday, July 26, 2021 
 
 
 
Please explain 
 
Other (downstream) 
Evaluation status 
 
Please explain 
 
C6.10 
(C6.10) Describe your gross global combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions for the reporting year in metric tons CO2e per unit currency 
total revenue and provide any additional intensity metrics that are appropriate to your business operations. 
 
Intensity figure 
0.00000071 
Metric numerator (Gross global combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions, metric tons CO2e) 
61,075 
Metric denominator 
Other, please specify 
Total revenue - $ in millions 
Metric denominator: Unit total 
85,528,000,000 
94 
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Scope  2  figure  used  
Market-based  
% change  from previous  year  
19  
Direction of  change  
Decreased  
Reason for  change  
Absolute  market-based emissions decreased 24%  primarily due to emission reduction activities,  including consolidating space,  implementing 
energy-efficiency projects,  and purchasing renewable energy.  Like others,  we have also benefited from  a less carbon-intensive utility grid. Total  
revenue decreased 6%.  The net result is a decrease in emissions per unit revenue.  
 
Intensity figure  
0.29  
Metric  numerator  (Gross  global  combined  Scope  1  and  2  emissions,  metric  tons  CO2e)  
61,075  
Metric  denominator  
full time equivalent  (FTE)  employee  
Metric  denominator:  Unit  total  
213,000  
Scope  2  figure  used  
Market-based  
% change  from previous  year  
26  
95  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Direction of  change  
Decreased  
Reason for  change  
Absolute  market-based emissions decreased 24%  primarily due to emission reduction activities,  including consolidating space,  implementing 
energy-efficiency projects,  and purchasing renewable energy.  Like others,  we have also benefited from  a less carbon-intensive utility grid. The  
number  of  employees increased 2%.  The net  result  is a decrease in emissions per  FTE  employee.  
 
Intensity figure  
0.00079  
Metric  numerator  (Gross  global  combined  Scope  1  and  2  emissions,  metric  tons  CO2e)  
61,075  
Metric  denominator  
square foot  
Metric  denominator:  Unit  total  
77,318,171  
Scope  2  figure  used  
Market-based  
% change  from previous  year  
22  
Direction of  change  
Decreased  
Reason for  change  
96  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Absolute  market-based emissions decreased 24%  primarily due to emission reduction activities,  including consolidating space,  implementing 
energy-efficiency projects,  and purchasing renewable energy.  Like others,  we have also benefited from  a less carbon-intensive  utility  grid.  
Square  feet  of  facility  area  decreased  3%.  The  net  result  is  a  decrease in emissions per  square foot.  
C7.  Emissions  breakdowns  
C7.9  
(C7.9) How do your gross global emissions (Scope 1 and 2 combined) for the reporting year compare to those of the previous  
reporting year?  
Decreased  
C7.9a  
(C7.9a) Identify the reasons for any change  in your  gross  global  emissions  (Scope  1  and 2  combined),  and for  each of  them  specify  
how  your  emissions  compare  to the  previous  year.  
  Change  in   Direction  of   Emissions   Please  explain calculation  
emissions  change   value 
(metric tons   (percentage)  
CO2e)  
Change  in   0   No  change   0   We  implemented  several  new  onsite  solar  installations  in  2020,  but  their  part-year  
renewable energy   operation had minimal  impact  to emissions so far.   Thus,  we have reported no 
consumption   change.  
Other  emissions  64,552   Decreased   8   We  have  reduced  location-based emissions across our  portfolio by consolidating 
reduction   space and implementing energy-efficiency projects.  Like others,  we have also 
activities   benefited from  a less carbon-intensive  utility  grid.  The resulting location-based 
emission reduction was 64,552 t  CO2e,  divided by our  total  emissions in the previous 
year  of  791,409 t  CO2e gives a 8%  reduction (64,552/791,409)*100 =  8%.)  
97  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Divestment          
Acquisitions          
Mergers          
Change  in  output          
Change  in          
methodology  
Change  in          
boundary  
Change  in          
physical  operating 
conditions  
Unidentified          
Other   15,828   Decreased   2   This  is  our  estimate  of  reductions  in  our  facilities  due  to  employees  working  from  
home during the pandemic.  The resulting location-based emission reduction was 
15,828 t  CO2e,  divided by our  total  emissions in the previous year  of  791,409 t  CO2e 
gives a 2%  reduction (15,828/791,409)*100 = 2%.)  
C7.9b  
(C7.9b) Are your emissions performance calculations in C7.9  and C7.9a  based on a  location-based Scope  2  emissions  figure  or  a  
market-based Scope  2  emissions  figure?  
Location-based  
98  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021  
 
 
C8.  Energy  
C8.1  
(C8.1) What percentage of your total operational spend in the reporting year was on energy?  
More  than  0% but  less  than  or  equal to  5%  
C8.2  
(C8.2) Select which energy-related activities your organization has undertaken.  
  Indicate whether your organization undertook this energy-related  activity  in  the  reporting  year  
Consumption  of  fuel  (excluding  feedstocks)   Yes  
Consumption  of  purchased  or  acquired  electricity   Yes  
Consumption  of  purchased  or  acquired  heat   No  
Consumption  of  purchased  or  acquired  steam   Yes  
Consumption  of  purchased  or  acquired  cooling   Yes  
Generation  of  electricity,  heat,  steam,  or  cooling   Yes  
C8.2a  
(C8.2a) Report your organization’s energy consumption totals (excluding feedstocks) in MWh.  
  Heating  value   MWh  from renewable   MWh  from non-renewable   Total  (renewable  and non-
sources   sources   renewable) MWh  
Consumption  of  fuel  (excluding  feedstock)   HHV (higher  heating   0   238,591   238,591  
value)  
99  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Consumption  of  purchased  or  acquired     1,827,969   0   1,827,969  
electricity  
Consumption  of  purchased  or  acquired     0   26,377   26,377  
steam  
Consumption  of  purchased  or  acquired     0   16,696   16,696  
cooling  
Consumption  of  self-generated non-fuel     321     321  
renewable energy  
Total  energy  consumption     1,828,290   281,664   2,109,954  
C9.  Additional  metrics  
C9.1  
(C9.1) Provide any additional climate-related metrics relevant to your business.  
 
Description  
Energy  usage  
Metric  value  
7,595,737  
Metric  numerator  
Gigajoules  of  total  energy  consumption  
Metric  denominator  (intensity  metric  only)  
N/A  
100  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021  
 
 
% change  from previous  year  
6  
Direction of  change  
Decreased  
Please  explain  
 
C10.  Verification  
C10.1  
(C10.1)  Indicate the verification/assurance status that  applies to  your  reported  emissions.  
  Verification/assurance  status  
Scope  1   Third-party verification or  assurance process in place  
Scope  2  (location-based or  market-based)   Third-party verification or  assurance process in place  
Scope  3   Third-party verification or  assurance process in place  
C10.1a  
(C10.1a) Provide further details of the verification/assurance undertaken for your Scope 1  emissions, and attach the relevant 
statements.  
 
Verification or  assurance  cycle  in place  
Annual  process  
101  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Status  in the  current  reporting year  
Complete  
Type  of  verification or  assurance  
Reasonable  assurance  
Attach the  statement  
 
Bank  of  America  - CDP Verification  Statement  2020_Final  Rev 1.pdf  
Page/  section reference  
Whole  document  
Relevant  standard  
ISO14064-3  
Proportion of  reported emissions  verified (%)  
100  
C10.1b  
(C10.1b) Provide further details of the verification/assurance undertaken for your Scope 2 emissions and attach the  relevant  
statements.  
 
Scope  2  approach  
Scope  2  location-based  
Verification or  assurance  cycle  in place  
Annual  process  
102  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Status  in the  current  reporting year  
Complete  
Type  of  verification or  assurance  
Reasonable  assurance  
Attach the  statement  
 
Bank  of  America  - CDP Verification  Statement  2020_Final  Rev  1.pdf  
Page/  section reference  
Whole  document  
Relevant  standard  
ISO14064-3  
Proportion of  reported emissions  verified (%)  
100  
 
Scope  2  approach  
Scope  2  market-based  
Verification or  assurance  cycle  in place  
Annual  process  
Status  in the  current  reporting year  
Complete  
Type  of  verification or  assurance  
Reasonable  assurance  
103  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Attach the  statement  
 
Bank  of  America  - CDP Verification  Statement  2020_Final  Rev  1.pdf  
Page/  section reference  
Whole  document  
Relevant  standard  
ISO14064-3  
Proportion of  reported emissions  verified (%)  
100  
C10.1c  
(C10.1c) Provide further details of the verification/assurance undertaken for your Scope 3 emissions and attach the relevant 
statements.  
 
Scope  3  category  
Scope  3  (upstream  &  downstream)  
Verification or  assurance  cycle  in place  
Annual  process  
Status  in the  current  reporting year  
Complete  
Type  of  verification or  assurance  
Limited assurance  
104  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Attach the  statement  
 
Bank  of  America  - CDP Verification  Statement  2020_Final  Rev  1.pdf  
Page/section reference  
Whole  document  
Relevant  standard  
ISO14064-3  
Proportion of  reported emissions  verified (%)  
100  
C10.2  
(C10.2) Do you verify any climate-related information reported in your CDP disclosure other than the emissions  figures  reported  in  
C6.1,  C6.3,  and C6.5?  
Yes  
C10.2a  
(C10.2a) Which data points within your CDP disclosure have been verified, and which verification standards were used?  
Disclosure  module   Data  verified   Verification  Please  explain  
verification  relates to   standard  
C8.  Energy   Renewable  energy   ISAE 3000   We  receive  an  annual  verification  of  sustainability  metrics  including  renewable  energy  
products   purchases for  our  Environmental,  Social  and Governance reporting.  
C8.  Energy   Energy  consumption  ISAE 3000   We  receive  an  annual  verification  of  sustainability  metrics  including  energy  
consumption for  our  Environmental,  Social  and Governance reporting.  
105  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
C11. Carbon pricing  
C11.2  
(C11.2) Has your organization originated or purchased any project-based carbon credits  within the  reporting period?  
Yes  
C11.2a  
(C11.2a) Provide details of the project-based carbon credits  originated or  purchased by  your  organization in the  reporting period.  
 
Credit  origination or  credit  purchase  
Credit  purchase  
Project  type  
Forests  
Project  identification  
The  bank  continues  to  drive  emissions  reductions  across  operations  and  the  entire  value  chain.  For  operational  emissions  that  are unavoidable,  
the bank has invested in nature-based solutions.  We support  high quality,  verified carbon projects across the globe that  drive innovation and 
maximize  environmental  and  social  impacts  aligned  with  the  UN  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDG).  
 
We  executed  multi-year  commitments to four  projects located in low-income  areas across the U.S.,  South America,  Africa,  and Asia.  These 
projects are helping to preserve biodiversity and drive reforestation,  while furthering economic mobility for  the local  populations.  All  projects are 
verified by third-party,  market  leading standards.  The bank’s nonprofit  partners,  Arbor  Day and Cool  Effect,  apply their  expertise to work directly 
with  project  developers  and  to  conduct  extensive  due  diligence  for  every  project  the  bank  supports.  These  projects  propel  sustainable, science-
based solutions;  conduct  regular  on-ground and satellite monitoring;  follow  ICROA’s Code of  Best  Practices;  and have social  and environmental  
safeguards in place.  The following statistics reflect  reporting materials as of  Jan 2020.  
106  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
 
Project  1:  Located  in  Peru’s  high forest  between the Andes and the Amazon Basin,  Cordillera Azul  is a community-driven program  helping tens 
of  thousands of  local  people prosper  and protect  the land,  water,  and biodiversity.  Economic assistance and access to basic services such as 
sanitation,  health  care  and  education  lead  to  both  sustainable  livelihoods  and  landscapes.  
Verified to which standard  
VCS (Verified  Carbon  Standard)  
Number  of  credits  (metric  tonnes  CO2e)  
47,557  
Number  of  credits  (metric  tonnes  CO2e):  Risk  adjusted volume  
47,557  
Credits  cancelled  
Yes  
Purpose,  e.g.  compliance  
Voluntary  Offsetting  
 
Credit  origination or  credit  purchase  
Credit  purchase  
Project  type  
Agriculture  
Project  identification  
Project  2:  The  International  Small  Group  and  Tree  Planting  Program  (TIST)  is  a  combined reforestation and sustainable development  project  
carried out  by subsistence farmers.  TIST  empowers small  groups (6-12)  farmers in Kenya and Uganda to combat  the devastating effects of  
deforestation,  poverty and drought  through tree ownership and innovative technology.  
107  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Verified to which standard  
VCS (Verified  Carbon  Standard)  
Number  of  credits  (metric  tonnes  CO2e)  
15,000  
Number  of  credits  (metric  tonnes  CO2e):  Risk  adjusted volume  
15,000  
Credits  cancelled  
Yes  
Purpose,  e.g.  compliance  
Voluntary  Offsetting  
 
Credit  origination or  credit  purchase  
Credit  purchase  
Project  type  
Other,  please  specify  
Peatland  protection  
Project  identification  
Project  3:  Peatlands  only  cover  3%  of  the  Earth’s  surface  but  store  twice  as  much  carbon  as  the  world’s  forest;  protecting them  is vital.  
Protecting  mature  forest  ecosystems,  restoring  degraded  lands,  and  providing  access  to  economic  opportunities  for  the  local  people of  Central  
Kalimantan  ensures  the  longevity  and  resiliency  of  this  key  climate  ecosystem.  
Verified to which standard  
VCS (Verified  Carbon  Standard)  
Number  of  credits  (metric  tonnes  CO2e)  
108  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
15,000  
Number  of  credits  (metric  tonnes  CO2e):  Risk  adjusted volume  
15,000  
Credits  cancelled  
Yes  
Purpose,  e.g.  compliance  
Voluntary  Offsetting  
 
Credit  origination or  credit  purchase  
Credit  purchase  
Project  type  
Forests  
Project  identification  
Project  4:  We  support  the  largest  reforestation  project  in  North  America  working  to  restore  over  a  million  acres  of  degraded  lands  back  to  their  
original  and highly beneficial  forest  ecosystems in the lower  Mississippi  River  Valley.  Reforestation provides resiliency against  climate change 
and flooding while creating vital  habitat  and positively impacting some of  the U.S.’s poorest  counties.  
Verified to which standard  
ACR (American  Carbon  Registry)  
Number  of  credits  (metric  tonnes  CO2e)  
15,000  
Number  of  credits  (metric  tonnes  CO2e):  Risk  adjusted volume  
15,000  
109  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Credits  cancelled  
Yes  
Purpose,  e.g.  compliance  
Voluntary  Offsetting  
C11.3  
(C11.3) Does your organization  use  an internal  price  on carbon?  
No,  and  we  do  not  currently  anticipate  doing  so  in  the  next  two  years  
C12.  Engagement  
C12.1  
(C12.1) Do you engage with your value chain on climate-related issues?  
Yes,  our  suppliers  
Yes,  our  customers  
C12.1a  
(C12.1a) Provide  details  of  your  climate-related supplier engagement strategy.  
 
Type  of  engagement  
Information collection (understanding supplier behavior)  
Details  of  engagement  
Collect  climate  change  and  carbon  information  at  least  annually  from  suppliers  
110  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
% of  suppliers by number  
1  
% total  procurement  spend  (direct  and  indirect)  
75  
% of  supplier-related Scope 3 emissions as reported in C6.5  
40  
Rationale  for  the  coverage  of  your  engagement  
Since  2009,  we  have  invited  vendors  to  respond  to  the  CDP supply  chain  questionnaire,  which helps us track climate change impacts and 
associated risks related to our  global  supply chain.  Our  selection process for  inviting takes into account  a)  environmental  impact  (using  sector  
level U.K.  Defra  GHG  emission  intensity  factors), b) spend (as a proxy for how much business we do with the vendor). However, if a vendor has  
been engaged in the past  but  spend with the vendor  has dropped below  our  threshold,  we continue to engage with them.  We feel  this level of 
coverage is appropriate  because it  addresses more than 70%  of  our  total  procurement  spend.  
Impact of engagement, including measures of success  
In 2020, we requested disclosures from 197 vendors. Following the survey, we provide individualized feedback regarding each vendor’s level  of  
transparency and performance to the participating vendors and their vendor managers. This has facilitated ongoing dialogue between the bank  
and vendors which promotes collaboration and provides us with the opportunity to recognize leadership among our highest-performing vendors.  
 
In 2016, we set our first-ever  goals to address climate change within our  supply chain with two vendor  engagement  goals:  to maintain a 
response rate to CDP supply chain questionnaire of at least 90 percent, and for 90 percent  of  CDP  supply chain responding vendors to disclose 
GHG emissions.  Tracking  progress  towards  these  goals  is  a  way  we  measure  our  success.  
 
There  are  several  indications  of  the  impact  of  our  engagement.  In  2020,  we  achieved  our  first  goal  with  a  response  rate of 90 percent. We had  
86 percent  of  responding vendors report  GHG  emissions.  Although short  of  our  90 percent  goal,  it  is was our  highest  rate to date.  
 
We  are  proud  to  report  that,  as  of  2020,  127  of  our  vendor  respondents  have  greenhouse  gas  emissions  reduction or renewable electricity  
procurement  goals.  Nineteen vendors that  we invited to respond to the CDP  supply chain survey are on the 2020 Supplier  Climate A  List,  a 
ranking based on their survey responses and demonstration of strong and transparent  climate strategies.  
111  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Comment 
 
 
Type  of  engagement  
Information collection (understanding supplier behavior)  
Details  of  engagement  
Other,  please  specify  
Monitor  compliance  with  our  Vendor  Code  of  Conduct  
% of  suppliers  by  number  
 
% total  procurement  spend  (direct and indirect)  
 
% of  supplier-related Scope 3 emissions as reported in C6.5  
 
Rationale  for  the  coverage  of  your  engagement  
In addition to CDP, we evaluate and engage our vendors in key areas as outlined by our Vendor Code of Conduct. Focus areas  include  
environmental  sustainability,  labor  and human rights,  and diversity and inclusion.  Specific to environmental  impacts,  we expect  our  vendors to 
quantify and disclose environmental  impacts,  including at  a minimum  scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions.  We  also  expect  our  
vendors to establish public goals to reduce environmental  impacts and disclose progress relative to targets.  Our  ESG  Assessment  was 
implemented  in  2020  and  monitors  for  compliance  with  the  Vendor  Code  of  Conduct.  
Impact of engagement,  including  measures of  success  
Our  ESG Assessment  monitors  for  compliance  with  our  Vendor  Code  of  Conduct  and  the  resulting  score  is  taken  into  consideration when 
evaluating vendors’  business capabilities.  If  a vendor  does not  meet  expectations a remediation process follows.  In 2020,  77%  of  assessed 
112  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
vendors disclosed environmental  impacts and 61%  had public climate goals.  Through this assessment,  we inform  our  vendors of  our  
expectations and support  them  to ensure these expectations are met.  
Comment  
 
 
Type  of  engagement  
Engagement  & incentivization  (changing  supplier  behavior)  
Details  of  engagement  
Run  an  engagement  campaign  to  educate  suppliers  about  climate  change  
% of  suppliers  by  number  
0.01  
% total  procurement  spend  (direct  and  indirect)  
0.2  
% of  supplier-related Scope 3 emissions as reported in C6.5  
0.1  
Rationale  for  the  coverage  of  your  engagement  
BofA engages  with  food  services  vendors  to  reduce  red  meat  consumption,  increase  vegetarian  options,  increase  the  amount  of  spend on local  
produce (defined as within 400 miles of a BofA café), reduce food waste, and donate food when possible. We believe that these efforts will have  
a positive impact  on the environment  and our  employees’  health.  
Impact of engagement, including measures of success  
In 2020, BofA purchased 146,344 pounds of beef, and 10.8% of produce purchased was local. We hope to decrease the amount of red meat  
purchases in the future and increase the amount  of  spend on local  produce.  We donated over  25,000 pounds of  food that  would have otherwise  
been wasted in 2020.  
113  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Comment  
 
C12.1b  
(C12.1b) Give details of your climate-related engagement strategy with your customers.  
 
Type  of  engagement  
Collaboration  & innovation  
Details  of  engagement  
Run  a  campaign  to  encourage  innovation  to  reduce  climate change impacts  
% of  customers  by  number  
33  
% of  customer  - related Scope 3 emissions as reported in C6.5  
 
Portfolio coverage  (total  or  outstanding)  
Minority  of  the  portfolio  
Please  explain the  rationale  for  selecting this  group of  customers  and scope of  engagement  
Here  we  consider  clients  and  investees  as  customers.  We  engage  with  our  customers  on  ESG  which  includes  climate  strategies,  GHG  
emissions and climate risk.  
 
Our  lines  of  businesses  have  strategies  to  engage  clients  on  ESG issues,  including  climate,  and  market  various  ESG-related products and  
services.  Our  client  facing divisions host  high-profile client  events focused on ESG  and climate change.  Bankers include ESG  and climate 
information  in  client  presentations  to  share  our  strategy  and  engage in discussion on clients climate programs.  In addition to this standard 
engagement  we have a carbon advisory team  that  meets with clients to educate them  about  the importance of  climate goals and how  to build a 
114  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
net  zero strategy.  Another  critical  part of our strategy is strong engagement and partnership with clients in high emitting sectors. Through this  
engagement,  we share our  expertise and perspectives on corporate and financial  strategies to help reduce emissions,  create positive and 
constructive  dialogues with key stakeholders,  and encourage and influence clients to consider  their  role in the net  zero transition.  Importantly, 
we  are  encouraging  climate  target  setting  and  sharing  innovative  ways  to  finance  their  transition  investment.  We  are  also  actively engaged with 
clients to drive increased investment  in climate innovation and the delivery of  our  Environmental  Business Initiative.  By way  of  example,  we 
recently hosted a climate-focused event, ESG Matters: Journey to Net Zero, with roughly 600 middle  market  clients.  We  have  reached  out  
individually  to  commercial,  corporate  and  municipal clients  to  encourage  participation  in  the  burgeoning  green  bond  market,  and have 
incorporated  ESG/Impact  Investing  into  our  regular  engagement  with  individual and  institutional investor  clients  to  grow  that  platform.  
 
On  individual  transactions,  we  engage  with  clients  when  our  review  indicates  the  need  for  mitigation  to  minimize  certain  environmental impacts  
associated with the deal  in question.  We prioritize these  types of engagements based on an evaluation of the severity of environmental risks  
associated with each of  these transactions.  
 
We  estimate  that  we  engage  with  approximately  33%  of  our  Global  Banking  and  Markets  commercial  and  Global  Wealth  Management  clients,  in 
terms of number of clients and in terms of the proportion of the associated portfolio value chain.  
Impact of engagement, including measures of success  
Measures  of  success  for  our  client  engagement  include  the  growth  of  our  green  bond,  ESG investing and overall  low-carbon business.  As an 
indication  of  the  impact  of  this  engagement,  increasing  client  demand  helped  us  deliver  $50.5  billion  towards  our  Environmental  Business 
Initiative in 2020.  
C12.3  
(C12.3) Do you engage in activities that could either directly or indirectly influence public policy on climate-related issues through  
any of  the following?  
Trade  associations 
Funding  research  organizations 
Other 
115  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
C12.3b  
(C12.3b) Are you on the board of any trade associations or do you provide funding beyond  membership?  
Yes  
C12.3c  
(C12.3c) Enter the details of those trade associations that are likely to take a position on climate change legislation.  
 
Trade  association  
American  Council  on  Renewable  Energy  
Is your position on climate change consistent with theirs?  
Consistent  
Please  explain the  trade  association’s  position  
The  American  Council  on  Renewable  Energy  (ACORE)  is  a  non-profit  organization dedicated to advancing the renewable energy sector  through 
market  development,  policy  changes,  and  financial innovation. ACORE works with its members to educate the public and decision makers  
about  effective policies that  will  promote renewable energy development.  The U.S.  Partnership for  Renewable Energy Finance (U.S. PREF) is  
managed  by  ACORE  and  is  a  coalition of  senior  level  financiers who invest  in all  sectors of  the energy industry,  including renewable energy.  
U.S.  PREF  members  meet  with  policymakers  to  provide  their  perspectives  on  how renewable  energy  finance  policies  affect  the  market, and how  
proposed policies could affect the market. U.S. PREF is not a lobbying organization or an advisory committee to government, rather it is an  
educational  program  that  provides expert  input  on how  the renewable energy finance market  works.  U.S.  PREF  activities  include  ongoing  
dialogue with Administration officials,  members of  Congress and their  staffs,  and other  government  officials involved in developing  policy.  When  
requested, PREF members provide testimony before a committee or subcommittee of Congress or submit  testimony for  inclusion on the public 
record of a hearing. Members author white papers that provide detailed information on how the renewable energy finance market  works  and  
analyze how  specific policies affect  the market.  
How  have  you influenced,  or  are you  attempting  to  influence their  position?  
116  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
The  Global  Head  of  Power  and  Renewables  of  Investment  Banking  is  a  member  of  the  ACORE board  and  participates  in  ACORE and  U.S.  
PREF speaking  events  and  in  organized  meetings  with  members  of  the  legislative  and executive branches of  the U.S.  government.  Our  goal  in 
participating in U.S.  PREF  is to provide expert  input  to policy makers on renewable energy finance.   This is with a view  to informing renewable 
energy policies that  support  continued expansion of  the renewable energy market  in an efficient  and effective way.  
 
Trade  association  
Global  Financial  Markets  Association  
Is your position on climate change consistent with theirs?  
Consistent  
Please  explain the  trade  association’s  position  
The  Global  Financial  Markets  Association  (GFMA)  represents  the  common  interests  of  the  world’s  leading  financial  and  capital  market  
participants,  to provide a collective voice on matters that  support  global  capital  markets.  The GFMA  advocates on policies to  address risks  that  
have no borders,  regional  market  developments that  impact  global  capital  markets,  and policies that  promote efficient  cross-border  capital  flows 
to end-users by efficiently connecting savers and borrowers,  benefiting broader  global  economic growth.  On matters of  sustainable finance the 
GFMA  conducts  membership  surveys  and  research  to  inform policy  making  and  responds  to  public  policy  consultations  such  as  the  recent IFRS  
Foundation  Consultation  Paper  on  Sustainability  Reporting.  On  this  topic  the  GFMA’s  position  is  that  if  sustainable  finance  is  to  grow  at  a  rate  
required to fund the global transition then internationally agreed sustainability reporting standards will be needed to achieve consistent  and 
comparable reporting on ESG  matters.  
How  have  you  influenced,  or  are you  attempting  to  influence their  position?  
Our  Global  Head  of  Global  Financing  and  Futures  is  a  member  of  the  GFMA  Board  of  Directors  and  bank  representatives  participate in various  
GFMA  sustainability  focused  groups,  including  the  Sustainable  Finance  Steering  Committee  and  Sustainable  Market  Structure  Project  Working  
Group.  In  2020,  we  contributed  to  the  Climate  Finance  Markets  and  the  Real  Economy  report  that  was  jointly  published  by  the  GFMA and  
Boston  Consulting  Group,  outlining  market-wide  and  sector-specific recommendations necessary to accelerate investment  in climate finance 
and serving as a call  to action for  coordinated and concerted action by the public,  social,  and private sectors to significantly scale the Climate  
Finance Market  Structure over  the next  three decades.  
117  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
 
Trade  association  
U.S.  Chamber  of  Commerce  
 
Is your position on climate change consistent with theirs?  
Mixed  
Please  explain the  trade  association’s  position  
In its recently published climate change position  statement,  the U.S.  Chamber  of  Commerce states its belief  in a policy approach that  
acknowledges the costs of  action and inaction and the competitiveness of  the U.S.  economy.  The position statement  calls on “policymakers to 
seize on an approach that  rises to the challenge of climate change, leveraging business leadership and expertise, America’s energy edge and  
our  ability to innovate.”   It  also states “Our  climate is changing,  and humans are contributing to these changes.  Inaction is  simply not  an option.”  
The  Chamber  believes  that  an  effective  climate  policy  should  leverage  the  power  of  business,  maintain  U.S.  leadership  on  climate science,  
embrace technology and innovation,  aggressively pursue energy efficiency,  promote climate resilient  infrastructure,  support  trade in U.S.  
technologies and products and encourage international cooperation.  
How  have  you influenced,  or  are  you attempting to influence  their  position?  
BofA has  taken  a  leadership  role  in  bringing  together  a  group  of  U.S.  Chamber  members  into  a  Climate  Solutions  Working  Group.  While  not  an  
official  U.S.  Chamber  entity,  this informal  group of  Chamber  members is working to use its collective influence to move the Chamber  on climate 
and energy issues.  In 2019,  following input  from  BofA  and other  companies  working  to  align  the  Chamber’s  climate  positions  with  their  own,  the  
U.S.  Chamber  issued  a  statement  supporting  the  U.S.  staying  in  the  Paris  Climate  Accord  and  created  a  Task  Force  on  Climate  Actions.   BofA’s 
global  environmental  executive is a member  of  the  Task  Force,  which  puts  us  in  a  key  position  to  influence  Chamber  positions  on  climate  action.  
With  input  from  our  Climate  Solutions  Working  Group  and  Task  Force  on  Climate  Actions,  in  2021,  the  U.S.  Chamber  further  updated its  
Climate  Change  position statement,  most  notably endorsing for  the first  time a “Market-Based  Approach  to  Accelerate  GHG  Emissions  
Reductions  across  the  U.S.  Economy.”  
C12.3d  
(C12.3d) Do you publicly disclose a list of all research organizations that you fund?  
118  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Yes  
C12.3e  
(C12.3e)  Provide details of  the other  engagement  activities that  you  undertake.  
We  are  supportive  of  policies  that  will  help  accelerate  the  transition  to  a  net  zero  economy  and  have  continuously  stated  our  support  for  a price on 
carbon as we know  voluntary action alone is not  enough to address the climate challenge.  Through our  membership in trade associations and nonprofit  
partnerships,  we take an active policy stance on climate change issues,  advocating for  a stable and predictable regulatory environment  with a goal to  
advance clean energy and a net  zero economy.   
 
We  are  a  key  member  of  various  global  alliances  focused  on  sustainable  finance,  such  as  the  U.N.  Global  Investors  for  Sustainable Development  
Alliance,  the  Energy  Transition  Committee,  the  recently formed Net  Zero Banking Alliance,  and the World Economic Forum  (WEF)  Net-Zero  Transition  
Finance  Committee,  among  others.  Our  CEO  is  actively  involved  in  several  alliances,  including  his  Royal  Highness  the  Prince  of Wales’s Sustainable  
Market  Initiative  which  he  co-chairs with the Prince of  Wales,  the WEF  Climate CEO  Leaders Alliance and the WEC  International  Business Council  
which  he  chairs,  and  which  is  spearheading  efforts  along  with  global  accounting  firms  Deloitte,  EY,  KMPG  and  PwC towards  convergence of  ESG  
indicators  and  disclosures  for  use  by  investors  and  other  financial participants.  This  work  resulted  in  the  2020  Measuring  Stakeholder  Capitalism:  
Toward  Common  Metrics  and  Consistent  Reporting  of  Sustainable  Value  Creation  Report  which  establishes  a  set  of  universal  ESG  metrics  and  
disclosures to measure stakeholder  capitalism  that  companies can report  on regardless of  industry or  region.   
 
Our  Managing  Director,  Climate  Advisory  co-chairs the International  Chamber  of  Commerce’s Sustainable Finance Working Group and sits on the 
Board  of  the  International  Emissions  Trading  Association,  The  Climate  Group  and  the  Corporate  Advisory  Board  of  the  We  Mean  Business  coalition.   
 
Through  our  memberships  in  various  trade  groups  focused  on  financial  institutions  and  markets,  we  participate  in  discussions  on the policy conditions 
needed to advance sustainable finance.  For  example,  through our  membership in the International  Institute of  Finance,  we are involved in the 
Taskforce  for  Scaling  Voluntary  Carbon  Markets  and  through  our  membership  of  the  Global  Financial  Markets  Association  and  the  Association  for  
Financial  Markets  in  Europe  we  are  engaging  in  discussions  on  the  EU  Action  Plan  on  Sustainable  Finance.  This  is  in  support  of policy led efforts to  
develop a clear  and detailed taxonomy for  sustainable activities and establish EU  labels for  green financial  products to enable investors to easily 
identify  products  that  comply  with  sustainability  criteria.  
 
119  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
In the U.S., we are a member of the Ceres Company Network, the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions, the Business Roundtable  Climate  Working 
Group,  the  Rocky  Mountain  Institute  Center  for  Climate  Aligned  Finance  and  the  WRI  Corporate  Consultative  Group.   On  clean  energy,  we  are  a  
member  of  the  Solar  Energy  Industries  Association,  and  the  U.S.  Partnership  for  Renewable  Energy  Finance,  managed by the American Council  on 
Renewable  Energy.  Our  goals  are  to  help  unlock  capital  flows  to  renewable  energy  projects,  provide  expert  input  on  how renewable energy finance 
policies affect  the market  and advocate for  policies that  promote renewables and  other  clean sources of  electricity.   
 
We  provide  intellectual  capital  and  fund  research  into  policy  solutions  that  will  support  the  transition  to  a  low-carbon economy,  including promoting 
financial innovation to increase low-carbon investment  and climate resilience.   
We  are  partnering  with  Stanford  University  on  the  Strategic  Finance  Initiative  (SFI).   SFI  aims  to  accelerate  the  scaling-up of  financing for  an 
increasingly  low-carbon economy,  one that  is better  adapted to emerging technologies and a revival  of  long-term sustainable growth.  SFI  is  examining  
risk issues and deal structures and bringing together national and sub-national  players to address unique challenges in specific markets.  
 
The  Bank  of  America  Charitable  Foundation  (BACF)  provides  funding  support  to the University of  California Berkeley Center  for  Law,  Energy and the 
Environment,  which  educates  the  next  generation  of  environmental  leaders  and  proposes  policy  solutions.  BACF funds  a  Climate  Change  fellow 
position and co-sponsors the Center’s Climate Change and Business Research Initiative which connects leaders from  business,  government,  
nonprofits and academia to address pressing environmental  needs,  serves as a conduit  to experts and a clearinghouse for  the latest  climate change 
policy research.     
 
Since  2013,  BACF has  provided  financial  support  to  the  Clean  Air  Task  Force,  whose  mission  is  to  catalyze  the  rapid  global  development  of  low-carbon 
energy and other  climate-protecting technologies through research and analysis,  policy advocacy and partnerships with the private sector.   
C12.3f  
(C12.3f) What processes do you have in place to ensure that all of your direct and indirect activities that influence policy  are 
consistent  with  your  overall  climate change strategy?  
Our  Global  ESG Committee,  which comprises senior  leaders across every major  line of  business and support  function at  BofA,  is responsible for  
overseeing our  strategy and initiatives for  managing ESG  activities and practices,  including those related to climate change,  and for  ensuring that  these 
activities and practices,  including those that  seek to influence policy are consistent  with our  overall  climate change strategy.  
 
120  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Our  Global  ESG,  Capital  Deployment,  and  Public  Policy  teams  were  merged  into  the  same  group  in  2019,  which  facilitates a consistent  approach to 
climate related policy engagement.  This group works across the enterprise to embed our  ESG  and responsible growth strategy into all aspects of our 
business.   
 
Our  Global  Environmental  Group  (GEG)  which  is  part  of  the  Global  ESG,  Capital  Deployment  and Public Policy group is responsible for  leading our  
efforts to engage with policymakers on climate-related matters. The GEG, together with our Climate Risk and GSFG collaborate closely on our net zero  
strategy by working individually  and  collectively  with  the  lines  of  business  and  control functions  across  the  enterprise  to  address  climate  change.  This  
includes  assessing  and  managing  climate  risk  and  opportunities,  mobilizing  intellectual and  financial capital to  assist  clients  in  their  transition  and  
engaging on external  stakeholders.  Together,  these groups ensure the bank has a robust,  consistent  and integrated platform  for governing and  
executing the enterprise climate strategy.  
 
GEG and  members  of  our  public  policy  and  risk management groups actively communicate and work with business lines engaged with clients across  
sectors to ensure that  they are aware of  our  position on climate change and operate in accordance with that  position.  Our  direct  and indirect  policy 
engagement  efforts  are  aimed  at  supporting  the  competitiveness  of  and  markets  for  climate  innovation  as  well  as  promoting  greenhouse gas emissions 
reductions in carbon intensive sectors. Our approach is to identify and partner with a range of stakeholders, including non-governmental  organizations,  
academics and clients whose objectives are aligned with our  own,  and we have several  long-standing partnerships that  we believe have made 
significant  steps towards addressing the climate change mitigation challenge.  
 
Our ESRPF clearly and transparently articulates our positions on and approach to sectors that we recognize as being of heightened sensitivity and 
importance  to  us  and  our  stakeholders,  including  those  that  carry  elevated  climate  change  concerns.  Implementation of  our  ESRPF  helps to ensure 
that employees across our business are taking a consistent approach to management of risks in these areas. Training on our Enterprise Risk  
framework, which includes information on our ESRPF, is mandatory for all employees and ESG  is embedded into our  Employee Code of  Conduct.  
C12.4  
(C12.4) Have you published information about your organization’s response to climate change and GHG emissions performance for  
this reporting year in places other than in your CDP response? If so, please attach the publication(s).  
 
121  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Publication  
In mainstream reports  
Status  
Complete  
Attach the  document  
 
BAC_2020_Annual_Report.pdf  
Page/Section reference  
Pages  9-11,  34-37,  41-42,  108  
Content  elements  
Governance 
Strategy 
Risks  & opportunities 
Emissions  figures 
Emission  targets 
Comment  
 
 
Publication  
In mainstream reports  
Status  
Complete  
Attach the  document  
122  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
 
BAC_2021_ProxyStatement.pdf  
Page/Section reference  
Pages  iii-viii,  18,  30-35,  57  
Content  elements  
Governance 
Strategy 
Risks  &  opportunities 
Emissions  figures 
Emission  targets 
Comment  
 
 
Publication  
In voluntary communications  
Status  
Complete  
Attach the  document  
 
environmental-and-social-risk-policy-framework-report Feb 2021.pdf  
Page/Section reference  
Whole  document  
Content  elements  
123  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Governance  
Strategy  
Risks  & opportunities  
Emission  targets  
Other  metrics  
Comment  
 
 
Publication  
In voluntary sustainability report  
Status  
Complete  
Attach the  document  
 
ESG_Data-2020.pdf  
Page/Section reference  
Whole  document  
Content  elements  
Emissions  figures  
Emission  targets  
Other  metrics  
Comment  
 
124  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
C-FS12.5  
(C-FS12.5)  Are  you a  signatory  of  any  climate-related collaborative industry frameworks, initiatives and/or commitments?  
  Industry collaboration   Comment  
Reporting   Equator Principles    
framework   Partnership  for  Carbon  Accounting  Financials  (PCAF)  
Principles  for  Responsible  Investment  (PRI)  
Task  Force  on  Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)  
Other,  please  specify  
Sustainability  Accounting  Standards  Board,  International Business Council Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics, Global Reporting  
Initiative, GHG Protocol  
Industry initiative  Partnership  for  Carbon  Accounting  Financials  (PCAF)    
Principles  for  Responsible  Investment  (PRI)  
Ceres  
Other,  please  specify  
Net  Zero Banking Alliance,  Glasgow  Finance Alliance for  Net  Zero,  Rocky Mountain Institute Center  for  Climate Aligned 
Finance,  Sustainable  Markets  Initiative,   Sustainable  Aviation  Buyers  Alliance,  WEF Alliance  of  CEO  Climate  Leaders  
Commitment   Other,  please  specify    
Net  Zero  Banking  Alliance,  PCAF,  EV100  
C14.  Portfolio  Impact  
C-FS14.1  
(C-FS14.1)  Do you conduct  analysis  to understand how  your  portfolio impacts  the  climate? (Scope  3  portfolio impact)  
125  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
  We  conduct  analysis  on  our  portfolio's  impact  on   Comment  
the  climate  
Bank  lending  (Bank)   No,  but  we  plan  to  do  so  in  the  next  two  years    
Other  products  and  services,  please   Not  applicable   The  other  products  or  services  category  does  not  apply  for  
specify   our  business.  
C-FS14.1c  
(C-FS14.1c)  Why  do you not  conduct  analysis  to understand how  your  portfolio impacts  the  climate? (Scope  3  Category  15  
“Investments” emissions or  alternative carbon  footprinting  and/or  exposure metrics)  
We  have  not  yet  conducted  this  analysis  because  previously there has not  been an agreed upon methodology widely used in the financial  services 
sector  for  calculating and disclosing Scope 3 financed emissions.  A  methodology has now  been developed by the Partnership for  Carbon  Accounting  
Financials  (PCAF),  of  which  we  are  a  core  member.  We  are  in  the  process  of  calculating  Scope  3  financed  emissions  in  accordance  with  the  GHG  
Protocol  and  using  the  PCAF methodology.  We  plan  to  start  reporting  emissions  in  2022.  We  also  joined  the  Net-Zero  Banking  Alliance  (NZBA), in  
which  we  committed  to  quantify  and  report  financed  emissions,  reach  net  zero  before  2050  and  set  interim  targets  to  reduce  these emissions.  
C-FS14.3  
(C-FS14.3)  Are  you taking actions  to align your  portfolio to a  well   below  2-degree  world?  
  We  are  taking  actions to   Please  explain  
align  our  portfolio  to  a 
well  below 2-degree  world  
Bank  lending   Yes   Since  2007,  BofA has  mobilized  more  than  $200  billion  toward  our  environmental  business,  and  in  April,  
(Bank)   2021,  we announced a ten-year  environmental  sustainable finance goal  to mobilize and deploy an 
additional  $1 trillion in capital  by 2030 to accelerate the environmental  transition to a net  zero economy.  
 
We  are  currently  in  the  process  of  implementing  the  PCAF  methodology  to  start  calculating  and  ultimately  
disclosing the emissions associated with our  financing activities in 2022.  In the last  year,  we committed  to  
126  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
achieve net  zero greenhouse gas emissions in our  financing activities,  operations,  and supply chain before 
2050.  We will  also be setting 2030 targets for  relevant  high-emitting sectors,  as part  of  our  commitment  to 
the Net Zero Banking Alliance starting in 2022 with the energy and power  sectors.  
 
We  will  accomplish  a  net  zero  goal  through  an  integrated  climate  strategy  across  our  enterprise,  building  
on nearly two decades of  work in this space.  This includes assessing clients and helping them  with their 
own transitions,  effectively managing climate risk across the bank,  enhancing internal  policies and 
advocating for  external  climate policy and also reducing environmental  impacts of  our  operations and 
supply chain.  Over  the last  year  we have announced our  2030 goals for  operations and supply chain.  
Other  products   Not  applicable   The  other  products  or  services  category  does  not  apply  for  our  business.  
and services,  
please specify  
C-FS14.3a  
(C-FS14.3a)  Do you assess  if  your  clients/investees’  business  strategies are aligned  to  a well  below  2-degree  world?  
  We  assess   Please  explain  
alignment  
Bank   Yes,  for  some   As  part  of  our  ongoing  ESG  advisory  work  with  clients  of  the  global  corporate  and  investment  banking  business  and  the  global  
lending   commercial  banking business,  we regularly benchmark our  clients’  performance on a variety of  climate metrics to encourage 
(Bank)   improvements in performance that  better  align with Paris Agreement  targets.  We also highlight  the opportunity to align our  
clients’  efforts and improvements in performance on emissions reduction to cost  of  capital  through our  product  offering of  
sustainability-linked loans and bonds.  In 2021,  as we begin to calculate financed emissions and consider  interim  emission 
reduction targets we will engage further with clients and assess their climate progress.  
C-FS14.3b  
(C-FS14.3b)  Do you encourage  your  clients/investees  to set  a  science-based target?  
127  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
  We  encourage   Please  explain  
clients/investees to  set  a 
science-based target  
Bank   Yes,  for  some   As  part  of  our  sustainable  finance  work  the  team  advises  clients  on  climate  goals  and  transitions  encouraging  
lending   the  setting of  long and short  term  science aligned goals.  In addition,  our  CEO  co-wrote  a  letter  to  all  attendees  
(Bank)   of  the World Economic Forum  Annual  Meeting at  Davos in January 2020.  In that  letter,  he encourages all  
companies,  including our  clients and investees,  to:  
Set  a  target  to  achieve  net  zero  greenhouse  gas  emissions  by  2050  or  sooner.  
Join the UN  Global  Compact  Business Ambition for  1.5 Degrees  
Consider  setting  GHG  emission  reduction  targets  in  line  with  the  1.5°C emission  scenario  of  the  Paris  Climate  
Treaty  
Consider  including  a  2030  milestone  target  
C15.  Signoff  
C-FI  
(C-FI)  Use  this  field to provide  any  additional  information or  context  that  you feel  is  relevant  to your  organization's  response. Please  
note  that  this  field is  optional  and is  not  scored.  
 
C15.1  
(C15.1) Provide details for the person that has signed off (approved) your CDP climate change response.  
  Job  title   Corresponding  job  category  
Row 1   Chief  Financial  Officer  (CFO)   Chief  Financial  Officer  (CFO)  
128  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021  
 
 
SC.  Supply  chain  module  
SC0.0  
(SC0.0)  If  you would like  to do so,  please  provide  a  separate  introduction to this  module.  
 
SC0.1  
(SC0.1) What is your company’s annual revenue for the stated reporting period?  
  Annual  Revenue  
Row 1   85,528,000,000  
SC0.2  
(SC0.2) Do you have an ISIN for your  company that  you  would  be willing  to  share with  CDP?  
Yes  
SC0.2a  
(SC0.2a) Please use the table below to share your ISIN.  
  ISIN country code (2 letters)   ISIN numeric identifier and single check digit (10 numbers overall)  
Row 1   US   0605051046  
SC1.1  
(SC1.1) Allocate your emissions to your customers listed below according to the goods or services you have sold them in this  
reporting period.  
129  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
 
Requesting member  
Accenture  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  1  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions in metric tonnes of CO2e  
12  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Stationary  combustion,  mobile  combustion,  refrigerants,  and  other  fugitive  emissions  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major  limitations  to this  process  and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This  includes  all  owned  and  leased  facilities and 
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that the facility list is  
130  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions  sources  associated  with  our  facilities  are  
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  this  group  and  with  our  fleet  management  personnel to  identify  vehicles that  are 
under  our  operational  control  for  inclusion in the inventory.  
 
Requesting  member  
Accenture  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  2  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
142  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Purchased  electricity,  steam,  and  chilled  water  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
131  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major  limitations  to this  process  and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This includes all  owned and leased facilities and 
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that the facility list is  
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions sources associated with our  facilities are 
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles  that  are  under  our  operational  control  
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
Requesting member  
AIB Group  Plc  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  1  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
1  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Stationary  combustion,  mobile  combustion,  refrigerants,  and  other  fugitive  emissions  
Verified  
132  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major  limitations  to this process and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This  includes  all  owned  and  leased  facilities and 
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that  the facility list  is 
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions sources associated with our  facilities are  
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles  that  are  under  our  operational  control  
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
Requesting member  
AIB Group  Plc  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  2  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions in  metric tonnes of  CO2e  
15  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
133  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Purchased  electricity,  steam,  and  chilled  water  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
Please  explain how  you have  identified the GHG source, including major limitations to this process and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This  includes  all  owned  and  leased  facilities and 
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that  the facility list  is  
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions sources associated with our  facilities are 
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles  that  are  under  our  operational  control  
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
Requesting member  
AT&T Inc.  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  1  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
134  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
0  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Stationary  combustion,  mobile  combustion,  refrigerants,  and  other  fugitive  emissions  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major  limitations  to this  process  and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This includes all  owned and leased facilities and 
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that the facility list is  
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate  Services  group  we  ensure  that  all  emissions  sources  associated  with  our  facilities  are  
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles  that  are  under  our  operational  control  
for inclusion  in  the  inventory.  
 
Requesting member  
AT&T Inc.  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  2  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
135  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
0  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Purchased  electricity,  steam,  and  chilled water  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major  limitations  to this  process  and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1 and 2 GHG  sources under  our  operational  control.  This includes all  owned and leased facilities and 
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that the facility list is  
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions sources associated with our  facilities are 
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles  that  are  under  our  operational  control  
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
Requesting member  
Caesars  Entertainment  
Scope  of  emissions  
136  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Scope  1  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
27  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
Major  sources of  emissions  
Stationary  combustion,  mobile  combustion,  refrigerants,  and  other  fugitive  emissions  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major limitations to this process and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This  includes  all  owned  and  leased  facilities and 
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included  in  the  inventory,  we  consult  our  facility  database  each  year  to  ensure  that  the  facility  list  is  
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions sources associated with our  facilities are  
identified  and included in the inventory.  We also work with our  fleet  management  team  to identify vehicles that  are under  our  operational control 
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
137  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Requesting member  
Caesars  Entertainment  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  2  
Allocation level  
Company wide  
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
338  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Purchased  electricity,  steam,  and  chilled  water  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major  limitations  to this  process  and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This  includes  all  owned  and  leased  facilities and 
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that the facility list is  
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions  sources  associated  with  our  facilities  are  
138  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles  that  are  under  our  operational  control  
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
Requesting member  
Compagnie Financière Richemont  SA  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  1  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
2  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Stationary  combustion,  mobile  combustion,  refrigerants,  and  other fugitive emissions  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
139  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major  limitations  to this  process  and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational control.  This  includes  all owned  and  leased  facilities  and  
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that the facility list  is 
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions sources associated with our  facilities are  
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles that  are under  our  operational  control  
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
Requesting member  
Compagnie  Financière  Richemont  SA  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  2  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
27  
Uncertainty (±%)  
20  
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Purchased  electricity,  steam,  and  chilled  water  
Verified  
140  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major  limitations  to  this  process  and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This  includes  all  owned  and  leased  facilities and 
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that  the facility list  is 
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions sources associated with our  facilities are  
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles  that  are  under  our  operational control 
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
Requesting member  
CVS Health  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  1  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
25  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
141  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Stationary  combustion,  mobile  combustion,  refrigerants,  and  other  fugitive  emissions  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value of  products purchased  
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major  limitations  to this  process  and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This  includes  all  owned  and  leased  facilities  and  
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that the facility list is  
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions sources associated with our  facilities are 
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles  that  are  under  our  operational  control  
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
Requesting member  
CVS Health  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  2  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
142  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
308  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Purchased  electricity,  steam,  and  chilled  water  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major  limitations  to this  process  and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This includes all  owned and leased facilities and 
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that the facility list is  
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions sources associated with our  facilities are 
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles  that  are  under  our  operational  control  
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
Requesting member  
Deloitte  Touche  Tohmatsu  Limited  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  1  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
143  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
9  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Stationary  combustion,  mobile  combustion,  refrigerants,  and  other  fugitive  emissions  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major limitations to this process and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This  includes  all  owned  and  leased  facilities and 
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that  the facility list  is 
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions sources associated with our  facilities are  
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles  that  are  under  our  operational control  
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
Requesting member  
Deloitte  Touche  Tohmatsu  Limited  
Scope  of  emissions  
144  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Scope  2  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
108  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Purchased  electricity,  steam,  and  chilled  water  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major  limitations  to this  process  and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This  includes  all  owned  and  leased  facilities  and  
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that the facility list is  
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions sources associated with our  facilities are 
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles  that  are  under  our  operational  control  
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
145  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Requesting member  
Goldman  Sachs Group Inc.  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  1  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
18  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Stationary  combustion,  mobile  combustion,  refrigerants,  and  other  fugitive emissions  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major  limitations  to this  process  and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational control.  This  includes  all owned  and  leased  facilities  and  
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that the facility list  is 
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions sources associated with our  facilities are  
146  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles that  are under  our  operational  control  
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
Requesting member  
Goldman  Sachs  Group  Inc.  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  2  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
227  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Purchased  electricity,  steam,  and  chilled  water  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
147  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major  limitations to this process and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This  includes  all  owned  and  leased  facilities and 
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory, we consult our facility database each year to ensure that the facility list is  
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions sources associated with our  facilities are  
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles  that  are  under  our  operational control 
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
Requesting member  
Kellogg  Company  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  1  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
2  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Stationary  combustion,  mobile  combustion,  refrigerants,  and  other  fugitive  emissions  
Verified  
148  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products purchased  
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major  limitations  to this  process  and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This  includes  all  owned  and  leased  facilities  and  
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that the facility list is  
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions sources associated with our  facilities are 
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles  that  are  under  our  operational  control  
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
Requesting member  
Kellogg  Company  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  2  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
22  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
149  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Purchased  electricity,  steam,  and  chilled  water  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major  limitations  to this  process  and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This includes all  owned and leased facilities and 
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that the facility list is  
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions sources associated with our  facilities are 
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles  that  are  under  our  operational  control  
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
Requesting member  
Keurig  Dr  Pepper  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  1  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
150  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
0  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Stationary  combustion,  mobile  combustion,  refrigerants,  and  other  fugitive  emissions  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major  limitations  to this process and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This  includes  all  owned  and  leased  facilities and 
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that  the facility list  is 
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions sources associated with our  facilities are  
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles  that  are  under  our  operational  control  
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
Requesting member  
Keurig  Dr  Pepper  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  2  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
151  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in  metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
0  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Purchased  electricity,  steam,  and  chilled  water  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
Please  explain how  you have  identified the GHG source, including major limitations to this process and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This  includes  all  owned  and  leased  facilities and 
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that  the facility list  is  
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions sources associated with our  facilities are 
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles  that  are  under  our  operational  control  
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
Requesting member  
MetLife,  Inc.  
Scope  of  emissions  
152  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Scope  1  
Allocation  level  
Company  wide  
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
12  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Stationary  combustion,  mobile  combustion,  refrigerants,  and  other  fugitive  emissions  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major  limitations  to this  process  and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This includes all  owned and leased facilities and 
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that the facility list is  
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate  Services  group  we  ensure  that  all  emissions  sources  associated  with  our  facilities  are  
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles  that  are  under  our  operational  control  
for inclusion  in  the  inventory.  
 
153  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Requesting member  
MetLife,  Inc.  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  2  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
148  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Purchased  electricity,  steam,  and  chilled water  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major  limitations  to this  process  and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This  includes  all  owned  and  leased  facilities  and  
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that the facility list is  
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions sources associated with our  facilities are  
154  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles  that  are under  our  operational  control  
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
Requesting member  
NRG  Energy  Inc  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  1  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
5  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
Major  sources of  emissions  
Stationary  combustion,  mobile  combustion,  refrigerants,  and  other  fugitive  emissions  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
155  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major limitations to this process and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This  includes  all  owned  and  leased  facilities and 
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that  the facility list  is 
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions sources associated with our  facilities are  
identified  and  included in the inventory.  We also work with our  fleet  management  team  to identify vehicles that  are under  our  operational  control  
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
Requesting member  
NRG  Energy  Inc  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  2  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
Allocation level detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
59  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Purchased  electricity,  steam,  and  chilled  water  
Verified  
156  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
Please  explain  how  you  have identified  the GHG  source,  including  major  limitations to  this process and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This  includes  all  owned  and  leased  facilities and 
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that  the facility list  is 
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions sources associated with our  facilities are 
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles  that  are  under  our  operational  control  
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
Requesting member  
Prudential  Financial,  Inc.  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  1  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
16  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
157  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Stationary  combustion,  mobile  combustion,  refrigerants,  and  other  fugitive  emissions  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major  limitations  to this  process  and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG sources  under  our  operational  control.  This  includes  all  owned  and  leased  facilities  and  
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that the facility list is  
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions sources associated with our  facilities are 
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles  that  are  under  our  operational  control  
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
Requesting member  
Prudential  Financial,  Inc.  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  2  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
158  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
194  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
Major  sources of  emissions  
Purchased  electricity,  steam,  and  chilled  water  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major  limitations  to this  process  and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This  includes  all  owned  and  leased  facilities and 
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility  database  each  year  to  ensure  that  the  facility  list  is  
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions sources associated with our  facilities are  
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with our fleet management team to identify vehicles that are under our operational control  
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
Requesting member  
The  Allstate  Corporation  
Scope  of  emissions  
Scope  1  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
159  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
0  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Stationary  combustion,  mobile  combustion,  refrigerants,  and  other  fugitive  emissions  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major  limitations  to this  process  and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This  includes  all  owned  and  leased  facilities  and 
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that the facility list is  
up to date.  Through discussions with our  Real  Estate Services group we ensure that  all  emissions sources associated with our  facilities are 
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles  that  are  under  our  operational  control  
for inclusion in the inventory.  
 
Requesting member  
The  Allstate  Corporation  
Scope  of  emissions  
160  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Scope  2  
Allocation level  
Company  wide  
Allocation level  detail  
 
Emissions  in metric  tonnes  of  CO2e  
0  
Uncertainty  (±%)  
20  
Major  sources  of  emissions  
Purchased  electricity,  steam,  and  chilled  water  
Verified  
No  
Allocation method  
Allocation  based  on  the  market  value  of  products  purchased  
Please  explain how  you have  identified the  GHG  source,  including major  limitations  to this  process  and  
assumptions made  
We  include  in  our  inventory  all  Scope  1  and  2  GHG  sources  under  our  operational  control.  This includes all  owned and leased facilities and 
vehicles.  To ensure that  all  our  facilities are included in the inventory,  we consult  our  facility database each year  to ensure that the facility list is  
up to date.  Through discussions with  our  Real Estate  Services  group  we  ensure  that  all emissions  sources  associated  with  our  facilities  are  
identified  and  included  in  the  inventory.  We  also  work  with  our  fleet  management  team  to  identify  vehicles  that  are  under  our  operational  control  
for  inclusion  in  the  inventory.  
161  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
SC1.2  
(SC1.2) Where published information has been used in completing SC1.1, please provide a reference(s).  
We  use  primary  data  based  on  our  own  emissions  and  revenue  to  allocate  emissions.  We  do  not  use  published  industry  average data.  As our  goods 
and services are primarily non-physical,  we use an economic allocation approach based on market  value,  as defined by the GHG  Protocol  Corporate 
Value  Chain  (Scope  3)  Accounting  and  Reporting  Standard.  Revenue  is  used  as  the  market  value  metric.  To  allocate  Scope  1  emissions  to  a  client,  
corporate total  Scope 1 emissions are multiplied by the ratio of  the client’s spend with us versus our  total  revenue.  The same approach is taken for  
Scope  2  emissions.   
SC1.3  
(SC1.3) What are the challenges in  allocating  emissions to  different  customers,  and  what  would  help  you  to  overcome these 
challenges?  
Allocation  challenges   Please  explain what  would help you overcome  these  challenges  
Diversity  of  product  lines  makes  accurately   The  operations  of  our  businesses  and  support  lines  are  highly  integrated,  utilizing  a  central  shared  services  
accounting for  each product/product  line  infrastructure  for  many  functions.  As  a  result,  the  only  feasible  means  for  us  to  allocate  emissions  to  our  
cost  ineffective   clients is to use corporate level  data, rather than business line or facility level data.  
SC1.4  
(SC1.4) Do you plan to develop your capabilities to allocate emissions to your customers in the future?  
No  
SC1.4b  
(SC1.4b) Explain why you do not plan to develop capabilities to allocate emissions  to your customers.  
 We  anticipate  that  the  economic  allocation  approach  that  we  currently  use  to  allocate  emissions  to  clients  will  be  the  most  appropriate approach for  the 
foreseeable future.   
162  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
SC2.1  
(SC2.1) Please propose any mutually beneficial climate-related  projects you  could  collaborate on  with  specific CDP  Supply Chain  
members.  
 
Requesting member  
Accenture  
Group  type  of  project  
 
Type  of  project  
 
Emissions  targeted  
 
Estimated timeframe  for  carbon reductions  to be  realized  
 
Estimated lifetime  CO2e  savings  
 
Estimated payback  
 
Details  of  proposal  
 
We  do  not  have  a  specific  proposal,  but  we  would  be  happy  to  discuss  collaboration  on  any  initiatives  you  are  considering.  
163  
 
Bank of AmericaCDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021Monday, July 26, 2021 
 
 
 
Requesting member 
AIB Group Plc 
Group type of project 
 
Type of project 
 
Emissions targeted 
 
Estimated timeframe for carbon reductions to be realized 
 
Estimated lifetime CO2e savings 
 
Estimated payback 
 
Details of proposal 
 
We do not have a specific proposal, but we would be happy to discuss collaboration on any initiatives you are considering. 
 
Requesting member 
AT&T Inc. 
Group type of project 
164 
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
 
Type  of  project  
 
Emissions  targeted  
 
Estimated timeframe  for  carbon reductions  to be  realized  
 
Estimated lifetime  CO2e  savings  
 
Estimated payback  
 
Details  of  proposal  
 
We  do  not  have  a  specific  proposal,  but  we  would  be  happy  to  discuss  collaboration  on  any  initiatives  you  are  considering.  
 
Requesting member  
Caesars  Entertainment  
Group  type  of  project  
 
Type  of  project  
 
Emissions  targeted  
165  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
 
Estimated timeframe  for  carbon reductions to  be realized  
 
Estimated lifetime  CO2e  savings  
 
Estimated payback  
 
Details  of  proposal  
 
We  do  not  have  a  specific  proposal,  but  we  would  be  happy  to  discuss  collaboration  on  any  initiatives  you  are  considering.  
 
Requesting member  
Compagnie  Financière  Richemont  SA  
Group  type  of  project  
 
Type  of  project  
 
Emissions  targeted  
 
Estimated timeframe  for  carbon reductions  to be  realized  
 
Estimated lifetime  CO2e  savings  
166  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
 
Estimated payback  
 
Details  of  proposal  
 
We  do  not  have  a  specific  proposal,  but  we would be happy to discuss collaboration on any initiatives you are considering.  
 
Requesting member  
CVS Health  
Group  type  of  project  
 
Type  of  project  
 
Emissions  targeted  
 
Estimated timeframe  for  carbon reductions  to be  realized  
 
Estimated lifetime  CO2e  savings  
 
Estimated payback  
 
167  
 
Bank of AmericaCDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021Monday, July 26, 2021 
 
 
Details of proposal 
 
We do not have a specific proposal, but we would be happy to discuss collaboration on any initiatives you are considering. 
 
Requesting member 
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited 
Group type of project 
 
Type of project 
 
Emissions targeted 
 
Estimated timeframe for carbon reductions to be realized 
 
Estimated lifetime CO2e savings 
 
Estimated payback 
 
Details of proposal 
 
We do not have a specific proposal, but we would be happy to discuss collaboration on any initiatives you are considering. 
 
168 
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Requesting member  
Goldman  Sachs  Group  Inc.  
Group  type  of  project  
 
Type  of  project  
 
Emissions  targeted  
 
Estimated timeframe  for  carbon reductions  to be  realized  
 
Estimated lifetime  CO2e  savings  
 
Estimated payback  
 
Details  of  proposal  
 
We  do  not  have  a  specific  proposal,  but  we  would  be  happy  to  discuss  collaboration  on  any  initiatives  you  are  considering.  
 
Requesting member  
Kellogg  Company  
Group  type  of  project  
 
169  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Type  of  project  
 
Emissions  targeted  
 
Estimated timeframe  for  carbon reductions  to be  realized  
 
Estimated lifetime  CO2e  savings  
 
Estimated payback  
 
Details  of  proposal  
 
We  do  not  have  a  specific  proposal,  but  we  would  be  happy  to  discuss  collaboration  on  any  initiatives  you  are  considering.  
 
Requesting member  
Keurig  Dr  Pepper  
Group  type  of  project  
 
Type  of  project  
 
Emissions  targeted  
 
170  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Estimated timeframe  for  carbon reductions  to be  realized  
 
Estimated lifetime  CO2e  savings  
 
Estimated payback  
 
Details  of  proposal  
 
We  do  not  have  a  specific proposal,  but  we would be happy to discuss collaboration on any initiatives you are considering.  
 
Requesting member  
MetLife,  Inc.  
Group  type  of  project  
 
Type  of  project  
 
Emissions  targeted  
 
Estimated timeframe  for  carbon reductions  to be  realized  
 
Estimated lifetime  CO2e  savings  
 
171  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
Estimated payback  
 
Details  of  proposal  
 
We  do  not  have  a  specific  proposal,  but  we  would  be  happy  to  discuss  collaboration  on  any  initiatives  you  are  considering.  
 
Requesting member  
NRG  Energy  Inc  
Group  type  of  project  
 
Type  of  project  
 
Emissions  targeted  
 
Estimated timeframe  for  carbon reductions  to be  realized  
 
Estimated lifetime  CO2e  savings  
 
Estimated payback  
 
Details  of  proposal  
 
We  do  not  have  a  specific  proposal,  but  we  would  be  happy  to  discuss  collaboration on any initiatives you are considering.  
172  
 
Bank of AmericaCDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021Monday, July 26, 2021 
 
 
 
Requesting member 
Prudential Financial, Inc. 
Group type of project 
 
Type of project 
 
Emissions targeted 
 
Estimated timeframe for carbon reductions to be realized 
 
Estimated lifetime CO2e savings 
 
Estimated payback 
 
Details of proposal 
 
We do not have a specific proposal, but we would be happy to discuss collaboration on any initiatives you are considering. 
 
Requesting member 
The Allstate Corporation 
Group type of project 
173 
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021 
 
 
 
Type  of  project 
 
Emissions  targeted 
 
Estimated timeframe  for  carbon reductions  to be  realized 
 
Estimated lifetime  CO2e  savings 
 
Estimated payback 
 
Details  of  proposal 
 
We  do  not  have  a  specific  proposal,  but  we  would  be  happy  to  discuss  collaboration  on  any  initiatives  you  are  considering.  
SC2.2  
(SC2.2) Have requests or initiatives by CDP Supply Chain members prompted your organization to take organizational-level 
emissions reduction  initiatives?  
No  
SC4.1  
(SC4.1) Are you providing product level data for your organization’s goods  or  services?  
No,  I  am  not  providing  data  
174  
 
Bank  of  America  CDP Climate  Change  Questionnaire  2021  Monday,  July  26,  2021  
 
 
Submit your  response  
In which language are you submitting your response?  
English  
Please  confirm  how  your  response  should be  handled by  CDP  
  I am submitting   Public  or  Non-Public   Are  you  ready  to  submit  the additional Supply Chain  
to   Submission   questions?  
I am submitting my   Investors   Public   Yes,  I  will  submit  the  Supply  Chain  questions  now  
response   Customers  
 
 
Please  confirm  below  
I have read and accept the applicable Terms  
 
175  
 