
Asset Management  
Climate Report 2020
Informed by the recommendations of the Task Force
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
1
Introduction
THE WORLD IS FACING BIG CHALLENGES: resource scarcity, environmental changes, 
and demographic shifts. These challenges are closely intertwined with climate change. 
Research shows that impacts on the climate are occurring much sooner than projected 
and with increasing frequency, indicating a climate emergency. However, many  
scientists believe that the most severe impacts of climate change can still be avoided. 
The extent of this challenge requires governments, companies, and individuals to  
participate in the transition to a low-carbon economy. 
We recognise the importance of limiting the average global temperature rise to below 
the 2°C target and that climate change will pose risks as well as opportunities for  
Söderberg & Partners Asset Management. It is both about direct risks through the 
operations we run and indirect ones through our clients and underlying holdings. We 
are committed to contributing to climate change solutions and the Paris Agreement, 
as well as the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which will remain guiding 
frameworks for our activities. 
In 2015, the G20’s Financial Stability Board appointed the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) to recommend a reporting framework for companies to 
provide investors and other stakeholders with information relevant to evaluate climate-  
related risks and opportunities. The Task Force structures its recommendations around 
four thematic areas: governance, strategy, risk management and metrics & targets.
We are pleased to release our first climate report, which is based on the recommendations 
of the TCFD. We believe that this report provides a useful starting point to engage around 
climate transparency and the risks and opportunities associated with the transition to a 
low-carbon economy.
22
 
Governance Governance
Strategy
Risk 
Management
- Disclose the organization’s governance around  
Metrics & 
  climate-related risks and opportunities Targets
The vision of the Söderberg & Partners group (“Söderberg & Partners”) is to “be proac-
tive today, for you to enjoy a richer and more secure life tomorrow”. This vision runs 
through Söderberg & Partners Asset Management (the “Company”), and it is a cor-
nerstone in the sustainability work. The Company’s view is that responsible investing is 
a requirement for long-term and sustainable value creation. Responsible investments 
include integrating environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors into investment 
processes and decisions to better manage risks and opportunities. 
Board Oversight Investment Committee
The board oversees the implementation of the strategies,  The investment team has a strong commitment to 
which all incorporate climate-related issues. The board  invest responsibly and ESG issues are considered in 
takes sustainability into consideration when implemen- the investment decisions. The team conducts research 
ting new products and procedures.  Climate change is  to determine the materiality of climate-related issues 
also a part of the decisions relating to the overall strate- for portfolio implementation across strategies, asset 
gic directions, the formulations of annual business plans  classes and regions. As an active asset manager, the 
and the adoption of policies. The board has the ultimate  procedure is to maintain a constructive dialogue with 
responsibility for the oversight of climate-related risks  the investee companies and managers, to stay informed 
and opportunities. All material climate-related issues are  through third-party analysis, and to gather market  
reported to the board quarterly and are discussed at board  information. The members of the investment committee 
level regularly.  A committee designated to responsible  have all participated in the PRI Academy course Foun-
investing has been appointed by the board, the Respon- dations in Responsible Investing. The course covers 
sible Investment Committee (the “RI Committee”). The  how to identify and analyse material ESG factors and to 
RI Committee reports to the board on a quarterly basis  integrate sustainability data into financial modelling and 
on all the sustainability efforts made during the period. existing investment processes.
Senior Management Responsible Investment Committee
The process of managing climate-related issues is coor- Members of the RI Committee are the Company’s CEO 
dinated internally, with input from the RI Committee as  and CIO, and the Head of Sustainability from Söderberg 
well as from the portfolio managers who include ESG  & Partners Wealth Management AB. The Committee 
into their investment decisions. Senior management  is responsible for the implementation and the develop-
personnel are directly involved in the ESG work. The ma- ment of the work with responsible investments. The 
nagement ensures adequate resources, including staff,  Committee decides which counterparties should be 
training, and budget, are available to assess, implement  addressed for a constructive dialogue resulting from the 
and monitor climate-related risks and opportunities. The  biannual screening. The Committee also has the final 
management receives reports and follow-up on sustaina- say on whether to exclude a certain investment or not. 
bility monthly from the RI Committee. The RI Committee develops and formalizes metrics and 
targets related to sustainability, as well as the reporting 
scope to better incorporate climate-related issues. 
3
Strategy  Governance
Strategy
Risk 
Management
Metrics & 
- Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-  Targets
related risks and opportunities on the organization’s  
businesses, strategy, and financial planning
The Company conducts responsible investments based on three principal pillars: active 
engagement, positive selection, and exclusion. Exclusions can occur, but the focus will 
be on the inclusion of companies and funds, and engagement to continue supporting 
the portfolio constituents in their transition towards alignment with the Paris Agreement 
and the SDGs. The responsible investment approach is integrated into the work with 
fund selection and evaluation. This work takes place both internally in the day-to-day 
management, and externally through our ability to engage with the underlying holdings 
and steer investments to those who practice best-in-class work. The Company primarily 
invests in other funds, and the responsible investing strategy for these investments is 
specified below.
Positive selection relating to ESG, the Company shall act by taking one or 
The Company includes ESG in the manager selection  several of the following measures: (1) initiate a dialogue 
process. Söderberg & Partners sustainability analysis  with the management of the fund; (2) engage with the 
and rating of funds is utilized as valuable input when  management of the fund; or (3) sell its holdings.
screening for external managers. The screening results 
Active engagement
in a shortlist of external managers from which a mana-
Ongoing dialogues are held with the fund managers of 
ger is selected based on a qualitative and quantitative 
the target funds, both before and during the investment. 
analysis, including ESG parameters. Funds with a better 
The opportunity to discuss relevant sustainability issues 
sustainability rating (“Sustainability rating”), generated 
at meetings with a fund manager may be what influ-
by another entity within Söderberg & Partners, are pre-
ences them to develop their climate-related processes 
ferred when selecting investments. More information 
further. The Company wants to encourage other fund 
about the Sustainability rating is provided on page 11. 
managers and companies to be compliant with interna-
Before any investment is initiated, questionnaires focu-
tional norms and conventions as well as manage their 
sing on the manager’s sustainability processes are sent 
business in a more sustainable manner. The Company 
out. Follow-up meetings are conducted where various 
will engage for positive outcomes with the ambition 
ESG topics are discussed. 
of aligning corporate outputs with improving ESG 
characteristics. The Company also engages with other 
Exclusion
fund companies on an organization-wide level with the 
The Company’s main principle is to use its influence 
ambition of improving existing sustainability processes.  
to bring about positive changes in the investments, 
rather than to exclude and divest. The target funds are  The strategy Aktiv Påverkan invests in other funds and 
screened biannually in accordance with norm-based  in listed equities. The strategy leverages the power of 
exclusion lists. The screening is partly based on the  an active ownership profile to reach long-term sustai-
following exclusion criteria: controversial and nuclear  nability goals relevant to the investors. The engagement 
weapons, pornography, tobacco, coal, and international  themes are determined through a process where inve-
norms. The RI Committee discusses the flagged compa- stors can cast their vote on sustainability topics that are 
nies that can be influenced to apply a more sustainable  important to them. The current themes are mitigation 
solution. Should the monitoring show that the manage- of child labour, reduction of carbon emissions and wor-
ment of the underlying fund fails to perform on issues  king towards a more circular economy.
4
Climate-related risks  Nearly all investments globally are believed to be 
The company’s most significant climate-related risks  affected by climate-related risks and opportunities. 
and opportunities are associated with the investments  The strategies that are potentially affected the most by 
in funds and in listed equities. The risks and opportuni- climate-related risks are passive funds that do not acti-
ties are related to both the actual transition to less gre- vely engage with nor exclude certain sectors related to 
enhouse gas emissions (transition risks) and the physical  climate risks, for example coal-related companies. The 
consequences of greenhouse gas emissions (physical risks). funds invested in emerging markets are also believed 
to be more affected due to increased risks in weather 
- In the short to medium term (1–10 years), significant 
condition changes. Many developing countries have 
transition risks in the fossil fuel industry are expected. 
warmer climates than developed countries, and they 
Many fossil fuel companies are facing transition risks 
also rely more heavily on climate sensitive sectors such 
as a result of actions taken to meet the Paris Agre-
as agriculture, forestry, and tourism.   
ement, increased pricing of greenhouse gas emissions 
and changes in consumer behaviour. According to the 
Climate-related opportunities
PACTA-analysis performed on the Company’s holdings, 
The Company believes that identifying and supporting 
the results show that some of the sectors are misalig-
companies that are well positioned for a sustainable 
ned with the International Energy Agency’s transition 
business approach provides good investment opportu-
scenario over the next five years. The investment plans 
nities for the Company, for example green bonds and 
for the related companies need to improve, hence the 
low-carbon investments. The Company invests only in 
Company’s belief in an active engagement strategy as 
target funds that support the UN PRI and integrate sus-
responsible investors. 
tainability aspects into their management. This means 
- In the medium to long term (5–40 years), physical  that the Company favours target funds that identify sus-
risks are likely to start to have significant consequences  tainable investment processes. Opportunities that might 
for many companies.  Examples of physical risks are  arise are companies that practise best-in-class manage-
increased severity of extreme weather events, changes  ment and lead the way in transitioning and positioning 
in precipitation patterns, rising mean temperatures and  themselves towards climate change. Identifying these 
rising sea levels. Deforestation and climate change pose  market leaders could lead to overperformance. 
a threat to agricultural commodities, affecting where 
in the world crops can be grown. This might lead to 
reshaped agricultural trading patterns, food supply and 
global markets.
Policies and sustainability information
Responsible investments 
Policy for responsible investments
Shareholder engagements 
Policy for shareholder engagements
PRI Transparency Report 
PRI Transparency Report 2019
55
Governance
Risk  
Strategy
Risk 
Management
Management 
Metrics & 
Targets
- Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses, and 
manages climate-related risks
One central objective of the Task Force’s recommendations is to encourage organiza-
tions to evaluate and disclose the climate-related risks and opportunities that are most 
pertinent to their business activities. The Task Force divides climate-related risks into 
two major categories: (1) risks related to the transition to a low-carbon economy and (2) 
risks related to the physical impacts of climate change. See the table on page 6 for ex-
amples of climate-related risks, potential financial impacts on investments and impacts 
on the Company. 
Sustainability experts within Söderberg & Partners and  managements requiring improvements regarding clima-
the Company are consulted to identify and assess the  te, increased transparency, and reporting. In addition, 
climate-related risks of the Company. The results of the  the consideration of ESG characteristics is controlled 
risk assessment are used in investment decisions, pro- through a sustainability questionnaire that is addressed 
ducts, policy developments and in engagements. Risk  to the managers of the target funds. 
management is aligned with the responsible investment 
- Equities: Engagement and active ownership are vital 
approach, and rests on three pillars: active engagement, 
tools for managing climate risks. As long-term owners 
positive selection, and exclusion. The Company condu-
the Company engages with management and pushes 
cts exclusion when a target fund or investee company 
for improvements in targeted areas.
has a high sustainability risk and when the ability to 
influence the flagged company to align its operations 
Passive management 
with sustainable development is limited. 
The investments in index-related instruments, such as 
It is expected that the funds will be exposed to a broad  equity index futures, exchange traded funds or index 
range of sustainability risks. However, as they are  funds, are based on a predefined index where the in-
broadly diversified, it is not anticipated that any single  struments’ main objective is to generate a return in line 
sustainability risk will drive a material negative financial  with the index. The Company considers the Sustaina-
impact on the value of the funds.  bility rating when selecting these instruments. When 
instruments deemed to have a sustainability level that 
Active management is in accordance with our sustainability process are 
- Target funds: The management of climate-related  available, those alternatives are preferred. 
risks in funds takes place in the manager selection 
process. The manager selection process is advised by 
Söderberg & Partners Sustainability rating and qualita-
tive assessments of the fund managers.  Söderberg & 
Partners Sustainability rating is an assessment based 
on self-reported information about funds’ and fund 
managers´ sustainability work. The analysis covers 
two perspectives: Responsible ownership and Positive 
selection. As active owners, the Company engages with 
66
Table of identified climate-related risks
The TCFD provides some examples of climate-related risks and potential financial impacts which are seen below. 
The table presents examples of risks that can be considered and managed in the operations and investment analy-
sis, and how the risks can be assessed to affect investments in companies, industries, or geographical markets. The 
risks are calculated with an investment horizon of up to ten years. The sub-category risks described under each 
major category are not mutually exclusive, and some overlap exists.
Climate-related risks Financial impacts on investments Impact on the Company and management of risks
Policy and Legal - Increased operating costs The financial impact due to policy and legal changes affects 
- Increased emissions-re- - Write-offs, asset impairment, and  the Company due to the impact on underlying holdings. To 
porting obligations early retirement of existing assets due to  address this issue, the Company selects fund managers who 
- Mandates on and regu- policy changes take these types of risks into account and conducts meetings if 
lation of existing products  - Increased costs and/or reduced de- further questions arise. 
and services mand for products and services resulting  The increased extent of regulations and the transition to a 
- Increased pricing of GHG  from fines and judgments low-carbon society is controlled through yearly collections of 
emissions carbon footprint and biannual screenings against the policy for 
- Exposure to litigation responsible investments.               
Technology - Write-offs and early retirement of  Shifts in technology are expected to emerge and some sectors 
- Substitution of existing  existing assets will be more affected than others. It is expected that the Company 
products and services with  - Reduced demand for products and  will be exposed to a broad range of sustainability risks. However, 
lower emissions options services as they are broadly diversified, it is not anticipated that any single 
- Unsuccessful investment  - Research and development expenditu- sustainability risk will drive a material negative financial impact on 
s
k in new technologies res in new and alternative technologies the value of the Company. The sectors that are the most clima-
s
ri - Costs to transition to  - Capital investments in technology  te-relevant are monitored in the PACTA-analysis.
n  lower emissions technology development
o
ti - Costs to implement new processes
si
n Market - Reduced demand for goods and servi- Re-pricing of assets and uncertainty in market signals may 
a
Tr - Changing customer  ces due to shift in consumer preferences lead to an increased risk of large and unexpected market 
behaviour  - Increased production costs due to  movements. 
- Uncertainty in market  changing input prices and output requi- Market risks are managed in a similar way as specified for the 
signals  rements  technology risks above.
- Increased cost of raw  - Unexpected shifts in energy costs
materials - Change in revenue mix and sources, 
resulting in decreased revenues
- Re-pricing of assets
Reputation - Reduced revenue from decreased  Reputation risks are likely to occur if companies do not take 
- Shifts in consumer  demand for goods/services ESG issues into consideration. Reputation risks are monitored 
preferences  - Reduced revenue from decreased  in the biannual screening.
- Stigmatization of sectors  production capacity and from negative  Reputation risks are also managed in a similar way as specified 
- Increased stakeholder  impacts on workforce management and  for the technology risks above
concern or negative stake- planning 
holder feedback - Reduction in capital availability
Acute - Reduced revenue and higher costs from  Physical climate risks apply to all types of investments.  Acute 
- Increased severity of  negative impacts on workforce and redu- and chronic risks can have indirect effects on the Company if 
s extreme weather events ced revenues from lower sales/output the underlying holdings face loss of revenue or increased costs 
sk Chronic - Write-offs and early retirement of  due to physical climate challenges.
cal ri -p aCthtearnngse asn ind  pexretrceipmitea tion  e- xInisctrineags aesds eotpserating and capital costs Ndeoenme eodf  tthoe b Ce oinm apraenays’ sp roimpearraitlyio ants r hisakv.e locations that are 
si variability in weather  - Increased insurance premiums and 
y Physical risks are managed in a similar way as specified for the  
h patterns potential for reduced availability of insu-
P technology risks above.
- Rising mean temperatu- rance on assets in high-risk locations
res and sea levels
7
Governance
Metrics & Targets
Strategy
Risk 
Management
- Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and  
Metrics & 
manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities Targets
The TCFD has highlighted the need for forward-looking scenario analysis. Climate-related 
scenario analysis has the potential to increase the understanding of companies climate risks. 
Thereby helping the development of better investment strategies, company dialogues and 
contributions to a transition towards a low-carbon economy. The organization 2° Investing  
Initiative has developed a scenario analysis tool to help asset managers, central banks, and 
financial institutions to measure their climate risks: the Paris Agreement Capital Transition  
Assessment tool (PACTA). The tool was launched in 2018 in collaboration with UN PRI.  
The portfolio alignment analysis is based on forward-  The table below quantifies the extent to which the 
looking asset-level data in nine key climate-relevant  different strategies are building or reducing risk in terms 
sectors: power, oil & gas, coal mining, automotive,   of being aligned or misaligned with the International 
shipping, aviation, cement, steel, and heavy-duty vehicles.  Energy Agency (IEA) transition scenarios over the next 
Together these sectors account for around 75 % of  five years. The table shows what temperature increa-
global CO2-emissions. This data is mapped to financial  se the trajectory of the underlying companies’ capex 
and ownership data and compared to climate scenarios  plans are associated with. This assessment is made for 
that provide low-carbon energy transition roadmaps at  power, fossil fuels and automobile sectors, for which 
technology-level. The results should be interpreted with  forward-looking technology road maps are available1.
caution as the analysis is limited to a selection of corporate 
The Company has a restriction that a maximum of 30 %  
bonds and equities that are defined as climate- 
of a company’s sales may derive from coal-based 
relevant sectors, and where climate-relevant data is 
production if that target fund or company actively work 
available. 7,2 % of the equities and 10 % of the corporate 
to address the issue. 7 out of 24 areas within equities 
bonds of the Company’s assets are covered by PACTA 
and 15 out of 24 areas within bonds are in line with the 
per 2019-12-31. Other sectors and securities, such as 
Paris Agreement <2°C target. The Company will aim for 
government bonds or covered bonds, are not included. 
having more of its climate-relevant sectors aligned with 
This means that exposures to other types of operations, 
the <2°C target.
which may also be exposed to transition risks of both a 
direct and indirect nature, are not considered.
Strategy Power Capacity Fossil fuels Automotive
Coal  Gas Power  Renewable  Nuclear  Oil   Gas   ICE   Electric 
Power  Capacity Power  Power  Production Production Vehicle  Vehicle 
Capacity Capacity Capacity Production Production
Dynamisk 1,75-2 1,75-2 ≥3,2 ≥3,2 ≥3,2 1,75-2 ≥3,2 2-2,7
- Equity
Dynamisk 1,75-2 1,75-2 ≥3,2 ≥3,2 ≥3,2 1,75-2 2-2,7 1,75-2
- Bonds
Aktiv Påverkan 1,75-2 1,75-2 ≥3,2 ≥3,2 2,7-3,2 1,75-2 ≥3,2 2-2,7
- Equity
Aktiv Påverkan 1,75-2 1,75-2 ≥3,2 ≥3,2 No exposure No exposure 2-2,7 1,75-2
- Bonds
Alternative 1,75-2 ≥3,2 ≥3,2 ≥3,2 ≥3,2 2-2,7 ≥3,2 2-2,7
- Equity
Alternative No exposure No exposure No exposure No exposure No exposure No exposure ≥3,2 2-2,7
- Bonds
1For more details on the methodology and PACTA please 
visit transitionmonitor.com.
8
The Company evaluates the portfolios on an ongoing  This engagement has now been running for a year 
basis and excludes companies that exceed the sales  and the plan is to continue to engage over at least a 
limit. The results of the scenario analysis help the  two-year period. The suggested plan going forward is 
Company to identify companies with technological  to broaden the scope from the Vung Ang 2 project to 
capacity and development plans that are not in line with  coal-fired power in general and to push for concrete and 
the climate goals, which is a good basis for continued  time-bound phase outs by 2040.
dialogues with the companies and target funds. 
Stress test – potential value changes in a stress scena-
The efforts to align power capacity and fossil fuel 
rio (and analysed as % of assets under management)
companies with the Paris Agreement were conducted 
The module is based on the Inevitable Policy Response 
partly through an initiative of 20+ investors, led by 
(IPR) and the climate stress test shown here only consi-
Nordea Asset Management, to challenge companies 
ders transition risks when calculating potential losses. 
and financial institutions involved in the construction 
The stress-test calculates the magnitude of potential 
of a new coal power plant in Vietnam. The engagement 
market value losses of equity due to a late and sudden 
effort is designed to combat potential environmental 
policy shock to limit global warming to below 2°C. The 
damage posed by the creation of the Vung Ang 2 coal 
IPR targets a large part of the economy, but the key 
power plant, which is the extension of an existing plant. 
drivers of value change will be found in a small subset 
The project is also incompatible with the Paris Agre-
of the sectors covered.
ement goals on reducing emissions. Phone meetings 
were held with four companies and written reply from 
one company was received. A few highlights over the 
Inevitable Policy Response
engagement period include Samsung C&T committing 
to exit the coal-industry going forward as well as stating  Dynamisk  -1,32 % (89 %)
- Equity
that the initiative can take part of the credit for this deci-
sion, Korea Electric Power Corporation committing not to  Aktiv Påverkan 
-0,82 % (90 %)
- Equity
finance any overseas coal projects. This engagement is 
heavily publicized and used by pro-climate members of  Alternative 
-0,55 % (90 %)
the South Korean parliament during the climate debate. - Equity
99
Carbon footprint
Carbon dioxide intensity, weighted average (tCO2e/SEK million)
30 
24,2
25 
20 
1105   10,16,8 9,0 11,8 9,58,3 9,1 8,3 8,0 8,6 11,08,8
5 
0
Proaktiv 75  Proaktiv 80  Proaktiv 75  Proaktiv 75 Proaktiv 80 Proaktiv 85 Contrarian  Tillväxt 75 Aktiv 
PM PM TL 65 Påverkan R5
2019 2020
Weighted average carbon intensity is the portfolio’s exposure to carbon-intensive com-
panies, expressed in tons CO2e/SEK million revenue. This metric is recommended by the 
Task Force and is the industry standard in Sweden. For fund of funds, a weighted average of 
the target funds shall be calculated, given that all of these have reported carbon footprints 
according to this metric. The data shall include scope 1 (companies’ direct emissions pro-
duced by the burning of fuels of the emitter) and scope 2 (companies’ indirect emissions 
from consumption and purchasing of electricity, heat, or steam).
The coverage should be over 75 %, which is why only a few of the Company’s funds are in-
cluded. The funds included in Dynamisk are risk-controlled funds, and tactical adjustments 
are made to ensure that the risk control level is intact despite market fluctuations. When 
the markets move downwards, the equity exposure is reduced, and the capital is invested 
in fixed income funds. Many of the target fixed income funds do not calculate their carbon 
intensity, which leads to an incomplete coverage for many of the Company’s funds.
The carbon footprint provides a basis for assessing certain climate-related financial risks, such as the 
price of carbon dioxide, and facilitates the impact on companies to reduce their emissions, for example 
through requirements for emission reduction targets, risk management, business strategies and trans-
parency. This metric should be viewed in the context of the company’s overall sustainability work.
The carbon footprint shows a historical snapshot of the emissions from the companies in the funds.  
The values will vary as the companies’ emissions change, but also as the portfolio composition changes. 
Exchange rate changes also affect the measurement. 
Please note that the carbon footprint does not show the investments’ total climate impact, since:  
• Only certain emissions are included. Indirect emissions from suppliers are not always included in the 
calculations, nor are emissions that may result from the usage of a company’s products,
• emission data from companies is not complete, 
• only certain asset classes are measured, 
• savings of emissions through products and services are not included,
• information on fossil reserves is not included, 
• the measure does not say anything about how well a portfolio is positioned against, or  
   its contribution to, a transition to a low-carbon society.
10
Söderberg & Partners Sustainability rating
The Company monitors its investments’ ESG performance in detail by lever-
aging internal tools combined with fundamental and quantitative analyses. 
The responsible investment activities are based on the sustainability analysis 
developed by Söderberg & Partners Wealth Management AB, where a fund 
can receive a red, a yellow or a green rating. The Sustainability rating is 
based on two parameters: Positive selection and Responsible ownership. 
A high rating in both parameters is required for a fund to receive a green 
rating. Green ratings are awarded to funds whose managers have tools 
and incentives for selecting sustainable companies and engaging actively. 
A yellow rating indicates that the fund manager has sufficient tools to select 
sustainable companies, or alternatively to try to influence companies that are 
not considered as being particularly sustainable. A red rating implies that the 
fund has less prerequisites and primarily conducts a reactive impact work. 
To obtain the analytical framework, publicly available material is used, and 
surveys are sent to fund managers with questions about their sustainability 
work. The answers are often followed by additional queries and meetings 
are held to discuss the answers when needed. The aggregated rating  
(Responsible ownership and Positive selection) is used in the investment 
decision when selecting and evaluating a fund manager and a fund. In  
existing investments, a systematic annual follow-up is conducted in combi-
nation with a discussion with fund managers or sustainability analysts.
11
