
Vanguard Investment 
Stewardship Insights
Voting insights: Climate-related proposals,  
January–June 2021
September 2021
Vanguard publishes Investment Stewardship Insights to promote good governance practices and to 
provide investors and public companies with our perspectives on important governance topics and 
issues that come up for shareholder votes.
Climate change represents a profound, material,   proposals. These proposals—an emerging trend in various 
and fundamental risk to companies and their  markets and sectors—request that companies disclose climate-
shareholders’ long-term success. Vanguard’s  related risks, targets, and transition plans and give shareholders  
Investment Stewardship team, on behalf of the  an advisory vote on those plans. 
Vanguard funds, approaches climate and environmental risk  
from a fiduciary perspective. Risks to shareholder value 
Vanguard’s voting and engagement
associated with climate change remained a top priority for  
us throughout the first half of 2021.  During the first six months of 2021, we held constructive 
engagements with company leaders and board members on 
Vanguard expects companies and their boards to exhibit three 
climate risks. In these discussions, we sought to clarify our 
key elements of sound climate risk governance: 
expectations of companies and their boards related to climate 
risk oversight, as well as to better understand how these 
• A climate-competent board that demonstrates awareness  
companies were mitigating climate change risks by making 
of climate risks and fosters healthy debate on climate topics, 
progress on their stated climate goals or ambitions. 
challenges management assumptions, and makes thoughtful 
and informed decisions regarding these risks.
On behalf of the Vanguard funds, we voted on 59 climate- 
• Robust risk oversight and mitigation measures, including  related shareholder proposals (excluding Say on Climate 
setting targets aligned with the Paris Agreement and  proposals) during the first half of 2021 and supported 16 of 
integrating climate risk considerations into strategic business  them, or 27%. The funds also voted on 23 Say on Climate 
planning and capital allocation decisions.  proposals, supporting all 17 proposals submitted by manage-
ment and two of six submitted by shareholders. In total, the 
• Effective and comprehensive disclosures, both qualitative  
Vanguard funds supported 35 of 82 climate-related proposals,  
and quantitative, to show progress over time, preferably 
or 43%. 
written in accordance with the framework of the Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
The table below provides a summary of the 59 climate-related 
proposals (excluding Say on Climate proposals) discussed in  
The range of shareholder proposal requests related to climate 
the previous paragraph, along with the Vanguard funds’ votes 
risks in the first six months of 2021 spanned from asking 
and supporting rationales, for the six months ended June 30, 
companies to exit fossil fuel and nuclear business operations to 
2021. Each climate-related proposal is analyzed based on  
asking companies to set emission reduction targets, including 
its merits and specific wording. In all cases, we evaluate 
financed emissions. Other proposals asked companies to 
whether the request is in the best long-term interest of the 
produce climate-related disclosures, including lobbying-related 
company’s shareholders. 
activities. We also saw a larger number of “Say on Climate” 
A word on Say on Climate proposals: We have previously  their climate strategies and proactively giving shareholders  
outlined our perspectives on climate risk governance in our  an additional tool for voicing feedback and ensuring board 
Vanguard Insights: How we evaluate Say on Climate proposals.  accountability. The Vanguard funds voted against four Say on 
The table below does not provide individual rationales for those  Climate shareholder proposals whose terms we considered 
votes. The funds’ votes in support for all 17 management Say on  overly prescriptive.1
Climate proposals recognize companies’ progress in formalizing 
Climate-related shareholder proposals
Vanguard  
proposal   Company name/ 
category meeting date Proposal  Vote   Vote rationale 
Business   Equinor ASA2  Instruct company to stop all exploration  Against Dictates strategy and operations.
phaseout 5/11/2021 activity for fossil energy resources
Oil Search Ltd.  Develop capital protection plan to phase  Against Dictates strategy and operations.
4/30/2021 out oil and gas operations
Santos Ltd.  Develop capital protection plan to phase  Against Dictates strategy and operations.
4/15/2021 out oil and gas operations
Woodside Petroleum Ltd.  Develop capital protection plan to phase  Against Dictates strategy and operations.
4/15/2021 out oil and gas operations
Climate   Berkshire Hathaway, Inc.  Report on climate-related risks and  For Addresses material risks; report determined 
change   5/1/2021 opportunities to be in the best long-term interest of 
report shareholders.
Bloomin’ Brands, Inc.  Report on climate change For Report determined to be in the best  
5/18/2021 long-term interest of shareholders.
Booking Holdings, Inc.  Report on annual climate transition Against Sufficient action or change has been 
6/3/2021 implemented.
Caterpillar, Inc.  Report on climate policy Against Company has taken sufficient action or 
6/9/2021 change and proposal is overly prescriptive.
DSV Panalpina A/S  Reporting on climate-related financial  For Report determined to be in the best 
3/15/2021 risks and opportunities interest of shareholders.
Toyo Seikan Group  Amend articles to disclose plan outlining  Against Terms of bylaws amendments determined  
Holdings Ltd.  company’s business strategy taking into  to be overly prescriptive.
6/25/2021 account TCFD
United Parcel Service, Inc.  Report on climate change For Addresses material risk; report determined 
5/13/2021 to be in the best long-term interest of 
shareholders.
Climate  Delta Air Lines, Inc.  Report on climate lobbying For Report determined to be in the best 
lobbying 6/17/2021 interest of shareholders. 
Exxon Mobil Corp.  Report on corporate climate lobbying  For Addresses material risk; report determined 
5/26/2021 aligned with the Paris Agreement to be in the best long-term interest of 
shareholders.
Norfolk Southern Corp.  Report on corporate climate lobbying  For Addresses material risk; report determined 
5/13/2021 aligned with the Paris Agreement to be in the best long-term interest of 
shareholders.
1 The funds supported Say on Climate shareholder proposals at Canadian Pacific Railway Limited and Charter Communications. The funds did not support proposals at Booking Holdings, Inc.; 
Hennes & Mauritz AB (H&M); Monster Beverage Corporation; and Union Pacific Corporation.
2 Includes a total of four proposals with similar and related requests and the same vote instruction and rationale. The proposals are consolidated here.
Vanguard  
proposal   Company name/ 
category meeting date Proposal  Vote   Vote rationale 
Climate  Phillips 66  Report on climate lobbying Against Proposal determined to be misdirected; 
lobbying  5/12/2021 company has not voiced a public 
(continued) commitment aligned with the Paris 
Agreement.
Rio Tinto Ltd.  Approve climate-related lobbying For Proposal determined to be in the best  
5/6/2021 long-term interest of shareholders.
Sempra Energy  Report on corporate climate lobbying  Against Sufficient action or change has been 
5/14/2021 aligned with the Paris Agreement implemented.
United Airlines   Report on global warming-related  For Report determined to be in the best  
Holdings, Inc.  lobbying activities long-term interest of shareholders.
5/26/2021
Emissions  BP Plc  Approve shareholder resolution on  Against Sufficient action or change has been 
reduction 5/12/2021 climate change targets implemented.
Chevron Corp.  Reduce Scope 3 emissions For Addresses material risk; proposal 
5/26/2021 determined to be in the best long-term 
interest of shareholders. 
ConocoPhillips  Adopt reduction targets for Scope 1, 2,  For Addresses material risk; proposal 
5/11/2021 and 3 emissions determined to be in the best long-term 
interest of shareholders. 
Equinor ASA  Instruct company to set targets for GHG  Against Sufficient action or change has been 
5/11/2021 emissions of the operations and use of  implemented.
energy products
General Electric Co.  Report on meeting the criteria of the   For Report determined to be in the best  
5/4/2021 Net Zero Indicator long-term interest of shareholders.
Imperial Oil Ltd.  Adopt a corporatewide ambition to  For Addresses material risk; proposal 
5/4/2021 achieve net zero carbon emissions determined to be in the best long-term 
interest of shareholders.
Phillips 66  Adopt GHG emissions reduction targets  For Addresses material risk; proposal 
5/12/2021 for Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions determined to be in the best long-term 
interest of shareholders.
Rio Tinto Ltd.  Approve emissions targets For Proposal determined to be in the best  
5/6/2021 long-term interest of shareholders.
Royal Bank of Canada  Adopt GHG emissions reduction targets  Against Sufficient action or change has been 
4/8/2021 and issue annual report discussing the  implemented.
plans and progress
Royal Dutch Shell Plc  Request that Shell set and publish  Against Sufficient action or change has been 
5/18/2021 targets for GHG emissions implemented.
Shikoku Electric   Amend articles to reduce carbon dioxide  Against Sufficient action or change has been 
Power Co., Inc.  emissions to half of fiscal 2020 levels by  implemented.
6/25/2021 2030 by leveraging renewable energy
Financed  Bank of Montreal  Issue a report describing a clear plan to  Against Sufficient action or change has been 
emissions 4/7/2021 carbon neutral, including lending portfolio implemented; company has set net  
zero goals.
  Barclays Plc  Set and report on strategy with improved  Against Sufficient action or change has been 
5/5/2021 targets to phase out fossil fuel financing  implemented and proposal determined  
consistent with goals of the Paris  to be overly prescriptive.
Agreement
Vanguard  
proposal   Company name/ 
category meeting date Proposal  Vote   Vote rationale 
Financed  Mitsubishi UFJ   Amend articles to disclose plan outlining  Against Sufficient action or change has been 
emissions  Financial Group, Inc.  company’s business strategy to align  implemented and proposal determined  
(continued) 6/29/2021 investments with goals of the Paris  to be overly prescriptive.
Agreement
QBE Insurance Group Ltd.  Approve exposure reduction targets to  Against Sufficient action or change has been 
5/5/2021 insurance of oil and gas assets implemented.
Skandinaviska Enskilda  Exclude fossil fuels and finance only  Against Sufficient action or change has been 
Banken AB3  companies and projects aligned with  implemented and proposal dictates 
3/30/2021 what science requires for the world   strategy and operations.
to stay below warming of 1.5 degrees 
Celsius
Sumitomo Corp.  Amend articles to disclose plan outlining  Against Sufficient action or change has been 
6/18/2021 company’s business strategy to align  implemented and proposal determined  
investments with goals of the Paris  to be overly prescriptive.
Agreement
Swedbank AB4  Adopts guidelines to immediately  Against Sufficient action or change has been 
3/25/2021 decline loans to fossil fuel companies  implemented and proposal dictates 
and projects strategy and operations.
Swedbank AB  Reports exposure in loans to companies  For Report determined to be in the best long-
3/25/2021 whose main activity is to extract fossil  term interest of shareholders.
energy
Scenario  Chevron Corp.  Report on impacts of International  Against Sufficient action or change has been 
analysis 5/26/2021 Energy Agency’s Net Zero 2050  implemented and proposal determined  
Scenario to be overly prescriptive.
Exxon Mobil Corp.  Issue audited report on financial impacts  Against Sufficient action or change has been 
5/26/2021 of IEA’s Net Zero 2050 Scenario implemented and proposal determined  
to be overly prescriptive.
Miscellaneous Equinor ASA5  Instruct company to divest from and/or  Against Dictates strategy and operations.
5/11/2021 invest in certain assets; transform to 
sustainable energy production business; 
improve ESG profile and reduce risk of 
future lawsuits
Kyushu Electric   Amend articles to add provision on  Against Dictates strategy and operations.
Power Co., Inc.  promotion of renewable energies
6/25/2021
T. Rowe Price Group, Inc.  Report on and assess proxy voting  Against Sufficient action or change has been 
5/11/2021 policies in relation to climate change  implemented.
position
The Kansai Electric   Amend articles to withdrawal from coal- Against Dictates strategy and operations.
Power Co., Inc.6  fired power, promote nuclear phaseout, 
6/25/2021 decarbonization, and renewable energy
Tokyo Electric Power Co.  Amend articles to add provision on  Against Dictates strategy and operations.
Holdings, Inc.  promotion of hydroelectric power 
6/29/2021 generation
3 Includes a total of four proposals with similar and related requests and the same vote instruction and rationale. The proposals are consolidated here.
4 Includes a total of four proposals with similar and related requests and the same vote instruction and rationale. The proposals are consolidated here.
5 Includes a total of five proposals with similar and related requests and the same vote instruction and rationale. The proposals are consolidated here.
6 Includes a total of four proposals with similar and related requests and the same vote instruction and rationale. The proposals are consolidated here.
Vanguard  
proposal   Company name/ 
category meeting date Proposal  Vote   Vote rationale 
Miscellaneous  Topdanmark A/S  Join the International Investor Coalition  Against Sufficient action or change has been 
(continued) 3/25/2021 Net Zero Asset Owner Alliance implemented and dictates strategy and 
operations.
The Chugoku Electric  Amend articles to establish special  Against Sufficient action or change has been 
Power Co., Inc.  committee on green projects implemented.
6/25/2021
ClimateSHP_1841017_092021
© 2021 The Vanguard Group, Inc. All rights reserved.