
SUSTAINABLE A N N U A L  
INVESTMENT R E P O R T  
REPORT
2 0 2 0
Marketing material  
Environmental, social and governance   
is referred to as ESG throughout
CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION ACTIVE OWNERSHIP
A message from our   6 Timeline of key events over   24 - 25
Group Chief Executive 20+ years
A message from our   7 - 8 The evolution of Schroders'   26 - 29
Global Head of Sustainable  approach to active ownership
Investment 
The full spectrum of   30 - 31
2020 sustainability milestones 9 active ownership
Our approach to engagement 32 - 37
INTEGRATION IN PRACTICE
Our approach to voting 38 - 40
Embedding ESG considerations:   12 - 13
our journey so far
Collaborative engagement 41 - 43
Equities 14
Industry involvement and   44 - 47
public policy
Fixed income 15
Multi–asset 16 SUSTAINABILITY INSIGHTS 
Manager selection 17 - 18 Expanding SustainEx: how  49 - 54
we’re measuring the social and 
Real estate 19 environmental impact of countries
Private assets 20 Reflections on climate change 55 - 56
Commodities 21
APPENDIX  
Compliance with UN PRI 58 - 59
Companies engaged during 2020 60 - 77
Sustainable Investment Report
3
Annual Report 2020
Sustainable Investment Report
4
Annual Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
About Schroders
As a global investment manager we recognise we have an important part to play in 
shaping the future for all our stakeholders.
Our focus on doing the right thing for our clients, our  honoured our pledge to integrate sustainability measures 
people and wider society lies at the heart of our culture.  across our investment processes. We went further, 
We are committed to delivering sustainable value for   building tools to assess the impact, both positive and 
our clients. Our purpose is to provide excellent investment  negative, of the companies we invest in. 
performance through active management. Channelling 
capital into sustainable and durable businesses creates  This is the foundation of how we invest: there is more 
value and helps accelerate positive change. Funding the  than just the relationship between risk and return. A third 
future is a privilege: we use it wisely and responsibly. dimension – impact risk – needs to be embedded into 
the investment process. Only by considering these three 
A year as challenging as 2020 offered a test of corporate  pillars together can we uncover an asset’s real investment 
character and a test of purpose. We met the challenge,  potential and achieve the best outcomes for our clients.
as a corporate and as a steward of our clients’ capital. We 
Presence in   £574.4 billion assets  5,000+ 
37 locations  under management employees
13% 33% 15% 48% 13% 8%
33%
8%
19%
By 
By asset 
By region business 
class
area
17% 29% 18% 28%
18%
Equities Private Assets  UK Europe, Middle   Private Assets  Institutional
& Alternatives East and Africa & Alternatives
Multi-asset
Wealth   Asia Pacific Americas Solutions Wealth  
Management Management
Fixed Income
Mutual Funds
Source: Schroders, as at 31 December 2020.
Sustainable Investment Report
5
Annual Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
A message from our Group Chief Executive
2020 was a truly transformative year. It fundamentally changed the way we live our 
lives – from how we shop and socialise, to how we do business.
The first is that we’ve joined the Net Zero Asset 
Managers Initiative, the goal of which is to attain net 
zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 or sooner. It 
is part of a shared aim to limit global warming to 1.5oC 
above pre-industrial levels. There are 30 global asset 
managers involved, representing more than  
Peter Harrison
USD9 trillion in assets. Our involvement is incredibly 
Group Chief 
important to us. It aligns with our aim to invest clients’ 
Executive
capital in forward-looking companies with durable and 
sustainable business models, in order to achieve  
risk-adjusted returns in line with their objectives.
I believe 2020 also changed the way people feel  
about sustainability. They will no longer put up with  Secondly, we have pledged to set robust emissions 
empty words.  reduction targets under the Science Based Targets 
initiative. The initiative provides companies with 
criteria to set a clearly-defined path to reduce their 
"W  e saw clear evidence during 
emissions. We were one of the first asset managers to 
the year that society is  join and expect others to follow.
increasingly demanding action 
The third is our appeal to the largest companies to 
on a host of pressing issues.  publish detailed plans describing how they intend to 
transition, beyond simply showing long-term ambition. 
People want to see change 
We have written to FTSE 350 companies but expect the 
rather than simply hear of  same progress to be made elsewhere: we would like 
plans to implement it." all medium and large companies, regardless of where 
they are listed or operate, to publicly disclose their 
plans for the decades ahead.  
Indeed, the UN has called for the 2020s to be a “Decade 
of Action” so that we can meet the 17 Sustainable  This gives a flavour of how we’re navigating impact risk 
Development Goals by 2030 as originally envisioned. in one area. On all aspects of ESG, we want companies 
to go beyond reporting profits; in time, we want them 
At Schroders, we’ve always recognised that we have  to publish “impact-adjusted profits”. Profit, after all, is 
a responsibility to show our stakeholders that we are  only half the story. It’s essential that how that profit is 
committed to taking action. In 2020, we achieved our  generated is part of the evaluation equation.
commitment to integrate environmental, social and 
governance considerations across our investment teams. Societal and environmental challenges loom larger 
every day. I do believe that 2020 will go down in history 
This was just a step on the journey. The way we invest  as the year we started to make real and purposeful 
is changing, driven by a fundamental shift in how  progress in tackling them. 
companies are being viewed and valued. Where once 
we considered only risk and return, we now assess 
a third dimension – impact risk. Our tools, such as 
SustainEx™, empower our portfolio managers to 
assess the true impact of each company; to understand 
their true profits, or their “impact-adjusted profits”. 
Eventually, all investors will include this third dimension; 
our portfolio managers are already on that journey. 
In 2020, there was much focus on the E in ESG and 
particularly on climate change. We’ve taken three 
major steps on this front that show how we’re taking 
decisive action. 
Sustainable Investment Report
6
Annual Report 2020
A message from our  
Global Head of Sustainable Investment
While the world battled with the Covid-19 pandemic, sustainable investing continued its 
dramatic evolution. 
same principles. Interestingly, the Davos Manifesto 
2020 launched before the pandemic struck called for 
a “better kind of capitalism” – stakeholder capitalism. 
This perspective has underpinned Schroders’ 
approach to sustainability for more than 20 years. 
Andrew Howard
Global Head 
We’ve often written that companies don’t operate 
of Sustainable 
in a vacuum. They are part of the societies from 
Investment
which they draw their employees, to which they sell 
their products and under whose laws they compete. 
The crisis exposed those companies that approach 
We’ve seen a remarkable pick-up in interest in 
shareholder value as a trade-off against the interests 
sustainability. Our annual global retail and institutional 
of a wider group of stakeholders, and those which 
investor studies have consistently shown that investors 
recognise that long term, sustainable shareholder 
expect sustainability will become more important over 
returns depend on strong stakeholder relationships. 
the next five years. Furthermore, 2020 saw record 
inflows into sustainability funds. Morningstar data  As this focus on sustainability continues, we are 
shows that, during 2020, global sustainable assets  shifting from “telling” our clients about our approach 
under management increased by more than 60% to  to “showing” them the evidence of what we have 
USD1.65 trillion.  been doing. We use this report to demonstrate 
some of the main actions we have been taking. For 
Concern over environmental and societal risks has been 
those of us working in sustainable investment, it has 
rising. This was made clear by the World Economic 
been impossible to avoid the intensity of regulatory 
Forum’s global risks report, which ranked the top five 
focus on our industry. That focus is most intense in 
global risks in terms of impact. A decade ago, economic 
the EU, but similar pressures are building globally. 
concerns dominated the top risks. In this year’s update, 
While we can – and do – question many of the details, 
four of the five most likely risks identified by business 
the principles of consistency and transparency 
leaders are environmental. The other is social, in the 
underpinning those regulatory efforts are 
unsurprising form of infectious diseases. 
accelerating a welcome shift toward sustainability. 
Rhetoric and ambition will continue to give way to 
" While the environmental   action and evidence. 
aspect of ESG has long enjoyed 
OUR JOURNEY 
a high profile, the Covid-19 crisis 
Today, our investment teams are fully integrating 
is turning the spotlight on the  ESG factors into their decision-making. This fulfils our 
intention announced in November 2019. Emerging 
social element. 2020 was a year 
and intensifying social and environmental pressures 
in which investors scrutinised  are reshaping leadership across industries. Managing 
companies’ treatment of   those disruptions requires a new lens for investment 
decisions. Companies’ social and environmental 
their employees, suppliers  
impacts are integral to that understanding of risk, 
and customers." combined with the insights our investment teams 
bring regarding companies’ management of those 
risks and opportunities. Understanding those 
We wrote an open letter to UK companies in April  economic impacts is therefore increasingly vital to 
2020 offering our support to sustainable businesses  effective investment decisions in order to deliver long-
and asking them to prioritise their key stakeholders,  term performance for our clients. 
and engaged hundreds of global companies on the 
Sustainable Investment Report
7
Annual Report 2020
Our integration section in this report includes a number 
of case studies that show how we have embedded ESG 
considerations across our investment teams. These will 
give you a better idea about what “full ESG integration” 
means in practice. 
MEASURING IMPACT 
It’s no longer enough to just talk about impact, we have to 
measure and quantify that impact. This requires moving 
from a two-dimensional view of investing, trading off risk 
and return grounded in historical measures, to a three 
dimensional view – Asset Management 3.0 – which brings 
impact into that equation. 
We do this with impactIQ, our set of award-winning tools 
that measure the impact companies have on society and 
the environment. These tools help our investment teams 
quantify the sustainability risks and impacts of assets we 
invest in, and help our clients to apply a similar lens to the 
portfolios we manage for them. They enrich our research 
process and enable our analysts and fund managers to 
ask questions of how a company is managing its business, 
the impact it has on society and stakeholders or how they 
contribute to sustainable themes. 
SustainEx™, which we launched in 2019, is at the heart of 
how we measure impact. It puts an economic value on 
the impact that companies have on society. This allows 
us to assess the potential financial consequences the 
impact will have on their profitability. 
But it’s not only companies that create costs and benefits 
for society. Governments and countries do too. For this 
reason, we are extending SustainExTM to incorporate 
impacts at a sovereign level. We go into more detail in 
our sustainability insights section.
20 YEARS OF ACTIVE OWNERSHIP
Our commitment to active ownership is integral to our 
investment principles. This means using the influence 
we have over the companies in which we invest to push 
them to prepare for the mounting changes in their 
industries. The pressure we can apply to the companies 
we own is as important a driver of sustainable 
investment returns as the companies we choose to 
invest in. 
We recorded our first engagement in 2000. Since then, the 
industry backdrop and our approach to active ownership 
have changed markedly, as you’ll see on page 26 where 
we take a look back over our active ownership journey.
As we all hope for a 2021 that’s better than 2020, we look 
forward to continuing to lead the way toward a more 
sustainable investment future.
Sustainable Investment Report
8
Annual Report 2020
INTRODUCTION
2020 sustainability milestones
EXTERNAL RECOGNITION  INVESTMENT MILESTONES CORPORATE MILESTONES
 A+  Full Net  
Zero
UN Principles for Responsible  ESG integration across  
Investment rating for 6th  our investments1
consecutive year
 £3.3bn Asset Managers initiative 
founding member
 A-
sustainable assets under 
management2
Carbon Disclosure Project rating
 2,150+ United Nations Global 
Compact signatory
engagements  £4.3m
“Advanced ESG commitment 
level” awarded by Morningstar
 99%
raised through 
 1st #CollectiveAction campaign
resolutions voted
Cazenove Capital wins gold at 
the ESG Investing Olympics
1  For certain businesses acquired during the 
 100% course of 2020 we have not yet integrated 
Newly-appointed heads of  ESG factors into investment decision-
sustainability for Europe and US making. There are also a small number 
of strategies for which ESG integration 
is not practicable or now possible, for 
 Green stars awarded for 100%  example passive index tracking or legacy 
of real estate funds submitted  businesses or investments in the process 
of or soon to be liquidated, and certain 
to GRESB
joint venture businesses are excluded.
2 This captures only our sustainable fund 
Sustainable product range  range. Schroders also managed over 
spanning equity, fixed income  £105bn in ethically screened assets as  
and multi-asset at 31 December 2020.
IMPACT/ESG MANAGER OF  BEST INVESTOR  SUSTAINEXTM - AWARD FOR 
THE YEAR 2020 ENGAGEMENT 2020 IMPACT MEASUREMENT/
IMPACT REPORTING 2020
Source: Schroders as at 31 December 2020. Sustainable Investment Report
9
Annual Report 2020
Sustainable Investment Report
10
Annual Report 2020
Integration in practice 
As investors of our clients’ capital, the way in which 
we invest not only shapes the financial returns we 
achieve for our clients but also the type of impact 
that their investment portfolios may have on the 
world. The relationship between financial and  
non-financial factors has rapidly evolved as we see a 
fundamental shift in how companies are viewed and 
valued. Understanding the impact that they have on 
society and the planet is crucial in determining their 
true costs and ultimately the impact-adjusted profits 
they generate.
This is the foundation of how we invest: there is more 
than just the relationship between risk and return. 
A third dimension – impact – must, in our view, be 
embedded into a holistic investment process. Only 
by considering these three pillars together can we 
understand an asset’s real investment potential and 
achieve the best outcomes for our clients.
At the end of 2020, we achieved our goal of becoming 
a fully ESG-integrated firm3. Integration will look 
different through the lenses of different asset 
classes, but we believe it is imperative to have a 
robust framework that allows for consistency where 
possible across the fundamental elements of how 
we assess investment opportunities. Schroders’ 
sustainability accreditation, proprietary tools and 
collaborative platforms have allowed us to reach full 
integration in a consistent manner. While practical 
application may look different for, say, emerging 
market equity versus direct real estate,  
our stakeholder approach to sustainability is a  
clear and consistent theme that runs across our 
integrated strategies.
This section includes case studies to showcase how 
ESG factors are being considered in different parts 
of our business. We also reflect on our efforts to 
reach full integration, and what this means in practice 
going forward.
3  For certain businesses acquired during the course of 2020 we have 
not yet integrated ESG factors into investment decision-making. There 
are also a small number of strategies for which ESG integration is 
not practicable or now possible, for example passive index tracking 
or legacy businesses or investments in the process of or soon to be 
liquidated, and certain joint venture businesses are excluded.
Sustainable Investment Report
11
Annual Report 2020
INTEGRATION IN PRACTICE
Embedding ESG considerations:  
our journey so far
Schroders has a proud history of investing sustainably. Our long-term approach leads 
us to the belief that generating returns for our clients will be intrinsically linked to our 
ability to identify, measure and engage on the impacts of social and environmental 
change attributable to the companies in which we invest.
The sustainable investment team provides specialist 
ESG thematic research, proprietary tools, and 
implementation support. Once the integrated 
approach has been agreed and implemented, a formal 
accreditation submission is made by the investment 
team and assessed by the sustainable investment team. 
This describes how ESG factors are incorporated into 
the team’s investment philosophy and what it means 
in practice. Case studies must be provided to evidence 
that ESG integration is systematic and robust. 
We launched Schroders’ sustainability accreditation 
framework in 2017 to drive and monitor ESG  The accreditation of an investment team is agreed with 
integration across our investment processes. The goal  senior members of the sustainable investment team. 
was to achieve full ESG integration by the end of 2020.  On an annual basis, accreditations are reviewed and 
We have now met that target thanks to the collective  refreshed. Over time, investment teams are expected  
efforts of our fund managers and analysts. to have deepened levels of ESG integration to ensure 
that we continue to evolve our approach and lead on 
ESG integration means that our fund managers and  best practices.
analysts systematically and explicitly consider ESG 
factors alongside or within traditional financial analysis.  WHAT HAVE WE LEARNED ALONG THE WAY? 
It means a broader assessment of the world in which 
Ensuring that our 60+ investment teams, each with 
we operate: one which captures sustainability risks and 
their own investment philosophy and approach, 
opportunities in our investment decision-making. 
integrate ESG consistently across the firm has been a 
hugely rewarding journey for us as investors and we 
HOW DOES THE ACCREDITATION PROCESS  believe benefited our clients.
WORK IN PRACTICE?
As active investors, ESG integration has been crucial 
In practice, the firm’s sustainability accreditation 
in helping us differentiate ourselves in the search 
process starts with a collaborative effort between the 
for superior investment performance. The lack of 
sustainable investment team and each of our 60+ 
widespread ESG data availability and consistency means 
investment teams. The goal is to map the end-to-end 
that our proprietary ESG research and tools position 
investment process, from idea generation to portfolio 
us strongly to systematically identify and understand 
construction, to ensure sustainability risk considerations 
material information about the assets in which we invest. 
are integrated systematically and meaningfully into the 
At the same time, we can enable each investment team 
relevant steps. 
to customise its use of such research and tools.
Our approach is holistic – we integrate ESG factors into 
Our proprietary tool CONTEXT has been fundamental in 
established investment processes rather than create 
supporting consistent analysis across a large number of 
separate processes which run the risk of becoming an 
our investment teams. CONTEXT provides a structured 
afterthought or a box-ticking exercise. It is also robust; 
approach to analysing a company’s relationships across 
teams articulate and demonstrate how relevant issues 
a wide range of stakeholders, such as communities, 
are identified, investments are examined, portfolio 
customers, employees, the environment, suppliers and 
decisions are influenced and how they monitor and 
regulators and governments. 
manage emerging sustainability risks. 
For certain businesses acquired during the course of 2020 we have not yet integrated ESG factors into investment decision-making. There are also a 
small number of strategies for which ESG integration is not practicable or now possible, for example passive index tracking or legacy businesses or 
investments in the process of or soon to be liquidated, and certain joint venture businesses are excluded.
Sustainable Investment Report
12
Annual Report 2020
Similarly, SustainEx™ has played an important role  on ESG engagements. With over 20 years of 
in measuring the social and environmental impact  engagement, voting activity and related outcomes 
of the companies in which we invest and assessing  recorded by our sustainable investment team, we 
our clients’ portfolio level outcomes through that  have enhanced our digital architecture to support 
lens with a view to ensuring consistency of those  our fund managers and analysts in recording their 
outcomes. SustainEx™ measures the positive and  own engagements and tracking progress. Our role in 
negative impacts that a company may create on the  facilitating change at the companies in which we invest 
environment and society, quantifying that impact in  represents a significant opportunity to create and secure 
dollar terms.  the returns we seek for our clients as active investors. 
It is also a critical aspect of meeting our responsibilities 
as stewards of our clients’ capital. With over 200 
For more information on our proprietary tools  engagements logged by our fund managers and 
please visit our website. analysts in the second half of 2020 we are pleased  
with the initial roll out of this project.
 
WHERE DO WE GO FROM HERE? The measurement, monitoring and reporting of ESG 
factors and outcomes at the portfolio level has gained 
The “minimum bar” for ESG integration is being 
traction. We have developed impactIQ, a set of tools 
raised beyond simply understanding sustainability 
combining a range of proprietary technologies driven 
risk and opportunities. With an increasing focus on 
by traditional and non-traditional data. These tools 
the impact of our investments, we believe that being 
help our fund managers and analysts quantify the 
able to measure that impact and the outcomes of our 
sustainability risks and impacts of assets in which 
investment activity will only become more important 
we seek to invest. They enrich our research process 
to performance over time. 
and enable our fund managers and analysts to ask 
questions of how a company is managing its business, 
We are broadening our strong active ownership 
the impact this has on society and stakeholders or  
approach across our investment teams. Our fund 
how they may be contributing to sustainable themes. 
managers and analysts are increasingly leading  
FIGURE 1: OUR IMPACTIQ TOOLS
Measuring social impact Contributing to key themes
Measured using… Aligning to sustainability preferences using…
SustainEx Measuring impacts on the  ThemEx Measuring companies’ 
environment and society contribution to the SDGs
Carbon VaR Calculating the impact of rising  Climate  Measuring alignment to the 
carbon prices on profits temperature commitments  
alignment
of the Paris Agreement
Physical risk Evaluating the costs of damage 
caused by climate change
Source: Schroders. Climate-focused tools are highlighted in green.
CONCLUSION
Over the last few years, the concept of explicitly integrating ESG factors into our investment analysis and 
decision-making has been embraced by our fund managers and analysts. Now our investment teams have 
been through our accreditation process at least once, we believe that this leaves us in a much stronger 
position to generate risk-adjusted returns for our clients. We must, of course, keep evolving as client and 
regulatory expectations keep raising the bar.
Our focus increasingly turns to understanding, measuring and reporting on the impact of our investments 
and the associated risks and opportunities. 
Sustainable Investment Report
13
Annual Report 2020
INTEGRATION IN PRACTICE
Equities
Global emerging market equities team
In the emerging market equities team, we use a 
CASE STUDY: SELLING NORILSK NICKEL ON 
combination of top-down country and bottom-up stock 
ESG CONCERNS
analysis in our investment process. ESG considerations 
are integrated at all stages.
Schroders' data insights unit (DIU) supports the 
emerging market equities team with ESG analysis 
In their bottom-up research, analysts complete a 
on a project basis. For instance, geospatial and 
mandatory written ESG review for each company they 
meteorological analysis by the DIU helped the 
cover. Reviews may result in adjustments to the cost 
investment team gain a better understanding 
of capital, provisions or cash flows. Where an explicit 
of Russian assets in the Arctic circle and their 
adjustment is not possible, ESG concerns will be 
vulnerability to climate change.
reflected in a discount/premium applied to the initial 
fair value estimate. Significant ESG concerns will also 
In May 2020, an ageing fuel tank at one of Norilsk 
affect the analyst’s conviction in their recommendation.
Nickel’s power plants in the Arctic circle collapsed, 
leaking 21,000 tons of diesel fuel into two Siberian 
" Engagement is a natural part  rivers. The government declared a state of 
emergency and ordered an investigation.
of our investment process. 
We engage with companies  In early July, the national environmental 
watchdog imposed a record $2.1 billion fine on 
to seek improvement in ESG 
the company. The analyst had previously applied 
performance and processes; to  an additional 2% cost of equity to his valuation 
model to account for the elevated environmental 
monitor developments in ESG 
and governance risks at the company. He now 
practices, business strategy,  includes the additional cost of the $2.1 billion fine 
and financial performance; and  in the valuation, and has raised the cost of equity 
premium to 2.5%. 
to enhance our analysis of risks 
and opportunities." We held a small position in Norilsk in our core 
emerging market portfolios, which we sold in 
early June on learning of the diesel spill. The 
Schroders’ sustainable investment team supports the  fund manager decided to sell the stock given the 
investment team in this area.  increased ESG concerns.
The portfolio managers formally review portfolio- Read more about our permafrost analysis and 
level ESG characteristics at a monthly sustainability  engagement in our Q4 report 2020
risk meeting. This review includes two proprietary 
measures of sustainability risk, Carbon VaR and 
SustainExTM, as well as MSCI and Sustainalytics scores.
Companies mentioned herein are for informational purposes only and are not a recommendation to buy or sell any security.
Sustainable Investment Report
14
Annual Report 2020
INTEGRATION IN PRACTICE
Fixed income
US municipal bonds team
" On the US municipal bonds  We believe merging fundamental research and ESG 
factors provides greater insight, higher conviction, and a 
team, we combine top-down 
longer-term perspective on an issuer’s sustainability risk.
macroeconomic views, traditional 
For more information on MUSE, see p.50 of our 2019 
fundamental bottom-up credit 
annual Sustainable Investment Report.
research, cross-sector thematic 
investigations, and ESG analysis 
CASE STUDY: MUSE IN ACTION
in our investment process."
With growing evidence of the importance of ESG 
Municipal bonds are debt securities issued by local  factors to credit stability and performance, MUSE 
authorities, most commonly found in the US. Funds  works to mitigate potential threats and generate 
raised from the bonds are used to fund projects, like  alpha for investors. 
building schools, updating water and sewer systems, 
expanding hospitals, and maintaining roads. Different  California’s 2020 wildfire season was another 
municipalities across the diverse US are facing very  record setter, with 9,639 fires burning almost 4.4 
different threats, are responding in different ways and  million acres – an astounding 4% of the state’s 
are in different positions as a result. Understanding  land. Using MUSE, we can determine the potential 
those positions is vital to gauge the long term financial  future risk of drought or wildfire in a particular 
health of those borrowers.  area. Where MUSE identified higher wildfire risk in 
our California holdings, we found a low probability 
In response, we created our proprietary Municipal US  of a single event causing significant risk as they 
Sustainability Explorer (MUSE) in collaboration with  had large and diverse enough tax bases. The ability 
Schroders' data insights unit (DIU) and sustainable  to weave environmental factors into our analysis 
investment team. The tool gives analysts access to  helps us determine if we are being appropriately 
dozens of data points spanning ESG factors and allows  compensated for taking on any additional risk 
them to assign an overall sustainability score to over  to the portfolio. When assessing future potential 
3,000 counties in the US. Analysts assign a two-part  investments in California, we are vigilant over the 
ESG score to the municipalities they cover, including a  size and diversity of their tax base.
current quality score and a directional score. 
Sustainable Investment Report
15
Annual Report 2020
INTEGRATION IN PRACTICE
Multi-asset
Multi-asset team (ex-Australia)
We integrate ESG across asset class research, asset  CLIMATE RISK 
allocation, portfolio construction and ongoing  Each year, Schroders’ economics and multi-asset teams 
monitoring. Sustainability forms one of the four key  join forces to produce 30-year return forecasts for a 
pillars that underpin our philosophy in generating excess  range of asset classes around the world. Until now, these 
returns and/or mitigating risk (known as “risk premia”): forecasts have been agnostic on the subject of climate 
change; there have been no adjustments for the costs 
–  Valuations are key – Valuations of asset classes  associated with global warming. In 2020, for the first time, 
matter just as much as individual stocks we incorporated the impact of climate change on our 
–   Path of returns matters – The macroeconomic  30-year return forecasts. We use these asset class return 
environment needs to be taken into account forecasts adjusted for climate change in our construction 
process through our proprietary tool, Schroders Multi 
–  Risk is multi-faceted – Risk requires quantitative 
Asset Risk Technology (SMART). SMART offers portfolio 
techniques with forward-looking scenario analysis
managers a flexible approach to modelling and 
–  Sustainability – Through analysis of ESG factors we  optimising multi-asset portfolios.
can improve investment decisions
MEASUREMENT
The diagram below illustrates how ESG is embedded 
from both a top-down and bottom-up perspective  We developed the concept of a sustainability budget, 
throughout our investment process. measuring the percentage of the capital allocation in 
the portfolio which integrates ESG factors or is managed 
Proprietary tools such as CONTEXT and SustainEx™   with a sustainable approach4. The trade-offs involved 
are embedded within research and asset allocation,   in establishing a sustainability budget revolve around 
to understand implications for risk premia across   removing or reducing asset classes and company 
asset classes and to flag sustainability risks. components that are not deemed sustainable from 
the universe available for investment. It provides 
the investment team with a flexible tool to monitor 
and measure the sustainability of the portfolio, while 
permitting other assets that are useful for diversification, 
tactical asset allocation and risk reduction.
FIGURE 2: ESG IS EMBEDDED FROM BOTH A TOP-DOWN AND BOTTOM-UP PERSPECTIVE THROUGHOUT 
OUR INVESTMENT PROCESS
Tactical trade       Schroders sustainable 
sustainability  security selection 
screening expertise
30 year asset class  Active 
return adjusted for  engagement 
climate change and voting
Embedding 
Proprietary 
Sustainability 
sustainability tools ESG budget
ESG integrated   Measurement 
multi-asset  through a variety 
research of ESG lenses
Research Asset allocation Stock selection and engagement ESG measurement
Source: Schroders. For illustrative purposes only.
4 The full paper “Introducing a sustainability budget to asset allocation decision” is available on the UN PRI website.
Sustainable Investment Report
16
Annual Report 2020
INTEGRATION IN PRACTICE
Manager selection
Cazenove Capital
Cazenove Capital – Schroders’ wealth management  a ‘positive momentum indicator' to these managers which 
arm – and the third-party fund selectors within  is encouraging. 
Schroders asset management teamed up to assess 
the sustainable investment practices of investment  Our biggest takeaway from the 2020 questionnaire 
managers responsible for over £40 trillion of assets. results, was that many of our managers do well on the 
‘Credentials’ and ‘Capabilities’ pillars – for example having 
To help us and our clients assess whether managers  joined the UN Principles for Responsible Investment 
are doing what they say, we have developed a  (UNPRI) and other industry initiatives, and having built out 
comprehensive annual ESG manager questionnaire.  resource and implemented robust ESG policies. 
This year’s questionnaire was sent out to 180 
investment managers. These are managers that we  However, many fell short on ‘Culture’ and ‘Stewardship’, 
have chosen to invest with on behalf of our clients5. which are both vital and difficult to examine through 
existing public surveys and questionnaires. Over 50% 
The questionnaire covers 50 questions across four  of managers had no incentives for senior management 
pillars as illustrated in Figure 3. linked to ESG targets; 57% had boards with less than 
a third of seats held by women; and disappointingly 
Responses are analysed and managers receive a score  only 40% of managers had a climate action or carbon 
from 1 to 5. Those scoring a 5 are considered “leaders”  emissions policy in place. This suggests that despite 
in sustainable investment. Those scoring a 3 or 4 are  three-quarters of our managers being signatories to the 
categorised as “acceptable” while those that score a   UNPRI, and having significant ESG resources, the extent 
1 or 2 are deemed “laggards”.  to which ESG influences company culture is still limited.
The results of the 2020 ESG manager questionnaire  Our aim this year will be to raise standards across the 
showed that over two thirds of our managers met or  board and to put more emphasis on outcomes rather than 
exceeded our expectations. We continue to focus on  processes to ensure that managers are focusing on the 
improving the 32% of managers that fell short, and  impact of their investments, as well as identifying the risks.
many of our engagements have resulted in us applying 
FIGURE 3: OUR FOUR PILLARS
Credentials  Culture  Capabilities  Stewardship 
15% 20% 30% 35%
Source: Cazenove Capital.
CASE STUDY: MAKING A NET ZERO COMMITMENT 
As significant investors in third-party funds, our teams committed to work in partnership with our underlying asset 
managers on decarbonisation goals consistent with an ambition to reach net zero emissions by 2050 or sooner, 
engaging with them on these goals at both a corporate level and with the individual managers of the strategies we 
hold. To this end, we contacted all 180 of our managers at the end of 2020 to ask if they have or intended to make 
a net zero commitment. Over 50% have now responded – of those, 14% have made a commitment, 10% intend to 
make one before COP26, and 62% are considering one, whilst only 14% have not considered one yet. These initial 
findings are encouraging and we will continue to use our influence to push for change.
5 Schroders has implemented appropriate Chinese walls to ensure the safety of the data of these managers.
Sustainable Investment Report
17
Annual Report 2020
FIGURE 4: SUSTAINABILITY IS INTEGRAL TO OUR INVESTMENT PROCESS THROUGHOUT  
AN ASSET’S LIFECYCLE
People Peace
Prosperity Planet
Source: Schroders.
Sustainable Investment Report
18
Annual Report 2020
INTEGRATION IN PRACTICE
Real estate
Direct real estate team
E - NET ZERO CARBON PATHWAY: 
" We believe it is our 
We have been seeking to reduce energy with targets 
responsibility as real estate 
on a country basis for some time. In December 2020 
investors to understand the  we published our net zero carbon pathway for our 
assets and portfolios. Our current energy and carbon 
environmental, social and 
targets expire in March 2021, enabling us to set new 
economic impacts of our  targets in the context of net zero during 2021. Our net 
investments in order to deliver  zero carbon pathway is available on our website. 
resilient, long-term returns and 
S - IMPACT MEASUREMENT: 
manage exposure to material 
We have developed an impact measurement framework 
risks."  to assess social as well as environmental impacts we 
have across our portfolios. This framework acts as a 
baseline for our impact contributions across funds in Q1 
Our Real Estate with Impact approach is founded on four 
2020. We will run the assessment with an evolved set of 
pillars of impact which we use to consider impacts for 
metrics in Q1 2021 to evaluate our progress.
funds and assets. Our pillars of impact – People, Planet, 
Place and Prosperity – are referenced to the  
G - INVESTOR REPORTING: 
UN Sustainable Development Goals as illustrated in 
Figure 4. These pillars recognise the contribution of the  We provide investors with annual sustainability reports 
built environment and our responsibilities as real estate  for our funds, setting out strategy, actions, progress 
investors to society, the environment and economies.  against targets and environmental performance data. 
  This year’s reports set out our actions to integrate 
We consider sustainability from due diligence for new  the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-
portfolio acquisitions through asset management  Related Financial Disclosures. The format of our 
and to sale. All aspects of a building are considered  annual fund reports are aligned to real estate industry 
and together inform investment decisions and  sustainability reporting standards, and the quality of 
management of sustainability risk and opportunities.  our reporting is recognised by our achievement of a 
Gold Award Best Practice Sustainability Reporting for 
Our approach is to understand, and where feasible,  one of our listed trusts for the past three years from 
improve the sustainability credentials of all assets.  the European Public Real Estate Association.
The following paragraphs outline our progress and 
activity throughout 2020. We also participate in the Global Real Estate 
Sustainability Benchmark “GRESB” which is the global 
standard for assessing the ESG performance of real 
estate funds and companies. We have participated 
in GRESB since 2011 and achieved Green Stars for all 
funds submitted to GRESB in 2020.
Sustainable Investment Report
19
Annual Report 2020
INTEGRATION IN PRACTICE
Private assets
Schroder Aida – infrastructure equity
The infrastructure equity business’s investment  We use Schroders’ proprietary tool CONTEXT when a new 
strategy centres on investing in companies that own  investment is considered to determine key ESG trends in 
and / or operate infrastructure assets and activities. As  the relevant sector and guide our analysis of sustainability 
a long-term investor, ESG analysis is fundamental to  risk, ensuring we are asking the right questions. 
the investments we make.
Then, a proprietary tool that Schroder AIDA has 
Our mission is to invest in infrastructure which is  developed with Deloitte, gives an ESG ranking based 
a core part of local communities and essential for  on the impact and sustainability risk of the investment. 
the growth and development of the region. Our  The tool considers the asset’s contribution to the 
investment philosophy and approach must confirm  Sustainable Development Goals and to the three key 
that the asset is essential to the community, capital  trends described above.
intensive, has a long economic life, is often a natural 
or regulated monopoly and has low obsolescence/  Final investment recommendations to the Investment 
technology risk. Committee are accompanied by detailed research notes, 
which include a mandatory section on sustainability. 
Our mission statement is “essential infrastructure, 
sustainable performance”. We are currently focused on  This sustainability section includes an environmental 
three key trends that contribute to a sustainable future: analysis, a social analysis and a governance analysis. 
–  Accelerating the ecological and energy transition Our environmental analysis looks at the likelihood  
and impact of sustainability risks (such as climate 
–  Developing the digital economy through the 
related risks). 
deployment of new equipment and technology
–   Investing in mobility solutions to prepare for the  Social analysis focuses on factors such as the company’s 
city of tomorrow health and safety policy, and the social climate of the 
company – how its operations may impact civil and local 
For each opportunity, we analyse the potential 
community regulations and whether there is support 
sustainability risks and opportunities associated  
for the activities of the company.
with the asset and underlying activities. 
Our governance analysis includes the assessment of 
factors such as presence and efficiency of risk, audit, 
and HR committees; political instability; and consensus 
on regulation.
We also regularly monitor the ESG performance of our 
investments, tracking them against indicators bespoke 
to each project. 
CASE STUDY:  
ESG MONITORING IN PRACTICE 
We collaborated with the management of a 
logistics company for strategic commodities 
and agreed to measure their progress against 
workdays lost due to accidents in the year, how 
much hazardous waste they are producing and 
the level of emissions of certain organic chemicals 
at their operating sites. These relate to the context 
of the operations and focus on areas that are both 
material and relevant for the company and where 
there is room for improvement.
Sustainable Investment Report
20
Annual Report 2020
INTEGRATION IN PRACTICE
Commodities
Commodities team
The commodities team aim to provide investors   investment tool, Country CONTEXT, which helps identify 
with focused, actively managed exposure to  ESG factors most relevant to commodity investments. 
commodities, primarily delivered via exposure  
to listed commodity derivatives. The qualitative component looks at both supply and 
demand. A supply score is assigned based on how 
The team uses fundamental analysis to identify  commodities are produced and the extent to which 
investment opportunities, which in turn is supported  the production process entails social or environmental 
by quantitative, technical and sentiment analysis.  impacts which could undermine supply going forward 
Commodities are also appraised for ESG factors during  (for example, potential environmental impacts in 
both the fundamental and quantitative stages of the  Indonesian nickel mining). 
process. Our ESG commodities analysis presently covers 
all commodities that are part of our investment universe.  A demand score is assigned reflecting the team’s  
long-term demand outlook for each commodity  
from an ESG standpoint. We look at how commodities 
THE TYPE OF ESG FACTORS WE EXAMINE
are used and the degree to which those markets 
ESG factors pertain to the sustainability of commodity 
are driven by environmental or social trends like 
projects, crop growth, mining conditions, use of 
climate change, political instability, and changing 
water and carbon intensity, among others. All these 
demographics as potential risks to supply-demand 
factors have an influence on global supply-demand 
going forward.
balances; therefore, it is essential to integrate such 
ESG analysis into the investment process, in order to  Bringing these components together an overall ESG 
correctly identify both risks and opportunities to single  score is assigned to each commodity. For example, 
commodities as well as the broader commodity sectors.  the total ESG score for nickel is 18.25, driven by both 
a high supply score, as a large proportion of supply is 
IMPACT SCORING  not considered sustainable, and a high demand score, 
driven by high nickel usage in the energy transition.
The team approaches ESG analysis from a 
fundamental perspective. Each commodity will  
ESG factors impact the size of portfolio holdings 
be assigned an ESG score reflecting the extent to 
via an investment scorecard which summarises the 
which ESG factors will impact supply and demand.
team’s investment process through different pillars of 
analysis: fundamentals, quant, charts, sentiment and 
The score comprises quantitative and qualitative 
ESG. The ESG scores reflect the impact of ESG factors 
influences. The quantitative component is assigned a 
for each commodity/sector in the long-term.
score derived from Schroders’ proprietary sustainable 
Sustainable Investment Report Sustainable Investment Report
21 21
Annual Report 2020 Annual Report 2020
Sustainable Investment Report
22
Annual Report 2020
Active ownership
“Active ownership” encompasses the 
dialogue, engagement and voting activity 
conducted by Schroders to gain insight 
into companies' practices and future 
plans, and to influence them to implement 
more sustainable behaviour.
Effective and responsible active ownership has long 
been part of Schroders’ approach. We believe we 
have certain responsibilities as investors and as 
guardians of our clients’ assets. That’s why we seek 
to actively influence corporate behaviour to ensure 
the assets we invest in are managed in a sustainable 
way. This means not just looking at what our 
investments are doing, but how they’re run  
day-to-day. This helps us better protect and enhance 
the value of our clients’ investments.
Companies are at the centre of our framework and 
we monitor their abilities to navigate stakeholder 
relationships. Schroders firmly believes companies 
that are well governed, operate transparently, 
responsibly and sustainably will support the long-term 
health of the company and increase stakeholder value.
The overriding principle governing our approach to 
voting is to act in line with our fiduciary responsibilities 
in what we deem to be the interests of our clients. We 
aim to support company management of investee 
companies; however, we will oppose management if 
we believe that it is in the best interests of our clients. 
This section details our approach to corporate 
engagement on ESG-specific issues and our proxy 
voting activity.
Sustainable Investment Report
23
Annual Report 2020
Timeline of key events  
over 20+ years
EUMEDION 
Corporate 
Governance Forum 
UN Principles for  UK Walker Review  published “Best 
Responsible Investment  encourages a new  Practices for 
(UN PRI) launched. Two  era of shareholder  Engaged Share-
First formally recorded 
out of six principles  engagement, calls  Ownership” 
ESG engagement at 
require signatories to be  for the Financial 
Schroders
active owners and seek  Reporting Council 
First formally recorded  appropriate disclosures  (FRC) to issue a 
vote at Schroders on ESG issues stewardship code
2000 2006 2009 2011
1998 2003 2007 2010 2012
Combined Code published,  International  Schroders signed up  UK Stewardship Code 
encourages institutional  Corporate Governance  to the UN PRI issued by FRC
investors to consider voting  Network (ICGN) Global 
Shareholder Rights  Canada publishes 
the shares they hold at  Stewardship Principles 
Directive (SRD I)  Governance Principles
meetings first published providing 
came into effect
“an international  Schroders' sustainable 
First governance resource 
framework for investors  investment team 
at Schroders
to implement their  conducts 81 
First corporate governance  fiduciary obligations  engagements across 15 
policy at Schroders on behalf of clients and  countries
beneficiaries”
Sustainable Investment Report
24
Annual Report 2020
UK Stewardship Code is 
revised expanding across 
asset classes and requiring 
annual reporting on activity 
SRD II comes into effect 
and outcomes
Schroders' sustainable  Japan publishes 
Expanded digital 
investment team  responsible investment 
infrastructure and 
conducts 495  principles 
reporting methodology 
engagements across 33 
EFAMA Stewardship Code  to capture wider active 
countries
published ownership responsibilities 
Schroders joins Investor  across the business
Schroders publishes 
Switzerland and Italy  Forum and ICGN paper on ESG in fixed  Schroders conducts 2,150+ 
publish stewardship  Kenya publishes  income, explaining the  engagements across 58 
principles and guidelines stewardship code  role of engagement countries
2011 2013 2015 2017 2020
2012 2014 2016 2018
UK Investor Forum established UK Corporate  US publishes investor 
Governance Code  stewardship principles
Schroders embeds engagement 
published
log into global research  Australia publishes asset 
database, capturing ESG  Hong Kong publishes  owner stewardship code
engagements conducted by the  principles of responsible 
sustainable investment team  ownership
dating back to 2000
Schroders milestones
Kay Review of UK equity markets 
recommends “an investors’ forum  Industry milestones
should be established to facilitate 
collective engagements by UK 
investors in UK companies”
Sustainable Investment Report
25
Annual Report 2020
ACTIVE OWNERSHIP
The evolution of Schroders' approach  
to active ownership
THE EARLY DAYS: A NARROW FOCUS ON  
UK COMPANIES AND DISCLOSURE-RELATED 
ENGAGEMENTS 
Elly Irving In 2000, our focus was on our largest holdings, where 
Head of Engagement we believed we could have the greatest impact. We 
created a voting universe of companies in the FTSE 350 
(excluding investment trusts, index or tracker funds), 
any company outside the FTSE 350 in which we were 
a major shareholder (defined as a top 10 shareholder) 
and all extraordinary general meetings (EGMs). 
Daniel Veazey
That year we voted on less than 750 holdings, 
Head of Corporate Governance
honing in on companies’ use of capital invested and 
shareholder rights. We were also interested in whether 
a company had a policy based around management’s 
Meeting with investee companies has been a feature 
strategic direction and leadership in place. 
of our investment processes for decades. For us, it’s the 
best way to get to know a company inside-out and form  
As for engagements, we recorded 16 ESG company 
a high-conviction view on its prospects as an investment. 
discussions in 2000, solely with UK listed companies. 
These focused on disclosures, requesting companies 
Influencing company practices and ensuring 
to develop an environmental or social responsibility 
stakeholders are duly considered is what we call  
policy and consider setting carbon emissions targets. 
active ownership. 
We also pushed for stronger governance practices and 
questioned companies' response to environmental 
THREE ELEMENTS TO ACTIVE OWNERSHIP 
disasters. This corporate behaviour and effective 
Active ownership can be described in three ways:  oversight has become engrained across company 
dialogue, engagement and voting. Schroders has been  meetings today.
tracking voting and engagements since 2000, and this 
20-year milestone offers an opportunity to look back  In 2004, we reassessed our voting universe and began 
on what we have learnt over the last two decades.  to vote all proxies globally. We published an updated 
corporate governance policy that was global in nature 
and highlighted our areas of focus.
FIGURE 5: THE ACTIVE OWNERSHIP SPHERE
We engage with them to help them 
recognise the impact of the  
Engagement changing world
Dialogue Voting
We work with companies to  We use our voice to make sure 
find out how prepared they  these changes are happening
are for the changing world
Source: Schroders. For illustrative purposes only.
Sustainable Investment Report
26
Annual Report 2020
THE GROWTH PHASE: A GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE  them track engagements and monitor progress. 
AND MOVING BEYOND DISCLOSURES 
This full sphere of our influence is reflected across 
With greater disclosure comes the ability to understand 
a tiered structure, as you will see in the case studies 
how companies consider stakeholders and manage the 
featured in our quarterly reports and across the 
subsequent risks and opportunities. Our engagement 
following pages. The topics we engage on span a 
discussions therefore became much more focused on 
wide range of stakeholders, with a global reach of 
driving change and holding companies to account. 
58 countries in 2020. Our engagements have an 
Our solid track record of engagement and voting meant  ever-growing focus on outcomes and how they may 
we were well prepared for the important changes  influence future engagement and investment decisions.
ushered in just before the new decade. It was becoming 
increasingly important that we demonstrate how we act 
as interested owners thanks to the launch of the 2009  CASE STUDY: 2000 - BALFOUR BEATTY 
Walker Review and the subsequent introduction of the  (ACHIEVED)
Financial Reporting Council (FRC) UK Stewardship Code. 
While we had been engaging with companies 
We published our first compliance statement with the 
well before 2000, this is among the first 
Code in 2009. In 2016, when the FRC began reviewing 
engagements we formally recorded in the 
the quality of responses, we were delighted to be 
beginning of our journey to systematically 
assessed as a Tier 1 signatory.
monitor progress. Corporate responsibility (CR) 
was not yet mainstream; according to the Global 
WHERE WE ARE TODAY
Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) reporting database, 
In the last few years, we have witnessed explosive  only 48 organisations globally published a report 
growth in ESG awareness and active ownership.  based on the GRI standards in 2000. This is in 
Companies and investors began allocating significant  comparison to over 7,200 in 2017 alone. 
resources dedicated to sustainability, resulting in 
even greater disclosure, more data and a better  The GRI no longer publish this data but by 2019, 
understanding of companies’ relationships with  according to the Governance & Accountability 
stakeholders. This combination has helped lead  Institute, 90% of the S&P 500 published a 
to better integration of sustainability factors into  corporate social responsibility report. 
investment decisions.
Our engagement with Balfour Beatty involved 
Mirroring this explosive growth has been the expansion  communicating our environmental and social 
of Schroders’ engagement strategy beyond just the  concerns associated with the Ilisu Dam project, 
sustainable investment team. Our fund managers and  offering guidance in drafting governance policies 
analysts also take the lead on engagements since they  and commenting on draft policies (training, board 
have an in-depth knowledge of the companies under  level etc.). Upon reviewing the engagement in 
their coverage. This can be done either in collaboration  the following years, the company had amended 
with, or independently of, the sustainable investment  its policies to reflect our recommendations and 
team. We have built a number of tools to help our  published its first report with targets in March 
broader team of investors identify material issues on  2001 and appointed a CR manager in 2002.
which to engage their companies and helped develop 
engagement strategies for individual investment teams. 
We also launched a new technology platform to help 
Sustainable Investment Report
27
Annual Report 2020
LOOKING AHEAD 
As we look forward, focusing on the long-term future 
of companies ensures that we hold companies 
accountable to best practice. How we report on this will 
be key to long-term success. Our continually evolving 
approach allows us to focus on influencing company 
practices with the objective of helping companies 
transition to a more sustainable future.
Recognising the wide range of assets we hold and the 
historic equity engagement bias we’ve had, we have 
extended our influence to our credit holdings. We 
continue to work with investment teams across the 
firm, including those in non-traditional asset classes, 
to build on their existing engagement work and 
strengthen our active ownership strategy across all 
asset classes. 
CASE STUDY: 2010 – CHINA RESOURCES 
POWER (ACHIEVED)
At the time, China Resources Power was high risk 
among the global electric utility industry due to its 
coal exposure. Like many of its peers in the region, 
the company also did not publish a CR policy. With 
96% of its installed capacity in coal, it was materially 
exposed to the Chinese government’s increasing 
focus on reducing carbon emissions and improving 
the carbon efficiency of its economy. We contacted 
the company to discuss these points in more detail.
The company responded in 2011 and we reviewed 
the publicly available data again. It set an annual 
coal consumption reduction target of 2% a year. 
It stated that it would be producing its own CR 
report, but had not yet been forthcoming. Whilst 
we had some evidence of CR it was not enough for 
us to classify the engagement as fully achieved. 
We engaged further in 2012 to encourage 
further transparency. By 2013, the company had 
produced a CR report fulfilling our request which 
provided health and safety, water management 
and emissions data. At this stage, we rated this 
engagement as “achieved” given the significant 
increase in disclosure on the areas we requested.
Sustainable Investment Report
28
Annual Report 2020
Sustainable Investment Report
29
Annual Report 2020
ACTIVE OWNERSHIP
The full spectrum of active ownership
Our tiered approach to reporting
TIER 1: PE
O
Led by the sustainable investment team. Our 5+ year engagement and strategy with  C
S
Amazon is a great example of how we may escalate in circumstances of unsatisfactory  W 
progress. Read the full story in our Q3 report. For some engagements we are supported  O
by fund managers and analysts across the business. Our case study on thawing  R
R
permafrost in our Q4 report explores how the expertise of our Data Insights Unit and  A
N
emerging market equities team play a key role in contributing to the success of this 
research and resulting engagement.
TIER 2:
Led by investment teams across Schroders our fund managers and analysts record and 
monitor their engagements in the same level of detail as the sustainable investment 
team. For example, climate risk poses material risk in the China property sector, but the 
quality and quantity of ESG disclosures are poor. In 2020, our Asian credit team developed 
quantitative questions focused on the most material topics – safety, green buildings, energy 
consumption, water consumption and alignment to China’s net zero target by 2060. The 
results will provide a standardised dataset that will be updated regularly.
TIER 3:
Broader in scope, this involves communicating our expectations of companies at scale 
and collaborating with industry peers, recognising that there is strength in numbers. 
For example, as highlighted by our CEO’s open letter to companies published in the 
Financial Times at the start of the pandemic, we encouraged companies to protect 
their stakeholders and provide flexibility to their employees, customer and suppliers. 
We closely monitored how companies were treating employees at a time of national 
lockdowns, remote working and disruption to daily lives. 
Recognising that in the right circumstances, there may be a greater opportunity for change, 
we regularly engage collaboratively. In the first half of 2020, we participated in a project 
led by Churches, Charities and Local Authorities (CCLA) engaging FTSE 100 companies 
on mental health. As a member of the FTSE 100, Schroders was both a participant and a 
recipient of the engagement request. As a company it gave us confidence that we had 
strong practices in place, whilst benchmarking against peers gave us insight and an 
opportunity to learn from emerging best practice around how companies were managing 
labour practices and protecting employees’ mental health during the pandemic.
TIER 4:
Captures our global voting activity and company meetings recorded by investment teams. 
These conversations typically focus on dialogue – how prepared a company is for the 
changing world – rather than requesting specific, measurable changes. Sustainability issues 
may not always be the main focus of these conversations but this dialogue is critical in 
understanding how our investments are adapting to emerging risks and opportunities. 
E
TIER 5: P
O
Promoting sustainability at a market level through industry involvement and public policy  C
S
contribution offers the widest global scope of influence. Of course, with such wide scope  D 
A
comes limitations in the accuracy of quantifying this influence, but by no means diminishes its 
O
importance. For example, we were part of the CDP’s non-disclosure engagement campaign  R
B
at the beginning of 2020. The campaign resulted in a 20% response rate, the highest in the 
campaign’s history. 
Sustainable Investment Report
30
Annual Report 2020
Sustainable Investment Report
31
Annual Report 2020
ACTIVE OWNERSHIP
Our approach to engagement
2020 in numbers
Our tiered approach to engagement reporting allows us to capture the full sphere of our influence. In 2020, we held 
over 2,150 sustainability-focused engagements (tiers 1-3 in the table below), interacting with over 1,490 companies 
across 58 countries. Our voting activity, other company meetings where sustainability may not be the primary focus, 
and our efforts to help shape industry best practice, are reflected in tiers 4 & 5. Please see p. 38 for more detail on 
our approach to voting.
Number of 
Tier Scope
engagements 
1 In-depth, sustainable investment team-led engagements  233
2 Analyst/fund manager-led engagement  388
3 Collaborative engagement and communicating expectations at scale 1,535
4 Influence through actively voting on all holdings and conducting company meetings 15,300
5 Industry involvement and public policy influence >25,000
Source: Schroders as at 31 December 2020.
FIGURE 6: COMPANY ENGAGEMENT BY REGION
30%
16%
26%
22%
2%
UK   30% 4%
Europe (ex-UK)   26%
Asia Pacific  22%
North America   16% 
Latin America  4%
Middle East and Africa  2% 
Source: Schroders as at 31 December 2020.
Sustainable Investment Report
32
Annual Report 2020
WHY DO WE ENGAGE?  4.   Incentive: We have the power to reduce or even sell 
When engaging our purpose is to seek additional  out of a holding if engagement is unsuccessful, or the 
understanding, share our expectations or, where  option to avoid investing at all. 
necessary, to seek change that will protect and enhance 
the value of investments for which we are responsible.  We focus on issues material to the long-term value of 
The following four attributes are critical to the success of  our investee holdings across a range of asset classes. 
our engagement approach:  These include a full range of stakeholder issues from 
employees, customers, and communities to the 
1.   Knowledge: We leverage the knowledge of our  environment, suppliers and regulators. The governance 
analysts and portfolio managers to really understand  structure and management quality that oversee these 
which sustainability issues matter to long-term  stakeholder relationships are also a key focus for 
performance.  our engagement discussions. These issues may be 
identified through our thematic research, company 
2.   Relationships: We have built strong, long-standing  level investment research, stakeholder scores within our 
relationships with the companies in which we  proprietary tools or responding to controversies. 
invest, with our engagement history dating back to 
the year 2000.  We divide our engagement into two categories: fact 
finding and change facilitation. Figure 7 below shows 
3.   Impact: The insight gained through engagement can  how this has been split over the past five years.
directly influence the investment case. 
FIGURE 7: ESG ENGAGEMENT OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS
2500
2000
1500
1000
500
0
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Change facilitation Fact-finding
Source: Schroders as at 31 December 2020.
Sustainable Investment Report
33
Annual Report 2020
HOW DO WE ENGAGE? Our mechanism for engagement typically involves one 
Our engagement activities are undertaken by our  of the following methods which may vary by region: 
portfolio managers, financial analysts and the 
sustainable investment team.  –  One-to-one meetings with company representatives 
(e.g. members of the Board including board 
An engagement generally begins with a process of  committee chairs, senior executives, Investor 
enhancing our understanding of the company and  Relations, managers of specialist areas such as  
helping the company to understand our position on  a sustainability or environmental manager) 
the particular position on a topic. The extent to which 
–  Written correspondence; 
we expect to effect change depends on the specific 
situation, the amount that we own and where we sit in  –  Phone calls; 
the capital structure.  –  Discussions with company advisers and 
stakeholders; 
–  Voting; 
–  Collective engagement with other investors 
–  Events to educate companies or collaborate on new 
reporting frameworks
Due to the impacts of the Covid-19, many of our 
meetings became video calls.
FIGURE 8: COMPANY ENGAGEMENT BY TYPE IN 2020
1% 2%
Call (group)
2% 8%
Call (one-to-one)
1%
12%
Collaborative engagement
Email
Engagement  
Meeting (group) by type 74%
Meeting (one-to-one)
Other (e.g. letter)
Source: Schroders as at 31 December 2020.
FIGURE 9: COMPANY ENGAGEMENT BY TOPIC IN 2020
18%
Environmental
Engagement  
Social 23%
by topic
Governance 59%
Source: Schroders as at 31 December 2020.
Sustainable Investment Report
34
Annual Report 2020
HOW DO WE PRIORITISE ENGAGEMENT? 10 provides an indicative list of the specific issues we 
Our engagement activities are prioritised based on  engaged on during 2020, with the top ten issues in blue. 
several factors: 
During the year, we focused on a number of topics. 
–  The materiality of our exposure to the individual  We engaged with a large number of companies on 
companies, either by the total size of assets  issues highlighted in the multi-region, multi-sector 
invested on behalf of clients or by the percentage  thematic research produced by our Sustainable 
exposure to an individual asset Investment analysts. Themes such as gender diversity 
in the workforce, modern slavery, single use plastics, 
–   Whether there have been controversies or we know 
and thermal coal (among other climate change issues) 
about poor stakeholder relationships 
featured heavily in our 2020 engagement activity. We 
–  Whether the firm is considered an ESG laggard  also identified key governance issues such as excessive 
executive remuneration and engaged with all the 
Our equity research, fixed income research, sustainable 
holdings where the issues were applicable. Using the 
investment team and data teams frequently work 
results from our global investor studies (Figure 11) 
together to identify areas that warrant discussion with 
we can ensure that our engagement priorities remain 
companies. Engagement can be proactive or reactive.
aligned to the interests of our clients.
WHAT ISSUES DO WE ENGAGE ON?
Our engagement activity covers numerous companies, 
The appendix on page 60 provides a full list of the 
sectors and regions across a range of issues. Figure 9 
companies we engaged with in 2020.
breaks down our engagements by overall topic and Figure 
FIGURE 10: COMPANY ENGAGEMENT BY TOPIC IN 2020
Environmental Social Governance
Biodiversity Customers Accounting practices
Climate change Data security Auditors
Environmental capex Diversity Board committees
Environmental policy/ strategy Health and safety Board structure
Environmental products and services Human capital management Business integrity
Environmental supply chain Human rights Corporate strategy
Forests Labour standards ESG governance and sustainability strategy
Green bond issuance Product safety Financial policy
Pollution Social policy/ strategy Governance oversight
SDG bond Social products Related party transactions
Transparency and disclosure Supply chain management Remuneration
Waste management Transparency and disclosure Shareholder rights
Water management Succession planning
Transparency and disclosure
Voting
Source: Schroders as at 31 December 2020. Top 10 popular topics are highlighted in blue.
Sustainable Investment Report
35
Annual Report 2020
FIGURE 11: SCHRODERS INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR STUDY 2020
 
Please rank in order of importance the areas that you believe it is important for investment managers and asset 
owners to engage on
Attention to environmental issues (e.g. climate change, emissions, use of fossil fuels) #1
Corporate strategy #2
Accounting quality #3
Human rights #4
Supply chain management #5
Diversity #6
Remuneration #7
Bribery and corruption #8
Cyber security #9
Labour rights #10
Source: Schroders Institutional Investor Study 2020.
HOW DO WE TRACK AND MONITOR PROGRESS? 3. Some change 
Our sustainable investment team have tracked 
4. No change 
engagement progress since the year 2000 to ensure 
we can systematically monitor outcomes. In 2020,  5. No further change required6
we enhanced our digital infrastructure to enable  We recognise that these success factors may be 
our portfolio managers and financial analysts to  subjective, and that Schroders’ influence may not have 
capture their sustainability-focused engagements  been the sole driving force for this change. However, we 
and systematically monitor progress in the same  believe it is important to track companies’ progress and 
database as our sustainable investment team. This  measure the outcomes of our engagement. We review 
engagement database is embedded within our global  requests for change a year after they have been made, 
research platform. We began reporting this additional  and subsequently on an ongoing basis, recognising that 
engagement data in 2020.  key strategic changes will take time to implement into 
a company’s business process. We realise that effective 
WHAT ARE THE OUTCOMES OF OUR  engagement requires continuous monitoring and 
ENGAGEMENT? ongoing dialogue. Where we have engaged repeatedly 
and seen no meaningful progress, then we will escalate. 
We log all instances where we have requested change 
This can include voting against management at a 
at companies on ESG-specific issues. We review 
company’s annual general meeting (AGM).
company progress on an annual basis.  
We categorise progress in five ways: 
The chart below shows the effectiveness of our 
engagement over a three-year period. In our experience 
1. Achieved 
it takes an average of two to three years for companies 
2. Almost  to effect the change requested. 
FIGURE 12: EFFECTIVENESS OF REQUESTS FOR CHANGE
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
2017 2018 2019
Achieved Almost Some change No change No further change required
Source: Schroders as at 31 December 2020.
6 This category is used if, for example, a company has divested the business in question, or if the company has provided a valid reason for not 
implementing the change requested.
Sustainable Investment Report
36
Annual Report 2020
Sustainable Investment Report
37
Annual Report 2020
ACTIVE OWNERSHIP
Our approach to voting
WHY DO WE VOTE?  Further information on our voting policy and monthly 
As active owners of our clients’ capital, we believe  disclosure of our global voting can be found on our 
that making full use of our voting rights is part of our  website. This includes a short reasoning behind 
fiduciary duty. It is about holding management and  situations where we have voted against management, 
boards to account to ensure that they are managing  which we hope provides helpful clarity. 
the business for the long term. In order to create, 
sustain and protect the value of our investments, we  In 2020, we voted on approximately 99% of 
encourage companies to follow corporate governance  total resolutions, and instructed a vote against 
best practice. Put simply, as equity holders we have a  management at 36% of meetings. In total, we voted  
responsibility to act like owners of companies.  on over 6,500 meetings.
As outlined across the previous pages, engagement on  WHERE DO WE VOTE? 
environmental and social factors is a critical part of our 
As a global investor, Schroders votes across all regions 
process. The same is true across governance factors. 
in which we invest. The majority of voting is conducted 
We ensure that there is an ongoing dialogue, and 
from our London office; however our offices in 
form long-term relationships that reflect an in-depth 
Australia, Japan, Taiwan and Indonesia make their own 
understanding of companies. Corporate governance 
voting decisions. We try to ensure a consistent house 
best practice is an evolving area and we want to 
view is given to companies, but in order to maintain 
encourage rather than mandate improvements. 
the necessary flexibility to meet client needs, these 
We take a proactive approach in engaging with our 
local offices may determine a voting policy regarding 
significant holdings to convey our reasoning and 
the securities for which they are responsible. Japan 
policies prior to voting at general meetings. 
and Australia have their own voting policy, both of 
which are publicly available. Figure 14 represents our 
It is our policy to vote on all resolutions at all AGMs/
regional voting activity in 2020. 
EGMs globally except where there are restrictions that 
make it onerous or expensive to vote compared with 
We submit electronic votes for all meetings, however, 
the benefits of doing so. For example, shareblocking 
on occasion we may attend annual or extraordinary 
practice whereby restrictions are placed on the trading 
meetings to submit our vote in person. 
of shares which are to be voted upon. 
FIGURE 13: VOTING ACTIVITY 2016-2020
% of resolutions  % of resolutions + 
voted with  abstentions against 
Year Meetings Resolutions management management
2020 6,518 68,992 87% 13%
2019 5,876 61,156 87% 13%
2018 5,227 56,510 86% 14%
2017 5,378 62,058 82% 18%
2016 5,168 61,114 84% 16%
Source: Schroders as at 31 December 2020.
Sustainable Investment Report
38
Annual Report 2020
FIGURE 14: GLOBAL VOTING
16%
26%
17%
33%
UK   16%
3%
Asia Pacific  33%
Europe (ex-UK)   26%
5%
North America   17% 
Latin America  5%
Middle East and Africa  3% 
Source: Schroders as at 31 December 2020.
FIGURE 15: 2020 BREAKDOWN OF RESOLUTIONS VOTED ON BY CATEGORY
1% 10%
Directors related
1%
Routine business
50%
Allocation of capital 9%
Remuneration
3%
Reorganisation & mergers Resolutions 
voted on by  24%
Shareholder proposals
category
Anti-takeover
Other
2%
Source: Schroders as at 31 December 2020.
WHAT ISSUES DO WE VOTE ON?  HOW DO WE MAKE OUR VOTING DECISIONS?
Our sustainable investment team assesses both 
Schroders will engage and vote on any issue affecting 
management and shareholder proposals on a case-
the long-term sustainable value of a company in 
by-case basis. This ensures we have a complete 
which we are invested. Figure 15 shows the resolution 
understanding of the company and its circumstances, 
breakdown of topics that we vote on. The majority 
the progress of associated engagements and local 
are targeted around issues required by local stock 
standards and regulation. 
exchange listing requirements (e.g. director elections, 
acceptance of reports and the allocation of income,  Voting decisions are guided by a detailed, proprietary, 
approval of remuneration policies and reports).  region-specific framework of principles, developed in 
We also actively engage and vote on shareholder  collaboration with fund managers across Schroders. 
resolutions and have dedicated sustainable  Our own research – from both traditional and 
investment analysts who use their expertise to make  sustainable investment analysts – is integral to this 
these voting decisions.  process, in addition to drawing from external research 
such as public reporting and research from Institutional 
Shareholder Services (ISS).
Sustainable Investment Report
39
Annual Report 2020
For all companies where we have voted against a 
management recommendation we inform them of our 
decision, the reason behind it and invite future dialogue. 
In recent years we have been increasingly voting against 
individual directors. For example, where we have 
concerns about board diversity we may vote against the 
chair or other members of the nomination committee. 
Also, where there have been ongoing and significant 
areas of concerns with a company’s performance we 
have chosen to vote against individuals on the board 
who have served long tenures, or individuals who 
have multiple external board appointments. We still 
support the principle of collective board responsibility, 
but believe that there should also be some individual 
accountability. 
WHEN DO WE VOTE AGAINST COMPANY 
MANAGEMENT? 
Reflecting the growing number of environmental and 
As long-term, active investors we hope to support  shareholder resolutions, in 2020 we introduced new 
management on the resolutions they put forward, but  policies to address such issues. For example, we will 
our pragmatic approach means that we will oppose  generally vote against directors at companies where we 
management if we believe that it is in the best interests  feel that climate change is a major risk and the boards 
of our clients to do so.  cannot demonstrate publicly that they are preparing 
sufficiently for it. Where we consider companies’ 
For example, we will vote against management if we  business practices may be unsustainable we regularly 
believe a proposal diminishes shareholder rights or  engage with management teams to better understand 
if remuneration incentives are not aligned with the  their plans, and to promote more responsible 
company’s long-term performance and creation of  behaviour, and if we believe the action taken is not 
shareholder value.  appropriate will vote against individual directors. We 
invite you to read the new additions to our ESG policy. 
Where we plan to vote against the management of a 
company we have been in dialogue with, we will ensure 
management is made aware of our concerns and our 
voting intention prior to casting our vote. 
FIGURE 16: 2020 BREAKDOWN OF RESOLUTIONS VOTED AGAINST MANAGEMENT BY CATEGORY
1% 12%
Allocation of capital
1%
Anti-takeover
39%
Remuneration 22%
Reorganisation & mergers
Routine business Resolutions 
voted on by 
Shareholder proposals
category
Directors related
3%
Other
14%
8%
Source: Schroders as at 31 December 2020.
Sustainable Investment Report
40
Annual Report 2020
ACTIVE OWNERSHIP
Collaborative engagement
We recognise there may be occasions when it is more effective to work with other 
institutional shareholders to influence company management and effect positive change. 
We review collaborative engagements on a case-by-case basis to ensure that the 
objectives of such engagements are aligned with our ESG policy. Below we outline 
some of the key collaborative initiatives we have been involved in during 2020.
BOARD SUCCESSION AND CORPORATE  December 2020 the majority of companies contacted 
STRATEGY are now compliant with the Modern Slavery Act. We 
As part of the Investor Forum, we led on an initial  will continue to monitor changes and review progress 
engagement with Pearson, reiterating to the chairman  against those still failing.
the desire to move faster in finding a new external chief 
We also supported a global collaborative engagement 
executive (CEO) as investors felt that the succession 
to address concerns about an increase in bonded 
timetable was too slow. After several letters were sent in 
labour in the Middle East since the global pandemic 
collaboration with the forum, the company announced 
started. A Covid-related migrant labour crisis, reported 
a new CEO in August 2020.
by various media outlets, highlighted that migrant 
We also engaged collaboratively with Aviva. Following  workers have paid high recruitment fees to secure 
concerns around strategic direction and governance  jobs in the middle east but many jobs in construction, 
oversight, the original objectives of the engagement  extractives and hospitality have come to a halt during 
were to challenge the company to refresh their  Covid-19 with no wages being paid, leaving hundreds 
corporate strategy and to ensure an acceleration of  of thousands workers stranded and unable to repay 
board and chair succession. With the change of CEO  recruitment fees. This bonded labour is a form of 
following rapidly on the heels of the appointment of the  modern slavery. Find It, Fix It, Prevent It and ethical 
new Chair in 2020, we felt it was clear that the company  supply chain specialist Impactt have conducted desk-
had fully understood the messages from investors  based research to identify companies operating in high 
regarding the need for change. The company statement  risk sectors who have operations in the UAE. As a result 
quotes the new CEO saying, “We will look at all our  we contacted 37 companies with exposure to this risk to 
strategic opportunities, and at pace.” understand how they’re supporting migrant workers.
MODERN SLAVERY In 2020, we became part of the Investors Against 
Slavery and Trafficking Asia Pacific (IAST-APAC) 
We supported the Find It, Fix It, Prevent It modern 
coalition. In the first phase of the initiative, we 
slavery initiative that targeted FTSE 350 companies 
wrote to the 100 largest companies in Australia, 
that failed to comply with the UK Modern Slavery Act. 
encouraging them to examine broad supply chain 
The objective of the engagement was to encourage 
risks of labour exploitation.
companies to make the required changes to their 
Modern Slavery statements. We were actively involved 
in refining the target list and the letter. As at 31 
Sustainable Investment Report
41
Annual Report 2020
EMPLOYEE MENTAL HEALTH DURING COVID-19
Together with a number of other investors we contacted 
FTSE 100 companies to encourage them to put measures 
in place to help support employees’ mental health during 
the Covid-19 pandemic. In particular, we asked companies 
to consider training for line managers, increased flexibility 
in both working patterns and performance appraisals, 
and providing support systems.
WASHING MACHINES AND WATER IMPACTS
We joined a collaborative engagement with 17 asset 
managers and asset owners specifically targeting 
Sustainable Development Goal 14 – life below water. 
Thirty-five percent of micro plastics come from washing 
synthetic materials and this engagement targeted 
washing machine manufacturers, asking that they fit 
filters to products to minimise the environmental impact. 
WORKER SAFETY IN THE US PROTEIN SECTOR
We supported a small collaborative engagement led by 
the ICCR (Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility)
on worker safety in the US protein sector during Covid-19. 
The Covid-19 pandemic brought increased focus to 
how company employees are protected at work. And 
one industry in particular has been put under great 
scrutiny: the US meat processing industry. Media 
stories highlighted concentrations of outbreaks with 
the workers of one meat processing firm accounting for 
55% of infections for an entire state. Twenty thousand 
meat workers across 216 US plants became ill with 
Covid-19. Given the immediate concerns with this sector 
we joined 20 other investors from across the US and 
Europe to collectively raise our concerns at two of the 
largest US meat companies in which we have been long 
term holders in the bonds; JBS and its listed subsidiary 
Pilgrim’s Pride. You can read about the engagement in 
full in our Q3 sustainable investment report.
Sustainable Investment Report
42
Annual Report 2020
RISKS IN THE PROTEIN SUPPLY CHAIN
The burgeoning plant-based foods market is predicted 
to capture between 10% to 60% of the total meat 
market over the next 10-20 years. As investors in the 
food sector, we believe that it is crucial for companies 
to adopt a comprehensive, global, evidence-based 
approach to diversifying their protein offerings in 
order to mitigate supply chain risks and to capitalise 
on changing consumer preferences. As part of our 
ongoing collaborative initiative with Farm Animal 
Investment Risk and Return (FAIRR) on sustainable 
proteins, we reached out to 18 global food retailers 
and manufacturers to seek an update on their 
strategic approach to: 
A. Transitioning their product portfolio (towards 
lower impact and more sustainable sources that 
include plant-based and/ or alternative proteins), to 
support a dietary transition in line with a 1.5-degree 
world; and 
B. Their method for tracking and measuring exposure 
to animal and plant-based proteins.
INDIGENOUS COMMUNITY RIGHTS
We joined an initiative to write to leading mining 
companies about their indigenous communities 
practices, led by the Church of England Pensions 
Board. The letter requested further information on 
actions companies have undertaken to manage risks 
in light of the destruction of Juukan caves in Australia. 
While this example arose in Australia, the principles 
apply to projects globally. Specifically, the letter 
requested transparency on: 
1. Approach to relationships with indigenous 
stakeholders including standards adhered to, 
policies and implementation; 
2. Governance, oversight and key performance 
indicators; 
3. Specific actions taken to manage risks across 
business (e.g. reviewing existing agreements); 
4. Disclosure; and 
5. Where relevant, the company’s position regarding 
legislative changes in Australia on the protection of 
indigenous communities. 
Responses are being gathered from companies 
with the group’s intention to initiate further 
dialogue that will include input from community 
representatives as well as the companies.
Sustainable Investment Report
43
Annual Report 2020
ACTIVE OWNERSHIP
Industry involvement and public policy
We support, and collaborate with, several industry groups, organisations and initiatives.
These are important in improving responsible  –  A measurement of outcomes (i.e. the degree to which 
investment standards across sectors, establishing a  targets/performance indicators were met, or other 
consistent dialogue with companies, and in promoting  qualitative or quantitative measurements of results).
the ongoing development and recognition of 
Our initial letter of commitment is available here. Our 
sustainability and ESG within the investment industry. 
first COP will be published in April 2021.
We also work with international and regional trade 
associations, that we are members of, to develop their 
Net Zero Asset Managers Initiative 
submissions on various regulatory issues around the 
world. A full list of organisations and initiatives of  In December 2020, we joined 29 other global asset 
which Schroders is a member or signatory is available  managers representing more than $9trillion of assets 
on our website. in launching the Net Zero Asset Managers Initiative. As 
part of the initiative we have committed to:
"We believe that working with  –  Work in partnership with asset owner clients on 
peers and policymakers on  decarbonisation goals, consistent with an ambition 
to reach net zero emissions by 2050 or sooner 
sustainability and ESG issues is an 
across all assets under management;
important activity. We regularly 
–  Set an interim target for the proportion of assets to 
respond to public consultations  be managed in line with the attainment of net zero 
emissions by 2050 or sooner; and
both as a firm and working with 
–  Review our interim target at least every five years, 
investor groups."
with a goal of ratcheting up the proportion of 
assets covered until 100% are included, as efforts to 
structurally decarbonise economies play out.
COMMITTEES OR INITIATIVES PROMOTING 
RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT
Climate Financial Risk Forum (CFRF)
UN Global Compact  Schroders actively contributes to the disclosure and 
innovation technical working groups of the CFRF. The 
In January 2020, we became signatories to the UN 
CFRF, co-chaired by the Financial Conduct Authority 
Global Compact. As a signatory we will disclose annually 
(FCA) and the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA), 
our communication on progress (COP), including:
builds capacity and shares best practice across financial 
–  A statement signed by the chief executive  regulators and industry to advance our sector’s 
expressing continued support for the UN Global  responses to the financial risks from climate change. 
Compact and renewing our ongoing commitment 
In 2020, the CFRF published a guide to climate-related 
to the initiative and its principles. This is separate 
financial risk management. The guide aims to help 
from our initial letter of commitment to join the UN 
financial firms understand the risks and opportunities 
Global Compact.
that arise from climate change, and provides support 
–  A description of practical actions (i.e. disclosure of  for how to integrate them into their risk, strategy and 
any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that  decision-making processes. 
the company has taken (human rights, labour 
environment, anti-corruption).
Sustainable Investment Report
44
Annual Report 2020
Committee on Climate Change and corporate governance principles for US listed 
As part of the Committee on Climate Change  companies. In 2020, we joined the ISG ESG working 
low carbon finance advisory group, Schroders  group. We collaborated with the working group on 
contributed to the development of a set of policy  ESG standards in the market.
recommendations. The recommendations can be  
used by UK government to ensure the flow of capital  FrenchSIF
and to align financial markets and the UK climate  
Schroders became a member of FrenchSIF in 2019. In 
goals to decarbonise the economy by 2050.
2020 we participated in a sub-group aiming to assess 
the existing references in impact measurement, define 
Investor Forum the rules/expectations/principles for a “robust” impact 
We participated in a workshop on working practices in  measure and its ultimate objective, to propose a 
the construction sector. Two corporates presented   common definition of an impact measure.
their approach to monitoring labour standards; 
Marshalls and Land Securities. A collaborative investor 
initiative, led by CCLA called Find It, Fix It, Prevent It  
was also discussed, which we then went on to 
participate in. More details on this initiative and our  
governance-related engagements are available on p. 39
Linklaters Non Executive Masterclass
Schroders spoke at a dedicated ESG session as part 
of a series of roundtables for non-executive directors 
(NEDs) run by Linklaters. The audience hosted a 
wide range of NEDs from financial institutions and 
corporates. We discussed recent developments in 
UK and EU climate policy and the potential impacts 
on companies, shared our perspectives on current 
and future ESG best practice, and explained how 
institutional investors can help Board move towards 
best practice, encouraging further dialogue and 
engagement between companies and investors. 
Sustainability Accounting Standards boards (SASB)
Established in 2011, SASB is an independent,  
private-sector standards setting organisation based 
in San Francisco, California. In 2019, Schroders was 
invited to become a member of the exclusive SASB 
Investor Advisory Group (IAG). SASB established the 
IAG in 2016 to provide investor feedback and guidance 
for the organisation, and to demonstrate investor 
support for a market standard for investor-focused 
sustainability disclosure. In 2020, we spoke at the 
annual SASB IAG on the importance of ESG data and 
disclosure in financial analysis.
Investor Stewardship Group (ISG)
In March 2018, we became endorsers of The Investor 
Stewardship Group, a collective of some of the 
largest US based institutional investors and global 
asset managers. The ISG was formed to bring all 
types of investors together to establish a framework 
of basic standards of investment stewardship and 
corporate governance for US institutional investors 
and boardroom conduct. The result is the framework 
for US Stewardship and Governance comprising of a 
set of stewardship principles for institutional investors 
Sustainable Investment Report
45
Annual Report 2020
Hong Kong Green Finance Association (HKGFA) expressed our concerns towards practical application 
HKGFA’s provides greater access and opportunities  of some aspects of the framework, such as the current 
for Hong Kong’s financial institutions to participate  limitations of meaningful scope 3 emissions data. 
in green financing transactions locally, in mainland 
China and in markets along the Belt & Road. This  CFA
is in line with the global trend of implementing the 
We responded to the CFA Institute ESG Disclosure 
UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris 
Standards for Investment Products consultation. Our 
Agreement. Schroders actively participates in two 
response supported the need for an internationally 
working groups: ESG Disclosure and Integration, and 
recognised reporting standard, but we encouraged 
Green Bonds and Product Innovation.
the CFA to ensure alignment between existing and 
emerging local and international regulation and 
Asia Investor Group on Climate Change (AIGCC)  standards that are working towards a common goal. 
The AIGCC is an initiative to create awareness and  Our response is available on the CFA website.
encourage action among Asia’s asset owners and 
financial institutions about the risks and opportunities  London Stock Exchange and FTSE Russell
associated with climate change and low carbon 
investing. It has several work streams including on  Schroders had a one-to-one call to discuss how to 
Engagement and Policy, Net Zero Investment, Physical  better support companies and investors with the 
Risk and Resilience and Climate Change Training. We  company data they provide. We also discussed 
serve as the Vice-Chair of AIGCC. adapting and improving the data produced by the 
Transition Pathway Initiative (TPI) in terms of risk 
management measurements and carbon performance 
Responsible Investment  
aligned to different temperatures, and outlined our 
Association of Australasia (RIAA)
approach to climate change analysis and engagement 
The RIAA champions responsible investing and a  more broadly.
sustainable financial system in Australia and New 
Zealand.  RIAA is dedicated to ensuring capital is 
Center for Audit Quality
aligned with achieving a healthy society, environment 
and economy. We participated with other institutional investors on 
an ESG research project coordinated by the Center for 
Audit Quality.
CONSULTATIONS AND SHAPING BEST PRACTICE
Public companies, investors, regulators, and 
Focusing capital on the long term (FCLT)
policymakers are all showing increased interest in 
FCLT is an non-governmental organisation (NGO) 
developing uniform and reliable standards for ESG 
dedicated to encouraging long-term behaviours in 
reporting. The Center for Audit Quality (CAQ), a  
business and investment decision-making.
non-profit advocacy organisation dedicated to 
enhancing investor confidence and public trust in 
Schroders is a member of the group advising on  
the global capital markets, assembled a panel of 16 
long-term incentive plans and potential changes 
senior institutional investors to gauge their opinions 
to industry views. FCLT Global expects that tailored 
of ESG reporting. Respondents were recruited 
changes can make a meaningful difference in 
specifically for their knowledge of ESG reporting. 
rewarding long-term behaviours. The project has 
Participants included investors from institutions 
two phases, the first discerning a longer-term standard 
representing US asset owners (both equity and credit), 
for each of the common elements in compensation plan 
US pension fund asset owners, and labour union 
design and, the second, evaluating the correlation 
asset owners. Respondents included CEOs, CFOs, and 
between long-term performance and use of long-term 
ESG researchers, analysts, and portfolio managers at 
stock awards as a form of compensation. 
investment institutions.
Institutional Investors Group on Climate  
FinDatEx
Change (IIGCC)
FinDatEx (Financial Data Exchange Templates) was 
We responded to a consultation on the IIGCC’s 
established by representatives of the European 
proposed net zero investment framework. Overall, we 
financial services sector industry with the view to 
agree with the intention behind the framework and 
coordinate, organise and carry out standardisation 
its combination of top down and bottom up targets 
work to facilitate the exchange of data between 
to drive ambition while driving “real world” emissions 
stakeholders in application of European financial 
reductions. We commended their consideration of 
markets legislation, such as MiFID II.
science-based net zero pathways in its approach 
to ensure alignment with other initiatives and not  Schroders is a member of the working group tasked 
to cause additional burden for investors. We also 
Sustainable Investment Report
46
Annual Report 2020
with designing the technical templates needed to  on ESG disclosures regulation – view Schroders’ 
facilitate the exchange of data between stakeholders in  response here. 
application of European financial markets legislation.
Financial Reporting Council (FRC)
PUBLIC POLICY
The Financial Reporting Council is an independent 
Below we outline Schroders' contribution to public  regulator in the UK and Ireland, responsible for 
policy developments in 2020, both directly and through  regulating auditors, accountants and actuaries, 
contributing to responses submitted by industry bodies  and setting the UK's Corporate Governance and 
such as the Investment Association (IA) and the European  Stewardship Codes. In 2020, the FRC hosted a 
Fund and Asset Management Association (EFAMA). webinar and Q&A session to gauge views on the new 
stewardship code ahead of reporting next year and to 
European Commission discuss their review of early reporting. 
Comprehensive consultation on the review of the 
Schroders was showcased as best practice using 
Non-Financial Reporting Directive – view Schroders’ 
multiple case studies in the review of early reporting. 
response here. 
We also actively contributed to the Q&A to share our 
views on best practice, our approach and areas for 
Draft delegated acts on the integration of 
growth and improvement.
sustainability factors under MiFID (product 
governance) – view Schroders’ response here. 
IFRS Foundation
Draft delegated acts on the integration of 
We responded to the IFRS Foundation’s consultation 
sustainability factors under MiFID (organisational  
on sustainability reporting. Similar to the CFA 
and operational requirements) – view Schroders’ 
consultation, our response supported the need for 
response here.
an internationally recognised reporting standard, 
however we encouraged collaboration between 
Draft delegated acts on the integration of 
the IFRS Foundation and existing standard setting 
sustainability factors under UCITS – view Schroders’ 
initiatives such as TCFD and SASB to achieve that. Our 
response here.
response is available on the IFRS website.
Draft delegated acts on the integration of 
sustainability factors under AIFM – view Schroders’  Monetary Authority of Singapore Environment Risk 
response here. Management Guidelines (MAS EnRM Guidelines) 
Working Group
Commission Delegated Regulation on a climate 
These guidelines set out MAS’ expectations on 
change mitigation and adaptation taxonomy – view 
environmental risk management for all fund 
EFAMA’s response here.
management companies and real estate investment 
Renewed sustainable finance strategy – view  trust managers. Schroders was part of a select group 
Schroders’ response here.  of fund managers that worked closely with MAS to 
debate, draft and review the guidelines.
European Securities and Markets Authority
Consultation on draft regulatory technical standards 
Sustainable Investment Report
47
Annual Report 2020
Sustainability insights 
Better investment insights come from 
creative and innovative research. 
At Schroders, we strive to be at the very forefront of 
thinking on existing and emerging sustainability topics. 
Our thematic research aims to enhance our understanding 
of the material sustainability risks and opportunities that 
may impact a company’s valuation and risk profile. 
To fully understand a company’s potential you need to look 
beyond the annual report. Analysis of how companies deal 
with all their stakeholders – such as customers, clients, and 
employees – are all vital clues to a company’s long-term 
ability to grow and deliver consistent returns. 
Schroders’ sustainable investment team produces insightful 
multi-sector and multi-region research on a range of ESG 
issues. During 2020, we examined topics such as: 
–  Climate change (including carbon capture and storage 
and permafrost)
–  Plastics 
–  Regulation (topics included EU Green Deal, Farm to Fork 
Strategy, social and environmental implications of a 
Biden presidency)
–  Political lobbying
–  Palm oil
We also publish papers to help educate clients and  
the broader public. During 2020, we published the 
following papers: 
–  Demystifying stewardship: how is it really done?
–   Can you really invest sustainably and still get a good 
income?
–   What are the UN's Sustainable Development Goals? A 
quick guide
–   Gearing up against greenwashers: investors seek clarity 
on sustainability terminology
–   Proxy voting: how we influence corporate behaviour 
around the world
In the following section we highlight climate change and 
the extension of one of our existing proprietary tools to 
include country analysis.
Sustainable Investment Report
48
Annual Report 2020
SUSTAINABILITY INSIGHTS
Expanding SustainEx: how we’re  
measuring the social and environmental 
impact of countries
In 2019, we launched our proprietary impact measurement tool SustainEx™. It measures 
the costs or benefits companies impose on society for which they are neither penalised 
nor compensated financially. Using the same logic, we have now developed Sovereign 
SustainEx. This extends our analysis to the country-level to help us quantify the positive 
and negative impacts countries have on the rest of the world. It is designed to help 
our analysts and fund managers measure and manage these social and environmental 
impacts and risks more effectively.
Our country-focused SustainEx framework examines 
26 measures of social and environmental impacts 
attributable to sovereigns, leveraging the insights of 
over 750 academic and industry studies to quantify the 
global costs and benefits we have identified. We apply 
the resulting analysis to over 150 governments. 
The framework is designed to be: 
•  C omprehensive: It includes as wide a range of 
environmental and social externalities that are 
WHAT IS SOVEREIGN SUSTAINEX? relevant to countries as feasible. We do not impose 
Sovereign SustainEx is a tool which measures the global  our own views of materiality; the relative importance 
costs and benefits arising from specific activities, and  of each issue is calibrated through the analysis of 
how countries contribute positively or negatively to  economic externalities.
these. For example, cyber crime is a significant and  •   Objective and transparent: All of the modelling is 
growing cost to the global economy, particularly as  grounded as far as possible in objective measures 
more of the world’s population moves online and  and academic or industry analysis. This analysis 
commerce becomes increasingly digital. According to  and any assumptions made are well defined and 
some estimates, the global cost of cybercrime is just  transparent. 
over 1% of global GDP. On the other hand, foreign  
aid - typically from developed to developing  •   Consistent and systematic: Conclusions are based 
governments and countries – represents an  on systematic and objective analysis; our judgement 
international transfer of wealth to alleviate social  may influence the framework but not the application 
challenges and support sustainable development. to individual investments.
Sustainable Investment Report
49
Annual Report 2020
FIGURE 17: IMPACTS SPANNING LOCAL AND GLOBAL ISSUES
Government
Focus of government analysis 
(Sovereign SustainEx)
Terrorism
Refugees
Education Infrastructure
Illegal  
International   financial   International 
Pandemics Piracy
aid flows  students
Protectionism
Financial 
Predatory  stability Biodiversity loss
taxation
Ocean pollution
Armaments  Modern slavery
Cyber   production
crime
Clean   Carbon  NOx & SOx  Medicine 
energy emissions Emissions Provision
Global   National 
consequences Innovation consequences
Discrimination
Deforestation
Overfishing Corruption Taxation
Plastics 
pollution Antimicrobial  Connectivity Access to  
wFoaostde   Nwuacsletear   Waterr esistance PesCthicilidd e&s  Subsidies Wawsateter Plreenddaitnogry 
withdrawal VOC   maternal  Mental stress Power  
emissions nutrition Sewerage &  provision
sanitation
Birth  
Fertilizer   control
use Financial 
Obesity inclusion
Heavy  
metals Pharmaceutical  Tobacco & 
abuse smoking
Training Social media
Alcoholism
Gambling 
Community 
operations
donations Salaries & 
Benefits Food-borne 
Video   illnesses
games
Number of  Employee 
injuries fatalities
Mining  
waste
Focus of company 
 analysis (SustainExTM)
Company
Source: Schroders. For illustration only.
Sustainable Investment Report
50
Annual Report 2020
MAPPING THE RANGE OF IMPACTS declined by 6.5 million hectares per year between 2010 
The impacts we have identified are based on  and 2015 (in total, an area larger than the UK), and 
our own analysis, drawing as far as possible on  natural wetlands declined by 35% between 1970 and 
existing frameworks, including the UN Sustainable  2015. Over 30% of corals are now at risk from bleaching, 
Development Goals (SDGs) and The Economics of  and 60% of vertebrate populations have disappeared 
Ecosystems and Biodiversity (TEEB) initiative.  since 1970. Land use change, over-exploitation of 
natural resources, pollution, invasive alien species and 
In Figure 17, we show the range of impacts included  climate change underpin the threat. 
in SustainExTM across both country and company 
analysis. We plot the impacts to show the extent to  Biodiversity protection is fundamental to achieving 
which companies or countries are likely to be held  food security, poverty reduction and more inclusive 
accountable and the extent to which the impacts are  and equitable development. We calculate a country’s 
national or global. Over time, we intend to include  contribution to biodiversity by combining their land 
other measures and refine our modelling. area with a ranking of their protection of ecosystems. 
Each country's share of that total is multiplied by the 
TRANSLATING IMPACTS TO COSTS  global annual cost of biodiversity loss attributed to 
public sectors. 
We translate all of the impacts we have identified into 
economic costs or benefits, measured in monetary 
Unit activity: combining country output with unit 
terms. This quantification relies on systematic analysis 
of global impact costs or benefits, country exposures  impact estimates
and impact attribution. There are three broadly- Some social and environmental impacts are measured 
defined models to translate externalities into social  in terms of the impact of a unit of activity, such as the 
or environmental impacts, as outlined in Figure 18.  damage caused by each tonne of carbon dioxide released.
We use consistent assumptions across sovereign 
and corporate securities where measures overlap, to  We estimate the cost of each country’s carbon 
enable comparability. footprint by using consistent assumptions for the cost 
of carbon across countries. Based on the academic 
Global value: attributing impact in proportion to  studies we have examined, we arrive at an average 
countries’ share of the activity cost of $85 per tonne of carbon emitted. Our analysis 
of the impacts of countries on carbon emissions 
Where impacts are most robustly estimated at a global  uses the estimated annual emissions (in tonnes) 
level, we attribute the total cost or benefit to countries  attributable to countries’ public sectors rather than 
in proportion to their share of the activity.  national emissions to avoid attributing costs already 
attributed to companies.
For example, biodiversity loss is among the top global 
risks to society. According to the OECD, natural forests 
Sustainable Investment Report
51
Annual Report 2020
FIGURE 18: THREE APPROACHES TO QUANTIFYING IMPACTS
Type Summary Requires Calculation
Estimated annual global social 
Define activity  Share global cost between 
burden/impact, allocated to 
Global value responsible for  countries based on their 
countries in proportion to their share 
impact activity share
of activity
Quantify or estimate  Multiply level of activity 
Estimated impact of individual 
Unit activity level of activity for  by the social costs of that 
actions multiplied by country activity
each country activity
Determine 
Calculate social costs or 
Costs are estimated directly based on  relationship between 
Monetary benefits based on country 
the monetary value of country actions public benefit or cost 
spending on that activity
and private spending
Source: Schroders.
Monetary: examining the monetary value of  required level implied by each country's income, 
countries’ action multiplied by the population under 20.
Our final approach to estimating countries’ costs or 
benefits is based on how much countries spend on 
BRINGING THE ANALYSIS TOGETHER
that particular activity. 
For example, education. There is a clear relationship  Aggregating the analysis for the 175 countries 
between those countries which have invested most  assessed, the chart above (Figure 19) plots the 
heavily in education and those which have benefited  most positive to most negative overall impacts. 
from the most rapid economic growth. To the extent 
The most important – by the magnitude of their 
that education focuses on younger cohorts, the 
impact – are generally unsurprising. The largest 
benefits of that investment will emerge in the  
global cost comes from the environmental 
future, while underinvestment represents a drag  
damage caused by carbon emissions, followed 
on future development. 
by lower productivity and growth as a result 
To arrive at the social benefit of education, we  of discrimination. Meanwhile, the knowledge 
calculate the difference between average public  advancement arising from innovation and talent 
spending on education per capita under 20 and the  migration provide the most significant benefits.
Sustainable Investment Report
52
Annual Report 2020
FIGURE 19: RANKING COUNTRIES’ OVERALL SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS BY MEASURE
$tr 300
st)  200
o
c
fit/( 100
e
n 0
e
b
al  -100
b
glo -200
Net  -300
-400
Innovation International aid ultinational institutions Clean energy Medical research University educations Predatory taxation Illegal financial flows NOx emissions Modern slavery Piracy War Ocean pollution SOx Emissions Terrorism Cyber crime Forest sinks Infrastructure Discrimination Financial stability Talent migration Biodiversity loss Education Pandemics Refugees Protectionism Water Carbon Emissions
M
Source: Schroders, based on latest data available as at 31 January 2020. For illustrative purposes only.
HOW CAN SOVEREIGN SUSTAINEX BE APPLIED? identify the countries facing the most significant risks 
and to understand where those risks stem from.
As an investment tool 
By using an objective, transparent and robust  To assess whether a country has a net positive or 
methodology grounded in academic research and  negative impact on the rest of the world, we sum its 
industry analysis, Sovereign SustainEx provides our  impact across all of the measures identified in our 
analysts and fund managers with a consistent measure  framework. An example of the output is shown in  
that is comparable across countries. It helps them to  Figure 20.
FIGURE 20: AGGREGATING POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE IMPACTS FOR A COUNTRY
7.0%
6.0%
5.0%
4.0%
3.0%
2.0%
1.0%
0.0%
Nbaesuetlrianle  International aid Innovation Multinational institutions Other positives Other negatives Refugees Protectionism Carbon Emissions Aggregate impact
Source: Schroders. For illustration only.
Sustainable Investment Report
53
Annual Report 2020
To assess portfolio impact 
Increasingly, investors want to understand the social and environmental impact of their entire investment portfolio, 
spanning asset classes. Our Sovereign SustainExTM framework can be used to assess portfolio level impact across 
a range of sovereign assets (e.g. an emerging market debt fund), or combined with SustainExTM to measure the 
impact of an equity, credit and sovereign portfolio (see Figure 21). By providing the flexibility to apply different 
lenses to the outputs, investors are able to focus on the priorities that are most important to them.
FIGURE 21: ASSESSING THE IMPACT OF A DIVERSIFIED PORTFOLIO 
EQUITIES CREDIT SOVEREIGNS
EXPOSURE BY CATEGORY
0
-0.5
-1.0
-1.5
-2.0
-2.5
-3.0
Planet People Peace Prosperity Partnership Total
BY ASSET CLASS
0
-0.5
-1.0
-1.5
-2.0
-2.5
-3.0
Baseline Equities Credit Sovereign Portfolio total
BY PORTFOLIO
act 0
mp -0.5
olio i -1.0
ortf -1.5
p
n to  -2.0
utio -2.5
b
ntri -3.0
Co Neutral Portfolio A Portfolio B Portfolio C Portfolio D Portfolio E Portfolio F Portfolio G Portfolio H Portfolio I Portfolio J Portfolio K Portfolio L Portfolio M Portfolio N Portfolio O Portfolio P Portfolio Q Portfolio R Portfolio S Portfolio T Portfolio U Portfolio V ortfolio total
P
Source: Schroders. For illustration purpose only; not recommendation to buy or sell in any categories mentioned above.
Sustainable Investment Report
54
Annual Report 2020
SUSTAINABILITY INSIGHTS
Reflections on climate change
Climate change will be a defining driver of the global economy, society and financial 
markets in the future, and investors will be unable to avoid its impacts. While some 
progress has been made, the investment industry still has a lot of work ahead to align 
strategies and portfolios for the disruption the low carbon transition implies.
–  RE100: we are committed to using only renewable 
electricity globally by 2025
–  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD): we were early and vocal supporters of the 
TCFD reporting framework and have committed to 
using that framework in our own reporting
–  Net Zero Asset Managers Initiative: we committed 
to support the goal of net zero greenhouse gases 
(GHG) emissions and the ambition to reach net zero 
emissions by 2050 or sooner across managed assets 
2021 will be a pivotal year in the investment industry’s 
focus on climate change. Policy action has toughened 
OUR ACTIVITY AS AN INVESTOR
sharply in 2020 and momentum is likely to continue 
–   Engaging with companies and pushing for best 
this year given the incoming US administration’s focus 
practice: We are committed to working with the 
on the issue and the focus COP26 provides for new 
companies in which we invest to ensure they 
national commitments. So far, over 110 countries have 
are assessing, minimising and disclosing climate 
set a net zero target for 2050. Together, they represent 
risks and opportunities. While our 20 years of 
more than 65% of global emissions and over 70% of 
engagement records demonstrate that this 
the world economy. While the details on how countries 
commitment is not new to us, our expectations of 
plan to achieve their ambitious goals will be key, 
investee companies and the relevance of material 
trillions of dollars have already been earmarked for 
climate-related disclosure are both rising rapidly. 
green investments as part of Covid-19 recovery plans.
Our CEO, Peter Harrison, wrote to FTSE 350 
companies early in 2021 asking them to produce 
" Schroders has long recognised  and publish detailed, costed, transition plans 
the importance of climate  –  Educating companies: we organise events for  
non-executive directors to educate them on the 
change as an investment issue."
impacts climate change will have on all business 
models and to urge them to take action
We voted on our first climate change resolution in 
–   Industry groups and collaborative initiatives: we 
2000 and recorded our first company engagement 
support a number of groups and initiatives such 
on the topic in 2002. In 2007, we launched our Global 
as the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Climate 
Climate Change strategy, which invests in companies 
Action 100+ initiative, the Paris Pledge for Action, 
that recognise the threats of climate change and 
Transition Pathway Initiative and the 2018 Global 
embrace the challenges, or that form part of the 
Investor Statement on Climate Change
solution to the problems linked to climate change.  
At that time, climate change was low on political,  –  Client education: we publish thought pieces 
company and investment agendas. Now, climate  on a range of climate topics and regularly hold 
change dominates headlines and is recognised by world  roundtables and webinars 
leaders as the largest global risk in terms of likelihood.  –   Product solutions for clients: our Global Climate 
Change strategy is one of the market’s longest 
OUR COMMITMENTS FOR OUR OWN BUSINESS standing climate strategies and has grown to over 
–  Carbon neutral operations: since January 2019  $3 billion. In recent years, we have launched several 
we have been running our global operations  other fossil fuel free and low carbon solutions, 
on a carbon neutral basis. To accomplish this,  including our Global Energy Transition and QEP 
we have partnered with ClimateCare, experts in  Global ESG ex fossil fuels strategies. 
providing verified carbon offset services, who 
finance international projects to offset our residual 
greenhouse gas emissions 
Sustainable Investment Report
55
Annual Report 2020
OUR INVESTOR TOOLKIT LOOKING FORWARD
We have invested heavily in proprietary research and  If the world is to meet the Paris goals and limit global 
tools to help our analysts and fund managers across  warming to 1.5 degrees, significant changes need to 
asset classes to better understand the risks climate  happen in every corner of the economy. We recognise 
change poses to investments and integrate them into  the important role that we play as investors and that 
their investment decision-making. A summary of each is  there is more that we can do.
provided below.
–  Climate Progress Dashboard: monitors change  " We will continue to 
indicators across the four categories that have the 
actively engage with public 
most influence on limiting global temperature rises: 
political change, business and finance, technology  policymakers and those 
solutions and entrenched industry (i.e. fossil fuel use) companies exposed to climate 
–  Carbon VaR: measures the impact of rising carbon  change risks but lagging best 
costs on a company’s profitability, using an 
practice. We will also support 
estimating process to capture the three key variables 
of emissions, price and changing demand. Unlike  appropriate climate resolutions, 
carbon footprint measures, Carbon VaR focuses 
vote against the Chair where 
on companies’ business models and profit drivers 
rather than purely environmental measures necessary, and back suitable 
–   Physical risk: measures the risks to the value of  global initiatives to press for 
companies’ assets from rising physical damage 
action.
caused by rising global temperatures and weather 
disruption
–   Stranded assets risk: assesses the impact on the 
"A  s data and disclosures continue 
value of the reserves fossil fuel producers own but 
would be unable to develop if the global economy  to improve, we will refine and 
transitions toward a 2oC pathway enhance our climate toolkit 
–  Climate change growth model: measures the  for our investors to help them 
positive or negative impacts on companies' value 
assess company and portfolio 
from the faster or slower growth in demand for 
different products and services resulting from a low  alignment to net zero emissions, 
carbon transition
and to better manage 
–   Long term asset return forecasts: our global 
climate risks and evaluate 
economics team has adjusted its 30-year asset return 
forecasts to reflect the physical and transition risks of  opportunities."
climate change
Sustainable Investment Report
56
Annual Report 2020
APPENDIX
Appendix
Sustainability at Schroders: governance, resources and expertise
Schroders’ Group Chief Executive leads our ESG executive committee and retains overall responsibility for 
the firm’s sustainability strategy. We operate a top-down governance structure with executive and group 
management committee (GMC) members sitting across ESG and corporate responsibility committees, alongside 
senior members of the sustainable investment and corporate responsibility teams. Members of the GMC have 
specific objectives relating to sustainability, with a proportion of their variable remuneration dependent on 
progress against these objectives.
Schroders’ first dedicated ESG resource was hired in 1998. Today, Schroders’ sustainable investment team 
comprises 21 specialists with over 200 years of combined investment experience. The team use their knowledge 
and expertise to deliver and develop sustainability research and tools, support integration across investment 
teams, drive and support active ownership activity and work closely with clients to deliver sustainable solutions 
that meet their needs.
Importantly the team is supported by a network of collaborators across the business, driving sustainability  
best practice across our investments. The sustainable investment team also works in partnership with Schroders' 
data insights unit, using analytics and machine learning to uncover sustainable investment opportunities and 
drive alpha.
Governance and oversight
ESG Executive Committee ESG Steering Committee CR Committee
 Overall responsibility for Schroders’  Oversight and delivery of Schroders’  Aligning sustainable/responsible 
sustainability strategy.  sustainability strategy corporate and investment activity
sustainable investment team
21 specialists with 200+ years’ investment experience. 
Research & tools Integration Active ownership Product
Network of collaborators
50+ Sustainability Investment  30+ Sustainability Distribution 
25+ Data Insights Unit
Champions Champions
Harnessing unstructured data to 
  Drive ESG best practice on  Local market sustainability 
enhance sustainability insights
investment desks ambassadors
Source: Schroders as at 31 December 2020.
Sustainable Investment Report
57
Annual Report 2020
APPENDIX
Compliance with UN PRI
WHERE TO FIND 
UN PRI PRINCIPLE HOW WE COMPLY
EVIDENCE
1.  W  e will incorporate  –  Full ESG integration p. 11 - 21
ESG issues into 
investment analysis  –  Integration assessed and monitored using  
p. 12 - 13
and decision-making  accreditation framework
processes
–  Dedicated firm-wide ESG policy ESG Policy
–  Dedicated sustainable Investment team p. 57
–  Investment champions to support firm-wide  
integration efforts
–  Long-standing ESG training programme for financial 
analysts and portfolio managers
–  Proprietary investment-driven ESG analysis tools   Schroders' sustainability 
for our investors web pages
–  All ESG research shared on our proprietary global 
research platform
–  Engaging with companies and actively voting at  
2.  W  e will be active  p. 24 - 39
AGMs for several decades
owners and 
incorporate ESG  –  Dedicated active ownership policy ESG Policy
issues into our  –  Global voting strategy, aiming to vote on all resolutions in 
ownership policies  p. 38 - 40
line with firm-wide ESG policy and best interests of clients
and practices 
–  Dedicated corporate governance team to analyse and 
vote on resolutions globally
–  External engagements conducted by ESG & financial  Case studies in quarterly 
and annual sustainable 
analysts, both bilaterally and collaboratively
investment reports
–  Digital infrastructure to effectively record engagements 
and monitor progress
–  Dedicated active ownership pages including investee  Schroders' sustainability 
expectations web pages
–  Active engagement with companies to encourage  
3.  W  e will seek 
greater transparency p. 32 - 36
appropriate 
disclosure on ESG 
issues by the entities  –  Participation in collaborative disclosure initiatives to 
in which we invest improve disclosure standards such as TCFD & CDP p. 41 - 47
Sustainable Investment Report
58
Annual Report 2020
WHERE TO FIND 
UN PRI PRINCIPLE HOW WE COMPLY
EVIDENCE
–  Members, leaders and participants of various   Schroders' sustainability 
4.  W  e will promote 
forums and networks web pages
acceptance and 
implementation of  –  Collaboration with other investors to promote and 
the principles within  develop responsible investment principles and practices, 
the investment  including the PRI, International Corporate Governance  p. 42 - 47
industry Network, The Asia Investor Group on Climate Change, and 
Responsible Investment Association of Australasia
–  Sponsorship and support of responsible investment 
initiatives, including hosting conferences, seminars  
and workshops
–  Submissions to regulators, trade associations, legislators 
and other bodies
–  Working with clients who are considering becoming 
members of the PRI to help them understand the benefits 
and practicalities of membership
–  Publicising responsible investment events to clients and 
encouraging attendance
–  Trustee training and ongoing client education on 
responsible investmentand ESG trends
–  Collaboration with other investors, sharing information 
5. W  e will work  p. 42 - 47
and exchanging our views
together to enhance 
our effectiveness in  –  Active participation in industry networks such as the 
implementing the  PRI, International Corporate Governance Network, Asian 
principles Corporate Governance Association, UK Sustainable 
Investment and Finance Association, Hong Kong Green 
Finance Association and CDP
–  Responding to industry & public policy consultations 
directly and via group initiatives such as the IA and EFAMA
–  Integration case studies reported across asset classes at 
6. W  e will each report  p. 14 - 21
least annually
on our activities and 
progress towards  –  Engagement and voting case studies and progress  Quarterly and annual 
sustainable investment 
implementing the  reported at least quarterly reports
principles –  Regular research and insight papers on ESG and 
Schroders insights
responsible investing published
–  Best practice case studies included in reports and 
publications
Sustainable Investment Report
5599
Annual Report 2020
Companies engaged during 2020 
Company E S G Company E S G
Consumer Discretionary Debenhams ✓
888 ✓ Denso  ✓
Accor ✓ ✓ Dillards ✓
Ace Hardware Indonesia ✓ Dollarama  ✓
Adidas ✓ Dongfeng Motor ✓
Advtech  ✓ Dunelm Group ✓ ✓
Amazon ✓ ✓ EG Global Finance ✓
Anta Sports  ✓ Electrolux ✓
Antena 3 ✓ Euromoney ✓
Aristocrat Leisure  ✓ Expedia ✓
Barratt Developments ✓ ✓ Faurecia  ✓ ✓
Bayerische Motoren Werke ✓ ✓ Ferrari ✓
BCA Marketplace ✓ Fiat Chrysler ✓ ✓
Bellway ✓ ✓ Folli Follie ✓
Berkeley ✓ ✓ Ford Motor ✓ ✓
Booking  ✓ Ford Otosan ✓
Bovis Homes ✓ ✓ Fulham Shore  ✓
Brembo ✓ Future ✓
Bridgepoint Education ✓ Games Workshop ✓
Burberry ✓ ✓ Gap  ✓
Cairo Communications ✓ General Motors ✓ ✓ ✓
Carnival  ✓ ✓ Gentex  ✓
Centre Testing International ✓ Grupo Televisa  ✓
Cheesecake Factory  ✓ GVC  ✓
China Dongxiang  ✓ H & M Hennes & Mauritz ✓
Chipotle Mexican Grill  ✓ Halfords  ✓
Cia Hering ✓ Hangzhou Robam Appliances ✓
Coats  ✓ Hanon Systems ✓
Compagnie Financiere Richemont ✓ Headlam ✓
Compass  ✓ ✓ Henry Boot ✓
Consorcio ARA ✓ Hermes ✓
Continental ✓ ✓ Hi-Lex ✓
CVC Brasil Operadora e Agencia de  ✓ Hilton Worldwide  ✓
Viagens Howden Joinery ✓ ✓
Cyrela Brazil Realty ✓ Husqvarna ✓
Daily Mail and General Trust ✓ Hyundai Mobis ✓ ✓ ✓
Daimler ✓ ✓ Hyundai Motors ✓
Dalata Hotel Group ✓ IMA Industria Macchine  ✓
Automatiche
Sustainable Investment Report Companies mentioned herein are for informational purposes only and are not a 
60
Annual Report 2020 recommendation to buy or sell any security.
Company E S G Company E S G
Inchcape ✓ ✓ Pacific Textiles Holdings ✓ ✓
Informa ✓ ✓ Paddy Power Betfair ✓
Intercontinental Hotels ✓ ✓ Pearson ✓ ✓
ITV  ✓ ✓ Pendragon ✓
J D Wetherspoon ✓ Persimmon ✓
JD Sports Fashion ✓ Pets at Home ✓ ✓ ✓
Kering ✓ Peugeot ✓ ✓
Lagardere ✓ Photo-Me International ✓
Lear  ✓ Prada ✓
Li Ning ✓ Premier Investments ✓
Linamar  ✓ Prosus  ✓
London Quadrant ✓ PVH  ✓
LPP ✓ PVR ✓
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton ✓ Rank ✓
M J Gleeson ✓ REA Group ✓
Magazine Luiza ✓ Redrow ✓ ✓
Mahle Metal Leve  ✓ RELX  ✓ ✓
Mandarin Oriental International ✓ Renault  ✓ ✓
Marks and Spencer  ✓ ✓ ✓ Restaurant Brands International ✓
Marriott International ✓ ✓ Restaurant Group ✓
Maruti Suzuki India ✓ Rightmove ✓
McCarthy & Stone ✓ Rocket Internet ✓
McDonalds ✓ Royal Caribbean Cruises ✓
Media Nusantara Citra ✓ Ruths Hospitality  ✓
Mediaset ✓ Schaeffler ✓
Mediaset Espana Comunicacion ✓ Schibsted ✓
Metropole TV ✓ Sega Sammy ✓
Mitchells and Butlers ✓ Shenzhou International ✓
Modern Times ✓ SJM  ✓
Moncler ✓ SMCP ✓
Motherson Sumi Systems ✓ Sodexo ✓
Multichoice ✓ Sok Marketler Ticaret ✓
NACCO ✓ ✓ Sportech ✓
Namco Bandai  ✓ Sports Direct ✓ ✓
Netflix ✓ ✓ ✓ Starbucks ✓
New Oriental Education  ✓ Starts Corporation ✓ ✓ ✓
Next ✓ Stella International ✓
Nielsen  ✓ Superdry ✓
Nokian Tyres ✓ Taylor Wimpey  ✓ ✓
Nordstrom  ✓ Technogym ✓
Ocado ✓ ✓ Ted Baker ✓
Omnicom Group ✓ Telenet ✓
Companies mentioned herein are for informational purposes only and are not a  Sustainable Investment Report
61
recommendation to buy or sell any security. Annual Report 2020
Company E S G Company E S G
Television Francaise 1 ✓ Carrefour ✓ ✓
Tesla Motors ✓ Casino, Guichard-Perrachon et Cie ✓ ✓
Thomas Cook ✓ Changshouhua Food  ✓
Tianneng Power International ✓ China Mengniu Dairy  ✓
Tofas ✓ China Resources Beer ✓
Tokyo Broadcasting System ✓ Coca Cola  ✓ ✓
Toyota Motor ✓ Coles  ✓ ✓
Trinity Mirror ✓ Colgate Palmolive  ✓
Tui ✓ Colruyt ✓
URBI ✓ Conagra ✓ ✓
Valeo ✓ Costco Wholesale ✓ ✓
Veoneer ✓ Cranswick  ✓ ✓
Vestel Elektronik ✓ CVS Health ✓
Vitec Group ✓ Dairy Crest ✓
Vivendi Universal ✓ Dairy Farm International  ✓
Volkswagen ✓ ✓ Dali Foods ✓
Walt Disney ✓ Danone ✓ ✓
WH Smith ✓ Diageo  ✓ ✓
Whitbread ✓ ✓ Dino Polska ✓
William Hill ✓ ✓ Eastern ✓
William Lyon Homes ✓ Elior  ✓
Wolters Kluwer ✓ Embotella Andina ✓
WPP  ✓ ✓ Essity ✓ ✓
Xingda International  ✓ Estee Lauder ✓ ✓
Xinyi Glass ✓ Fujian Sunner Development  ✓
Yum China Holdings ✓ ✓ General Mills ✓ ✓
YUM! Brands ✓ Glanbia ✓
ZEAL Network ✓ Greencore  ✓ ✓
Consumer Staples Greggs ✓ ✓
Accrol ✓ Gruma  ✓
Alimentation Couche-Tard ✓ Grupo Nutresa ✓ ✓
Anheuser-Busch InBev ✓ ✓ Henkel ✓ ✓
Asian Citrus ✓ Hilton Food ✓
Associated British Foods ✓ Hypermarcas ✓
Astra Agro Lestari  ✓ Imperial Brands ✓ ✓
Beiersdorf ✓ ✓ J Sainsbury ✓ ✓ ✓
Bell ✓ Japan Tobacco ✓
BIM Birlesik Magazalar ✓ ✓ ✓ JBS ✓ ✓
Brahma - Ambev ✓ Kellogg  ✓
BRF Brasil Foods ✓ ✓ Kerry Group ✓ ✓ ✓
British American Tobacco  ✓ ✓ ✓ Kesko ✓
Britvic ✓ Kimberly Clark  ✓
Sustainable Investment Report Companies mentioned herein are for informational purposes only and are not a 
62
Annual Report 2020 recommendation to buy or sell any security.
Company E S G Company E S G
Kimberly-Clark de Mexico ✓ Adaro Energy ✓ ✓
Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize ✓ ✓ Alliance Resource ✓ ✓
Kraft Heinz Foods ✓ ✓ Arch Coal ✓ ✓
Kroger Co ✓ ✓ ✓ Athabasca Oil  ✓
Lindt and Spruengli ✓ Baker Hughes ✓
LOccitane International ✓ Banpu ✓ ✓
L'Oreal ✓ Bharat Petroleum ✓
Magnit ✓ Bogdanka ✓ ✓
Marine Harvest ✓ Bonavista Energy ✓
MARR ✓ BP ✓ ✓
Minerva ✓ Cabot Oil & Gas  ✓
Nestle ✓ ✓ ✓ Cairn Energy ✓
Pepsico ✓ Canacol Energy ✓
Philip Morris ✓ Cheniere Energy ✓
Pilgrim's Pride ✓ Chevron Texaco ✓
Pz Cussons ✓ China Coal Energy ✓ ✓
Raia Drogasil ✓ China Shenhua Energy ✓ ✓ ✓
Reckitt Benckiser ✓ ✓ CNOOC  ✓ ✓
São Martinho ✓ Coal India ✓ ✓ ✓
Scandinavian Tobacco ✓ Consol Energy ✓ ✓
Shanghai Milkground Food Tech  ✓ Contura Energy  ✓ ✓
SSP  ✓ ✓ Delta Dunia Makmur ✓ ✓
Stock Spirits ✓ Drilling Company of 1972 ✓
Tate & Lyle  ✓ Energy Fuels ✓ ✓
Tesco  ✓ ✓ ✓ ENSCO  ✓
Thai Beverage ✓ Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi ✓
Tiger Brands ✓ Equinor ✓ ✓ ✓
Tingyi  ✓ Erg  ✓
Tsingtao ✓ Euronav ✓
Tyson Foods  ✓ ✓ Exxon Mobil ✓ ✓
Ulker Biskuvi ✓ Gazprom ✓ ✓
Unilever  ✓ ✓ ✓ Gaztransport et Technigaz ✓
Vietnam Dairy Products Joint Stock ✓ Geo Energy Resources ✓ ✓
Vilmorin & Cie ✓ Guanghui Energy ✓ ✓
Walgreens Boots Alliance  ✓ Hallador Energy ✓ ✓
Walmart  ✓ ✓ ✓ Halliburton  ✓ ✓
Want Want China ✓ Hargreaves Services  ✓ ✓
Wesfarmers ✓ Harum Energy ✓ ✓
Wm. Morrison ✓ ✓ Helmerich & Payne ✓
Woolworths  ✓ ✓ Hindustan Petroleum ✓
X5 ✓ Hunting ✓
Energy Idemitsu Kosan ✓ ✓ ✓
Companies mentioned herein are for informational purposes only and are not a  Sustainable Investment Report
63
recommendation to buy or sell any security. Annual Report 2020
Company E S G Company E S G
IHC Caland  ✓ Shaanxi Coal Industry  ✓
Indika Inti Energi ✓ ✓ Shanxi Lu'an Environmental Energy ✓ ✓
Indo Tambangraya ✓ ✓ Shanxi Xishan Coal and Electricity  ✓ ✓
Inner Mongolia Yitai Coal ✓ ✓ Power
Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa  ✓ ✓ Tambang Batubara Bukit Asam ✓ ✓
JXTG  ✓ TECHNIPFMC ✓ ✓
Koninklijke Vopak ✓ ✓ Tenaris ✓ ✓
Lamprell ✓ Terracom  ✓ ✓
Lotos ✓ Thai Oil ✓
Lukoil PJSC ✓ Total ✓
Lundin Petroleum ✓ Towngas China ✓
Marathon Petroleum ✓ Tupras ✓
Motor Oil ✓ United Energy  ✓
National Oilwell Varco ✓ Whitehaven Coal  ✓ ✓
Natural Resource Partners  ✓ ✓ Wintershall Dea ✓
Neste Oil ✓ Wood ✓ ✓
New Hope  ✓ ✓ Woodside Petroleum ✓ ✓
NexGen Energy  ✓ ✓ Financials
Nordic American Tanker  ✓ 3i  ✓ ✓
Novatek ✓ ABN AMRO ✓
Occidental Petroleum  ✓ ACE  ✓
OMV ✓ Admiral  ✓
OMV Petrom ✓ ADO Properties ✓
Peabody Energy ✓ ✓ Agile ✓ ✓
Petrobras  ✓ Agricultural Bank of China  ✓
Petrobras Distribuidora ✓ Akbank ✓
Petrofac ✓ ✓ ✓ Al Rajhi Bank  ✓
PGNiG  ✓ Allianz ✓
Phillips 66 ✓ Allied Irish Banks  ✓
PKN ✓ American Express ✓
Premier Oil ✓ American Financial ✓
President Energy  ✓ Amlin ✓
PTT ✓ ✓ Amundi ✓
Repsol ✓ Arab National Bank ✓
Rosneft ✓ Aroundtown  ✓
Rowan Companies  ✓ Arrow Global ✓
Royal Dutch Shell  ✓ ✓ Arthur J Gallagher ✓
Saipem  ✓ Ashmore ✓ ✓
Sasol ✓ ✓ ASR ✓
SBM Offshore ✓ Assicurazioni Generali  ✓ ✓
Schlumberger ✓ ✓ Assura  ✓
Semirara Mining Corp ✓ ✓ Aviva ✓ ✓
AXA  ✓
Sustainable Investment Report Companies mentioned herein are for informational purposes only and are not a 
64
Annual Report 2020 recommendation to buy or sell any security.
Company E S G Company E S G
Ayala Land ✓ CapitaMall Trust ✓
Bajaj Finance  ✓ Catalyst Housing  ✓
Bajaj Finserv  ✓ CenterState Banks  ✓
Banca Farmafactoring ✓ Central China Real Estate ✓
Banca Generali ✓ Cerved Information Solutions  ✓
Banca IFIS ✓ Chang Hwa Bank ✓
Banco Bradesco  ✓ Cheung Kong Property ✓
Banco De Oro ✓ China Aoyuan Property  ✓
Banco de Sabadell ✓ ✓ China Construction Bank  ✓
Banco do Brasil Seguridade ✓ China Evergrande ✓
Banco Santander  ✓ China Fortune Land ✓
Bangkok Bank ✓ ✓ China Huarong Asset Management ✓
Bank Danamon ✓ China Jinmao  ✓
Bank Hapoalim ✓ ✓ China Overseas Grand Oceans ✓
Bank Leumi ✓ China Overseas Land & Investment ✓
Bank Mandiri ✓ ✓ China Pacific Insurance ✓
Bank Muscat ✓ China Resources Land ✓
Bank of America ✓ ✓ China SCE Property ✓
Bank of China ✓ ✓ China Trust ✓
Bank of Communications ✓ China Vanke ✓
Bank of Ireland ✓ CIFI  ✓
Bank of the Philippine Islands ✓ ✓ Citigroup ✓ ✓
Bank Panin ✓ City Developments  ✓
Bank Rakyat Indonesia ✓ Clarion Housing  ✓ ✓ ✓
Banque Saudi Fransi ✓ Close Brothers ✓ ✓
Barclays  ✓ ✓ ✓ CLS ✓
BBGI  ✓ CMC Markets  ✓
BBVA ✓ CNP Assurances  ✓
Beazley  ✓ ✓ Coface ✓
Beijing Capital Land ✓ Comerica ✓
BlackRock ✓ Commerce Bancshares ✓
BR Properties ✓ Commerzbank  ✓
Brewin Dolphin ✓ ✓ Country Garden ✓ ✓
British Land ✓ ✓ Cpi Property Group ✓
Bromford Housing Association ✓ ✓ Credit Agricole ✓ ✓
Brooks Macdonald ✓ Credit Suisse  ✓ ✓
Bure Equity ✓ Credito Emiliano ✓
CaixaBank ✓ ✓ ✓ Danske Bank ✓
Caledonia Investments ✓ DBS Bank ✓
Canadian Imperial Bank of Co ✓ Derwent London ✓
Capital One Financial ✓ Deutsche Bank ✓ ✓
CapitaLand ✓ Deutsche Boerse ✓
Companies mentioned herein are for informational purposes only and are not a  Sustainable Investment Report
65
recommendation to buy or sell any security. Annual Report 2020
Company E S G Company E S G
Deutsche Postbank ✓ Heritage Financial ✓
Digital Realty Trust ✓ Hithink Flush Information Network  ✓
Direct Line Insurance ✓ ✓ Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing  ✓ ✓
Dubai Islamic Bank ✓ HSBC ✓ ✓ ✓
Emirates  ✓ Huntington Bancshares ✓
Equity Bank ✓ Icade Emgp ✓
Equity Lifestyle Properties ✓ ✓ ICBC ✓
Erste Bank ✓ ✓ IG  ✓ ✓ ✓
esure  ✓ IGM Financial  ✓
Fantasia ✓ Industrial and Commercial Bank of  ✓
Finance Street ✓ China
First Abu Dhabi Bank ✓ ✓ Industrivarden  ✓
First Merchants  ✓ ING Groep ✓
First Midwest Bancorp ✓ Intact Financial ✓
FirstCash ✓ ✓ Intermediate Capital  ✓ ✓
FirstRand Bank ✓ International Personal Finance ✓
Fonciere des Regions ✓ Intesa Sanpaolo ✓
Fujian Sunshine  ✓ Invesco ✓
Future Land ✓ Investec ✓
Future Land Development  ✓ Investor ✓
Gecina ✓ Invitation Homes ✓
Gemdale ✓ IRB Brasil Resseguros ✓
Global Logistics Properties ✓ Jiangsu Zhongnan Construction  ✓
Goldman Sachs ✓ Jinke Property ✓
Goodman HK Finance ✓ JP Morgan Chase ✓ ✓
Grainger  ✓ ✓ Jupiter Fund Management  ✓ ✓
Grand City Properties ✓ Just Retirement ✓ ✓
Great Portland Estates ✓ Kaisa ✓
Greenland  ✓ Karbon Homes ✓
Greenland Hong Kong  ✓ Kasikornbank ✓
Greentown China ✓ KBC  ✓
Groupe Bruxelles Lambert ✓ Kerry Properties  ✓
Grupo Financiero Inbursa ✓ KeyCorp ✓
Guangzhou R&F property ✓ Komercni Bank ✓
Gulf Bank  ✓ Kookmin Bank ✓
Haitong International Securities ✓ Kuwait Finance House ✓
Haitong Securities  ✓ KWG Property ✓
Hammerson  ✓ Lancashire  ✓
Hang Lung ✓ Land and Houses ✓
Hargreaves Lansdown ✓ Land Securities ✓
Hastings  ✓ Landmark Infrastructure Partners ✓
Heimstaden Bostad ✓ Lazard  ✓
Sustainable Investment Report Companies mentioned herein are for informational purposes only and are not a 
66
Annual Report 2020 recommendation to buy or sell any security.
Company E S G Company E S G
Legal & General  ✓ Ping An Insurance ✓
Libra (Longhurst Group) Treasury ✓ PKO Bank ✓
Lloyds Banking  ✓ ✓ Plus500  ✓ ✓
Logan Property ✓ Poly Property ✓
Londonmetric Property ✓ Poly Real Estate  ✓ ✓
Longfor Properties  ✓ ✓ Powerlong Real Estate ✓
LSE ✓ ✓ Provident Financial  ✓ ✓
M & T Bank ✓ Prudential  ✓ ✓
M&G  ✓ Prudential Financial ✓
Mabanee ✓ Public Bank ✓
Man  ✓ Public Financial  ✓
Mapfre ✓ PZU ✓
Metrobank ✓ Qatar National Bank ✓
Mirvac  ✓ Quilter  ✓
Mitsubishi Estate ✓ Raiffeisen Bank ✓ ✓
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial  ✓ Rathbone Brothers ✓
Mitsui Fudosan  ✓ Redsun Properties  ✓
Mizuho Financial ✓ Regions Financial ✓
Modern Land ✓ Rexford Industrial Realty  ✓
Monks Investment Trust ✓ RMB  ✓
Munchener Ruckversicherungs-Ges ✓ RoadKing Infrastructure ✓
NASDAQ ✓ Ronshine China  ✓
National Bank of Kuwait ✓ ✓ Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  ✓ ✓
Natixis ✓ Royal Bank of Canada ✓ ✓
NatWest  ✓ ✓ S & U ✓
New China Life Insurance  ✓ Safestore Holdings  ✓ ✓
NEX  ✓ ✓ Saga  ✓
Nexity ✓ Samba Financial ✓
NN  ✓ Sampo  ✓
Nordea Bank ✓ ✓ Sanctuary Capital ✓
Notting Hill Housing Trust ✓ Sanlam  ✓
OceanFirst Financial  ✓ Sanne  ✓
OneSavings Bank ✓ ✓ Santander Polska ✓
Optivo Finance ✓ ✓ ✓ Savills ✓ ✓
Oversea-Chinese Banking ✓ Scentre  ✓
Overseas Chinese Town ✓ Schwab, Charles ✓
Paragon Group of Companies ✓ ✓ Segro ✓
Partners  ✓ Shaftesbury  ✓ ✓
Pekao  ✓ Shimao Property  ✓ ✓
Phoenix ✓ Shin Kong Financial ✓
Phoenix Mills ✓ Shinhan Financial  ✓
PICC Insurance ✓ Shopping Centres Australasia ✓
Companies mentioned herein are for informational purposes only and are not a  Sustainable Investment Report
67
recommendation to buy or sell any security. Annual Report 2020
Company E S G Company E S G
Shui On Land ✓ Vicinity Centres ✓
Siam Commercial Bank ✓ Vonovia ✓
Sichuan Languang Development ✓ Warsaw Stock Exchange ✓
Sino-Ocean ✓ Wells Fargo ✓
Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken ✓ Wendel Investissem ✓
SOHO China ✓ Weyerhaeuser ✓ ✓
South State ✓ ✓ Wharf Real Estate Investment ✓
Sovereign Housing Capital ✓ ✓ ✓ Wiz Solucoes e Corretagem de  ✓
Spar Nord Bank ✓ Seguros
St Jamess Place Capital  ✓ WM Housing  ✓
St. Modwen Properties ✓ Workspace ✓ ✓
Standard Bank Investment  ✓ Yango  ✓
Standard Chartered  ✓ ✓ Yanlord Land ✓
Standard Life ✓ Yapi Kredi Bankasi  ✓
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial  ✓ Yuexiu Property ✓
Sun Communities  ✓ Yuexiu REIT ✓
Sun Hung Kai Properties  ✓ ✓ Yuzhou Properties ✓
Sunac China  ✓ Zenith Bank ✓
Supalai  ✓ ZhongAn Online P & C Insurance ✓
Svenska Handelsbanken ✓ Zions Bancorporation ✓
Swedbank ✓ Health Care
Swiss Prime Site ✓ Aier Eye Hospital ✓
Swiss Reinsurance ✓ Alcon ✓ ✓ ✓
Sydbank ✓ Ambu  ✓
Taiwan Fire & Marine Insurance  ✓ Amgen ✓ ✓
TBC Bank ✓ ✓ AstraZeneca  ✓ ✓
Terreno Realty  ✓ Bayer  ✓ ✓ ✓
Times Property  ✓ ✓ Becton, Dickinson & Co ✓
Topdanmark ✓ Biohaven Pharmaceutical ✓ ✓ ✓
Torchmark ✓ Bormioli Pharma ✓
Toronto Dominion Bank ✓ Boston Scientific  ✓
TP ICAP  ✓ Bristol Myers Squibb  ✓
Tritax Big Box REIT ✓ BTG  ✓
Tryg ✓ Centene  ✓
Turkiye Garanti Bankasi  ✓ Cheplapharm Arzneimittel  ✓
Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi ✓ Coloplast ✓
Unicredit ✓ Consun Pharmaceutical  ✓
Union Bank of Switzerland (UBS) ✓ CSL  ✓ ✓
Unite Group ✓ ✓ Danaher  ✓ ✓ ✓
United Overseas Bank  ✓ DaVita  ✓
UOL ✓ Dechra Pharma ✓ ✓
Valley Bank ✓ Dentsply Sirona ✓ ✓ ✓
Sustainable Investment Report Companies mentioned herein are for informational purposes only and are not a 
68
Annual Report 2020 recommendation to buy or sell any security.
Company E S G Company E S G
DexCom ✓ ✓ Sartorius Stedim Biotech ✓
DiaSorin  ✓ Selcuk Ecza ✓
Edwards Lifesciences ✓ Shandong Weigao ✓
Elekta ✓ Shire Pharmaceuticals ✓
Eurofins Scientifi ✓ Sinclair Pharma ✓
FAES Farma ✓ Sinopharm ✓
Fresenius  ✓ Smith & Nephew ✓
Fresenius Medical Care  ✓ Sonic Healthcare ✓
Galencia Sante ✓ Sonova ✓
Genus ✓ Spire Healthcare ✓
Georgia Healthcare  ✓ Straumann  ✓
Gerresheimer ✓ ✓ ✓ Swedish Orphan Biovitrum  ✓ ✓ ✓
Getinge ✓ ✓ Takeda Pharmaceutical ✓
GlaxoSmithKline ✓ ✓ Thermo-Fisher ✓
Hikma Pharmaceuticals ✓ ✓ ✓ UCB ✓
Illumina ✓ Udg Healthcare ✓
Incyte  ✓ United Drug ✓
Indivior ✓ United Therapeutics  ✓
Innoviva ✓ Vertex Pharmaceuticals ✓
Ipsen ✓ Industrials
Jiangsu Hengrui ✓ 51job  ✓
Johnson & Johnson ✓ ABB  ✓
Kalbe Farma ✓ Acuity Brands  ✓
Lees Pharmaceutical ✓ Adani Enterprises  ✓ ✓
Lepu Medical Technology Beijing ✓ Adecco  ✓
Lonza  ✓ AerCap ✓
Lupin ✓ Aggreko ✓ ✓
Mallinckrodt  ✓ AIA Engineering  ✓
Masimo  ✓ Air China  ✓
McKesson HBOC ✓ ✓ Air France-KLM ✓
Merck  ✓ ✓ ✓ Airbus ✓
Novartis  ✓ ✓ ✓ AKR Corporindo  ✓ ✓
Novo Nordisk ✓ Alaska Air Group ✓
Odontoprev ✓ Alfa Laval ✓
Pfizer ✓ Alstom ✓ ✓ ✓
Probiodrug ✓ American Airlines ✓
Qiagen  ✓ Andritz  ✓
Qualicorp ✓ Ashok Leyland  ✓
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals ✓ Ashtead ✓
Roche  ✓ Assa Abloy ✓ ✓
Sanofi-Aventis ✓ Atlantia ✓
Santen Pharmaceutical  ✓ ✓ ✓ Auchan ✓
Companies mentioned herein are for informational purposes only and are not a  Sustainable Investment Report
69
recommendation to buy or sell any security. Annual Report 2020
Company E S G Company E S G
Avic Jonhon Optronictechnology ✓ DCC  ✓ ✓
AviChina Industry & Technology ✓ De La Rue ✓ ✓
Avon Rubber ✓ Deere & Co ✓ ✓
B&M European Value Retail  ✓ Delta Air Lines  ✓
Babcock  ✓ Deutsche Lufthansa ✓
BAE Systems ✓ ✓ Dialight ✓
Balfour Beatty  ✓ ✓ Diploma ✓
Barlow ✓ DKSH  ✓
Beijing Capital International Airport ✓ DMCI  ✓ ✓
Bodycote ✓ Dogan Sirketler Grubu  ✓
Boeing ✓ dormakaba ✓
Bollore  ✓ EasyJet ✓ ✓
Bouygues  ✓ ✓ Edenred ✓
Bufab publ ✓ Eiffage ✓
Bunzl ✓ ✓ ✓ Eurocell  ✓
Bureau Veritas ✓
Expeditors International of  ✓
C.H. Robinson Worldwide ✓ Washington
Capita  ✓ ✓ Experian  ✓
Cargotec ✓ Fastenal ✓
Carlisle ✓ Federal Express  ✓
Caterpillar  ✓ FirstGroup ✓
CCR - Cia Concessoes Rodoviarias ✓ Fisher(J)& Sons ✓ ✓
Changsha Zoomlion Heavy Industry ✓ Flughafen Zuerich ✓
Chemring  ✓ G4S  ✓
China Communications Construction  ✓ Gamesa Corp Tecno ✓
China International Marine  ✓ Geberit ✓
Containers  General Dynamics  ✓
China Railway  ✓ Getlink  ✓
China Railway Construction ✓ GlobalTrans ✓
China State Construction  ✓ Goldwind ✓
International
Grafton ✓
Cimc Enric  ✓
Grupo Mexico Transportes ✓
CITIC Pacific  ✓ ✓
Hainan Meilan International Airport  ✓
CJ Corp ✓
Haitian ✓ ✓
Clarkson  ✓
Hamakyorex ✓ ✓
CNH Industrial ✓
Hapag Lloyd  ✓
Cobham  ✓
Hays ✓
Cognex  ✓
Homeserve ✓ ✓
Cohort  ✓
Honeywell  ✓
Corporacion Moctezuma  ✓
Hubbell ✓
Cosco Pacific ✓
Human Soft  ✓
Daetwyler  ✓
Husky Injection ✓ ✓ ✓
Daewoo Shipbuilding ✓
Sustainable Investment Report Companies mentioned herein are for informational purposes only and are not a 
70
Annual Report 2020 recommendation to buy or sell any security.
Company E S G Company E S G
IBI Group  ✓ Melrose Industries ✓ ✓
Illinois Tool Works  ✓ Michael Page ✓ ✓
IMI ✓ Mineral Resources  ✓
Impellam Group  ✓ Mitsubishi ✓ ✓
Ingersoll-Rand ✓ ✓ MITSUI & CO  ✓ ✓
International Consolidated Airlines  ✓ ✓ Molins  ✓
Intertek ✓ ✓ Mtu Aero Engines  ✓
Irish Continental  ✓ Multi-Color ✓
Itochu ✓ ✓ Munters  ✓
IWG ✓ ✓ National Express ✓ ✓
Jacobs Engineering ✓ Nibe Industrier ✓ ✓
Jardine Matheson ✓ Nomina ✓
Jardine Strategic ✓ Norfolk Southern Corporation ✓
John Keells ✓ Northrop Grumman  ✓
John Laing  ✓ ✓ Obayashi ✓
John Laing Environmental Assets ✓ Paccar ✓
Johnson Electric  ✓ Paypoint ✓
Johnson Service ✓ Poenina ✓
JSL ✓ ✓ ✓ Posco Daewoo ✓ ✓
Kardex  ✓ ProGroup ✓
Keller ✓ Prosegur Cash ✓
Keppel  ✓ Qinetiq  ✓ ✓ ✓
Kingspan  ✓ ✓ Recruit  ✓
Kion ✓ Redde  ✓
Knorr Bremse ✓ Rentokil Initial ✓ ✓
Koc  ✓ Restore ✓
Kone ✓ Robert Walters  ✓
Kung Long Batteries Industrial ✓ Rolls-Royce  ✓ ✓
Larsen&Toubro ✓ Rotork  ✓
LATAM Airlines ✓ Royal Mail  ✓ ✓
Leonardo ✓ Rps Group ✓
Leoni ✓ Russel Metals ✓
Lisi ✓ Ryder System  ✓
Localiza Rent A Car  ✓ Saab ✓
Lockheed Martin ✓ Sandvik ✓
Lonking ✓ Sany Heavy ✓
Loomis  ✓ Sany Heavy Industry ✓
M.P. Evans  ✓ SAS ✓
Management Consulting  ✓ Schindler ✓
Manchester Airport Group Funding ✓ Schneider Electric ✓
Maraubeni ✓ ✓ Securitas  ✓
Meggitt  ✓ ✓ SembCorp Marine ✓
Companies mentioned herein are for informational purposes only and are not a  Sustainable Investment Report
71
recommendation to buy or sell any security. Annual Report 2020
Company E S G Company E S G
Serco ✓ United Tractors ✓ ✓ ✓
Shenzhen Expressway ✓ Valmet ✓
Shenzhen Inovance Technology ✓ Vesuvius  ✓
Shimizu ✓ V-Guard Industries  ✓
Siemens  ✓ Vinci ✓
SIF ✓ Volvo ✓
Sig ✓ Weg  ✓ ✓
Sinotrans ✓ Weir  ✓ ✓
SITC International  ✓ Wincanton ✓
SK Holdings ✓ ✓ Wizz Air ✓ ✓
SK Networks ✓ ✓ Wolseley  ✓ ✓
Skanska ✓ ✓
XP Power ✓
SKF ✓
Skil Ports And Logistics  ✓ Zhejiang Expressway ✓
SMC ✓ Information Technology
Smiths  ✓ ✓ 21Vianet ✓
Societa Iniziative Autostradali e  ✓ AAC Technologies ✓
Servizi  Activision Blizzard  ✓
Societe B I C ✓ Adobe Systems  ✓
Speedy Hire ✓ Advantech ✓
Spirax-Sarco Engineering  ✓ Also Holding  ✓
Spirit Aerosystems ✓ ANSYS ✓
Stericycle  ✓ Apple  ✓
Sumitomo ✓ ✓ Ardentec  ✓
Taisei ✓ ASM Lithography ✓
Taiwan Fu Hsing Industrial ✓ Asseco Poland ✓
Taiwan Secom Company ✓ Asustek Computer  ✓
Tekfen  ✓ Atos  ✓
Teleperformance ✓ ✓ Auto Trader ✓
Thales ✓ Avast ✓
Timken ✓ Aveva ✓ ✓
Tomra Systems ✓ ✓ Barco ✓
Toro  ✓ BMC Software  ✓ ✓ ✓
Toyota Tsusho  ✓ ✓ Broadcom  ✓
TPI Composites  ✓ Cadence Design ✓ ✓
Transdigm  ✓ Cap Gemini  ✓
Travis Perkins  ✓ Capcom  ✓
Trelleborg  ✓ Cardtronics ✓
Unaxis ✓ CD Projekt ✓ ✓
Union Pacific  ✓ Check Point Software Technologies ✓
United Continental Holdings ✓ Chenbro Micom ✓
United Parcel Service ✓ Chipbond Technology ✓
United Technologies  ✓
Sustainable Investment Report Companies mentioned herein are for informational purposes only and are not a 
72
Annual Report 2020 recommendation to buy or sell any security.
Company E S G Company E S G
Cisco Systems  ✓ ✓ MasterCard ✓
CML Microsystems  ✓ Maximus ✓
Constellation Software  ✓ Mesa Laboratories ✓
Dassault Systemes  ✓ Micro Focus  ✓ ✓
DeNa ✓ Microsoft  ✓
Dolby Laboratories ✓ MoneySupermarket ✓
Electrocomponents  ✓ Murata Manufacturing ✓
Electronic Arts  ✓ NCC Group  ✓
Epistar ✓ NetApp ✓
Equiniti Group  ✓ Netcompany Group  ✓
Equinix ✓ Nexon ✓
Facebook ✓ Nintendo ✓
Fidelity National Information Servies ✓ Nuance Communications  ✓
Flir Systems ✓ Nvidia ✓
Focus Media Information  ✓ Oracle ✓
Technology  Oxford Instruments ✓
Fortinet  ✓ Pagseguro Digital  ✓
Genpact  ✓ Paypal  ✓
Globant  ✓ Perficient ✓
Gooch & Housego  ✓ Playtech  ✓ ✓
Google ✓ ✓ Powertech ✓
Halma ✓ ✓ PTC  ✓
Hewlett Packard ✓ PV Crystalox Solar  ✓
Hexagon ✓ ✓ ✓ Qualcomm  ✓
Hynix Semiconductor ✓ Renishaw ✓ ✓
II-VI ✓ Reply ✓ ✓ ✓
Infineon ✓ Rhythmone ✓
Info Edge India  ✓ Sage Group ✓
Intel  ✓ Salesforce ✓
International Business Machines  ✓ Samsung Electronics ✓
(IBM)
SAP ✓
InterXion ✓
Seagate Technology ✓
Inventec Company ✓
IQE ✓ Semiconductor Manufacturing  ✓
International 
Iress Market Tech ✓ Sensirion ✓
Ituran Location and Control ✓ Sigurd Microelectronics  ✓
JinkoSolar ✓ Silverlake ✓
Kainos Group ✓ Software ✓
Kingsoft  ✓ Solaredge Technologies ✓
KLA Tencor  ✓ Sophos  ✓ ✓
Koh-young ✓ ✓ Spectris ✓ ✓ ✓
Konami  ✓ Spirent ✓ ✓
LEENO Industrial ✓ Sqaure Enix ✓
Companies mentioned herein are for informational purposes only and are not a  Sustainable Investment Report
73
recommendation to buy or sell any security. Annual Report 2020
Company E S G Company E S G
STMicroelectronics  ✓ BASF ✓
Sunny Optical Technology  ✓ BHP Billiton  ✓ ✓
Take-Two Interactive Software ✓ Boliden ✓
Tax Systems ✓ Borregaard  ✓ ✓
Tech Data  ✓ China BlueChemical ✓
Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson ✓ China National Building Materials ✓
Temenos Group  ✓ China Resource Cement ✓ ✓
Tencent  ✓ ✓ China Zhongwang ✓
Test Research ✓ Cia Siderurgica Nacional (CSN) ✓
Texas Instruments ✓ Clariant ✓
Thinking Electronic Industrial  ✓ CMPC ✓
TT Electronics ✓ Covestro  ✓
Ubisoft Entertain ✓ ✓ Crest Nicholson  ✓
Uchi Technologies  ✓ CRH  ✓ ✓
Unisplendour ✓
Croda International ✓ ✓
United Internet ✓
Verisign ✓ Crown ✓
Visa ✓ DS Smith ✓ ✓ ✓
Vtech  ✓ DSM ✓ ✓
Wandisco  ✓ Duratex ✓
Western Union  ✓ Ecolab ✓
Worldline  ✓ Elementis ✓
Yandex ✓ Engro  ✓ ✓
Zhejiang Chint Electrics  ✓ Evraz ✓
Zynga ✓ Ferrexpo ✓ ✓
First Quantum ✓
Materials
Acerinox ✓ Fortescue Metals ✓ ✓
African Rainbow Minerals ✓ ✓ ✓ Franco-Nevada  ✓
Agnico Eagle Mines  ✓ Freeport-McMoran ✓
Alcoa ✓ Gerdau ✓
Alrosa ✓ ✓ Glencore ✓
Altius Minerals  ✓ ✓ GMK Norilsk Nickel ✓ ✓
Anglo American  ✓ ✓ ✓ Gold Fields  ✓
Anglo American Platinum ✓ Graphite India ✓
Anglo Pacific ✓ ✓ Grupa Kety ✓
AngloGold Ashanti  ✓ Grupo Argos ✓ ✓
Anhui Conch Cement ✓ Grupo Mexico ✓ ✓
Antofagasta ✓ Gujarat Nre Minerals ✓ ✓
Arcelor Mittal ✓ ✓ ✓ HeidelbergCement ✓
Arkema ✓ Hexpol  ✓
Asia Cement ✓ Hill & Smith ✓
Barrick Gold ✓ Hindalco Industries  ✓ ✓
Hochschild Mining ✓ ✓
Sustainable Investment Report Companies mentioned herein are for informational purposes only and are not a 
74
Annual Report 2020 recommendation to buy or sell any security.
Company E S G Company E S G
Holmen ✓ Pan American Silver ✓
Iamgold ✓ PETKIM ✓
Ibstock  ✓ Petropavlovsk ✓
Iluka Resources  ✓ Philips Lighting ✓
IMERYS ✓ Phosagro  ✓
Impala Platinum Holdings  ✓ Polymetal ✓ ✓
Incitec Pivot ✓ Polyus ✓
Independence Group ✓ Portucel Soporcel ✓
India Cements  ✓ ✓ PT Semen Indonesia ✓ ✓
Industrias Penoles  ✓ Regis Resources  ✓
Jiangxi Copper  ✓ Resolute Mining ✓
Jiangxi Ganfeng Lithium ✓ RHI Magnesita ✓
Jindal Steel & Power ✓ ✓ Rio Tinto  ✓ ✓ ✓
Johnson Matthey ✓ ✓ Sandfire Resources  ✓
JSW Steel  ✓ Saracen Mineral ✓
Kardemir ✓ Severstal ✓
KGHM Polska Miedz  ✓ ✓ Shandong Gold Mining  ✓
Kinross Gold ✓ Shougang Fushan Resources  ✓ ✓
Klabin ✓ Sibanye Gold ✓
Korea Zinc ✓ Sika ✓
Kumba Iron Ore ✓ ✓ Sinopec Shanghai Petrochemical ✓
Lafargeholcim ✓ ✓ SK Materials ✓
Lenzing  ✓ Smurfit Kappa ✓ ✓
LG Chemical ✓ ✓ ✓ Solvay ✓
Lonmin  ✓ Sonoco Products  ✓
Lynas ✓ South32 ✓ ✓
Mayr-Melnhof ✓ Southern Copper  ✓
Mechel PJSC ✓ ✓ St Barbara  ✓
Minas Buenaventura ✓ Stora Enso ✓
Mitsubishi Materials ✓ Sumitomo Metal Mining  ✓
Mondi ✓ ✓ Synthomer ✓
Newcrest Mining  ✓ Teck Resources  ✓
Newmont Mining  ✓ Tenedora Nemak ✓
Nine Dragons ✓ Ternium ✓
Norbord ✓ Thyssen Krupp ✓
Norsk Hydro ✓ ✓ Timah Persero ✓ ✓
Northam Platinum ✓ Toagosei ✓
Northern Star Resources  ✓ Toray Industries  ✓
Nufarm  ✓ Trinseo  ✓
Orica ✓ Umicore  ✓
Orocobre  ✓ UPM - Kymmene Corporation ✓
OZ Minerals  ✓ Vale ✓ ✓ ✓
Companies mentioned herein are for informational purposes only and are not a  Sustainable Investment Report
75
recommendation to buy or sell any security. Annual Report 2020
Company E S G Company E S G
Vedanta ✓ Telecom Italia  ✓
Victrex ✓ ✓ Telefonica  ✓
VOESTALPINE ✓ Telefonica Deutschland  ✓
WEPA Hygieneprodukte ✓ Telekomunikasi Indonesia Persero  ✓ ✓
Western Areas ✓ Telenor ✓
Yamana Gold  ✓ Telephone & Data Systems ✓
Zhejiang Huayou Cobalt  ✓ Telstra ✓
Zhejiang Weixing New Building  ✓ T-Mobile Us  ✓
Materials  Troy Income and Growth Trust ✓
Zijin Mining  ✓ ✓ ✓ Turk Telekomunikasyon  ✓
Real Estate Turkcell Iletsim ✓
Columbia Property Trust  ✓
Vodafone ✓ ✓
CoreSite Realty  ✓
Deutsche EuroShop  ✓ XLMedia ✓
Healthcare Realty Trust  ✓ Utilities
Inmobiliaria Colonial  ✓ Adani Power  ✓ ✓
Raven Russia  ✓ Allete ✓ ✓
Secure Income REIT  ✓ Alupar Investimento ✓
U and I Group  ✓ Ameren ✓
Telecommunication Services American Electric Power  ✓ ✓ ✓
Ascential  ✓ ✓ Australian Pipeline Trust ✓
AT&T ✓ Aygaz ✓
BCE  ✓ BKW Energie ✓
Be Heard Group ✓ Black Hills  ✓ ✓
Belgacom ✓ Centrica  ✓ ✓
BT  ✓ Chesapeake Utilities  ✓
China Communication Services ✓ Cheung Kong Infrastructure ✓
China Telecom ✓ China Power International  ✓ ✓
CTS Eventim AG & Co  ✓ Development
Deutsche Telekom ✓ China Resources Gas  ✓
Elisa ✓ CLP  ✓ ✓
Globe Telecom ✓ CMS Energy  ✓
Infrastrutture Wireless Italiane  ✓ Consolidated Edison  ✓ ✓ ✓
Megacable Cominicaciones ✓ Copasa ✓
Millicom International Cellular  ✓ CPFL ✓
NOS ✓ Dominion Resources  ✓
NTT DoCoMo ✓ Drax ✓
Orange Polska ✓ DTE Energy ✓
Philippine Long Distance Telephone ✓ E.ON  ✓ ✓
PLAY Communications  ✓ EDF ✓
Safaricom  ✓ Edison International ✓
STV ✓ EDP ✓
Talktalk ✓ ✓ EDP Renovaveis  ✓
Sustainable Investment Report Companies mentioned herein are for informational purposes only and are not a 
76
Annual Report 2020 recommendation to buy or sell any security.
Company E S G Company E S G
Electric Power Development ✓ ✓ Tennet ✓
Electricity Generating Company  ✓ ✓ Transmissora Alianca de Energia  ✓
Electro Power Systems ✓ Eletrica
Endesa  ✓ United Utilities  ✓
Enea  ✓ ✓ Verbund  ✓
Energisa  ✓ ✓ Voltalia  ✓
Engie  ✓
Equatorial ✓ ✓
First Energy  ✓
Hera ✓
HK Electric Investments ✓
Hong Kong & China Gas  ✓ ✓
Huadian Power ✓ ✓
Iberdrola  ✓
Indraprastha Gas  ✓
Interconnection Electric  ✓
Korea Electric Power  ✓
National Grid  ✓ ✓ ✓
National Thermal Power (NTPC) ✓ ✓
Naturgy Energy ✓ ✓
Nisource ✓
Nordex  ✓
Northumbrian Water ✓
Pennon Group  ✓ ✓
Perusahaan Gas ✓
PGE ✓
Public Power ✓ ✓
Reliance Power  ✓ ✓
ReNew Power ✓
Romande Energie ✓
RWE  ✓ ✓
Samchully  ✓ ✓
Scottish and Southern Energy  ✓
Sempra Energy ✓
Severn Trent ✓ ✓
Shenzhen Gas  ✓
Snam ✓
Southern Co ✓
Suez ✓ ✓
Tata Power ✓ ✓
Telecom plus  ✓ ✓
Tenaga Nasional ✓
Companies mentioned herein are for informational purposes only and are not a  Sustainable Investment Report
77
recommendation to buy or sell any security. Annual Report 2020
Schroder Investment Management Limited
1 London Wall Place, London EC2Y 5AU, United Kingdom
T +44 (0) 20 7658 6000 
schroders.com
@schroders
Important Information: The views and opinions contained  system. Regions/sectors shown for illustrative purposes only 
herein are those of the named authors and sustainable  and should not be viewed as a recommendation to buy/sell. The 
investment team, and may not necessarily represent views  opinions in this document include some forecasted views. We 
expressed or reflected in other Schroders communications,  believe we are basing our expectations and beliefs on reasonable 
strategies or funds. This material is intended to be for  assumptions within the bounds of what we currently know. 
information purposes only. The material is not intended as an  However, there is no guarantee than any forecasts or opinions 
offer or solicitation for the purchase or sale of any financial  will be realised. These views and opinions may change. Any data 
instrument. The material is not intended to provide and should  has been sourced by us and is provided without any warranties 
not be relied on for accounting, legal or tax advice, or investment  of any kind. It should be independently verified before further 
recommendations. Reliance should not be placed on the views and  publication or use. Third party data is owned or licenced by the 
information in this document when taking individual investment  data provider and may not be reproduced, extracted or used for 
and/or strategic decisions. Past performance is not a guide  any other purpose without the data provider’s consent. Neither 
to future performance and may not be repeated. The value of  we, nor the data provider, will have any liability in connection with 
investments and the income from them may go down as well  the third party data. To the extent that you are in North America, 
as up and investors may not get back the amounts originally  this content is issued by Schroder Investment Management North 
invested. All investments involve risks including the risk of possible  America Inc., an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Schroders 
loss of principal. Information herein is believed to be reliable  plc and SEC registered adviser providing asset management 
but Schroders does not warrant its completeness or accuracy.  products and services to clients in the US and Canada. For all other 
Some information quoted was obtained from external sources  users, this content is issued by Schroder Investment Management 
we consider to be reliable. No responsibility can be accepted  Limited, 1 London Wall Place, London, EC2Y 5AU. Registered 
for errors of fact obtained from third parties, and this data may  No. 1893220 England. Authorised and regulated by the Financial 
change with market conditions. This does not exclude any duty or  Conduct Authority. For your security, communications may be 
liability that Schroders has to its customers under any regulatory  taped or monitored. CS2980 RI000067. 