
Sustainability 
Report 2020
Preface
I have had the immense privilege of being Chairman of Credit Suisse 
for ten years. In that time, societal expectations have grown for 
 corporations, and rightfully so. We are called upon to play an active 
role in tackling the pressing environmental, social and governance 
issues that will set the course for future generations. 
I am proud of our progress on sustainability, particularly in the last 
year. It reflects the spirit of innovation and responsibility that has 
been in our bank’s DNA since its creation over 160 years ago. This 
Urs Rohner 
Chairman of the   report highlights our deep commitment to advancing our ESG 
Board of Directors
L
 strategy by serving our clients and reducing our own carbon footprint. 
Hear more from Urs Rohner on  I am delighted that my colleague Iris Bohnet is serving as the first 
our approach to governance 
Sustainability Leader within the Board of Directors to ensure a 
governance structure that helps us deliver our ambitions. 
Our success starts with our people. This Sustainability Report 
 confirms our firm belief that having a diverse workforce and inclusive 
culture strengthens our ability to generate best-in-class sustainable 
solutions.
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 2
Preface
Sustainability is essential to good business strategy. ESG consider-
ations have become even more critical due to the widespread 
economic and social disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. 
In 2020, we enhanced our sustainability strategy at Credit Suisse, 
determined to meet the needs of our clients, our employees, our 
shareholders and the communities in which we operate. We adapted 
our organizational structure to drive accountability for ESG with the 
Thomas Gottstein 
creation of the Sustainability, Research & Investment Solutions 
Chief Executive Officer
organization, with Executive Board leadership. We strengthened our 
own commitments to Diversity & Inclusion and launched our first-ever 
purpose statement to infuse our values into our daily working lives. 
L
Listen to Thomas Gottstein talk about 
the power of being a purpose-led bank I am delighted to share this updated Sustainability Report to 
underscore how our purpose will propel our efforts. This is my 
commitment, and I look forward to raising the bar even higher in 
2021.
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 3
Foreword
The year 2020 was unlike any other in  positions during the market disruptions 
our lifetimes. The COVID-19 pan- and providing loans to small and medi-
demic had severe effects on families,  um-sized enterprises. We are also proud 
markets, economies and society. It  that our employees raised approximately 
changed how we think about and  CHF 25 million through a donor-matching 
deliver healthcare, education and  program to support charities working to 
technology, while reconfiguring how  mitigate the hardship caused by the 
we engage with each other, our  pandemic.
environment and our communities.
As we adapted to the challenges of the 
The crises of 2020 crystallized the  pandemic, we made important changes to 
importance of embracing Environmental,  our business strategy, including the 
Iris Bohnet Lydie Hudson
Social and Governance (ESG) standards   creation of a single, global Investment 
Board of Directors   CEO Sustainability, 
not as an impediment to economic  Bank, the merger of the Risk and Compli-
Sustainability Leader Research & 
prosperity, but as an essential  ance functions, and accelerated digitaliza- Investment Solutions
Financial insti-
ingredient. Applying an ESG lens  tion. Crucially, in July 2020 we created 
tutions such as   to business strategy is crucial to  SRI – Sustainability, Research & Invest-
generating great results for clients,  ment Solutions – elevating our efforts  We have already made great progress 
ours have an   employees, shareholders and  around ESG in order to deliver a compre- thanks to the engagement and dedication  L
society at large. hensive, systematic strategy across the  of our colleagues around the world. We  Iris Bohnet and Lydie Hudson discuss 
important role to 
bank.  have much more to do in order to ensure  the year in ESG at Credit Suisse:
play in society. As a global company operating in  we deliver on our ambitions that match the 
some 50 countries, we at  This report is an integral part of our  scale of the challenges we all face to 
Credit Suisse continuously reflect on our  ongoing dialogue with stakeholders and  secure a more sustainable planet, a more 
own place in the world, particularly in the  we are delighted to share with you details  inclusive society and long-term economic 
past year. Financial institutions such as ours  of our ESG strategy in the context of our  prosperity.
have an important role to play in society,  enhanced efforts that started in July 
whether it is providing capital, participating  2020. Based on our engagement with  Thank you for engaging with us as we 
in financial markets, facilitating infrastruc- stakeholders across the ESG ecosystem,  continue to drive our sustainability strategy 
ture development or managing wealth.  this report has several new features to  at Credit Suisse. We are excited to be on 
enhance our transparency regarding the  this journey together with you. 
Persevering through 2020 for  TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related 
Credit Suisse included transitioning to a  Financial Disclosures) recommendations 
remote working readiness of around 90%,  and, for the first time, select SASB 
providing antibody testing to our staff,  (Sustainability Accounting Standards 
maintaining our liquidity and capital  Board) disclosures.  Iris Bohnet Lydie Hudson
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 4
2020 sustainability highlights at Credit Suisse
Created a new Established the 
Sustainability, Research  Announced in February 2021 a  new Credit Suisse  
Joined, as a founding member, 
& Investment Solutions  collaboration with BlackRock to       APAC Foundation  the World Economic Forum’s 
develop 
(SRI) function (WEF) coalition to tackle racism 
to provide philanthropic support to 
 sustainable   in the workplace through the 
organizations across the Asia Pacific 
at the Executive Board level to accelerate 
private markets   region with a focus on the bank’s   WEF’s “Partnering 
our sustainability efforts and embed them 
across all client segments in order to       client solutions main corporate citizenship topics of  for Racial Justice in 
Financial Inclusion, Financial Education 
deliver on our ambition to become a leader  Business”
and Future Skills
in sustainability
initiative
Established a new 
Continued efforts to address the 
Sustainability   Announced goal to provide at least
recommendations of the Financial 
Advisory Committee CHF
Stability Board’s 
300
at the Board of Directors level  Task Force on 
     Climate-related  
   Financial  
 billion
Disclosures (TCFD)  Introduced 
of sustainable financing to support transition  for voluntary reporting on material  SASB 
strategies (renewables, Green/Blue/Transition  risks and opportunities arising from 
Decreasing our exposure to high-carbon  bonds, low-carbon energy solutions and  climate change
UN Sustainable Development Goals-aligned  (Sustainability Accounting 
and climate-sensitive business – intro-
financings) over the next 10 years Standards Board) standards 
duced further financing restrictions for 
and accounting metrics
thermal coal extraction and coal power, 
as well as the 
Client Energy Transition  
   Frameworks 
Download the TCFD Report 2020 
(CETF) to priority sectors Credit Suisse’s climate-related financial disclosures 
are available for download at 
credit-suisse.com/TCFD
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 5
2020 sustainability highlights at Credit Suisse
Sustainable Transition  Ongoing inclusion in leading 
Bonds – partnered with the  Participated in voluntary  Became a signatory to the  sustainability indices such as the
Climate Bonds  Swiss climate   Poseidon   Dow Jones  
Aligning our activities with the 
Initiative alignment Principles    Sustainability 
Paris Agreement
Index (DJSI)
in a landmark initiative to  test based on Paris  – a global framework promoting 
objective of limiting global 
help create a framework for   Agreement Capital Transition  the integration of climate 
warming to 1.5°C
transition finance Assessment (PACTA)  considerations into lending 
methodology to create greater  decisions in ship finance
transparency regarding the 
climate compatibility of 
financial flows
“We build  
lasting value
  
Commitment to develop science- 
by serving our  
based targets in 2021 and 2022, 
clients
including our
  
Joined global RE100 initiative, with  with care and   commitment to 
a public commitment to source  entrepreneurial spirit.” achieve net zero
We actively supported clean and 
100   renewable energy businesses and, 
Launched Credit Suisse purpose statement  emissions from our operations, 
by the end of 2020, had been 
and refreshed values – all embedded in an  supply chain and financing 
involved in over 
% updated Code of Conduct activities  
150 transactions 
no later than 2050
Strong commitment to 
in this field with a value of more 
renewable electricity  with intermediate emissions goals 
than USD 130 billion since 2010 Diversity & Inclusion 
for 2030
across our entire global operations 
with targets set for Black Talent in the 
by 2025
UK, US and gender representation 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 6
Credit Suisse response to COVID-19
First-class global crisis 
Played a critical role in the bridging loan  Introduced  Credit Suisse provided in-kind  management framework 
solution for Swiss companies, providing and business continuity 
paid family leave donations 
management enabling around 
approximately CHF Strengthened our 
3 in order to take care of close  of masks 90   digital  
family members, which over 
capabilities
3,000 employees have taken 
%
 bn
advantage of to hospitals and healthcare 
to cater for our clients’ 
providers in a range of locations 
needs effectively
including Zurich and London
of our employees to work  
in loans to over 16,700 Swiss SMEs 
from home
in 2020
Launched donor-advised matching 
program in support of charities working   Our Investment Bank financing 
to mitigate the hardship caused by  business is actively engaged in the  Offering our employees  
COVID-19 and to support those affected  G20 and International Monetary  in selected locations a 
Supported   by inequality, raising approximately  Fund initiative on SARS-Coronavirus-2 antibody 
employee  CHF debt forgiveness  test free 
and relief
25
wellbeing  of charge
 million
with various initiatives and online 
resources introduced
Our real estate asset management business  
in Switzerland decided to 
proactively support all tenants 
that were impacted by the decision of the federal 
government to close all non-essential businesses in 
Switzerland. We therefore waived the rent of their 
businesses for 1 month without any conditions
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 7
Overview of chapters
Credit Suisse’s values-based  Enabling a more environmentally  Diversity and inclusion at the heart 
culture and our role in society  sustainable economy of how we deal with human capital
9 36 49 62 76 89
Go to chapter Go to chapter Go to chapter
e
c
n
a
n
r
s
e
s
k
v e
r
o c o
G i w
e v
 
d r e
e
n m
s e S
a
t   a
  d
n o   r
e l e n F
o
p
i p bla e 
t n  
a as r
o u
z r nct s
i a
n u e aiu o
a l td cl
g s
P P P o s
u
r r i
O SP D
 
Organization and 
Governance
We recognize the importance 
of good corporate 
governance and diligent risk 
management processes. We 
expect our employees to act 
professionally, with integrity 
and in compliance with 
applicable laws, regulations, 
due diligence requirements 
and industry standards.
Our company
Our strategy is to be a leading Wealth Manager with strong global Investment Banking capabilities.
Facts and figures Balanced business portfolio Shareholder base
As one of the world’s leading banks, we are committed to  In 2020, our balanced business portfolio encompassed three  Credit Suisse shares are listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange 
delivering our financial experience and expertise to corporate,  regionally focused divisions. Furthermore, we created a global  and on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American 
institutional and government clients as well as to ultra-high- Investment Bank to build a client-centric global platform with  Depositary Shares. We have a broad shareholder base, with 
net-worth individuals worldwide, in addition to affluent and  critical scale for corporate, institutional and entrepreneurial  the majority of shares owned directly or indirectly by institu-
retail clients in Switzerland. clients. Our business divisions cooperate closely to provide  tional investors outside Switzerland. At end-2020, 101,560 
holistic financial solutions, including innovative products and  shareholders were registered in our share register with 
Wealth Management net new assets¹ (in CHF billion) specially tailored advice. 1,391,801,051 shares, representing 57% of the total shares 
issued.
19.4 74.1
Net income attributable to shareholders (in CHF million) Group shares by investor type
23.1
3,419 2,669 2%
10%
31.6
2,024
Institutional
Private
2018 2019 2020 Total 2018 2019 2020
Other
48,770 employees   3,510 relationship  
12.9 % 6.4 %
(full-time equivalents)5   managers as of end-2020
Common equity tier 1 (CET1)  Tier 1 leverage ratio at  as of end-2020
ratio at end-2020 end-2020²
88%
600
Up to   17,560 13,220 Institutional investors by region
CHF 0.2926 CHF 1.5 billion
9%
1,770
proposed cash distribution per  share buyback program 
registered share for the  approved by the Board of  9%
financial year 2020³ Directors for 20214 9,850 1,140 North America
6,890 Switzerland
UK & Ireland
1 Combined net new assets for Swiss Universal Bank Private Clients, International  47%
Swiss Universal Bank Europe
Wealth Management Private Banking and Asia Pacific   15%
2 Leverage exposure excludes CHF 111 billion of central bank reserves, after  International Wealth Management   Other
adjusting for the dividend paid in 2020, as permitted by FINMA. Including cash  Asia Pacific
held at central banks, our Tier 1 leverage ratio would have been 5.6% Investment Bank
3 To be proposed by the Board of Directors to shareholders at the  
Annual General Meeting on April 30, 2021
4 Subject to market and economic conditions 5  Including 1,250 positions in the Corporate Center. Excluding fixed-term contracts 20%
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 10
Organization and G  overnance
Evolving our organization to 
support sustainability
We are committed to becoming a leader in sustainability 
in the financial industry across our Wealth Manage- We improved our 
ment-related and Investment Bank franchises. With this in 
mind, Credit Suisse launched an enhanced organization  governance structure 
structure in 2020 to ensure that ESG standards are 
around sustainability 
embedded across regions and divisions in our cli-
ent-based solutions as well as in our own operations as a  through the creation of 
company. 
SRI at the Executive 
Building on our progress in the last few years, we 
Board level, the 
announced the launch of our unique Executive Board- Urs Rohner 
level function Sustainability, Research & Investment  Chairman of the Board of Directors designation of our first 
Solutions (SRI) in July 2020. We believe this organiza-
tion will allow us to drive a globally consistent approach  Sustainability Leader at 
and to meet the evolving needs of our clients, investors, 
the Board of Directors, 
employees and society in general.
and the creation of a 
Sustainability Advisory 
Enabling sustainability 
Committee.
L
Sustainability, Research & Investment Solutions (SRI)
Urs Rohner on Credit Suisse’s 
sustainability achievements:
Integrate and centralize  Increase connectivity of 
Securities Research,  Research with Chief 
Investment Solutions &  Provide one single  Investment Officer (CIO) 
Products, Sustainability  “house view” with  and sustainability 
Strategy, Advisory &  Supertrends and  agenda; deliver market- 
Finance (SSAF) and  sustainability at its core leading thematic insights 
Marketing/Branding efforts  and content across 
under one roof public and private markets, 
leveraging data
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 11
Organization and G  overnance
Corporate governance
Through the launch of SRI, we have brought together our 
existing ESG activities, our CIO investment capabilities, 
our research teams and our branding and marketing  We have a strong corporate governance framework, 
activities under one umbrella in order to better deliver  reflecting our commitment to safeguarding the interests 
superior sustainable investment advice and solutions to  of our stakeholders. Our corporate governance complies 
our clients. Further, a new group entitled Sustainability  with internationally accepted standards.  
Strategy, Advisory & Finance (SSAF) was established 
to support the creation of a cohesive and dedicated  The Group’s corporate governance framework consists of 
sustainability offering within SRI and across the bank.   its governing bodies and its corporate governance policies 
and procedures that define the competencies of the 
governing bodies and other corporate governance rules, 
in line with Swiss corporate law and international best 
Corporate governance framework  
Shareholders
Board of Directors
Governance and   Compensation   Risk   Conduct and Financial Crime  Audit  
Nominations Committee Committee Committee Control Committee Committee
Innovation and Technology Committee¹ Sustainability Advisory Committee2
Executive Board 
Executive Board Risk Forum dit
PositionC( P&aC pCRitli)aeln At Rlloiscka tion & R MisaAknsa sMgeeta mn&a eLgnitae b(mAilieLtynM t) C  ommiInttteeern (aCl CA(oRICnMStrCo)l)  System  ValuCaotimonm Rititseke  M (VaAnRaMgeCm)ent    Group Conduc(Ct EanBd)  Ethics Board   anches ernal Audit External Au
Divisions Corporate Functions d Br Int
Swiss Universal Bank Chief Operating Officer Chief Financial Officer s an
e
International Wealth Management Sustainability, Research &  ari
Asia Pacific General Counsel Investment Solutions sidi
b
Chief Risk and   u
Investment Bank Compliance Officer Human Resources S
¹ Interdisciplinary advisory body formed by the Board of Directors, which consists of members of the Board of Directors and senior management, as well as external advisors.
2 New advisory body approved by the Board of Directors in February 2021 and is currently being set up; members consist of Board of Director and Executive Board members and external advisors.
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 12
Organization and G  overnance
practice standards. In accordance with Swiss banking law  Board member experience and expertise
the Group operates under a dual board structure, which  (number and percentage of Board members)
strictly segregates the duties of supervision that are the 
responsibility of the Board of Directors from the duties of  Leadership development experience 100%
management that are the responsibility of the Executive 
Experience in international business/
Board.   100%
organization
Finance/financial management 
77%
expertise
Board governance
Executive-level role in financial 
62%
industry (>10 years) 
The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall 
Non-executive listed company  
strategic direction, supervision and control of the Group.  54%
Board member
The Board has five standing committees, each with its 
Risk, audit and/or compliance 
own charter: the Governance and Nominations Commit- 54%
expertise
tee, the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, 
Executive-level role in non- 
the Conduct and Financial Crime Control Committee and  31%
financial industry (>10 years)
the Risk Committee. In addition, the Board has two 
Innovation, technology and/or media 
advisory committees, the Innovation and Technology  expertise 31%
Committee and the new Sustainability Advisory Commit-
tee launching in 2021.   HR and incentive structures 23%
The Board currently consists of 13 members. Board 
members are elected at the Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) by our shareholders individually for a period of one  their experience serving as non-executive directors and 
year and are eligible for re-election. Board members shall  prior executive roles in listed companies with well-estab-
generally retire after having served on the Board for  lished corporate governance structures. Diversity of 
12 years. The background, skills and experience of Board  culture, experience and opinion are important aspects of 
members are diverse and broad and include holding or  Board composition, as well as gender diversity. While the 
having held top management positions at financial  ratio of female-to-male Board members may vary in any 
services and other companies in Switzerland and abroad,  given year, the Board is committed to complying with the 
as well as leading positions in government, academia and  gender diversity guidelines in the new Swiss corporate 
international organizations. The Board is composed of  law, which stipulate a representation of at least 30% of 
individuals with wide-ranging professional expertise in key  each gender on the board of directors of listed compa-
areas including finance and financial management, risk  nies. The collective experience and expertise of our Board 
management, audit, innovation and technology, legal,  members as of the end of 2020 across those key areas 
compliance and regulatory affairs, advertising, marketing  considered particularly relevant for the Group is illustrated 
and media, and human resources and incentive struc- in the above chart.
tures. Further, Board members are well informed about 
environmental, social and governance topics as a result of 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 13
Organization and G  overnance
Sustainability governance
Board committee memberships
Urs Rohner Iris Bohnet
Chairman of the Board  Board of Directors 
Board of Directors
Chair of Governance and  Sustainability Leader
Nominations Committee  9 years
In 2020, the Board of Directors actively engaged with the   12 years   
Executive Board on designing the strategy for and     
Christian Gellerstad Andreas Gottschling
establishing the new Sustainability, Research & Investment 
Chair of Conduct &  Chair of Risk Committee
Solutions (SRI) function at Executive Board level. The 
Financial Crime   4 years
Board continued to receive regular status updates on the  Control Committee   
implementation of SRI throughout the year, as well as on   2 years
the progress of Credit Suisse’s sustainability strategy. The    
Board furthermore received several briefings on the topics  Michael Klein Shan Li
 3 years  2 years
of sustainability and climate risks, covering both updates 
  
on external developments related to climate change, such 
as the increasing focus of global regulators on climate 
risks, as well as internal progress on specific initiatives 
supporting our sustainability strategy, such as the  Seraina Macia Richard Meddings
enhancement of our wealth management focused product   6 years Chair of Audit Committee
  1 year
and solutions offering with ESG integration.
    
In addition, our focus on culture is a standing agenda item 
for the Board of Directors, with culture, conduct and  Kai Nargolwala Ana Paula Pessoa
ethics updates being presented at each meeting. The  Chair of Compensation   3 years
Board of Directors also approved the new Credit Suisse  Committee    
 8 years
purpose statement, cultural values and refreshed Code of 
   
Conduct. Further, a dedicated session on diversity, equity 
and inclusion was held as part of the annual strategy  Joaquin Ribeiro Severin Schwan
workshop and the strategy was endorsed by the Board.   5 years Vice-Chair and Lead 
 Independent Director
 7 years
 
Board Committees
John Tiner  Governance and Nominations Committee
Sustainability, culture and conduct-related topics are   12 years  Compensation Committee
routinely addressed at meetings of the Board committees.    Audit Committee
 Risk Committee
For example, as part of its performance assessment of   Conduct and Financial Crime Control Committee
the Executive Board for the purposes of determining   Innovation and Technology Committee
 Sustainability Advisory Committee
compensation, the Compensation Committee consid-
 Board tenure at end of current term post-AGM 2021
ers the achievements of Executive Board members not   
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 14
Organization and G  overnance
only in terms of financial performance, but with respect to  well as internal progress on the development of energy 
non-financial aspects as well, such as risk and compli- transition frameworks for corporate clients in industries 
ance, conduct and ethics, and talent development. In  impacted most by climate change, and progress against 
addition, at meetings of the Compensation Committee  our existing commitments, such as the restriction of 
and as necessary, members review and approve any  certain business activities in carbon-intensive sectors. As 
sanctions imposed on senior employees’ compensation  our journey progresses towards the setting of quantitative 
for conduct-related matters.  risk appetite metrics, we expect to update our reporting to 
include such metrics at the applicable governance levels. 
The Conduct and Financial Crime Control Commit- Furthermore, sustainability and climate risks feature in the 
tee reflects the Group’s priority to rigorously address  monthly Group risk reports, which cover key risks to the 
financial crime risk and ensure that the highest standards  firm and are provided to all members of the Board of 
of conduct and vigilance are maintained throughout the  Directors.
Group. The Conduct and Financial Crime Control Com-
mittee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight duties  Sustainability Advisory Committee 
with respect to the Group’s exposure to financial crime  At the Investor Update on December 15, 2020, the 
risk. It is tasked with monitoring and assessing the  Group announced its intention to establish a Sustainability 
effectiveness of financial crime compliance programs and  Advisory Committee at the Board level. In February 2021, 
initiatives focused on improving conduct and vigilance  the Board approved the set-up and constitution of the 
within the context of combatting financial crime. new committee, which will be chaired by Board Sustain-
ability Leader Iris Bohnet and consist of at least two other 
Each time the Audit Committee meets, it is provided  Board members, three Executive Board members and 
with a compliance update, covering aspects such as  also external advisors. From the Board and Executive 
compliance trends, issues and developments, including  Board, the committee members include the Chairman of 
information on the conduct risk framework. Critical  the Board of Directors, the CEO, the CEO Sustainability, 
compliance initiatives and specific conduct matters may  Research & Investment Solutions and the Chief Risk and 
also be reviewed jointly with the Conduct and Financial  Compliance Officer. Subject to his election at the 2021 
Crime Control Committee.  AGM, the new Chairman, António Horta-Osório, will 
become a member of the Sustainability Advisory Commit-
Climate change-related responsibilities are explicitly  tee. The process to select and appoint suitable external 
included in the Board’s Risk Committee charter. In  advisors is in progress. The Sustainability Advisory 
2020, the Risk Committee conducted its annual review of  Committee will assist the Board, in an advisory capacity, 
our risk and sustainability framework, which included a  in fulfilling its oversight duties in respect of the develop-
discussion of key sustainability developments and steps  ment and execution of the Group’s sustainability strategy 
taken by management to integrate sustainability consider- and targets, and monitoring and assessing the effective-
ations more closely into our risk assessment process. The  ness of the respective sustainability programs and 
Risk Committee also received a comprehensive briefing  initiatives. Responsibilities include endorsing the sustain-
on the progress of the climate risk strategy, which, among  ability strategy and ambitions and ensuring actions are 
other aspects, covered key external developments with  being taken to accomplish them, advising on sustainability 
respect to the management of climate risk at banks, as  metrics and tracking and monitoring progress, and 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 15
Organization and G  overnance
bringing in external expertise, so as to provide a critical    Group Conduct and Ethics Board (CEB): 
outside view across a variety of sustainability topics.  Co-chaired by the SRI CEO and the Global Head of 
Human Resources, the Group CEB ensures robust 
oversight of culture and conduct topics. It oversees how 
Executive oversight conduct and ethics matters are handled within the 
divisions and corporate functions and ensures consis-
The Executive Board is the most senior management  tency and the alignment of practices across the Group. 
body of the Group and is responsible for the Group’s  The Group CEB conducts reviews of employee sanc-
day-to-day operational management under the leadership  tions and may perform subsequent evaluations for 
of the CEO. The Executive Board currently consists of  specific matters that have been escalated by the CEBs 
11 members, appointed by the Board of Directors. established for each division and the corporate func-
tions. The Group CEB also oversees the activities of the 
The Executive Board has several standing committees,  conduct and ethics ombudsperson. The role of the 
which are chaired by one or more Executive Board  conduct and ethics ombudsperson was created in 2018 
members and meet periodically throughout the year and/ as a result of a review of the Group’s global approach to 
or as required. These committees are:  handling claims of sexual harassment. The ombudsper-
son is accountable directly to the CEO and the Group 
  The Executive Board Risk Forum: The Executive  Conduct and Ethics Board. The ombudsperson’s role is 
Board Risk Forum is responsible for determining the  to serve as a point of immediate escalation when sexual 
management strategy for critical risk and compliance  harassment claims arise and to ensure there is appro-
issues at the Group and/or cross-divisional level.  priate awareness of and attention to such claims.
  Capital Allocation & Risk Management Committee  Further to the above Executive Board standing commit-
(CARMC): CARMC is responsible for overseeing and  tees, a bank-wide Sustainability Leadership Commit-
directing our risk profile, recommending risk limits at  tee has been established, chaired by the CEO of SRI and 
the Group level to the Risk Committee and the Board,  a newly created Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) 
establishing and allocating risk appetite among the  function. In the Sustainability Leadership Committee, 
various businesses, reviewing new significant business  senior representatives from each division and control 
strategies or changes in business strategies including  function meet to drive and execute our sustainability 
business migrations, making risk-related decisions on  strategy. 
escalations and for applying measures, methodologies 
and tools to monitor and manage the risk portfolio.  For more details on our broader governance, please refer 
to Credit Suisse’s Annual Report 2020.
  Valuation Risk Management Committee (VARMC): 
VARMC is responsible for establishing policies regard-
ing the valuation of certain material assets and the  Governance of crisis management
policies and calculation methodologies applied in the 
valuation process.  The Group has a crisis management framework and 
robust governance processes in place to enable the 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 16
Organization and G  overnance
effective management of crises. The crisis management  quarantine protocol, guidelines for client meetings, 
framework includes the implementation of global and  employee gatherings and working from home, and certain 
regional Crisis Assessment Teams (CAT) and Crisis  changes to the daily operations of critical processes, in 
Management Teams (CMT) consisting of representatives  order to ensure continuity of our business operations and 
from senior management and specialist functions from  to protect the health and safety of our employees. The 
across the firm. The Global CAT assesses the impact of a  crisis management process and related measures were 
specific crisis event to the firm on a global level and  continuously monitored and adapted throughout 2020 
provides recommendations for final decisions to the  and early 2021, in light of changing circumstances, with 
Global CMT, whose members include all members of the  daily Executive Board calls held following the initial 
Executive Board. In the case of a specific crisis event,  outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in the first part of 
firm-wide business continuity management response  2020. Specific crisis reporting was also developed, with 
measures are triggered and overseen by the Executive  regular updates provided to regulators and the Board. The 
Board. At the Board level, oversight of business continuity  Board has remained actively involved in the ongoing 
management is within the responsibility of the Risk  monitoring of the Group’s response to market develop-
Committee. In any given crisis event, the Board may  ments and operational challenges, including business 
delegate certain responsibilities to a sub-committee of its  continuity management and the effectiveness of the crisis 
members that is authorized to take actions that exceed  mitigation measures put in place, and has engaged in 
the mandate of the Executive Board, in particular when  regular dialogue with the Executive Board regarding these 
decisions are needed in too short a time frame to  matters. In March 2020, the Board approved to establish 
convene the full Board. Such a crisis event could include,  the tactical crisis committee as a sub-committee of the 
for example, a sovereign crisis, large single name default,  Board, consisting of the Chairman and the Chairs of the 
cyber or other operational incident and global macroeco- Audit Committee and Risk Committee, for the purposes 
nomic or market event or public health crisis, such as the  of enabling rapid decision-making on time-sensitive 
COVID-19 pandemic. Once the crisis management  matters regarding risk, capital and liquidity management 
process is invoked, multiple response measures are  within the Board’s authority, given the volatile market 
triggered, including Group crisis specific risk reporting, if  environment in particular during the first half of 2020. As 
necessary, and other potential steps, such as notification  markets stabilized in the second half of 2020, the Board 
of regulators. decided that the tactical crisis committee was no longer 
needed in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
In February 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pan-
demic in countries and regions in which the Group  The tactical crisis committee was reactivated in March 
operates, the Executive Board invoked our crisis manage- 2021 with the same members plus the Chair of the 
ment process, which remains in place as of the date of  Conduct and Financial Crime Control Committee for the 
this report, given that the COVID-19 pandemic has not  purposes of exercising close oversight and ensuring 
yet subsided and that renewed lockdowns and other  timely decision-making with respect to the resolution of 
restrictions have occurred across different countries in the  the issues in connection with the Credit Suisse Asset 
latter part of 2020 and early 2021. Invoking the crisis  Management managed supply chain finance funds.
management process meant that various response 
measures were put in place, including travel restrictions, a 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 17
Organization and G  overnance
Risk management/sustainability 
employees to be conservative when assessing potential 
risk management  reputational impact and, where certain indicators give rise 
to potential reputational risk, the relevant business 
proposal or service must undergo the RRRP.
Reputational Risk Review Process
As part of the RRRP, submissions are subject to review 
Credit Suisse uses a wide range of risk management  by senior managers who are independent from the 
practices to address the diverse risks that could arise from  business, and may be approved, approved with condi-
our business activities. Reputational risk is among the key  tions, or rejected. Conditions are imposed for a number of 
categories of risk considered in that process. Potential  reasons, including restrictions on the use of proceeds or 
reputational risks may arise from various sources, includ- requirements for enhanced monitoring of a particular 
ing, but not limited to, the nature or purpose of a proposed  issue relating to the client. Any conditions that are 
transaction or service, the identity or activities of a potential  imposed as a condition of approval are assigned to a 
client, the regulatory or political context in which the  business owner and are systematically tracked to comple-
business will be transacted, and any potentially controver- tion, including a four-eye review. Adherence with condi-
sial environmental or social impacts of a transaction. tions is monitored to ensure timely completion, with any 
breaches potentially subject to disciplinary action.
Reputational risk potentially arising from proposed 
business transactions and client activity is assessed in the  During 2020, an updated governance structure was 
bank-wide Reputational Risk Review Process (RRRP).  introduced to reduce complexity and fragmentation of 
The Group’s global policy on reputational risk requires  decision-making around client risks. The reputational risk 
process is overseen by the Position & Client Risk (PCR) 
cycle of the Capital Allocation & Risk Management 
Reputational Risk Review Process cases in 2020  Committee (CARMC), which assumed the responsibilities 
of the former Reputational Risk Sustainability Committee 
302 (RRSC) in 2020. A transaction, activity, relationship or 
submission to the RRRP may be escalated to the Divi-
sional Client Risk Committee (DCRC), or in specific 
transactions assessed cases, to the Global Client Risk Committee (GCRC), with 
escalation criteria established to define the necessary 
38% approved governance:
42% approved with conditions
20% rejected or not pursued
  The DCRCs are jointly chaired by the Divisional Chief 
Risk Officer and Divisional Chief Compliance Officer 
and serve as a discussion and decision-making senior 
These statistics exclude potential cases that were not formally submitted  management forum for reputational risk, sustainability 
into the review process because they were immediately identified as 
risk and compliance (including Financial Crime Compli-
outside of Credit Suisse’s reputational risk appetites, or that were 
ance, FCC). They serve as an escalation point for 
terminated prior to a decision being taken. The cases approved with 
conditions gave rise to over 450 conditions recorded during 2020.  high-risk and complex clients or transactions. The 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 18
Organization and G  overnance
escalation criteria assess both qualitative and quantita- Governance
tive factors of individual client cases.
Position and Client Risk cycle  Acts as a governance and oversight function with respect to 
  The reputational risk process is overseen by the PCR  of CARMC reputational and sustainability risk-related matters.
cycle of CARMC, which delegates authority to the 
GCRC. The GCRC assesses complex or cross-divi- Assesses clients and transactions escalated based on 
significant risk criteria derived from (1) attributes deemed 
sional client and transaction risks arising from reputa-
worthy of escalation across Compliance, Reputational Risk 
tional risk, sustainability risk and compliance (including  Global Client Risk Committee  and Sustainability (including Climate) Risk and (2) previous 
FCC) according to defined escalation criteria. (GCRC) transactions escalated to Senior Management.
Assesses clients and transactions escalated based on 
To ensure a more holistic perspective when managing the 
moderate risk criteria derived from (1) attributes deemed 
bank’s client risks, the Reputational Risk organization was 
worthy of escalation across Compliance, Reputational Risk 
brought under the oversight of Credit Risk in September  Divisional Client Risk Committees  and Sustainability (including Climate) Risk and (2) previous 
2019, with changes to the governance structure and  (DCRC) transactions escalated to Senior Management.
escalation process implemented during 2020. Further 
enhancements are being developed to create a common 
and transparent process across Compliance and Reputa-
tional Risk for the assessment of client risks through the  telecommunications company’s largest shareholder having 
development of a standardized onboarding template and  been subject to multiple civil sanctions and criminal fines, 
an integrated case management solution. including for insider trading.  
C
Further information on this process is available at:
credit-suisse.com/riskmanagement Sustainability risk review
Our risk processes enable us to take account of the 
Selected examples of reputational risk decisions potential wider implications of our business activities and 
Credit Suisse rejected a financing request from a mid- products and services, for example on the environment 
stream oil and gas energy company with a track record of  and society. Reputational, sustainability and climate issues 
sustainability issues. The case was reviewed by the  are thus all considered as an integral part of our risk 
Global Client Risk Committee, which concluded that the  review process. These three areas are often not mutually 
company’s sustainability improvements were insufficient  exclusive, and are considered essential to obtain a full 
and that the transaction would not align with the bank’s  client risk picture, alongside other key areas including 
commitments to energy transition. credit and compliance risk. 
Credit Suisse considered a role as joint bookrunner for a  We evaluate factors such as a company’s greenhouse 
private placement for a telecommunications company.  gas footprint or its energy efficiency targets within our 
The transaction was rejected in the RRRP after taking  RRRP, while some of our policies and guidelines 
into account feedback from the Financial Crime Compli- ( P see pages 23-25) require clients to have a plan in 
ance function and the assessment of risks related to the  place to deal with climate change risks. For example, 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 19
Organization and G  overnance
companies operating in sensitive industries frequently play  Assessment of sustainability risks within the  
a key economic role in the global supply of energy and  Reputational Risk Review Process
commodities. They may also be major employers in 
economically weak regions. As such, responsible eco-
nomic activity can be a significant driver for sustainable  1. Risk classification and responsibility
development. At the same time, we recognize that the 
activities of these companies can, in some cases, have a 
Potential environmental or social risks Other potential risks
significant impact on the climate, biodiversity, water 
resources or local communities. We believe that working 
with our clients is essential to drive sustainable develop-
Internal specialist unit Sustainability Risk Various specialist units
ment. To this end, our policies and guidelines describe the 
environmental and social standards we expect our clients 
to adhere to but also describe business activities and  2. Assessment and recommendation
operations that Credit Suisse will not finance.
Aspects to be checked according to internal policies and guidelines
The objective of sustainability risk reviews is to identify 
and prevent adverse impacts on the environment, on 
Nature of transaction
people or society through financial services provided for 
the activities of a bank’s clients or prospective clients. 
Environmental impacts can include air or water pollution, 
Identity and activities of potential and existing clients or prospects
contribution to climate change, deforestation and degra-
dation of ecosystems and loss of biodiversity. Impacts on 
people or societies can include damage to the health and 
Regulatory and political context
safety of a client’s workers and contractors, or of commu-
nities adjacent to a client’s operations, undermining the 
Environmental and social aspects of 
livelihood of communities, as well as violation of the  Various risk-specific aspects
client operations
human rights of indigenous peoples. This is the out-
ward-facing approach to sustainability risk. 
3. Review and decision
Banks are also increasingly aware of the issues that may 
arise when financial services are provided to clients 
whose activities lead to adverse environmental and social  Decision by Senior Business Representative and Senior Risk Representative  
impacts. Unsustainable economic activities of clients  (Divisional Reputational Risk Approver) 
could lead to delayed approvals from the authorities or to  or 
sanctions from regulators, or such clients may face  Escalation to Divisional Client Risk Committee or Global Client Risk Committee based 
protests from local communities, lengthy legal disputes,  on defined criteria (approval/approval with conditions/rejection)
or additional costs due to accidents or insufficient 
planning. For a bank, such issues could materialize in the 
form of credit losses, the deterioration of clients’ 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 20
Organization and G  overnance
valuations and collateral, reputational damage, and  carrying higher risks. Due diligence is therefore prioritized 
adverse impacts on relationships with shareholders and  based on the scale (or gravity of an adverse impact), the 
(other) clients or prospective clients. Guidance for banks  scope (number of people affected or area impacted) and 
on how to integrate such risks into their established risk  the irremediable character of an adverse impact. For 
management systems is evolving at a fast pace. Of  transactions with potential sustainability risks, the internal 
particular note in this context are the recommendations  specialist unit Sustainability Risk evaluates the nature of 
of the Financial Stability Board’s (FSB) Task Force on  the transaction and our role in it as well as the identity 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures, TCFD  and activities of the client (existing or new), reviews the 
( P see pages 59-60), the OECD’s Guidance on Due  regulatory and political context in which the client oper-
Diligence for Responsible Corporate Lending and Securi- ates, and assesses the environmental and social aspects 
ties Underwriting, and the European Banking Authority’s  of the client’s operations. The team assesses whether the 
(EBA) Guidelines on Loan Origination and Monitoring. client’s activities are consistent with the relevant industry 
standards and whether the potential transaction is 
Credit Suisse is actively working to adopt these recom- compatible with Credit Suisse’s policies and guidelines for 
mendations and ensure our internal processes are in line  sensitive sectors. The evaluation is based on information 
with this guidance. We continue to support the develop- published or provided by the client but also includes 
ment of such guidance in additional areas of sustainability  information from specialized ESG rating agencies and 
risk, for example in relation to biodiversity. For example,  topic-specific databases, or an adverse news search. The 
as a rule, Credit Suisse will not finance or provide advice  process often involves questionnaires to clients or 
on activities undertaken by in-scope businesses within  prospective clients to gather general information about 
areas of High Conservation Value (HCV) that are subject  their management of environmental and social issues, or 
to statutory local, national or international Protected Area  to investigate specific issues a company may be faced 
designations, or areas that are undesignated but recog- with or may have had to deal with in the past. 
nized by the international scientific community as having 
HCV areas. We also support multi-stakeholder initiatives  Based on the outcome of this analysis, Sustainability Risk 
that respect and protect biodiversity, including as a  submits its assessment to the responsible business unit 
participant in the informal working group to establish a  and/or enters it into the Reputational Risk Review system 
TNFD and in the project to further develop the ENCORE  for evaluation ( P see pages 18-19).
(Exploring Natural Capital Opportunities, Risks and 
Exposure) tool for financial institutions
Governance for sustainable products and 
To assess risks to the environment, to people and to  services
society, Credit Suisse pursues a risk-based approach. 
The current focus is on lending, capital markets and  In addition to leading the bank’s focus on developing and 
advisory transactions where Credit Suisse plays a  implementing its sustainability strategy, the Sustainability 
significant role, as opposed to flow trading business,  Strategy, Advisory and Finance (SSAF) unit within 
which is more dynamic in nature. Certain industry sectors,  Sustainability, Research & Investment Solutions (SRI) is 
client operations or projects, countries of residence or  also responsible for setting internal standards relating to 
operation, or financial services have been identified as  governance for sustainable products. This includes our 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 21
Organization and G  overnance
efforts to ensure we lead with credibility by embedding a  Climate risk governance and organization  
centralized review of certain new products and client 
engagements that relate to the environmental, social and  Climate-related risks are considered to be a systemic 
governance (ESG)/Sustainability theme to ensure we do  threat to the stability of the financial system due to their 
not overstate or misrepresent our credentials in this area.  manifestation through a variety of different risks. Cli-
This work is closely linked to the bank’s existing RRRP  mate-related risks are embedded in our Group-wide risk 
and complementary to the bank’s risk framework, which  taxonomy, supporting our risk identification efforts.
set out prohibitions on a sectoral/industry basis. 
The Position & Client Risk (PCR) cycle of the Capital 
In addition, the SSAF is responsible for applying critical  Allocation & Risk Management Committee (CARMC) is 
governance around our goal to provide at least  primarily responsible for acting as a governance and 
CHF 300 billion of sustainable financing to support  oversight function with respect to market, credit, reputa-
transition strategies (renewables, Green/Blue/Transition  tional and sustainability risk-related matters, for Group 
bonds, low-carbon energy solutions and UN SDG-aligned  and major Credit Suisse entities. As such, it assumes 
financings) over the next ten years. Over the course of  responsibility for the overall climate change strategy, 
2021 we intend to release guidance on the Sustainable  jointly with legal entity board of directors risk committees 
Activities Framework methodology we have developed to  where relevant. 
illustrate how we count transactions towards this target 
and provide insight on the associated criteria. This is  The PCR cycle of CARMC meets on a bi-monthly basis, 
complementary to the work we have already published on  chaired by the Group Chief Risk & Compliance Officer, 
how we apply ESG criteria across investments (the 
Credit Suisse Sustainable Investment Framework) in an 
effort to bring transparency to this fast-evolving space. Climate risk governance
In addition, we are aligned with industry best practice by 
following the International Finance Corporation (IFC)  Position and Client Risk Cycle of CARMC
Impact Management Principles for any impact-related 
Acts as a governance and oversight function with respect to reputational 
product, which includes external assurance by a third 
and sustainability risk-related matters.
party. We also follow the International Capital Market 
Association (ICMA) for any Credit Suisse self-issued 
green bonds, which are also subject to third-party 
assurance review. Our commitment to good governance  Climate Risk Strategy Steering  Sustainability Risk Executive 
Committee Leadership Committee 
and third-party assurance is designed to ensure that we 
Escalation of 
lead with credibility in this area. Provides overarching governance and  climate-related  Provides oversight on the 
guidance for Climate Risk Strategy  topics implementation of the Group’s 
program, which is mandated to  strategy with respect to managing 
develop comprehensive strategies to  sustainability and climate-related 
address climate-related risks. risks.
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 22
Organization and G  overnance
with representation from the CFO, General Counsel,  ( P see pages 51-55 for more information) and is 
Chief Risk and Compliance Officer (CRCO) functions and  mandated to develop comprehensive strategies to 
business divisions. Among other responsibilities, those  address climate-related risks. This committee has senior 
closely linked with climate risk include:  management representation from our business divisions 
as well as from General Counsel, Risk & Compliance and 
  Setting the strategy and risk appetite to market, credit,  the new Sustainability, Research & Investment Solutions 
liquidity, reputational, sustainability, environmental, and  function, with the participation of three Executive Board 
social risks of a client or industry, across the various  members, and it reports to PCR CARMC.
businesses within the Group, setting market-specific 
financial crime and reputational risk appetite for  Furthermore, a Sustainability Risk Executive Leadership 
higher-risk markets, and serving as a risk appetite  Committee chaired by the Chief Risk and Compliance 
approval authority.   Officer is in place to provide oversight on the implementa-
tion of the Group’s strategy with respect to managing 
  Ensuring that the capabilities for the management of  sustainability and climate-related risks. This committee 
relevant long-term risk trends, such as climate risks,  reports to PCR CARMC.
are established.
A dedicated Climate Risk team has been established with 
  Ensuring the Group-wide implementation of and  the mandate to set risk appetite and strategic trajectories 
compliance with the Group’s sustainability and reputa- in order to protect the bank’s portfolio from climate-re-
tional risk policy commitments and serving as a  lated risks, across physical and transition risks, supporting 
decision-making body for environmental and social  our ambition to become a leader in this area. The Global 
issues. Head of Reputational, Sustainability and Climate Risk, 
appointed in November 2020, brings extensive risk 
The PCR cycle of CARMC ensures appropriate oversight  management experience from both wealth management 
of reputational and sustainability risks through the Global  and investment banking, including considerable knowl-
Client Risk Committee (GCRC), which reports to the PCR  edge of the risk appetite framework. Reporting directly to 
cycle of CARMC and is responsible for assessing clients  the Global Head of Credit Risk Management ensures that 
and transactions based on defined escalation criteria  our Climate Risk Strategy is embedded in the broader risk 
across compliance, reputational and sustainability risk.  management governance.
For example, transactions rated “High Risk” by Sustain-
ability Risk and transactions with clients categorized as 
“Unaware” (i.e. clients with the lowest categorization in  Sector policies and guidelines
terms of transition readiness) under our Client Energy 
Transition Frameworks ( P see pages 51-55) would  Certain industries are particularly sensitive from a social or 
require  escalation to the GCRC. environmental perspective (including impacts on the 
climate). To assess potential transactions with clients or 
A Climate Risk Strategy Steering Committee, established  prospects in these industries, we have defined specific 
in 2019, provides overarching governance and guidance  policies and guidelines that are globally applicable, taking 
for Credit Suisse’s Climate Risk Strategy program  account of standards developed by international 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 23
Organization and G  overnance
Transactions assessed on the basis of potential environmental  respect for the human rights of the local population, with 
and social risks in 2020 particular attention on project- related impacts on indige-
nous peoples ( P see pages 74-75). 
Our risk management framework incorporates an assess-
79.4% approved 
ment of whether a transaction or client relationship under 
4.7% approved with conditions
review is in line with our sector policies and relevant 
10.5% rejected or not pursued 
5.4% pending¹ industry standards and good practice. The sector policies 
and guidelines also form an important component of our 
963 transactions assessed
Group-wide Climate Risk Strategy program.
Out of several thousand transactions, client onboardings 
Our policies and guidelines describe business activities 
and account openings across the bank every year, these 
transactions have been reviewed in the RRRP or submit- and operations that Credit Suisse will not finance. 
ted specifically for a sustainability risk review pursuant to 
Following our announcement in 2019 that we would no 
the Group’s global policy on reputational risk and the 
policies and guidelines for environmentally and socially  longer provide any form of financing specifically related to 
sensitive sectors. Front office staff normally apply a 
the development of new coal-fired power plants, we 
conservative approach and submit more transactions and 
client onboardings to a sustainability risk review than  announced a number of new restrictions in 2020. In 
strictly mandated under applicable policies. For context, 
particular, they included:
the large majority (i.e. 82%) of all 963 reviews conduct-
ed were deemed to carry low or low/medium risk in 
2020. Where transactions were approved, risks were 
considered appropriately mitigated, based on the client’s    No lending or capital markets underwriting to any 
sustainability policies, capacities, and performance. company deriving more than 25% of its revenue from 
thermal coal extraction1
These statistics exclude potential cases that were not 
formally submitted into the review process because they 
were immediately identified as outside of Credit Suisse’s 
reputational risk appetites or that were terminated prior to    No lending or capital markets underwriting to any 
¹ As of January 31, 2021. a decision being taken. company deriving more than 25% of its revenues from 
coal power2
organizations such as the United Nations, the World Bank    No financing related to offshore and onshore oil and 
or the International Finance Corporation (IFC). These  gas projects in the Arctic region 
policies and guidelines cover the sectors oil and gas, 
mining, power generation, and forestry and agribusiness,  1 Direct lending; Unless such transaction is to help the company specifically 
transition and the use of proceeds is tied to such transition strategies aligned 
which includes pulp and paper, as well as palm oil produc- with the Paris Agreement; for greater certainty, these exclusions do not apply to 
tion. They address a range of topics such as: compliance  metallurgical coal
2 Direct lending; Unless the company can demonstrate decreasing share of coal in 
with industry-specific, internationally recognized standards  generation portfolio consistent with our Energy Transition Framework or such 
on the environment and human rights; measures to assess  transaction is to help the company specifically transition and the use of proceeds 
is tied to such transition strategies (and will continue our policy of not financing 
and reduce the environmental impact of operations,  the development of new coal-fired power plants)
including on the climate and on biodiversity and ecosys-
tems; the protection of the health and safety of company 
employees, contractors and surrounding communities; and 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 24
Organization and G  overnance
As a result of the latest financing restrictions, Credit Suisse  Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) in the 
declined to participate in a number of transactions,  “Banks and Investors” sector. The RSPO is the leading 
including a bond issuance for a large thermal coal mining  certification standard for palm oil and promotes the 
and power generation company, a bond refinancing for a  cultivation and use of sustainable palm oil products 
mid-sized power generation company, a bond issuance for  through global standards and the engagement of stake-
an electricity producer, and a buy-side mandate for an  holder groups throughout the supply chain. Consequently, 
energy company with thermal coal mining activities. our Forestry and Agribusiness Policy includes require-
ments regarding RSPO membership and RSPO certifica-
Unrelated to the newly introduced fossil fuel financing  tion that we expect our clients to observe. 
restrictions, but in connection with our enhanced sustain-
ability and climate commitments, we also rejected  In 2020, Credit Suisse signed the Poseidon Principles. 
transactions related to a new oil pipeline, the renewal of a  This global framework for responsible ship finance 
revolving credit facility for a pipeline operator, a loan for  promotes the integration of climate considerations into 
trading with coal, and three transactions related to oil  lending decisions with the aim of enhancing the role of 
from areas with high biodiversity. maritime finance in addressing global environmental 
issues and advancing the decarbonization of the interna-
Our sector policies and guidelines are subject to a  tional shipping sector. We participate in a number of 
bi-annual review and update process to take account of  sustainability networks and initiatives worldwide. 
the latest developments and new challenges in the 
relevant areas. In step with the stated sustainability 
ambitions of Credit Suisse, we expect to introduce further 
restrictions over time.  Sustainability risk assessments by sector in 2020 
C
A summary of our sector policies and guidelines is  Transactions assessed 1  2020   2019 
available at:  Metals and mining   178   157 
credit-suisse.com/sectorpolicies Forestry and agribusiness   104   85 
Oil and gas   211   125 
Power generation and transmission   97   105 
In the context of sustainability risk management, 
Chemicals   25   20 
Credit Suisse has applied the Equator Principles (EP) 
Defense   6   13 
since 2003. This framework for the management of 
Infrastructure and transportation   69   64 
environmental and social risks, which is now in its fourth 
iteration (EP 4), is based on standards defined by the IFC  Finance   95   53 
and is applied by around 110 financial institutions for  Other   178   177 
specific types of finance for industrial and infrastructure  T otal   963   799 
projects. ¹ Including Equator Principles (EP) transactions. C For a comprehensive disclosure in 
accordance with EP requirements, see:
Recognizing the importance of environmental sustainabil- credit-suisse.com/riskmanagement
ity and sustainable land use, we are also a member of the 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 25
Organization and G  overnance
Key developments in 2020 Dialogue and knowledge-sharing
The sustainability risk process is regularly updated, and it  As Credit Suisse continues to develop its sustainability 
is supported with technological approaches. With the  risk management practices, we engage in dialogue with a 
rollout of the Client Energy Transition Frameworks  range of stakeholders. This includes our ongoing 
(CETF), assessing the energy transition readiness of  exchange with NGOs and other actors in the conversation 
clients or prospects in the in-scope sectors has become  on sustainability risk management and climate change 
an element of the sustainability risk review process. In  topics ( P see pages 50-51), as well as our active 
general, transactions with companies whose energy  participation in industry initiatives such as the Equator 
transition readiness is insufficient (categorized as  Principles, the Thun Group, and the Paris Agreement 
“Unaware”) are not approved. For companies categorized  Capital Transition Assessment (PACTA) pilot project. We 
as “Aware” or higher, Credit Suisse strives to support their  also served as a member of the multi-stakeholder 
transition towards lower-carbon production methods and  advisory group established by the OECD, which aims to 
products and services with the expertise and financial  develop best practice guidance for human rights and 
services coordinated by the Sustainability, Research &  environmental due diligence based on the provisions of 
Investments Solutions corporate function.  the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. The 
advisory group supported the development of the OECD 
We also strive to make our processes more systematic,  Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Corporate 
consistent and streamlined. To this end we have intro- Lending and Securities Underwriting published in October 
duced a chatbot for the use of front office and control  2019. The OECD guidance provides recommendations 
functions. The chatbot provides clear guidance about  for banks on how they can identify, respond to and 
whether a sustainability risk review is required for a  publicly communicate on environmental and social risks 
specific private banking relationship. If a review is  associated with products and services provided to their 
required, the chatbot states which information is needed  clients or prospects.
and asks the front office or control function to contact a 
sustainability risk specialist. 
In order to keep the level of awareness and the functional 
Compliance
knowhow high, periodic training on sustainability risks is 
important. Classroom training was impeded by restrictions 
implemented as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic in  In 2020, the Compliance and Risk groups were unified 
2020. However, through virtual remote training, over  under the Chief Risk & Compliance Officer (CRCO). The 
1,300 employees were trained throughout the year on  integrated Risk and Compliance organization allows us to 
sustainability risk in specific industry sectors, or on the  improve the control environment for Credit Suisse, 
application of the CETF for in-scope sectors. Sustainabil- leveraging the expertise of corporate functions. The 
ity risk training often occurs in collaboration with the  function manages the continuum of financial and non- 
respective divisional reputational risk function. financial risks, enabling an integrated prioritization and 
management of risks for the firm. 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 26
Organization and G  overnance
Financial crime prevention Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Financing program 
components
Financial crime can cause serious social and economic 
consequences, and we believe in strong collaboration in  Managing client 
Ongoing 
the fight to make the financial system a hostile environ- Governance risk (including  Reporting Testing
monitoring
KYC)
ment for criminal activity. Financial Crime Compliance 
supports our approach towards the objective of enabling 
Credit Suisse  Our Global Anti-  Credit Suisse  Credit Suisse  We maintain a 
sustainable business by ensuring we not only seek to 
maintains  Money Laundering  monitors transac- maintains a global  global Monitoring & 
eradicate criminal and unethical business practices but  Board-level en- (AML) Policy,  tions to identify  risk assessment of  Testing team 
also focus on achieving the best possible outcomes for  gagement in  supported by  unusual or suspi- financial crime risk,  across the regions 
our clients in line with the applicable rules and regulations  managing financial  Global Client Due  cious activity,  which is refreshed  in which we oper-
crime risk through  Diligence (CDD)  behaviors or pat- annually. We  ate that is respon-
in the markets in which we operate. 
the dedicated  standards, estab- terns of activity  present the results  sible for periodic 
Conduct and  lishes the require- across the jurisdic- of the risk assess- risk-based monitor-
We recognize our responsibility to help protect the  Financial Crime  ments through  tions in which we  ment to the Board  ing and testing of 
integrity of the global financial system. In order to fulfil  Compliance Com- which we assess  operate. We review  of Directors and  key controls asso-
mittee (CFCCC)  the risk of financial  any transactions  senior manage- ciated with the 
that responsibility, we have made, and continue to make, 
(see also page 15)  crime associated  that raise alerts in  ment forums, and  management of 
significant investments in our ability to detect, deter and  of the Board of  with our clients and  our processes or  use the results to  financial crime risk. 
report financial crime. We continue to partner with  Directors. This  transactions. We  systems and  inform our pro- The team works 
committee reviews  apply a risk-based  investigate as  grams and testing  closely with our 
governments and other banks to advance our mutual 
the status of  approach, and the  appropriate to  regimes. We  divisional compli-
interests in reducing the risks of financial crime.
related programs,  Global AML Policy  ensure the transac- submit suspicious  ance teams, but 
key risk and perfor- sets out the KYC  tion has a legiti- activity reports as  acts autonomously 
Credit Suisse is also a proud member of the Wolfsberg  mance indicators,  processes that  mate business  required to the  to ensure indepen-
new or emerging  must be applied  reason in line with  local authorities. dent oversight.
Group, the industry-leading forum on Financial Crime risk, 
industry and regu- based on the risk  the expected 
as well as the United for Wildlife Financial Task Force, 
latory trends, as  associated with  activity of our 
and is committed to tackling issues such as illegal wildlife  well as regulatory  clients at onboard- clients. 
trade. We seek to detect environmental crimes by  exams and audits.  ing, and during the 
rest of the client 
ongoing development of potential red flags for transaction 
lifecycle. Our KYC 
monitoring purposes in order to detect potentially suspi- processes are 
cious transactions, and sharing intelligence and good  consistent globally, 
practices across public and private partnerships. incorporating 
additional local 
requirements as 
Our work in Financial Crime Compliance continues to be  applicable.
consistent with our strategic priority of safeguarding our 
clients and enabling sustainable business via utilizing 
industry-leading financial crime capabilities. We are 
continuing to evolve our approach to financial crime risk 
management, supported by advanced analytical capabili-
ties designed to help us target illicit conduct with greater 
sophistication and precision. We have established a 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 27
Organization and G  overnance
Financial Crime Compliance Framework which governs  Professional integrity
how we prevent, detect and report money laundering, 
terrorist financing, sanctions breaches, and bribery and  Our Code of Conduct outlines the expectation that 
corruption. All employees are required to complete  Credit Suisse employees hold themselves to the highest 
mandatory Financial Crime Awareness training annually.  standards in everything we do and say – in all facets of 
their work, whether that be the effort we put in or the 
Anti-money laundering and counter terrorist  results we achieve. The Code of Conduct was updated in 
financing   early 2021 to align with our revised values framework and 
Credit Suisse operates a risk-based, global anti-money  newly launched purpose statement ( P see also page 39).
laundering and counter terrorist financing (AML/CTF) 
program designed to comply with all applicable laws and  Our Code of Conduct clearly states it is the responsibility 
regulations relating to the prevention of money laundering  of all employees to be familiar with compliance require-
and terrorist financing in all jurisdictions in which the firm  ments, and to conduct themselves in accordance with the 
operates. The AML/CTF components of the Financial  relevant laws, guidelines, policies and processes that 
Crime Framework are based on key components span- apply to them. The bank in turn has an obligation to help 
ning governance, managing client risk, including Know  employees understand the applicable rules and to provide 
Your Customer (KYC), ongoing monitoring, reporting and  training, technology and digital solutions with the aim of 
testing. All key components are supported by underlying  helping Credit Suisse achieve compliance. To ensure that 
metrics, data and training required to support an effective  we are continuously informed of the latest regulations and 
Financial Crime program.  industry standards, our employees are required to 
participate in an annual targeted and tailored training 
Sanctions curriculum. The training program includes, but is not 
Credit Suisse operates a global sanctions program  limited to, developments in the finance industry and 
designed to comply with key sanctions regimes including  internal best practices for continued compliant growth.
(but not limited to) the regimes of the US, UK, and EU. 
We have a policy of zero tolerance on sanctions breaches,  Credit Suisse manages improper employee behavior and 
with robust screening for sanctions exposures.   employee breaches through global disciplinary and 
escalation processes across three lines of defense. Our 
Anti-bribery and corruption   disciplinary process provides a structure that is designed 
Credit Suisse has no tolerance for any form of bribery or  to confirm that the bank’s standards of professional 
corruption, and the Global Anti-Bribery & Corruption  conduct (including our Conduct and Ethics Standards 
Policy outlines the key requirements for all employees in  historically and now our cultural values and Code of 
the bank to manage the risk, both internally and externally  Conduct), policies and procedures (including on the 
for our clients. prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and 
bribery and corruption), and external laws, rules, regula-
tions, standards and principles are adhered to and 
enforced on an ongoing basis, subject to local differ-
ences. Our Group and divisional and functional Conduct 
and Ethics Boards provide an independent review of 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 28
Organization and G  overnance
disciplinary matters and, where necessary, participate in  guidance regarding the investigation process including 
or challenge disciplinary recommendations that may  confidentiality and protection against retaliation.
impact employee compensation and promotion 
opportunities. 
Consumer and investor protection
Escalation and whistleblowing   High-quality service and advice
Our relationship managers, investment consultants, and 
A global whistleblowing framework that ensures indepen- sales teams offer expert global financial advice, personal-
dence, confidentiality and thorough investigation pro- ized services and tailor-made solutions. First-hand 
cesses is an essential component of good governance at  knowledge of international markets through a local, 
Credit Suisse.  specialized, and experienced investment services team 
complements our customized services. Credit Suisse 
Credit Suisse is constantly enhancing its global frame- believes in establishing long-term relationships based on 
work to apply best-in-class practices and fulfil regulatory  trust and integrity between our relationship managers and 
expectations. Over the last three years such enhance- clients.
ments have included the launch of a web-based Integrity 
Line, which allows anonymous two-way communication  The Credit Suisse advisory process helps us to under-
between reporters and the bank; enhanced governance  stand our clients’ needs and plans, their financial circum-
and involvement of the Credit Suisse conduct and ethics  stances, as well as their risk ability and risk tolerance. The 
ombudsperson for matters concerning allegations of  advisory process incorporates sophisticated analytical 
sexual harassment; and a centralized approach to tracking  tools that can – among other capabilities – identify 
and reporting of escalated concerns to closure. counterparty concentration risks and simulate potential 
returns based on different scenarios, providing an 
The Audit Committee oversees the bank’s escalation  objective basis for client investment decisions.
framework and is kept apprised on key developments, 
risk themes and outcomes of matters via an annual  A high level of investor protection 
in-depth presentation and recurring consolidated reporting  When providing advice to our clients regarding one or 
through the quarterly Compliance Risk Report. Other  more transactions involving financial instruments, we 
governance forums are also regularly kept informed  assess the suitability and appropriateness of such 
regarding developments of the escalation framework and  transactions. This suitability and appropriateness assess-
the handling of matters. The items raised are not limited  ment ensures that our clients have the necessary 
to disciplinary proceedings where relevant, but also  knowledge and experience to understand the relevant 
include root cause and lessons learned where applicable.  product characteristics and associated risks and to make 
Employees globally have been educated about the  sure that our advice is in line with their investment 
escalation framework through a multitude of communica- objectives.
tion measures, presentations to internal committees, and 
trainings featuring the requirement and encouragement to  Credit Suisse has established best execution arrange-
speak up. Employees are also provided with clear  ments that describe the principles, duties, and 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 29
Organization and G  overnance
The five-step Credit Suisse advisory process regulates the provision of financial services in Switzerland, 
including to Swiss clients from abroad on a cross-border 
basis, as well as the offering of financial instruments, and 
the admission to trading of financial instruments, in 
Implementation  Investment  
& Monitoring Need & Goals Switzerland. FinSA is part of a larger legislative effort to 
create uniform competitive conditions for financial service 
providers, improve investor protection and bring Swiss 
legislation in line with new or emerging international 
standards. 
Privacy and data security
Investment  Financial 
Safeguarding the data within our stewardship throughout 
Strategy Situation
its lifecycle and ensuring ongoing compliance with data 
protection regulations globally remains a key priority for 
Credit Suisse. At the time of collection, we make trans-
parent to individuals through a range of appropriate 
Client 
Privacy Statements what data is being collected, for what 
Profiling
purpose, and how it will be used. Supported by training 
annually for all employees, our Data Confidentiality, 
responsibilities that apply when Credit Suisse either  Protection and Privacy Policy sets out the principles of 
manages client portfolios, or executes or receives and  how data should be used and protected, requiring strict 
transmits client orders in financial instruments. When  adherence to the “Need to Know” principle. We operate a 
executing orders on behalf of our clients, we assess the  series of controls to provide further protection assurance, 
appropriateness of such transactions and communicate  including robust validation of system access and obliga-
potential mismatches. tions on third-party vendors who may have data access. 
Should a data loss incident occur, we assess the resulting 
For many years, Credit Suisse has been committed to  risks to individuals and take action as appropriate. Under 
strengthening investor protection and has invested in  the stewardship of the Data Protection Officer, reporting 
related systems, processes and employee training  under this framework is embedded into governance 
– including a mandatory certification program for relation- groups at the highest level of management, comprising 
ship managers. Credit Suisse is fully dedicated to comply- legal entity boards of directors and the Data Protection 
ing with the continuously evolving regulatory demands.  Sub-Committee of the Executive Board, to provide the 
The Federal Financial Services Act (FinSA), as well as its  necessary management oversight.
implementing ordinance the Financial Services Ordinance 
(FinSO), entered into effect on January 1, 2020. Most of 
the provisions have a transition period of two years and 
need to be applied as of January 1, 2022. FinSA 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 30
Organization and G  overnance
Relationship with suppliers Tax
Credit Suisse works with numerous suppliers and service  Our approach to tax is designed to be aligned with our 
providers from a broad range of sectors. We expect these  purpose, broader strategic goals and the needs of all our 
partners to address risks responsibly and to conduct their  stakeholders, including clients, shareholders, regulators, 
business in a socially and environmentally responsible  tax authorities and the communities in which we operate.
manner. Our Supplier Code of Conduct aims to ensure 
that our external business partners respect human rights, 
labor rights, employment laws and environmental regula- Tax principles
tions. Credit Suisse’s Third Party Risk Management 
(TPRM) framework was established to manage financial,  The Credit Suisse Tax Principles set out our approach on 
operational and reputational risks and to meet the  tax matters:
increasing regulatory requirements governing business 
relationships with third parties. Through TPRM, we    Credit Suisse is committed to ensuring that its tax 
assess potential environmental, social and labor law-re- affairs are conducted in compliance with all applicable 
lated risks, among others, in connection with third parties.  tax laws and practices, and will engage with tax 
The framework also allows Credit Suisse to regularly  authorities in a cooperative and transparent manner.
monitor these relationships, to raise and track issues and, 
if necessary, to demand actions for improvement from    Credit Suisse will only undertake on its own behalf, or 
suppliers and service providers. Credit Suisse is also  facilitate for clients or third parties, tax planning and 
working on reducing our environmental impact across the  transactions which support genuine commercial activity 
supply chain ( P see pages 50-51). We expect to achieve  or which we believe to be consistent with the relevant 
this through programs to reduce energy, carbon emis- tax authorities’ expectations and practice.
sions, environmental impacts and waste. We plan to 
deliver a 50% carbon reduction across our suppliers by    Credit Suisse has a zero tolerance approach to tax 
2030. We aim to drive forward 100% renewable energy  evasion. Credit Suisse will not assist clients or other 
procurement and source carbon emissions removals to  third parties in any attempt to evade taxes, including 
deliver a net zero ambition overall. any attempt to circumvent reporting regimes such as 
the US Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) 
C
More information is available at:   and the Automatic Exchange of Information (AEI).
credit-suisse.com/suppliers
Compliance with tax law
We are committed to tax compliance. Credit Suisse seeks 
to ensure accurate and timely compliance with tax laws in 
the jurisdictions in which we operate. We seek to respect 
both the letter and the spirit of the law by taking 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 31
Organization and G  overnance
reasonable steps to determine and follow the intention of  Taxation of economic value creation
the legislature. 
We operate in a significant number of jurisdictions and we 
We follow relevant international tax standards, including  are committed to paying tax in the jurisdictions in which 
OECD Guidelines, which seek to ensure taxes are paid  we generate economic value in accordance with the 
where economic value is created. OECD arm’s-length principle. Since 2016, we have 
undertaken country-by-country tax reporting to tax 
Tax is a complex and changing area and uncertainty can  authorities in accordance with OECD and national 
arise in respect of our final tax liabilities given the com- standards first on a voluntary and subsequently on a 
plexity of our business and of applicable tax laws. In  statutory basis.  
situations where there is significant uncertainty or 
complexity, we seek advice from reputable advisers as 
appropriate.   Tax governance
Tax matters and risks are governed in line with our 
Engagement with tax authorities  enterprise-wide risk management frameworks and 
practices.  
We seek to maintain relationships with tax authorities 
based on respect and mutual trust.   The Group’s tax affairs are overseen by the Board of 
Directors of Credit Suisse Group AG via its Audit Commit-
There can be instances when we interpret tax laws and  tee. At an operational level, the tax affairs of the group 
their application differently from tax authorities. Where  are managed by the Group Tax function.
possible, we seek to resolve such situations directly with 
tax authorities on a proactive basis. For example, in  Significant tax matters and risks are reported to the Audit 
countries where there are established cooperative  Committees of Credit Suisse Group AG and its material 
compliance frameworks, we seek to engage in regular  subsidiaries in accordance with applicable corporate 
and open dialogue with tax authorities and seek to  governance standards.
achieve early identification and resolution of issues and 
differences in opinion.  
Where differences in opinion and disputes arise, we aim 
to resolve them in a constructive manner. If we are unable 
to reach an agreement with tax authorities via these 
avenues, we may have to test the application of the law 
through the relevant courts.
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 32
Organization and G  overnance
Maintaining safe and stable 
maintains a robust set of controls, in line with industry 
operations – Business Continuity  standards, to manage cybersecurity threats, including 
both technical and process controls to identify, defend, 
Management
detect, respond to and recover from a cybersecurity 
event. Credit Suisse also provides training and awareness 
Operational resiliency is a focus topic for regulators and  campaigns for employees regarding cybersecurity, 
the financial industry. Credit Suisse has launched a  including realistic phishing tests.
Group-wide Operational Resilience initiative sponsored by 
the Group COO and the CRCO and has implemented an 
Office of Resiliency combining critical elements such as 
cybersecurity, technology and third-party risk manage-
Compensation
ment and business continuity management in order to 
enhance preparation for and response to the evolving 
threat landscape. We are committed to ensuring that compensation 
contributes to the achievement of the Group’s objectives 
The company-wide Business Continuity Management  in a way that does not encourage excessive risk-taking or 
(BCM) Program is in place to support the maintenance of  the violation of applicable laws, guidelines or regulations, 
critical business processes in the event of a major internal  taking into account the capital position and economic 
or external incident. The aim of the BCM Program is to  performance of the Group over the long term. Our focus 
exercise a duty of care to employees, protect client and  on equality, diversity and inclusion is reflected in our 
company assets and minimize the financial, regulatory,  approach to compensation. 
reputational and strategic impact of such incidents. 
The objectives of the Group’s compensation policy include 
In 2020, Credit Suisse had to address the challenges  creating sustainable value for the Group’s shareholders 
created by the global COVID-19 pandemic, which  and motivating employees to achieve results with integrity 
affected the entire industry. The resulting crisis required a  and fairness. The key elements of the compensation 
globally coordinated response within Credit Suisse.  framework for Group employees include fixed compensa-
Overseen by the Executive Board, local Crisis Manage- tion (base salary and allowances, pension and other 
ment Teams implemented response plans in accordance  benefits) and variable incentive compensation, which is 
with applicable local regulations. Measures implemented  determined based on the Group’s performance, product 
(e.g. building up infrastructure to support the new  area, as well as individual performance, market position 
enhanced levels of remote working arrangements,  and trends. 
measures for staff wellbeing, split operations) have 
ensured continued operations throughout the different  A further objective of the compensation policy is to ensure 
waves of the pandemic.  that the proportion of variable compensation is appropri-
ate to the employee’s role and encourages appropriate 
Technology and cybersecurity risk has been elevated due  behaviors and actions. A percentage of the discretionary 
to the prolonged work from home environment and cyber  variable incentive compensation is deferred for persons 
threats remain high and continue to increase. The bank  with a total compensation of CHF/USD 250,000 or 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 33
Organization and G  overnance
higher (or local currency equivalent), mainly in the form of  satisfaction, corporate responsibility, talent manage-
share-based awards with vesting periods of at least three  ment, diversity and inclusion, compliance, risk manage-
years. All deferred compensation awards contain provi- ment, and conduct and ethics; and 
sions that enable the Group to reduce or cancel the 
awards prior to settlement under certain circumstances.    Equal pay policy: Credit Suisse does not tolerate any 
form of discrimination, in particular discrimination based 
For the Executive Board, variable incentive compensation  on ethnicity, nationality, gender, sexual orientation, 
comprises short-term incentive (STI) awards, which are  gender identity, religion, age, marital or family status, 
linked to the achievement of pre-defined annual perfor- pregnancy, disability, or any other status that is 
mance objectives, and long-term incentive (LTI) awards,  protected by local law. We recognize and value diversity 
which are based on future performance outcomes  and inclusion as a driver of success. Our policies and 
measured against pre-defined performance targets over a  practices support a culture of fairness, where employ-
period of three years. Maximum STI and LTI opportunity  ment-related decisions, including decisions on com-
levels for each Executive Board member are clearly  pensation, are based on an individual’s qualifications, 
pre-defined based on market competitive compensation  performance and behavior, or other legitimate business 
for the role and communicated at the start of the perfor- considerations, such as the profitability of the Group or 
mance cycle, expressed as a multiple of base salary. The  the division and department of the individual, and the 
maximum payout level for each award is capped at 100%  strategic needs of the Group. Consistent with our 
of the opportunity. At the end of the respective perfor- long-term commitment to fair pay, the Compensation 
mance cycles, performance against the pre-defined  Committee reviews our pay practices on a regular basis 
objectives is disclosed in the Compensation Report, which  to identify potential areas requiring more attention.
is part of Annual Report. 
The compensation framework and practices set out in the 
ESG considerations are integrated into various stages of  Group’s compensation policy are reviewed and assessed 
the compensation process: by the Compensation Committee as a part of the annual 
review. During 2020, we were actively engaged with 
  Group variable incentive pool: the Compensation  shareholders, regulators, and other stakeholders, both to 
Committee considers audit, disciplinary, risk and  listen to their views on our current compensation design, 
regulatory-related issues, among other factors, in order  and to understand any thoughts they had on areas of 
to determine appropriate adjustments to the Group,  focus for the Compensation Committee in future years. In 
divisional and corporate functions pools. In addition,  its annual review of the overall compensation framework 
one of the key drivers of bonus pool development at  at Credit Suisse, the Compensation Committee took into 
the divisional level is economic contribution, which  account the feedback received from external stakehold-
factors in the level of risk taken to achieve profitability;  ers, as well as market developments to assess whether 
current practices remain appropriately competitive. As a 
  Executive Board annual STI awards: the non-financial  result of this review, it determined that the overall com-
component of Executive Board annual awards includes  pensation framework continues to be broadly fit for 
the consideration of ESG factors, particularly the  purpose, with some refinements for 2021. 
integration of ESG into investment processes, client 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 34
Organization and G  overnance
In determining the Group’s variable incentive compensa-
tion pool for 2020, the Compensation Committee 
reviewed the Group and divisional financial performance, 
relative performance versus peers, market position and 
market trends, as well as the current social and economic 
conditions and risk, control, compliance and conduct and 
ethics considerations. The total variable incentive com-
pensation awarded for 2020 was CHF 2,949 million, 7% 
lower than the prior year, and reflects a balance between 
lower reported results, impacted by significant items, and 
an increase in adjusted income before taxes excluding 
significant items, as well as a response to the COVID-19 
pandemic and resulting economic environment. Total 
Executive Board compensation was 12% lower than the 
prior year, mainly due to the 30% decrease in the amount 
of annual STI variable compensation awarded. This 
decrease was primarily driven by the higher provision for 
credit losses, increased major litigation provisions and the 
York impairment. After careful consideration, the Com-
pensation Committee decided not to modify any of the 
performance conditions or features of “in-flight” awards. 
Therefore, the Compensation Committee decided not to 
exercise any discretion (positive or negative) to modify the 
Group or Executive Board variable compensation 
outcomes.
In accordance with Swiss law, the Group will submit 
proposals on Board of Directors and Executive Board 
compensation for binding shareholder approval at the 
AGM in 2021. More information on the Group, Executive 
Board and Board of Directors compensation can be found 
in the 2020 Compensation Report.
 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 35
Purpose
Our purpose is at the core of 
everything we do. It 
underpins the value we create 
for our clients and other 
stakeholders. Through our 
diverse activities, we aim to 
play a constructive role in the 
economy and society.
Purpose
Our purpose
We recognize the power of purpose to enable our 
strategy, engage our employees, and deliver for our 
clients and stakeholders. On December 15, 2020, we  Through extensive 
announced our inaugural bank-wide purpose statement: 
“We build lasting value by serving our clients with care  engagement with our 
and entrepreneurial spirit.” This announcement was the 
employees, we 
culmination of a year-long effort by our employees to 
capture the true essence of what energizes our teams  articulated a clear 
every day and motivates them in their work. With it, we 
capture the essence of “why” we exist as an organization.  purpose statement that 
While many of the elements of our purpose have been 
captures for all our 
part of how we operate since the bank’s foundation in 
Thomas Gottstein 
1856, this is the first time we have adopted and pub- Chief Executive Officer stakeholders why we 
lished a bank-wide purpose statement. In 2020, the 
importance of being clear with our stakeholders about our  exist and what motivates 
purpose became a priority. 
our people every day: 
How the Credit Suisse team   ‘We build lasting value 
Lcreated the purpose statement by serving our clients 
A year-long effort by our employees with care and entrepre-
neurial spirit.’
L
VTehroamtisa se aG ostutmst eainu toante o nuur lpe 
epluernpdoiscete amn de tvaal luIgensa:tur restis
  As a bank, we provide capital, manage and protect 
wealth, participate in markets and facilitate infrastructure 
development. These activities allow us to contribute to 
sustainable economic growth. Clients want to do business 
with an organization that has a purpose they believe in,   
employees choose to work for an organization where the 
purpose motivates them and, finally, regulators are 
beginning to question the direction of banks in general 
that lack a clearly articulated purpose. For all these 
reasons and in view of the positive impact that clarity of 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 37
Purpose
purpose has on performance, our purpose statement is a 
critical pillar of our revised culture strategy.  I M P A C T
Credit Suisse has been in business for more than 
160 years. We have evolved from our creation as a Swiss 
bank financing the national railway system to a truly global  Inclusion Meritocracy Partnership Accountability Client Focus Trust
bank operating in around 50 countries. Over this time, we 
have learned that our success and the success of our 
clients and shareholders goes hand-in-hand with the 
success of those around us – the communities we  Ɓ Create a  Ɓ Strive for  Ɓ Be an  Ɓ Maintain  Ɓ Be a principled Ɓ Act with 
culture where  excellence inclusive  exemplary  partner to our  integrity at all 
operate in. We believe that focusing on serving our clients 
everyone  Ɓ Recognize  partner and  control and  clients times
and building lasting value for them will naturally lead to 
belongs  outstanding  team player  compliance,  Ɓ Be innovative  Ɓ Foster and 
the broader delivery on our role as a bank. Lasting value  Ɓ Identify and  performance  Ɓ Collaborate  comply fully  and entre- encourage 
for our clients will also have a positive impact on other  leverage  Ɓ Demonstrate  across the  with  preneurial open dialogue
important stakeholders, through investments in growth,  diverse  and drive  bank  regulations Ɓ Have a  Ɓ Be willing to 
perspectives  engagement Ɓ Show   Ɓ Ensure  long-term view  challenge and 
protection of wealth and financing of business. 
Ɓ Promote  Ɓ Confront  empathy and  sustainability for our  be challenged
equality and  inequity respect Ɓ Act responsibly  business Ɓ Be honest and 
Putting our clients at the center of our purpose is  reject bias towards  Ɓ Take  transparent
authentic to how we operate at Credit Suisse. Serving  society, our  appropriate 
them with care and entrepreneurial spirit expresses the  shareholders  risk
and all other 
committed and diligent way we go about our business and 
stakeholders
the sustainability of the results we want to achieve for our 
clients. We are focused on long-term success and the 
wellbeing of our communities.  
of the framework we had used previously (Conduct and 
Ethics (C&E) Standards). The C&E Standards served us 
well for four years – providing global consistency across 
Credit Suisse as a single, behavioral framework and a 
A values-based culture
clear message of accountability and ethical behavior. At 
the same time, over the last four years, the world has 
While our purpose answers “why” we exist, we define  evolved and our learning has developed, and with the 
“how” we work with our values – Inclusion, Meritocracy,  advent of our purpose statement it was an opportune 
Partnership, Accountability, Client Focus, and Trust.  moment to further review and refresh our approach. 
Together, these values form the statement “IMPACT” and 
provide the framework by which we reinforce good  Our purpose statement and refreshed cultural values 
behaviors and address poor behaviors.  ensure a common understanding and consistent expecta-
tions in respect of our culture and conduct. Our culture is 
In parallel to the writing and launch of the purpose  underpinned by a governance framework (as detailed in 
statement, the defined values are the result of a refresh  the “Corporate governance” section, P see pages 12-17), 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 38
Purpose
B
which ensures Board oversight and clear accountability at 
the executive level. In fact, our Board of Directors was 
instrumental in the final review and approval of the    COVID-19 bridging loan program in Switzerland
purpose statement and values framework. The values and 
CHF
associated behaviors are now implemented throughout our  In March 2020, the Swiss federal govern-
~3
performance management and promotion tools, and will  ment and commercial banks launched a joint 
serve as the framework in which we evaluate our work.  bridging loan program for companies facing   billion
The culture agenda is a key priority, with high importance  liquidity problems due to the COVID-19 
being assigned to the recognition of positive behaviors and  pandemic. Credit Suisse played a leading 
in loans to over  
preventative training, as well as to ensuring appropriate  role in setting up the program and was one  16,700 Swiss SMEs
governance and sanctions for negative conduct.  of the main lenders in the initiative. In total, 
Credit Suisse provided approximately CHF 3 billion in loans to over 16,700 Swiss 
SMEs in 2020. We announced that we would donate any possible net profit 
generated as a result of the program to projects to support Swiss companies in need.
The importance of Credit Suisse’s 
L
values, according to the employees
Board) as well as to members of the Board of Directors. 
We believe that the revised Code of Conduct will support 
us in acting responsibly and successfully, for the collective 
benefit of the bank, our stakeholders and our 
communities.
 
Code of Conduct
Supporting the economy
Given the enhancements explained above, we revised our 
Code of Conduct in early 2021 to be fully aligned with our  Contributing to economic growth as a financial 
new purpose and cultural values. Our Chairman was  services provider  
personally involved in the process of rewriting the content.  Our primary function as a global bank is to be a reliable 
The Code has been fully endorsed by the Executive  and professional partner to our clients around the world, 
Board and the Board of Directors and is available here.  offering them a range of financial products and services 
The Code underpins many of our control and human  to meet their individual needs. In this context, 
capital processes and policies at Credit Suisse. It reflects  Credit Suisse also performs functions that are viewed as 
what we expect from employees and what our stakehold- systemically relevant, including deposit-taking and 
ers expect from Credit Suisse, as well as explaining how  lending. We play an important role as a financial interme-
we want to interact within Credit Suisse and with the  diary, bringing together borrowers and lenders of capital 
world around us. The Code of Conduct applies to all  globally – from companies and public sector bodies to 
employees at Credit Suisse (including the Executive  private individuals and institutions. We supply businesses 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 39
Purpose
with the capital resources they need to expand their  Risk capital for growth and innovation – supporting SMEs and 
activities and finance innovation, thus helping to drive  promoting entrepreneurship
economic growth and job creation. By assuming market 
and credit risks, banks make an important contribution to  Credit Suisse Entrepreneur Capital Ltd., a 100% subsidiary of Credit Suisse 
the efficient functioning of the economic system. (Switzerland) Ltd., provides SMEs as well as young entrepreneurs with access to 
capital, knowhow and networks. It aims to create a favorable environment where 
The importance of banks for the continued development  innovative companies can incubate, develop and grow their activities. In this way, it is 
and growth of the economy is demonstrated in particular  also actively helping to strengthen Switzerland’s position as a center for innovation, 
by our activities in our Swiss home market, where we are  economic growth and entrepreneurship.
a trusted financial partner to private individuals, corporate 
clients of all sizes and institutional clients. Since it was founded in 2010, Credit Suisse Entrepreneur Capital has invested a 
combined sum of more than CHF 150 million of capital – from a total of up to 
Support for SMEs CHF 200 million – in 62 companies. These investments focus on established 
Credit Suisse serves more than 100,000 companies in  companies requiring capital to grow as well as innovative start-ups in the areas of 
Switzerland, mainly comprising small- and medium-sized  automation and robotics, digitalization, life sciences and medtech whose business 
enterprises (SMEs) that generally have no direct access  models have gained market acceptance.
to the capital markets and are often reliant on bank loans 
to fund working capital and/or investments. One of our  Since many SMEs in Switzerland were severely impacted by the COVID-19 crisis, 
goals is to support these companies with a fair, competi- Credit Suisse Entrepreneur Capital has helped various portfolio companies to bridge 
tive and risk-adjusted lending policy. We are committed to  liquidity gaps via follow-on investments and has offered advice on how to successfully 
providing our Swiss corporate clients with the full range of  navigate these challenging times. 
banking products, needs-oriented advice and the best 
possible support, and we advise them on strategic 
decisions to help them run their businesses effectively or 
with regard to succession planning. At the end of 2020,  ongoing desire to enhance transparency regarding our tax 
Credit Suisse had over CHF 168 billion of loans outstand- matters, we intend to publish further insight on our tax 
ing in Switzerland, including mortgages and loans to  contribution in the course of 2021.
private companies, the public sector and private clients. 
This includes loans provided as part of the COVID-19  Economic contribution as a client/contractual 
bridging loan program ( P see box on page 39). partner  
Credit Suisse purchased about CHF 4.8 billion1 of goods, 
Economic contribution as a taxpayer services and licenses from suppliers around the globe in 
We make a direct contribution to the economy and  2020. Suppliers are required to meet strict standards in 
society in a variety of ways, including in our capacity as a  areas such as business ethics and integrity, employee 
significant taxpayer. Details of our income taxes paid for  health and safety, and environmental protection, as 
2020 are captured in our Annual Report in the Group’s  defined in Credit Suisse’s Supplier Code of Conduct. The 
consolidated statements of cash flows and tax note 29.  establishment of reliable relationships with these external 
For further details of our approach to tax please refer to 
the Organization and Governance chapter. As part of our  1 This figure represents a non-exhaustive view of global spend.
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 40
Purpose
partners helps to ensure the quality and value of the  surveyed indicating that they were satisfied or very 
products and services we source. In addition, our Third  satisfied with Credit Suisse overall.
Party Risk Management (TPRM) framework is embedded 
in day-to-day sourcing and vendor management pro-
cesses to assess risks when conducting business with  Spotlight on client satisfaction
suppliers.
95
5%
Economic contribution as an employer
%
Credit Suisse plays an important role as an employer, 
offering progressive working conditions, competitive 
of private clients1 surveyed in Switzer-
compensation and interesting career opportunities across  38% land are satisfied or very satisfied with 
a range of businesses to 48,770 employees (full-time  57% Credit Suisse overall.
equivalents) in around 50 countries worldwide as of 
December 31, 2020. A total of 16,040 members of our 
Very satisfied
global workforce are based in Switzerland – making us  Satisfied
Not satisfied
one of the largest employers in our home market.
¹ High-net-worth individuals, affluent clients and retail clients
In Switzerland, Credit Suisse uses a range of tools to 
Focus on clients
gauge client satisfaction, including the Client Experience 
Monitor that measures overall satisfaction among high-
Our focus on clients is front and center of our purpose-led  net-worth individuals, affluent clients and retail clients. To 
approach in both words and in actions. It is no coinci- assess client satisfaction based on interactions or 
dence that “serving our clients” is at the core of our  transactions, Credit Suisse uses different approaches and 
purpose statement. We believe that when we serve our  tools, e.g. Client Instant Feedback, Service Excellence 
clients and enable their success, they in turn have the  Study and a Call Robot.
opportunity to further positively impact society.
Complaints handling processes
Measuring client satisfaction In addition to complaint handling processes mandated by 
The Credit Suisse Client Experience Monitor measures  local regulatory requirements, we aim to ensure that 
client satisfaction and benchmarks it against the client  complaints are handled and reported correctly, as this is 
satisfaction metrics of some of our peers. Feedback from  essential to fulfil our commitment to our clients (including 
existing clients provides insights into how we can improve  prospective and former clients). We strive to respond to 
our service and advice. The results of our most recent  complaints promptly and in a manner that meets our high 
survey, which was conducted in Switzerland in 2020,  standards of integrity, fair dealing and independence. We 
revealed consistently strong levels of satisfaction among  believe that if clients submit a complaint, they are giving 
our clients – with a total of 95% of private clients  the bank an opportunity to regain or even increase their 
trust in Credit Suisse. At the same time, complaints 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 41
Purpose
enable the bank to rapidly identify cases where there is a  politics, where Swiss citizens assume roles in political 
need to improve products or services, to change pro- bodies at federal, cantonal or municipal level alongside 
cesses, or to offer additional training for employees.  their regular professions. Consequently, most members of 
the Swiss Parliament are not professional politicians and 
C
Further information   parties do not receive state funding. 
can be found on our website
Our role in society
Research: Gauging public opinion
Dialogue with stakeholders We leverage our in-house research capabilities and work with 
   
Credit Suisse considers it important to engage in discus- independent research institutions to produce a broad range of 
 
sions with various stakeholders – from clients, employees  publications, reports, analyses and specialist articles on  Youth Barometer 
2020 
and investors to policymakers, legislators, regulators and  economic and socio-political topics. This includes the suite of  P oliticized youth taking a stand   
representatives of the business community and society  Credit Suisse Barometers published in collaboration with an 
– to understand the issues that are important to them and  independent research institute based on representative surveys 
 
to help find constructive solutions to current challenges.  conducted in our Swiss home market and/or in selected 
This exchange of views and ideas has grown increasingly  countries around the globe. For example, the Credit Suisse 
important in recent years in view of international develop- Worry Barometer identifies the main concerns of the Swiss 
Credit Suisse Youth Barometer 2020 I 1  
ments and discussions surrounding the role of the finance  population and gauges voters’ views on current political and 
industry in the global economy. We are a member of a  economic issues – making an important contribution to the public conversation about 
number of industry associations, umbrella organizations  socio-economic issues in Switzerland. In 2020, the survey found that the COVID-19 
and think tanks where we discuss topics such as devel- pandemic is the greatest concern for the Swiss electorate, followed by worries about 
opments in financial market regulation and sustainable  old-age and survivors’ insurance/retirement provision. 
finance policy, among other subjects. In addition, we are 
open to engaging in a constructive dialogue with critical  In early 2020, we published our second Progress Barometer – this time with an 
stakeholders about their concerns.   international focus – to measure the desire for progress among voters in 16 nations. 
The study focused on economic, social and political themes ranging from e-mobility 
C
More information about our membership of  to work/life balance to development aid. Meanwhile, our Credit Suisse Youth 
industry bodies is available at:  Barometer captures the views of young people across different regions of the world 
credit-suisse.com/network – giving an insight into the lifestyle, problems and attitudes of the next generation.
C
More information on our publications is available at:
Support for the political system credit-suisse.com/gwr
credit-suisse.com/worrybarometer
In our Swiss home market, we not only engage in an  credit-suisse.com/youthbarometer
open dialogue with policymakers that involves the regular  credit-suisse.com/progressbarometer
exchange of information and ideas but also actively 
support the functioning of the Swiss “militia” system of 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 42
Purpose
In the EU, Credit Suisse does not 
Credit Suisse helps to strengthen this system of politics 
by making financial contributions available to political  make any financial contributions to 
parties at the federal level that request funding, irrespec-
tive of their political agenda and position. This financial  political candidates or parties. The 
support does not give rise to any obligations for the 
bank constructively engages with EU 
political parties that receive it. The only factor that 
influences the support given by Credit Suisse is the  policymakers on relevant financial 
number of parliamentary mandates held by each party at 
the federal level and in the cantons: to be eligible, a party  services topics through legislative 
must have at least five seats in the Federal Assembly 
consultation processes and other 
(Swiss Parliament). This transparent approach – based on 
objective criteria – enables Credit Suisse to make a  channels.
politically neutral contribution to support the work of the 
parties in performing the functions of the state. 
Credit Suisse makes a maximum total amount of 
CHF 1 million of financial support available each year for  Committee (PAC). The PAC then distributes the com-
this purpose. This support is exclusive to Credit Suisse’s  bined employee donations to members of relevant 
home market. committees or districts, ensuring that the funds are 
shared between Democratic and Republican candidates. 
In the European Union (EU), Credit Suisse does not make  These funds are not used for presidential elections. With 
any financial contributions to political candidates or  Compliance’s approval, employees may also participate by 
parties. The bank constructively engages with EU  individually supporting congressional and presidential 
policymakers on relevant financial services topics through  candidates or political parties of their choice.
legislative consultation processes and other channels. It 
discloses EU-related advocacy spend on an annual basis  Holders of public office
in the European Commission’s transparency register and  In Switzerland, Credit Suisse offers working time arrange-
abides by the EU’s Code of Conduct. Following the UK’s  ments to the almost 300 employees who hold an elected 
withdrawal from the EU, the bank has continued its  public office alongside their role at the bank. These 
constructive engagement with policymakers in the UK  employees can devote up to 20% of their working hours 
who are now reviewing both the rules and the process of  to a public role while receiving their full salary from the 
formulating new financial policy. Credit Suisse is partici- bank – irrespective of their party affiliation and views.  
pating in the policy dialogue on a range of issues from 
trade and sustainability to financial regulation.
Commitments to our communities
In the US, Credit Suisse does not itself make any direct 
financial contributions to candidates or political parties.  We believe that as a bank, we have an important role to 
However, like many other companies and organizations in  play in supporting our communities and, as such, we also 
the US, it offers employees the option of making volun- seek to contribute above and beyond our core activities. 
tary private contributions through a Political Action  The Corporate Citizenship & Foundations team works with 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 43
Purpose
selected partner organizations, provides funding through  Financial education
our global and regional foundations and facilitates the 
Education is a driver of economic empowerment and social mobility. 
sharing of professional expertise to catalyze social 
Financial education in particular teaches young people how to save and 
innovation, enable inclusive futures and support those in 
manage money and to think about basic business and entrepreneurship 
need. We do so in the communities where we live and  concepts. These skills are of key importance for young people around 
work, as well as further afield, to overcome the social and  the world – especially girls and young women in low-income 
economic inequalities disadvantaging young people and  communities within developing countries who are at higher risk of being 
marginalized.
communities worldwide in alignment with the United 
Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Since 2014, Credit Suisse has promoted financial education and life 
skills programs for girls through our Financial Education Initiative. 
We strive to make effective use of our social and financial  Partners in our global Financial Education for Girls signature program 
are Aflatoun International, Plan International and Room to Read. The 
capital to have a positive impact not only on society but 
Financial Education for Girls program aims to increase the financial 
also on employees and our core business. In 2020, we 
knowledge of girls and to raise awareness of their social and economic 
maintained our support for our long-term partners and  rights – thus helping them to build a better reality and future for 
initiatives while also developing immediate responses and  themselves. The program, funded by the Credit Suisse Foundation and 
mechanisms to help them and others cope with the  strengthened by the skills and knowledge of our employees, is working 
to improve the financial education and life skills of over 100,000 
pandemic and to strengthen racial justice and other 
adolescent girls around the world with programs currently running in 
equality and inclusion movements.
Brazil, China, Sri Lanka and Tanzania.
Empowering people through financial inclusion,  Financial Education Initiative – selected figures 2014 – 2020
financial education and future skills
Our social commitments focus on three themes: Financial  1,551
Inclusion (enabling access to formal financial services),  schools have benefited from our support
Financial Education and Future Skills, as well as capacity 
building of these sectors and the organizations within  adolescent girls worldwide 
144,489
them. We want to build a better day-to-day reality and a  have benefited from financial 
more inclusive future where all people can access the  education and life skills classes
resources and develop the financial, entrepreneurial and 
other skills they need to thrive in the economy and  3,989
society. We regard education and access to financial  teachers have been trained
services as critical to empowering individuals to succeed 
and to enabling sustainable growth at community level. 
C
More information is available at: 
2020 emphasized the impact of systemic inequality in 
credit-suisse.com/financialeducation
access to education and financial services on young 
people, businesses and communities.
In 2019, Credit Suisse announced the launch of a new 
theme for the bank’s longstanding commitments to global 
education: Future Skills. In light of this, one of our main 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 44
Purpose
Financial inclusion  Future skills 
Financial inclusion encompasses the provision of small loans, savings  Through Future Skills, we want to provide young people with the 
accounts and other financial services to excluded parties, such as  opportunity to reach their full potential as adults. By supporting access 
microentrepreneurs and individuals in emerging and developed  to education and training, we are committed to ensuring that a young 
economies. Financial services such as these are key in accessing many  person’s success is not dictated by their or their family’s socio-economic 
other essential needs and services in the formal economy, including  status. Our Future Skills work supports programs that close the 
healthcare, education and nutritional food.  education to employment gap.
Credit Suisse has been a leader in the field of financial inclusion and  The Future Skills theme is a natural evolution of our longstanding 
microfinance for nearly two decades. Established in 2008, the Financial  commitment to education in the communities where we live and work. It is 
Inclusion Initiative (FII) complements our impact investing business and  also a direct response to the challenges and concerns faced by young 
strengthens the financial inclusion sector by providing financial and human  people in a fast-changing world. Grants to NGOs and social organizations 
resources to train the management of microfinance institutions, and to  in our local communities are funded by our local foundations and 
drive further market development and innovation to serve the increasingly  grant-making bodies: the Credit Suisse Americas Foundation, the Credit 
diverse financial needs of clients living at the base of the income pyramid.  Suisse APAC Foundation and our India 2% CSR Regulatory Spend, the 
Grants from the Credit Suisse Foundation are made to five carefully  Credit Suisse EMEA Foundation, and the global Credit Suisse 
selected partner organizations and are complemented by the skills and  Foundation, which also covers grantmaking in Switzerland. In 2020, we 
expertise of Credit Suisse employees (see box on page 46). established new partnerships and will continue to do so in coming years 
to further develop the Future Skills theme. For example, since July 2019, 
Selected figures for 2020 the Credit Suisse Americas Foundation has been working with HERE to 
HERE, a career pathways non-profit based in the Bronx, New York City. 
115 The USD 1 million commitment supports CareerWise New York, an 
microfinance institutions and fintech start-ups 
employer-led, student-focused youth apprenticeship system based on a 
have benefited from our support
model widely used in Switzerland with the aim of improving the pathways 
from education to employment. In 2020, Credit Suisse laid the 
2,637 groundwork to welcome new apprentices in its offices in 2021. In January 
local employees of microfinance 
2021, the Credit Suisse Americas Foundation also contributed financially 
institutions have been trained¹
to the bank’s partnership with the United Negro College Fund to support 
Black scholars in completing their education and accessing employment. 
83,231
people have access to new or  Selected figures for 2020 
improved products and services
77
Through its investments, our partner Accion Venture Lab generated an  Future Skills partners
additional USD 105 million for financially inclusive fintechs. 
Opportunity International’s Education Finance team enabled over  80
USD 184 million2 in education loans for affordable quality education. 
Future Skills programs
¹ Number of trainers trained through our programs 
² Accumulated and outstanding in 2020 young people benefitting from 
215,501
Future Skills programs funded 
C More information can be found at: by Credit Suisse
credit-suisse.com/financialinclusion
C
More information can be found at:
credit-suisse.com/futureskills
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 45
Purpose
Employee engagement Our global skills-based volunteering programs
Volunteering worldwide – selected figures for 2020 
Through our skills-based volunteering programs, we offer our employees around the world 
numerous opportunities to use their expertise to build the capacity of our partners and to 
simultaneously enhance their own personal and professional skills. Our signature Corporate 
8,416 
Citizenship programs include the Global Citizens Program, Board Connect and Virtual Volunteering.
volunteers¹
177 Global Citizens Program
partners received both funding and 
The Global Citizens Program (GCP) is Credit Suisse’s flagship international skills-based volunteering 
skills-based volunteering support
program. Designed to promote the transfer of skills and expertise between employees and social 
organizations, the GCP builds the capacity of our partners in the fields of financial inclusion and 
50 education. Assignments in this leadership development program last from one week to three months 
and have become an important component of the Group’s learning and development offering. Since the 
countries in which our partners are active
GCP’s launch in 2010, Credit Suisse employees have supported over 440 assignments in more than 
50 countries across the globe. Assignments consist of both in-person international and virtual 
¹ COVID-19 has impacted overall numbers as in-person volunteering  components and, in 2020, seamlessly converted to fully virtual.   
was not possible. Whenever feasible, virtual assignments were offered  C
More information is available at: 
instead.
credit-suisse.com/responsibility/gcp
goals in 2020 was to adapt our partner portfolios and to 
identify new organizations working in this space. Our  Board Connect
Our activities in the area of non-profit board service were launched in the US in 2009 and rolled out 
Future Skills work focuses on programs that close the 
globally in 2015. In 2020, we continued and grew these activities mostly virtually through our global 
education to employment gap and give young people from 
Board Connect program, which provides training, placement support, networks and other resources for 
all socio-economic backgrounds the opportunity to realize  Credit Suisse employees who want to serve on non-profit boards. Not only does this form of employee 
their full potential as adults – especially by securing  volunteering add value to non-profit organizations (NPOs) and the community, but it also helps 
employment ( P see box on page 45). employees to improve their leadership, strategy and stakeholder management skills, enhancing their 
ability to work in different environments. In 2020, more than 1,100 employees participated in our 
program, and 768 received training.
Employees: expertise, development, commitment
Within our three main themes, we focus in particular on 
building the capacity of our partners. Our employees are  Virtual Volunteering
essential to this approach and to our broader commitment  Virtual Volunteering provides an opportunity for employees to use their expertise and enthusiasm to 
to society, and they dedicated over 58,300 hours of their  support our partner organizations without having to take extended leave from personal or professional 
commitments. The partner organizations benefit from the support of highly qualified Credit Suisse 
time and expertise in 2020 through volunteering activities. 
employees who have a wide variety of skills (e.g. in project management, writing or research). In return, 
As part of the bank’s human capital strategy, we allow 
participating employees gain the opportunity to work alongside leading experts and organizations 
each employee to devote up to four days per year to  around the world, to contribute to the end result and to collaborate with colleagues from other divisions 
support our global partners or social initiatives in the  of the Group. In 2020, we tested a new online platform to strengthen and grow this program, which we 
communities where we live and work. In light of the  will roll out globally in 2021.
COVID-19 pandemic, we further developed our virtual 
volunteering programs that promote the transfer of skills 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 46
Purpose
and knowledge between employees and partners. In 2020,  B  Supporting our communities 
Credit Suisse employees around the world dedicated over  and partners during the 
25
32,400 hours to skills-based volunteering. COVID-19  pandemic
made it more difficult for employees to volunteer and   million
engage with our partners, but we are proud of the fact that  The pandemic has put a large strain on 
26% of our employees globally participated (via both  communities and on charitable organizations in 
CHF raised for charities through 
volunteering and other activities) in our Corporate Citizen- particular as they continued to serve the often  bank-wide donation campaign
ship programs in 2021. increased needs of their target beneficiaries 
while having to cope with the new situation 
Increasing impact through our core business,  themselves. In April 2020, the Chairman, the 
clients and partners Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Board launched a bank-wide donation 
Sharing the bank’s broader purpose of serving our clients  campaign in response to the pandemic to match individual employee charitable 
with care and entrepreneurial spirit, our Corporate  contributions. The campaign raised approximately CHF 25 million and supported 
Citizenship teams work closely with colleagues across the  more than 1,400 charitable organizations worldwide trying to alleviate the impact of 
bank to advance and innovate the philanthropy and  the pandemic and support those affected by inequality.
impact investing sectors through research, public-private 
partnerships and expertise. Together, we are able to  In addition, we offered to support our longstanding charitable partners in a variety of 
further increase our social impact and create lasting value  ways to ensure they could continue to serve their target populations while building 
for both clients and society at large. Moreover, we also  their own resilience in coping with the long- and short-term impacts of the pandemic. 
involve our clients in the development and delivery of  Where needed, we adjusted existing programs to fit the new circumstances. We also 
fundraising, events and awareness-raising programs. In  committed to continuing all existing and planned funding while providing flexibility in 
Switzerland, clients and employees can support selected  reporting and use of funds. Where possible, we also provided additional funding to 
charities through Micro-Donations, where payments made  close gaps and provide emergency relief at a time when charitable organizations 
by credit or debit card can be rounded up by a pre-defined  experienced a critical income drop.
amount to be donated. Charity trading days in the 
Investment Bank division focus on partnering with our 
clients to raise funds for the causes we care about. CHF 150 million to over 3,300 charitable initiatives 
worldwide, and in 2020 they carried out 251 projects in 
developing countries and in Switzerland. In Asia, SymAsia 
Philanthropy has received USD 150 million of donor-advised funds and 
has gifted around USD 111 million since it was estab-
In the area of philanthropy, Credit Suisse works with  lished in 2010.
clients to help them incorporate their personal values and 
objectives into their philanthropic engagements. We can  To further support organizations committed to charitable 
create sub-foundations for clients under one of  goals, the bank is running a Competence Center for 
Credit Suisse’s umbrella charitable foundations – Accen- Charitable Foundations, which bundles the bank’s internal 
tus, Empiris and Symphasis in Switzerland or SymAsia in  expertise from a wide range of areas in order to create a 
Singapore. Since they were established, the Swiss  practice-led offering for charitable foundations domiciled 
umbrella foundations have distributed a total of more than  in Switzerland. The aim of the advisory service of the 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 47
Purpose
2020 milestones Competence Center is to help foundation clients deter-
mine the best way to convey their defined values and 
Launch of Credit Suisse APAC Foundation: In February  achieve long-term impact. The Competence Center 
2020, the Credit Suisse APAC Foundation was launched: a  Charitable Foundations provides services and solutions for 
strategic community investment vehicle for Credit Suisse’s  the management of a foundation and its assets, and 
Corporate Citizenship activities in the APAC region that focuses  promotion of its charitable objectives.
on improving the employability, aspirations and financial education 
C
of disadvantaged young people and the financial inclusion of  Further information:
underprivileged populations across Asia Pacific.   credit-suisse.com/responsibility/society
Leveraging employees’ expertise and commitment: In 
Switzerland, we have given employees the opportunity to support 
charities and to launch their own fundraising campaigns through 
the crowdfunding platform Copalana – Credit Suisse’s new 
employee-designed portal to collect donations. In addition to its 
fundraising capabilities, Copalana will also be used to match 
employees willing to volunteer with NGO partners that need 
support in a specific area.  
Charity Trading day in EMEA: In EMEA, the Charity Trading day 
in October 2020 raised GBP 1.5 million to benefit UK Charity of 
the Year, Cancer Research UK. This collaborative effort between 
the business, clients and Corporate Citizenship will support Cancer 
Research UK’s pioneering immunotherapy research program.
Holiday Charity Initiative in the Americas: The 2020 Holiday 
Charity Initiative in the Americas region raised a total of USD 1.8 
million in a mere five-week campaign.
These milestones demonstrate the value of the long-term partnerships we have 
established with charitable organizations around the globe, thus also contributing 
to the realization of the UN SDGs.
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 48
Planet
We are committed to 
enabling a more environmen-
tally sustainable economy 
and we recognize climate 
change as one of the most 
significant risks facing our 
planet. In 2020, we set a new 
ambition to achieve net zero 
emissions by no later than 
2050.
Planet
Our role in addressing  climate 
change
As a global financial institution, we recognize our share of  In 2020 we set a new 
responsibilities in combating climate change by supporting 
the transition to a low-carbon and climate-resilient global  ambition: to achieve net 
economy, and we acknowledge that financial flows also 
zero emissions across 
need to be brought in line with the objectives of the Paris 
Agreement. The Paris Agreement charts the course of  our global bank by no 
the global response to the threat of climate change with 
its overarching objective to limit the rise in global tem- later than 2050. We also 
perature to 2°C above pre-industrial levels and to aim to 
confirmed that we are 
achieve a rise of no more than 1.5°C. Based on the Paris  Lara Warner 
Agreement, countries have committed to implement  Chief Risk and Compliance Officer joining the global 
transition plans to lower their greenhouse gas emissions. 
movement of leading 
At the Investor Update in December 2020, we 
companies aligning their 
announced our ambition to align our activities with the 
Paris Agreement objective of limiting global warming to  business with the most 
1.5°C. As guidance towards this goal, we are committed 
to develop science-based targets in 2021 and 2022 for  ambitious aim of the 
achieving net zero emissions from our operations, supply 
Paris Agreement.
chain and financing activities by no later than 2050, with 
intermediate emissions targets to be set for 2030.
L
During 2021 and 2022, we will therefore be developing a 
For information on our strategy 
robust roadmap, with the target reductions to be officially  to address climate change:
certified by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) as 
a science-based target. By signing our commitment to 
the SBTi, we have confirmed that we are joining the 
global movement of leading companies aligning their 
business with the most ambitious aim of the Paris   
Agreement, to limit the global temperature rise to no 
more than 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels and transi-
tioning to a net-zero emissions economy by 2050 for the 
best chance of avoiding the worst impacts of climate 
change. 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 50
Planet
Climate Risk Strategy program
Our climate-related achievements have been recognized 
by CDP, an international non-profit representing institu-
tional investors with invested assets of over USD 100  Climate-related risks are the potentially adverse direct and 
trillion. Its aim is to offer transparent guidance to investors  indirect impacts on the Group’s financial metrics, opera-
on climate-related opportunities and risks for companies.  tions or reputation due to transitional or physical effects of 
Our score has increased to A- from B in 2019.  climate change. Climate-related risks could manifest 
Credit Suisse has thereby reached CDP “Leadership  themselves through existing risk types such as credit risk, 
level”, which is defined as “Implementing current best  market risk, non-financial risk, business risk or reputational 
practices”. We are also continuing our efforts to adopt  risk. Beside risks, the measures required for addressing 
recommendations by the Financial Stability Board’s Task  climate change and the materials and technologies 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)  necessary for the transition towards lower-carbon opera-
( P see pages 59-60).  tions and products present various financing, investment 
and advisory opportunities across all our divisions.
Credit Suisse is pursuing a three-pronged approach as 
part of our efforts to address climate change and cli- In 2018, we established a climate change program to 
mate-related risks. First, we are working with our clients  address the TCFD recommendations with respect to 
to support their transition to low-carbon and climate-resil- external disclosures on climate-related risks and opportu-
ient business models, and we are working to further  nities. In 2019, we integrated our TCFD adoption 
integrate climate change into our risk management  program into a Group-wide Climate Risk Strategy 
models as part of our Climate Risk Strategy program.  program to deliver on the first prong of our approach to 
Second, we are focusing on delivering sustainable finance  addressing climate change and climate-related risks. The 
solutions that help our clients achieve their goals and  mandate of this program is to develop comprehensive 
contribute to the realization of the UN Sustainable  strategies to address climate risk. This includes support-
Development Goals (SDGs) ( P see pages 94-95); and  ing our clients’ energy transition towards low-carbon 
third, we are working on further reducing the carbon  operations, technologies and services, continuing the 
footprint of our own operations ( P see pages 56-59).  ongoing implementation of the TCFD recommendations 
as well as working towards the implementation of various 
Our principles and our approach to climate protection are  industry recommendations and compliance with upcoming 
set out in our Statement on Climate Change, which  regulatory expectations. This program is sponsored by the 
describes how we intend to address climate-related risks,  Chief Risk and Compliance Officer (CRCO) and has 
mobilize financial resources and reduce our banking  senior management representation from our business 
footprint. Furthermore, in 2019, Credit Suisse signed the  divisions as well as from General Counsel, Risk & 
UN Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB), which call  Compliance and the new Sustainability, Research & 
for the banking sector to align with the objectives of the  Investment Solutions function.
UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris 
Agreement. P  Details on our efforts to implement the  As part of our strategy, we have developed sector-specific 
PRB can be found on pages 96-101. Client Energy Transition Frameworks (CETFs). They 
consist of the identification of priority sectors/industries 
and a methodology to categorize clients that operate in 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 51
Planet
Climate-related risk manifestations these sectors according to their energy transition readi-
ness. With this approach, we aim to actively encourage 
clients to transition along the CETF scale over time and to 
Energy and transportation 
support them through financing and advisory services. At 
decarbonization
the same time, we aim to manage Credit Suisse’s 
business and reputational risk exposure by assessing 
clients against the relevant CETFs before transacting with 
Credit
Eevxetrnetmse weather  OperationRiaslkCreditRisk Risk RReispkutational MPaisriasl itgrnamjecetnotr vys.  tiwnhi eltl embre.m  Fpsi hnoaafs ntecradinn gosu ifttioo orn vc erliere antditmsin ewe.s iTtsho,   tid.heae.t  eloo,f w w“eUesn tha acwavaeter ergo”o llcreilzdiea ntoiotusnt,   
CETFs for the highest priority sectors, such as oil and 
gas, coal mining and utilities/power generation (fossil 
fuel-based). Other sectors for which we are developing or 
BRuissikness BuRsienRpiessustkatiRiosnkal pcolamnnminogd ittoie sd etrvaedloep f iCnaEnTcFes  ains cwluedlle a ssh mippaninugf,a catvuiaritniogn, , 
Loss of revenues associated  Loss of credibility in  construction/real estate, agriculture and forestry.
with traditional business Credit Suisse ambition
We have continued evolving risk identification processes 
following the guidance and examples outlined in the 
Energy and transportation decarbonization:  Loss of revenues associated with traditional 
TCFD recommendations. We enhanced the mapping of 
Global policies (e.g. cross-border carbon tax)  business: Credit Suisse’s leadership position in 
the climate-related risks to existing risk categories by 
and/or technological breakthroughs might accel- sustainability may lead to rejection of transactions 
erate transition towards greener energy sources  with clients that do not have a credible transition  interacting with the regional and divisional teams. Based 
and products. This could trigger a wave of  plan. This may result in loss of revenues associ- on the inputs received, we created a list of key items 
defaults and reallocation of capital. ated with such transactions and assets under  covering both physical and transition risks. This list aims 
Manifestation: Credit risk management if clients decide to move assets 
to form an initial view that highlights the most material 
away. At the other end of the spectrum, a slow 
Misalignment vs. Paris trajectory: Indus- pivoting towards “green” may alienate clients who  climate-related risks and their manifestations relevant to 
try-wide trajectories, common metrics and path- strongly support the transition, and thereby also  our risk management activity.
ways for financial institutions are currently being  lead to a loss of AuM. 
set. Credit Suisse actively promotes transition,  Manifestation: Business risk  Adopting an enterprise view, we have identified key risks 
but also depends on clients to engage, commit 
associated with climate change (refer to chart). We 
and deliver on commitments towards “net zero” in  Extreme weather events: More frequent and 
a collaborative effort. severe weather events might lead to credit risk  consider these risks against three different time spans of 
Manifestation: Reputational risk implications related to the financed portfolios as  short term, medium term and longer term. 
well as operational risks related to buildings and 
Loss of credibility in Credit Suisse ambition:  infrastructure owned by Credit Suisse as well as 
The identification of risks stemming from climate change 
We aspire to become leaders and we are striving  overall business continuity.
to achieve that position, with significant manage- Manifestation: Credit risk, operational risk is an ongoing process and we expect the granularity of 
ment focus. The journey towards leadership will  the analysis to increase over time and be informed by our 
entail significant efforts on multiple fronts with  work on scenario analysis and stress testing.
potential execution risk, and includes external 
dependencies. 
Manifestation: Reputational risk, business risk
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 52
Planet
We actively engage in industry forums to foster the  covered the oil and gas portfolio financed by 
development of industry standards. We have contributed to  Credit Suisse. The results indicated that although the 
the development of transition risk and physical risk  change is limited in the short term, it accelerates at an 
assessment models as part of the UN Environment  exponential rate and could be significant over the longer 
Programme Finance Initiative phase II banking pilot.  term. 
Through this engagement we have developed “heat maps” 
for the industry sectors most vulnerable to the transitional  Together with other banks, we participated in the Paris 
and/or the physical risks of climate change over the next  Agreement Capital Transition Assessment (PACTA) pilot 
three decades. Transition risks can arise from the process  project to test methodologies for measuring the alignment 
of adjustment towards a low-carbon economy through  of credit portfolios to the objectives of the Paris Agree-
changes in climate policy, technological developments and  ment developed by the 2° Investing Initiative. The analysis 
disruptive business models, and shifting investor and  covered upstream oil and gas, coal mining and power 
consumer sentiment. Transition risks through climate  generation portfolios financed by Credit Suisse. The pilot 
change regulation, such as the introduction or increase of  provided useful insights into the ways the alignment and 
carbon prices or taxes, expected viability of low-carbon  diversification of a portfolio in terms of exposure to 
fuels or technologies and shifting consumer demand, were  physical assets could be measured and monitored.   
the key factors taken into account. Companies with 
carbon-intensive operations and production methods, or  PACTA methodologies provide two main types of output:
with carbon-intensive products, are expected to be most 
affected by these developments if they do not succeed in    The alignment of the evolution of exposure over time to 
diversifying or transitioning towards lower-carbon opera- climate scenarios
tions and products. Pressure points from the physical risks 
of climate change arise primarily if a company’s operations    The diversification of a portfolio at a point in time in 
(or those of its key suppliers or shipping routes) are in  terms of exposure to physical assets
areas significantly affected by extreme weather events that 
are expected in increasing frequency in the future. These  With respect to the alignment to climate scenarios, oil and 
could include droughts or heatwaves leading to fires as  gas portfolios demonstrated decarbonization trajectories 
well as flooding from heavy rains or from rising sea levels.  comparable to projections for the global corporate economy, 
with certain parts of the portfolio outperforming those 
We also assessed climate-related risks by applying  projections. The technology mix of the power generation 
physical and transition models to our portfolios, starting  portfolio financed by Credit Suisse was found to be less 
with pilot exercises. The physical risk assessment focused  carbon-intensive than the global corporate economy.
on the flooding risk for the real estate portfolios financed 
by Credit Suisse. We covered the Swiss real estate  In Switzerland, Credit Suisse participated in the voluntary 
portfolio and the UK portfolio, mapping property addresses  climate alignment test of investment portfolios and Swiss 
to current flood risk maps. The results from this pilot  mortgages for Swiss banks, asset managers, pension 
exercise indicated a limited loss potential, mainly as a  funds and insurance companies coordinated by the Swiss 
function of the maturity of our loans, vis-à-vis the lon- Federal Office for the Environment. We published the 
ger-term nature of physical risk. The transition risk pilot 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 53
Planet
summary of our individual results, as one of the few  analyses in a consistent manner at the time of loan 
participating banks to do so. origination to ensure that pricing and risk appetite consider-
ations are appropriately reflected. We are performing pilot 
stress testing for important counterparties with high 
Our outlook exposure to climate risk, such as in the oil and gas sector. 
A cash-flow-based approach is being tested, including 
The outcome of various pilot initiatives indicated that  stresses related to volumes, prices and production mix. 
climate models and methodologies might have limited  This stress testing will leverage industry scenarios and 
application in assessing the strategy resilience and might  available committed transition trajectories by 
therefore require further development and evolution to  counterparties.
ensure adequate risk coverage and capture. However, we 
consider them highly useful in monitoring the evolution of  We will also continue to evaluate our CETF methodolo-
the topic, identifying areas to focus on and planning our  gies to improve accuracy, whether through enhanced data 
next steps. We are actively using the heat maps produced  gathering or through improved modelling techniques, as 
by the United Nations Environment Programme Finance  well as liaising with other market stakeholders to define 
Initiative (UNEP FI) and aim to continue UNEP FI  and deliver comparable standards and outputs. The 
participation in 2021, having signed up for phase III of the  development of our internal capabilities aims to incorpo-
corresponding program. Furthermore, we decided to  rate the tools and methodologies needed to meet our 
participate in the voluntary pilot stress testing exercise  commitment to develop science-based targets in 2021 
championed by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority. and 2022, and we will work to expand the sectoral 
coverage in line with the SBTi. 
We are planning to strengthen our capabilities to meet our 
ambitions. We will be working to develop metrics that 
allow us to consistently measure and monitor our portfo- Industry-wide initiatives
lios and our alignment against our climate commitments. 
2021
We aim to work with our clients and provide them with 
detailed information on our CETFs in order to encourage 
them to engage with us in helping them with their own 
 UNEP FI: Portfolio Implied 
energy transitions, as well as to provide us with the  2020 Temperatures
requisite data we will need to accurately assess our   UNEP FI: Supporting Client 
overall portfolio transition. In addition, we are actively  Transitions and Climate Risk 
considering metrics in our management of climate risk,   UNEP FI: transition risk –  Underwriting
2019 US oil and gas portfolio pilot
such as the carbon intensity of financed activities,   UNEP FI: Economic impacts 
 UNEP FI: physical risk –  of Climate Change
transition preparedness, point-in-time versus through-the- Swiss real estate and UK real 
year exposures, and counterparty-level stress testing for   UNEP FI : Heat maps –  estate pilots  HKMA: Climate Risk Stress 
contribution to the transition  Test
material exposures.  and physical sectoral maps  2° Investing 
Initiative – PACTA
For a selection of these exposures, we believe that climate 
sensitivity should be integrated into future cash-flow 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 54
Planet
Global Real Estate in Credit Suisse Asset Management  To ensure that climate risk is embedded within our risk 
 Switzerland culture, we will be working to enhance the Risk Appetite 
Framework (RAF) from the top down. This will require us 
We believe that a sustainable  to define and measure climate risks within our businesses 
approach to managing and develop- and incorporate these risks within the RAF so that they are 
ing properties is essential for real  controlled and limited appropriately. Through the RAF we 
More than
estate investments. Our sustainability  1,200 aim to steer our future portfolio exposure to align with our 
strategy follows an environmental,  commitments of supporting the goals of the Paris Agree-
social and governance (ESG)  ment by setting limits that encourage investment and 
integration and impact investing  divestment where appropriate over the medium to long 
properties across
approach to achieve a “net-zero”  14 term. We thereby aim to align our science-based targets to 
climate-neutral real estate portfolio.  our business strategy, and to ensure that climate risk is 
We focus on comprehensive ESG  part of the daily business decision-making process. In 
integration across the real estate life  countries addition, we will look to expand our stress scenarios to 
cycle and real estate value chain to  assess the short term resilience of our portfolios and 
create value for stakeholders, society  operations to potential physical or transitional economic 
and the environment. Our related risk  shocks and adjust our risk appetite accordingly. 
management processes aim to avoid stranded assets and to ensure a real estate 
portfolio that takes climate-related risks into account. Our key initiatives focus on 
(i) building certificates, (ii) building optimization and (iii) ESG performance 
benchmarks. Global Real Estate has developed and established the greenproperty 
quality seal, a comprehensive ESG standard for new buildings. We rely on leading 
market expertise in the area of building optimization, and we measure the ESG 
performance of our real estate investment solutions through ESG benchmarks 
such as the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB), which has 
recognized us as both a “Global Sector Leader” and a “European Sector Leader”. 
Global Real Estate in Credit Suisse Asset Management Switzerland holds more 
than CHF 38 billion of assets and more than 1,200 properties across 14 
countries. 
C
Further information  
can be found on our website
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 55
Planet
Reducing carbon emissions across our operations
We have reduced our operational carbon emissions by  Our operations have been carbon neutral since 2010. Our  Pathway to RE100 electricity Portfolio of carbon credits 2020
88% from our 2010 baseline year. This achievement has  first priority is to reduce emissions by investments in 
been driven by implementing energy efficiency measures  energy efficiency programs and new technologies that  13%
500,000 20%
across our premises, increasing renewable energy supply  allow us to reduce carbon in buildings, data centers and 
and reducing travel emissions. The COVID-19 pandemic  travel. Each year, we compensate for the balance of 
had profound impacts on our operations in 2020, with a  emissions that we cannot reduce, by purchasing carbon 
reduction in energy and paper consumption as well as  credits to achieve a carbon neutral positon against our  400,000
13%
business travel. The majority of our employees worked  reported carbon emissions, which include office and data 
from home during most of the year, and for the first time  center energy use, water and waste, business travel and 
we have included an estimate of emissions related to the  the estimated energy use from remote working. 54%
300,000
energy used by our employees for remote working 
purposes within our reported carbon footprint.
 Geothermal power  10,000 
In 2020, we committed to the global initiative RE100 to  200,000   SSmolaarll  phoywdreor  power  4140,,000000  
source 100% of our electricity globally from renewable   Reforestation / Afforestation 16,000 
sources by 2025. We now source 94% of all our 
Total  80,000 
electricity from renewable sources globally, with 99% 
renewable electricity across Europe and the US (an  Remote working emissions are calculated based on modelled home energy  100,000
use, taking renewable energy into account and applying the VfU Indicators 
increase from 90% in 2019).    Standard 2018 Version 1.4 from December 2020. Carbon credit portfolio 2020:
Accreditation: 100% of all carbon credits 
purchased are approved by either the Gold 
Greenhouse gas emissions 2018 – 2020 Greenhouse gas emissions 2020 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2025  Standard (GS), the Verified Carbon Standard 
objective
(VCS), or both.
Total  3% Type of carbon credits: 80% of carbon credits 
160,000 151,900 3%1% 5% dheydlivroe roerd s coalarbr opno waveor.i dance through geothermal, 
140,000 12T7o,t3a0l 0 30%  On-site Renewable Electricity   Renewable Certificates (RECs) 2th0ro%u gohf  creafrobroens tcarteiodnit sa ndde laivfeforereds ctaatriboonn removal 
(2017 – 2025)  Non-Renewable (Grid Average  Geographic distribution: 55% of carbon credits 
120,000 20%  Green Contracts with Utilities Electricity) are generated in Turkey; 37.5% are generated in 
China and 7.5% in Colombia.
100,000
KPIs 2018 – 2020: Global key performance indicators for environmental management ¹ 
80,000
      2020 2      2019 3      2018 3 
60,000 5T1o,8ta0l0  38%    Absolute   Per FTE 4   Absolute   Per FTE 4   Absolute   Per FTE 4 
Greenhouse gas emissions                   
(CO equivalents in metric tons) 5  51,800   1.1   127,300   2.7   151,900   3.4 
40,000   CO equivalents   2
  in2 metric tons Electricity (KWh)   326,939,000   6,870   372,009,000   7,990   395,682,000   8,840 
20,000  Electricity  15,951  Heating (KWh)   81,937,000   1,720   82,520,000   1,770   84,067,000   1,880 
 Heating (gas and oil)  20,121  Business travel (km)   55,022,000   1,200   437,417,000   9,400   420,579,000   9,400 
 Business travel  10,107
0 Paper (t)   1,300   0.03   2,250   0.05   2,560   0.06 
2018 2019 2020  Paper  1,426 
 Water  301 Water (m3)   465,000   10   706,000   15   710,000   16 
 Office energy use    Business travel  Waste  1,508  Waste (t)   4,500   0.10   6,500   0.14   7,500   0.17 
(2020: office and home  Paper, water, waste,   Coolants and fire extinguishers   2,384   Coolants and fire extinguishers (kg)   1,700   0.04   2,013   0.04   2,172   0.05 
energy use)  coolants and fire 
 Data centers energy use extinguishers Total  51,800 
1 VfU standard 2018 (rounded figures) applied to  3 Rounded figures; minor adjustments made to  5 Net greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2 
2018 – 2020 data set. 2019 and 2018 data sets. market-based) prior to offsets made to achieve 
C 2 We have incorporated the electricity and carbon  4 As of December 31 of the reporting year;  greenhouse gas neutrality.
More details on key performance indicators in environmental management can be found at  footprint of our modelled remote working in 2020  employees (full-time equivalents).    
credit-suisse.com/emissions data. 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 56
Planet
Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions
Credit Suisse carbon emissions by region
Emission Scopes 1, 2 and 3
      Switzerland   Europe/Middle East   Americas   Asia-Pacific   Global      Indicator per FTE 
   GRI Reporting Standards   tons COe   tons COe   tons COe   tons COe   tons COe   Change vs. 2019   kg COe/FTE 
2 2 2 2 2 2
Ɓ Scope 1: Direct emissions through burning fuels and losses from coolants and fire extinguishers   305-1   9,700   1,620   3,600   730   15,650   3%   330 
Ɓ Scope 2 (market-based): Indirect emissions from energy production based on contract emissions   305-2   1,070   1,160   660   7,280   10,170   -48%   210 
Ɓ Scope 2 (location-based): Indirect emissions from energy production based on grid average emissions   305-2   16,590   20,300   32,340   27,000   96,200   -15%   2,020 
Ɓ Scope 3: Indirect emissions from business travel, waste, water, paper and energy transmission   305-3   7,970   6,560   6,000   5,440   25,970   -72%   550 
Total net carbon emissions in metric tons of CO equivalents per FTE   305-1-3   18,740   9,340   10,260   13,460   51,800   -59%   1,090 
2
C arbon credits retired to achieve carbon neutrality   305-1-3   (18,740)   (9,340)   (10,260)   (13,460)   (51,800)       
Credit Suisse carbon emissions by year
Emission Scopes 1, 2 and 3
        Overall consumption         Indicator per FTE  
         tons COe         kg COe/FTE  
2 2
   GRI Reporting Standards   2020   2019   2018   2020   2019   2018 
Ɓ Scope 1: Direct emissions through burning fuels and losses from coolants and fire extinguishers   305-1   15,650   15,220   17,400   330   330   390 
Ɓ Scope 2 (market-based): Indirect emissions from energy production based on contract emissions   305-2   10,170   19,560   43,200   210   420   970 
Ɓ Scope 2 (location-based): Indirect emissions from energy production based on grid average emissions   305-2   96,200   113,580   117,500   2,020   2,440   2,630 
Ɓ Scope 3: Indirect emissions from business travel, waste, water, paper and energy transmission   305-3   25,970   92,540   91,300   550   1,990   2,040 
Total net carbon emissions in metric tons of CO equivalents   305-1-3   51,800   127,300   151,900   1,090   2,730   3,390 
2
C arbon credits retired to achieve carbon neutrality   305-1-3   (51,800)   (127,300)   (151,900)   (1,090)   (2,730)   (3,390) 
Notes
1)  Carbon reporting methodology applies the GHG Protocol (Greenhouse Gas Protocol) and GRI Standards for sustainability
2)  Carbon emissions calculations for 2020 and previous years 2019 and 2018 based on the VfU Indicator 2018 methodology
3)  Estimated home energy usage is included in 2020
C
More details on key performance indicators in environmental management can be found at 
credit-suisse.com/emissions
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 57
Planet
Four-pillar strategy ISO 14001
We have a rigorous control framework in place to 
We are pursuing a four-pillar strategy to achieve carbon reductions across our  manage our environmental impact. A key 
Globally certified 
global operations component of this framework is our globally 
Environmental 
certified Environmental Management System 
Management System
(EMS), which has been implemented in accor-
1. Optimize: 2. Invest: 3. Substitute 4. Compensate 
dance with the ISO 14001:2015 standard. In 
We aim to optimize all  We are investing in  We substitute, using a  To achieve carbon  2020, we successfully completed an EMS surveillance audit carried out by SGS. 
our business activities  carbon reduction  combination of green  neutrality, we 
We also involve external service providers and suppliers in our continuous efforts to 
to reduce carbon  technologies across all  tariffs and Renewable  compensate the 
improve our environmental management measures.
emissions. In 2020,  our global premises.  Energy Certificates,  balance of our 
we continued to  We invested  fossil fuel energy  emissions through the 
concentrate on  significantly in online  sources with  purchase of carbon 
improving energy  collaboration tools in  zero-carbon energy  credits to fund projects 
efficiency and reducing  2020, and anticipate  supplies. In 2020, we  that reduce or remove 
the consumption of  continued high usage  achieved 94%  carbon emissions. In 
electricity and fossil  as our working  renewable electricity  2020, 100% of the 
2025 objectives
fuels.  practices continue to  globally, and all power  carbon credits 
evolve.  contracts signed in  purchased were 
that year for  certified by the Gold  In 2020, we strengthened our commitment to environmental  2025
Switzerland, the UK,  Standard and the 
management and introduced environmental objectives to be 
goals
Italy, Australia and  Verified Carbon 
achieved by 2025. We have made good progress on carbon 
Germany stipulate  Standard.
100% renewable  reduction and renewable energy sourcing towards achieving our 
energy. 2025 goals. Our initiatives for plastic and waste reduction have 
not progressed as fast as we had planned due to the impact of COVID-19 during 
2020. We will be developing new science-based targets in 2021 and 2022 to 
support our future strategy to drive further reductions in our operational emissions 
Reduction of own material and energy  Reduction of  and to start measuring and reducing our supply chain emissions in line with the 
consumption greenhouse gas  Paris Agreement to limit global warming to 1.5°C.
emissions each time 
energy is consumed
Reduction of own greenhouse gas emissions Compensation 
of remaining 
greenhouse gas 
emissions
Greenhouse gas neutrality
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 58
Planet
Task Force on Climate-related 
Credit Suisse is on track to achieve its 2025 objectives
Progress as at December 2020 Financial Disclosures
 
  RAG Status    Reflecting the financial sector’s commitment to address-
  (Red-Amber- 2020 progress towards  
ing climate change, the Financial Stability Board (FSB) 
2025 Objectives Green) 2025 objectives
established the industry-led Task Force on Climate-re-
Z
Reduce total GHG emissions by 75%  88% reduction versus 2010 baseline  lated Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in December 2015 to 
compared with 2010 levels by 2025 on  achieved in 2020 propose a set of recommendations for consistent disclo-
reported operational aspects  sures that will help financial market participants under-
Z stand their climate-related risks. The TCFD aimed to 
Achieve 100% renewable electricity by  94% achieved in 2020, on track to 
promote more informed investment, credit and insurance 
2025 (Renewables – RE100) 2025 objective 
underwriting decisions, foster an early assessment of 
G
Green label certification of Credit Suisse  44% achieved, further work planned these risks, and facilitate market discipline. 
space  
(in m2) to 50% of operational portfolio
In 2017, the TCFD published its final report with recom-
Energy efficiency improvement of   Z 1.5% achieved in 2020  mendations for the voluntary reporting on material risks 
1.5% per year in all regions and opportunities arising from climate change. The 
Q implementation of the TCFD recommendations by 
Reduce single-use plastic (SUP) items   2020 rollout postponed due to  companies is expected to take several years. 
and increase the share of products   COVID-19
made from recycled material and 
reusable materials  Established COVID-19 related plastic  Credit Suisse publicly expressed its support for the TCFD 
reporting recommendations in 2017. Within the regulatory frame-
work established by the Paris Agreement, we expect our 
Z
Paper consumption reduction of 10%,   52% achieved in 2020, on track to  TCFD adoption efforts to provide us with further guidance 
on per FTE basis, compared to 2018  reach 2025 objective
for the transition towards a world that is progressively less 
baseline by 2025 
dependent on fossil fuels. Credit Suisse continued its 
Z
100% paper purchases carry an  90% achieved in 2020, on track to  TCFD implementation efforts in 2019 and 2020, follow-
appropriate environmental label by 2025 reach 2025 objective  ing the recommendations across the four TCFD catego-
(Baseline 2018: 78%) ries of Governance, Strategy, Risk Management, and 
Z Metrics and Targets. 
Water efficiency improvement of 10%, on  38% achieved in 2020, on track to 
per FTE basis, compared to 2018  2025 reach objective
baseline by 2025 This year, we are pleased to share our disclosures in 
accordance with the TCFD recommendations within the 
Sustainability Report. 
F
  Click here to generate a full extract of 
the TCFD Report.
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 59
Planet
Information on each of the TCFD recommendations can  Biodiversity-related issues are considered in 
also be found within the Sustainability Report 2020 as  Credit Suisse’s risk management processes, and we 
follows: cover these topics in our sector-specific policies and 
guidelines ( P see pages 23-25). Recognizing the need 
  Governance: Organization’s governance around  for capital in conserving ecosystems, we are also active in 
climate-related risks and opportunities   the conservation finance space, which focuses on the 
( P see pages 11, 14-16, 22-23, 25 and 51) creation of new, long-term and diversified sources of 
revenue that can play a role in ensuring terrestrial as well 
  Strategy: Actual and potential impacts of climate-  as marine biodiversity conservation and the health of 
related risks and opportunities on the organization’s  natural ecosystems ( P see page 82). We are expanding 
businesses, strategy, and financial planning   our product offering in this space. 
( P see pages 23-25, 51-54, 83-84 and 110)
In order to provide more transparency about our approach 
  Risk Management: Organization’s process to identify,  to biodiversity, in 2020 we developed a public Statement 
assess, and manage climate-related risks   on Biodiversity. The Statement describes how we address 
( P see pages 18-26 and 54) biodiversity by embedding it into our sustainability risk 
assessments ( P see also pages 19-21), by facilitating 
  Metrics and Targets: Assessment and management  investments into biodiversity protection, and through the 
of relevant climate-related risks and opportunities  physical footprint of our own operations. 
( P see pages 56-59 and 104-110)
Engaging employees
Biodiversity and natural capital
We give employees the opportunity to 
make a personal on-the-job contribution 
Credit Suisse recognizes the need to protect the range of  to environmental protection, and more 
habitats and species on Earth and to safeguard the  than 3,500 employees worldwide have 
3,500
natural ecological processes and the livelihoods they  signed up to our regional Sustainability 
support. We are committed to playing our part in address- Networks as of end-2020. To increase 
ing biodiversity loss through our role as an intermediary  awareness of environmental manage- employees wordwide 
between the economy, the environment and society. As a  ment as well as health and safety topics,  signed up to our regional 
trusted financial partner, we aim to help our clients  we provided training on these topics  Sustainability Networks
understand the risks from biodiversity loss and identify the  together with various service providers 
opportunities associated with the conscientious manage- throughout 2020. In addition, we launched an internal sustainability campaign 
ment of natural capital and the conservation of  designed to encourage employees to adopt sustainable practices in the office and 
biodiversity. at home, and to inform them about Credit Suisse’s efforts and achievements in 
environmental management. 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 60
Planet
We also engage with stakeholders on defining ways for 
the financial industry to contribute to preserving biodiver-
sity and the world’s natural habitats. For instance, we 
have acted as a technical advisor to the Zoological 
Society of London’s Sustainability Policy Transparency 
Toolkit (SPOTT) for a number of years, and are part of 
the Technical Advisory Group for the palm oil and the 
timber and pulp sectors. We have also hosted the 
Credit Suisse Annual Conservation Finance Investor 
Conference in New York for eight years.
C
More information is available at: 
credit-suisse.com/biodiversity
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 61
People
We want to be an employer of 
choice. 2020 was also the 
year we decided to further 
advance diversity and 
inclusion in our company, our 
sector and society, leading to 
an increased range of 
commitments in this field.
People
Committed to equality, diversity 
and inclusion
At Credit Suisse, advancing our culture of inclusion and  The exceptional year of 
belonging continues to be a priority and in 2020 we took 
significant steps to strengthen our approach and enhance  2020 — marked by a 
our strategy. We are committed to a culture in which 
global pandemic and an 
everyone has access to opportunities that support their 
development and in which everyone can reach their  array of social tensions 
potential without barriers. Furthermore, we recognize that 
the diversity of our workforce, including the different  around the world —  
skills, mindsets, knowledge and experience of our 
only highlighted the 
employees, gives us a better understanding of our clients’  Antoinette Poschung 
expectations, cultural backgrounds and regional markets.  Global Head of Human Resources  responsibility that we 
Ensuring our environment is one where everyone feels 
they belong and can bring the full scope of their talents to  have, as a corporation, 
bear will drive our collective ability to innovate and deliver 
to provide support to our 
cutting-edge ideas, products and services to our clients.
employees and to 
With social justice at the forefront of our minds, equity, 
equality, diversity and inclusion must be part of our  address diversity and 
everyday priorities and we believe the urgency to acceler-
inclusion as an absolute 
ate change requires our participation and leadership. In 
order to maximize the impact of our Diversity and Inclu- priority.
sion (D&I) imperative across people management, culture 
L
development and our sustainability strategy, we elevated 
our global D&I function to report to two Executive Board 
On our commitment to a culture of 
members, to reflect a mandate that is tied not only to  inclusion and belonging:
Human Resources but also embedded in our new 
Sustainability, Research & Investment Solutions function 
( P see page 11), providing enhanced oversight and 
executive focus. 
 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 63
People
Driven by the full commitment of the Credit Suisse Board  Additionally, as part of the broader evolution of our 
of Directors, Executive Board and the senior leadership of  cultural values, “Inclusion” has been elevated to be one of 
all business divisions and functions, we set out additional  our six core values – a testimony to how important this is 
commitments to accelerate our progress, including: to our culture ( P see page 38). We also announced 
further steps toward our commitment by joining “The 
a 
Establishing a comprehensive Black Talent  Valuable 500”, a global movement to put disability on the 
Strategy in the US and UK, a focused and  business agenda, in January 2021. Moreover, 
targeted effort aimed at increasing the representa- Credit Suisse has been included in the Bloomberg 
tion and advancement of Black Talent. We have  Gender-Equality Index (GEI) for the second consecutive 
publicly announced a US and UK target to double  year in 2021, underscoring our commitment to transpar-
our Black Talent senior headcount and increase  ency in gender-data reporting. In January 2021, we also 
our overall Black Talent representation in those  celebrated our 16th consecutive year of achieving a score 
locations by 50% by 2024. of 100% on the Human Rights Campaign Corporate 
Equality Index, which highlights our ongoing efforts to 
a 
Continuing our global focus on increasing  promote LGBT+ equality in the workplace.
female representation and advancement by 
setting a target to increase overall female repre-
sentation to 42%. Our approach and strategy
a 
Building the inclusive leadership competency  At Credit Suisse, we take a broad view of diversity and 
of managers and increasing active allyship among  inclusion. We believe that identities are not definable by 
all colleagues through interactive educational  one word, but instead are multidimensional, including age, 
programs across the globe. gender identity, race, ethnicity, physical and mental ability, 
belief, sexual orientation, style, work experience, educa-
a 
Amplifying the voices of our diverse employ- tion, marital and parental status, and even organizational 
ees and fostering a culture of open dialogue and  dimensions like location and department. Our strategy, 
an environment that allows room for innovation and  which is rooted in our global policy for equal employment 
progress. opportunity and dignity at work, focuses on increasing 
representation of underrepresented talent and fostering 
a 
Proactively engaging with external stakehold- an environment that is equitable and inclusive for all, 
ers like our communities, clients, investors,  through four key pillars:
suppliers, governments and regulators.
a 
Our work is underpinned by a broader commit- Broaden   Extend  Embed   Ensure
ment to help eradicate racism in the work- D&I  external D&I  D&I culture accountability 
commitment stakeholder  & impact
place as a founding member of the World 
engagement
Economic Forum’s Partnering for Racial Justice in 
Business Initiative in 2021.  
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 64
People
Our key initiatives influences our leadership and strategy for inclusion and 
equity at the bank. In the UK, a working group similarly 
Promoting Black Talent in the US and in the UK advises our UK leadership. Our work must extend outside 
As a responsible employer, we have an obligation to play  the bank and on Martin Luther King, Jr. Day 2021, we 
our part in supporting social justice. We want our employ- announced a partnership with the United Negro College 
ees and their families and communities to experience  Fund to set up an endowment to support students at 
equality in their lives no matter where they are in the  Historically Black Colleges and Universities in North 
world. Our commitment and strategy are of equal  Carolina to complete their education and meet the 
importance and are a priority for all regions and our aim is  promise of their potential.
for representation at the bank to better reflect our 
communities. The immediate and deep need to address  Increasing gender diversity
the lack of adequate representation from Black communi- Equal opportunities for women remains a key focus for 
ties is evident and this is why the Credit Suisse Executive  Credit Suisse. Through our own research, the Gender 
Board has set the new target of increasing the represen- 3000 report of 2019, we recognize the positive impact of 
tation of Black Talent at all levels of the bank, including  gender diversity on the performance of teams and the 
our management levels: business as a whole. Therefore, increasing female 
representation in leadership supports our business 
Increase Black Talent   strategy. We run special programs to foster the develop-
ment of female professionals. In 2020, women accounted 
representation by
50 for 39% of our total workforce and 28% of our senior 
leadership (Vice Presidents, Directors and Managing 
Directors).
 %
Increase the proportion of 
women at the bank to 42%
We have set a target to double our Black Talent senior 
headcount (Managing Directors, Directors and Vice 
42
Presidents) in the US and UK and increase our overall 
Black Talent representation in those locations by 50% by 
2024. These targets rely on improvements in hiring, 
 %
promotion and retention.
To reach this goal, we have established several work-
streams supported by deep engagement of our leadership 
with Black employees and the external community.  We are committed to increasing the proportion of women 
Supporting this work in January of 2020, we established  in the leadership pipeline and management within the 
bank and have set the objective of increasing female 
the Black Talent Advancement Council, which consists of 
representation to 42% of our overall workforce by 2024. 
Black Managing Directors and other members of the 
Senior Management in the US. This team directly 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 65
People
Employee facts and figures 
Employee split by age Part-time work  18.0% Gender representation as of December 31, 2020 Proportion of women by regions
2.6% 1.2%
39.4%
14.4% 19% Female proportion of female employees 
< 20 years (apprentices) (number of employees) 39.8%
from 20 to 29 years
from 30 to 39 years 34.6% Switzerland 39.0%
25.9% ffrroomm  4500  ttoo  4599  yyeeaarrss 4.5% Women hold 27.8%   Americas 43.0% APAC
36.9% > 59 years of senior management positions  EMEA
(Managing Directors, Directors,  
and Vice Presidents)
Male
48,770  Proportion of women
employees with permanent  46.6%
contracts (full-time equivalents)  Women hold     23.1%  27.3% 
of all other professional roles 
(Assistant Vice Presidents   3 of 13 members of the  3 of 11 members of the 
Employee turnover  Representation within 2020 Analyst (ANL) and Associate (ASO)  and below) Board of Directors* Executive Board
Campus Classes as of December 31, 2020
* two further women nominated for election at the 2021 Annual General 
voluntary  involuntary 
Meeting.
turnover turnover US 2020 Analyst and Associate Campus Class
44% 4% 8% US demographic Data as of December 31, 2020
US categories are based on US Equal Employment Opportunity Commission categories
2020 Female Black or African  Hispanic or 
American Latinx      Black or African   Hispanic or         Not Disclosed/ 
7.1% 2.1%    Asian   American   Latinx   White   Other   Avail 
Senior Management (MD, DIR, VP)   23.1%   2.0%   3.9%   51.9%   1.5%   17.6% 
UK 2020 Analyst and Associate Campus Class All other Professionals   21.3%   7.0%   5,4%   36.5%   2.2%   27.6% 
T otal   22.2%   4.5%   4.6%   44.3%   1.9%   22.5% 
43% 2.4% 21%
2019
Female Black, African, Caribbean   Black, Asian or Minority 
9.8% 3.2% or Black British Ethnic (BAME) UK demographic Data as of December 31, 2020
UK categories are based on UK Gov national census categories
The following footnotes apply to all diversity statistics:       Black, African,   Mixed or             
1.  Data includes all active Credit Suisse employees, i.e. on Credit Suisse employment     Asian/British   Caribbean or   Multiple ethnic      Other ethnic   Not Disclosed/    
contracts, counted individually as of December 31, 2020 (i.e. not based on full-time     Asian   Black British   groups   White   group   Avail   BAME 
2018 equivalents) and excludes outsourced roles, contractors, consultants and employees that 
are not on Credit Suisse employment contracts (Savoy Hotel Baur en Ville AG,  Senior Management                      
11.4% 5.0% Switzerland; Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc., USA). (MD, DIR, VP)   16.2%   2.1%   1.5%   58.2%   1.6%   20.4%   21.5% 
2.  Race/ethnicity data is based on employee self-identification; at this point in time we only  All other Professionals   18.2%   3.0%   2.9%   40.7%   2.3%   32.8%   26.5% 
collect race/ethnicity data from our US and UK employees. Our employee 
self-identification of race/ethnicity is currently 77.1% (77.5% in the US and 75.5% in the  T otal   16.9%   2.4%   2.0%   52.3%   1.9%   24.5%   23.1% 
UK).
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 66
People
Moreover, Credit Suisse is a signatory to the Women in  experiences. We want to foster an environment that allows 
Finance Charter – a pledge to support the progression of  room for innovation and progress. Across the bank we are 
women into senior roles across our UK legal entities. The  challenging ourselves to engage in these conversations, to 
Executive Committees of the UK legal entities, and the  drive change and to strengthen our inclusive culture.
leadership teams of each respective Executive Committee 
member, had aimed for a minimum of 35% female 
representation by 2020. As of January 2021, we  Employee networks and stakeholder 
exceeded this target with over two-thirds of committees  engagement
having over 35% female representation and, in aggre-
gate, 39% overall female representation across  Credit Suisse supports multi-dimensional internal 
committees. employee networks worldwide that serve as a platform for 
the exchange of knowledge and experience, thus 
Inclusive leadership training fostering mutual understanding and helping to strengthen 
In 2020, we launched customized education to increase  our corporate culture. Employee networks play a critical 
the inclusive leadership competencies of our senior  role in embedding a diverse and inclusive culture, amplify-
leaders, including members of the Board of Directors and  ing the voices of our diverse talent and their perspectives, 
the Executive Board. This work is critical to ensuring we  and building empathy through the lived experiences of our 
enhance our culture of inclusion. As of December 31,  employees. Our networks support and advocate for 
2020, over 200 managers have completed the training.  underrepresented talent at the bank and influence our 
Our mandatory learning on Working with Respect  Diversity and Inclusion strategy and initiatives. These 
continues to serve as baseline for all employees. networks – which are run by employees on a voluntary 
basis – are dedicated to women, families, lesbian, gay, 
Courageous Conversations bisexual and transgender individuals (LGBT+), people 
The most difficult conversations are often the most  with disabilities, US veterans, multi-generations, and 
important. We are firmly convinced that, especially in  different races and ethnicities. In 2020, over 28,000 
these times, it is crucial to foster a culture of open  employees participated in our employee networks globally. 
dialogue. However, speaking openly with each other is  We also continue to proactively engage with external 
about more than simply expressing one’s own views. Open  stakeholders – clients, investors, governments and 
dialogue means listening to others who have a different  regulators – who all have a keen interest in how we think 
background, different views and different perspectives. At  about diversity and inclusion and from whom we can learn 
Credit Suisse, we are creating safe spaces for these  to evolve our thinking. 
conversations. Through the Courageous Conversations 
C
podcast, we encourage our colleagues to challenge  Further information, including a list of the 
difficult situations and issues. Led by our Group CEO, we  organizations, initiatives and events we supported in 
have created listening circles with executives and col- 2020, can be found at:
leagues at all levels of the bank to share their lived  credit-suisse.com/responsibility/partnerships
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 67
People
Supporting our LGBT+ community   Targeted guidance on life-long learning and develop-
Credit Suisse takes pride in our dedication to and support  ment – including self-evaluation tools – and specific 
of the LGBT+ community. Our LGBT+ employees and  modules on our learning platform “Degreed”.
ally community have advocated for and championed 
LGBT+ equality for nearly 20 years, since the inception of    Factsheets on the key facts and figures around VEPs, 
our Americas LGBT+ OPEN in 2001. As our commit- providing guidance for managers and employees on 
ment has grown and extended across the globe, we have  how to foster a dialog on professional development, 
achieved the Gold Standard in the Hong Kong Commu- internal mobility and suitable work models.
nity Business LGBT+ Inclusion Index, ranking 8th for our 
ongoing commitment to diversity and inclusion; and we    “MyPartTime 58+” – an attractive option to re-balance 
ranked 27th in the 2020 Stonewall UK Workers Equality  personal and professional priorities by reducing working 
Index ranking. We currently have close to 5,500 LGBT+  time after the age of 58 – while keeping pension 
allies across the bank and the number is growing.  contributions and benefits unchanged.
In 2020, Credit Suisse released the “LGBT 350” report,    An employee network specifically for VEPs, offering 
seeking to deepen our understanding of the topic of  tailored learning events and workshops and facilitating 
enhanced diversity and corporate performance by  a dialog between generations. Topics range from the 
focusing on LGBT+-inclusiveness, based on a mar- latest technology trends to advice on how to drive one’s 
ket-cap weighted basket of around 350 LGBT+-inclusive  career using social media like “LinkedIn”.
companies. Among our findings, we determined that 
LGBT+-inclusive companies have outperformed the MSCI    The training program “Skills 4.0” by the external 
ACWI (excluding the “LGBT 350” constituents) since  education provider “Challenge Your Potential”, focusing 
2010. This further underscores our commitment to an  on developing the skills and the mindset required for 
LGBT+-inclusive culture at Credit Suisse, bolstered by  the digital age, including self-assessments and 
the strength and contributions of our LGBT+ networks  personal coaching. 
and ally programs.
  The Generational Mentoring program: in this reverse 
Our experienced employees in Switzerland mentoring scheme, seasoned employees engage in an 
At Credit Suisse, we are committed to helping employees  exchange with their younger colleagues about how they 
realize their full potential at every stage of their career,  handle their current work environment, which commu-
including more mature professionals who bring consider- nication channels they prefer and how they manage 
able skills and experience to their roles – we call them  daily challenges.
“Very Experienced Professionals” (VEPs). We provide 
tailored support so that they can adjust their skill sets to  Furthermore, we offer senior executives aged above 50 
changing market needs, adapt to new environments and  and with at least ten years of service the opportunity to 
remain fully engaged. take a three-month sabbatical during which they receive 
80% of their regular pay. We encourage these individuals 
Our range of support and development opportunities  to take a break from daily business in order to focus on 
include: their personal and professional development. We believe 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 68
People
that fully committed employees with the right set of skills  employees in order to effectively manage our pool of 
and a good grasp of technology over the entire employee  talent and promote individual development.
lifecycle are key success factors for the bank.
Consistent with our performance culture, we recognize the 
need to compensate our employees fairly and competi-
tively, while complying with regulatory requirements and 
our cultural expectations ( P see  Compensation section 
Advancing our human capital 
on pages 33 – 35 for more details).
approach
Our 2020 Pulse Survey was conducted in early summer 
and resulted in a high engagement score, with more than 
Our ability to deliver on our purpose and the success of  eight out of ten employees saying they are proud to work 
our company ultimately depends on the skills, experience  at Credit Suisse and are ready to go above and beyond in 
and conduct of our employees. To deliver on this we must  their job. For the 2020 survey, we added three specific 
attract and retain the most talented professionals in our  questions relating to the COVID-19 pandemic, and we 
role as an employer of choice. were encouraged to hear that 92% of our employees said 
that they felt their wellbeing had been supported during 
the pandemic and that they felt they had been well 
A culture of performance and development informed. 
Our employees’ performance objectives are aligned with 
the Group’s purpose, which places clients at the center of  A paradigm shift in learning
all that we do. We measure our employees’ performance 
based on their contribution to the achievement of our  2020 was an unprecedented year in many ways for 
business goals and against behavioral expectations.  learning and development at Credit Suisse: Not only did 
These expectations have been captured in our Conduct  the pandemic accelerate the move towards more virtually 
and Ethics Standards framework since 2017 and will now  delivered training, but we also introduced a single 
further evolve to our cultural values going forward. Our  point-of-access virtual learning platform. This platform 
globally consistent performance management process  enables self-directed and personalized learning from 
enables line managers to assess the performance,  everywhere and at any time. This marks a change 
behavior and development potential of employees  towards a new way of continuous, life-long learning for 
throughout the year. employees and enables Credit Suisse to systematically 
build the capabilities required tomorrow.
The setting of clear objectives at the beginning of the 
year, followed by mid-year and year-end reviews, allows 
line managers to perform a comprehensive individual  Client skills and sustainability
performance evaluation in accordance with global process 
standards and guidelines. This performance assessment  Aligned with our purpose to build lasting value by serving 
process allows us to identify the potential of our  our clients with care and entrepreneurial spirit, we have 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 69
People
Talent Development in 2020 Leadership and executive development
83
30,600 In 2020, we continued to focus on our commitment to 
830
% leaders through our Leadership Development curriculum. 
classroom-delivered  In the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, we further 
training days emphasized the focus on capabilities required to lead in a 
classroom leadership  level of satisfaction 
remote environment and converted our offers to virtual 
training sessions among course  
classrooms and online content. In addition, we provided 
participants (average)
tailored offerings, such as internal coaching for line 
14
managers, to help navigate through the unprecedented 
challenges of the pandemic. We launched anti-bias and 
inclusion leadership training for our senior leaders, 
including the members of our Board of Directors and 
hours of training per 
Executive Board (see page 67). All our leadership 
employee (average)
programs are rooted in our values and leadership code, 
1,018,000 ensuring alignment to our culture. 
63,600
Continuing to invest in our internal talent, we delivered our 
participants in instructor-led  participants in  Senior Talent Program (STP) for Managing Directors and 
courses e-learning courses completed our first cycle of the Emerging Leaders 
Program (ELP) for Directors, providing our high potential 
Credit Suisse leaders with key management skills, 
opportunities for self-reflection and exposure to members 
trained over 2,300 participants on our sustainability  of the Executive Board.
solutions in 2020, including on our Credit Suisse Sustain-
able Investment Framework. The training was delivered 
virtually across our Wealth Management-related divisions  Attracting talent
and the Investment Bank division. This training was a 
continuation of our 18-year track record and pioneering  In 2020, our recruitment experts continued to collaborate 
role in both sustainable and impact investing and under- with hiring managers to source from the external market, 
lined our strategic ambitions and responsibility towards  internal talent pool and through employee referrals. We 
society. Furthermore, in 2020, we launched over 70  managed to do so in a virtual environment, ensuring the 
mandatory e-learning programs on regulatory topics such  health and safety of our employees and new hires amid 
as compliance, risk, financial crime, cyber-security and  the global pandemic. As such, we implemented video 
information awareness. Each employee completed at  interviewing so candidates could interview from the safety 
least ten mandatory training modules in the course of the  of their own homes. We also introduced virtual Welcome 
year, depending on his or her area of responsibility. Day orientation programs and adopted a virtual approach 
for collecting all necessary documentation and securing IT 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 70
People
access in order to support a seamless start on day 1 for  Population of Young Talents and campus recruits  
our new joiners. in our Swiss home market in 2020
In 2020, Credit Suisse was recognized with over 50 
70
awards, across recruitment, virtual recruitment, employer 
attractiveness, employer branding and diversity and  179 Young Talents 
inclusion categories, from institutions such as Forbes,  (commercial and IT 
Universum and eFinancial Careers. in total apprentices, HMS 
1,035 and Junior Bankers) 
out of which
475
Real Returns young people in  577  70 high school graduates
education benefited  279
 475 commercial and 
from a structured 
IT apprentices
Credit Suisse was an early adopter of returnship schemes  training program¹
(which allow experienced professionals a chance to return   32 Handelsmittelschule 
(HMS)/Wirtschafts-
to work for a ~12 week program, after an extended 
mittelschule (WMS) 
career break), having launched our own award-winning  Young Talents  32 trainees
Students in a Career Start Program
Real Returns program in 2015. Since then, 22 programs 
Internships (from 12 weeks to 6 months)
have been run globally with 360 participants. Over 60%  Commercial and IT apprentices
High school graduates
of participants subsequently obtained a permanent 
HMS/WMS trainees
position at Credit Suisse. In 2020, we welcomed our 
seventh cohort, running the program virtually due to the  ¹ including Career Start Program, internships, Junior Banker and apprenticeships
pandemic. 
internship program across most locations, maintaining the 
Investing in young talent junior talent pipeline for the class of 2021. 
We provide a wide range of attractive opportunities for  Within our campus programs, we remain committed to 
young professionals and graduates who are interested in  promoting diversity across multiple areas, from social 
pursuing a career at Credit Suisse. Junior hires receive  mobility to gender. In the UK, for example, our 
specific training, mentoring and career advice, thus  award-winning Steps to Success program is now in its 
facilitating their transition to full-time employment. In  eighth intake, offering university scholarship funding for 
2020, as a result of the global pandemic, we were able to  students from underprivileged and underrepresented 
shift all of our spring and fall campus recruitment events  backgrounds. In early 2021, we signed the 10,000 Black 
to virtual formats, with no negative impact on our diversity  Interns campaign in the UK. In the US, the Steps to 
pipeline. We remained connected with candidates,  Success program engages with students starting in their 
leveraging virtual technology to offer over 250 virtual  first year of college through their sophomore year, and 
candidate events, as well as conducting over 1,000  focuses on exposure to careers in banking, professional 
interviews globally. We also implemented a virtual summer  development, mentorship and networking opportunities.
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 71
People
In Switzerland, the Diversity Internship program ran for  Wellbeing and health management
the third year and successfully encouraged female 
candidates in study fields outside of banking to join  At Credit Suisse, the wellbeing and 
Credit Suisse. To support the Vocational Education  health of our people is key. As such, we 
System in Switzerland, 220 apprentices and high school  have a structured approach with three 
graduates were hired and received introductory training.  key components:
Physical Mental
Our campus efforts were recognized with awards across 
the globe, including the Poland EB Award, as well as Top  Physical wellbeing: the energy needed 
Employer in Wroclaw and RippleMatch Campus Forward  to complete your daily living tasks – with 
Awards in the US. a focus on personal health, sleep, fitness 
and nutrition.
Financial
Mental wellbeing: your attitude and 
Wellbeing and health management
reactions to everyday life – with a focus 
on purpose, drive, resilience, motivation 
The purpose of driving a holistic wellbeing strategy is to:
and identity.
  Educate our employees to prevent ill health wherever  Financial wellbeing: your confidence to 
possible manage everyday and future finances 
– with a focus on security, freedom and 
  Encourage positive wellbeing behaviors growth.
  Provide tactical interventions to try to ensure rapid 
diagnosis, treat conditions quickly, and support all 
employees throughout their employment with  Our aim is to encourage employees to build up their 
Credit Suisse.  resilience in the face of an increasingly challenging 
environment and to support them with targeted measures. 
We provide a wealth of resources designed to raise  In Switzerland, the Corporate Health Management 
awareness of wellbeing, reduce the stigma of mental  Committee (CHMC) initiates and coordinates a range of 
health and encourage open, honest conversations. A key  events and campaigns, and it provides digital tools. As a 
message for employees throughout the pandemic has  result of our various efforts in this space, Credit Suisse in 
been that the health and wellbeing of our colleagues  Switzerland was awarded the “Friendly Work Space” label 
remains the Executive Board’s utmost priority and this has  by Health Promotion Switzerland (Gesundheitsförderung 
been complemented by offering advice to employees on  Schweiz).
how to access help, upskilling managers and providing tip 
sheets.
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 72
People
Internal mobility Attractive working environment and new 
ways of working
Our commitment to internal mobility enables our employ-
ees to benefit from interesting and varied career paths;  At Credit Suisse, we consider it important to offer our 
30% of our leadership roles (Managing Directors,  employees modern and flexible working models. Our 
Directors and Vice Presidents) were filled internally in  office environment, which has been designed according 
2020. We focus on building transferable skills and  to the Smart Working concept in many locations, allows 
encourage our employees to continue advancing in their  employees to choose their workspace based on their 
careers by gaining expertise across businesses and  needs at a specific point in time. Approximately 30,000 
locations. We hosted career forums, providing insights into different business  employees now work in Smart Working environments in 
areas and career paths, with over 1,600 employees attending in 2020. We  our offices worldwide. The COVID-19 pandemic contin-
fostered transparency by posting and advertising our jobs internally first and  ues to have a major impact on many areas of our society, 
enabling our employees with self-service tools. including the way we work. In March 2020, work from 
home arrangements were implemented at Credit Suisse 
on a global scale, which resulted in minimal disruption to 
our businesses. 
Internal mobility: key figures for 2020
2,832 1,178 861 In July 2020, we launched a global program to experi-
ment and prepare for the post-pandemic environment. 
employees moved into a  employees were hired  of our leadership roles  This has enabled us to evaluate various work from home 
different role internally through Internals First – our  (Managing Directors,  options and track the impact of these options on per-
internal recruitment  Directors and Vice 
ceived productivity, teamwork, creativity, social interaction, 
initiative Presidents) were filled 
work/life balance, compliance behavior, risks and 
internally
environment/energy by reducing daily commuter traffic. 
Our findings and insights are expected to shape the 
optimal future working environment at Credit Suisse.
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 73
People
Freedom of Association B
  Supporting our employees  
Credit Suisse’s most direct link to human rights issues is  during the pandemic
in its working relationship with its employees, and this is 
also where we can exercise the greatest influence. Fair  The safety of our employees, clients and 
Over
working conditions, equal opportunities, protection against  communities remained the highest priority  90
discrimination, and the right to join a union are all import- throughout 2020. In response to the 
ant aspects of this relationship. In consultation with  COVID-19 pandemic, we enhanced our 
various specialist units, we have developed several  internal policies to support a safe office 
offerings that help our employees to combine their  environment and established a number of  additional health and  
professional and private commitments as effectively as  protocols that are flexible and adaptable to  safety measures have  
possible. To promote a dialogue that takes into account  the specific requirements of local authorities.  been implemented
the collective interests of our employees, Credit Suisse  Over 90 additional health and safety 
has worked closely with organizations such as the  measures have been implemented, including 
European Works Council and the Credit Suisse Staff  enhanced cleaning, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) provision, building 
Council in Switzerland for many years. In Switzerland, all  signage, protection screens, designated elevators, and temperature screening. In 
of our employees are covered by the Swiss Staff Council. addition, we issued comprehensive guidance for visitor management and events 
involving clients and employees to ensure the utmost care and attention is applied 
at all times. In the unfortunate event of potential exposure to illness, we have 
established strong case management protocols to ensure appropriate risk 
assessments, PPE provisioning and sanitization. Moreover, we implemented an 
Respecting human rights
internal contact tracing procedure. Our employees also have access to a compre-
hensive Coronavirus Info Kit, which is regularly updated. To provide peace of mind 
Our focus on people is not limited to our staff. We  to our employees, we have also rolled out access to PCR and anti-body testing, 
consider our responsibilities in the area of human rights  with 8,500 employees tested for anti-bodies in six countries. Moreover, the bank 
as fundamental to how we do business. We strive to  offered paid family leave for parents unable to work from home as long as schools 
assume our responsibilities in accordance with the  were closed and rolled out a program supporting the reimbursement for purchases 
International Bill of Human Rights, the corresponding  of chairs, monitors and laptops to enable the extended home working situation in 
principles on human and labor rights set out in the UN  all locations.
Global Compact, as well as the eight fundamental 
conventions of the International Labour Organization. We 
take account of these principles in our own policies and 
business activities. Our Statement on Human Rights 
describes the basis of our responsibility to respect human 
rights and the approaches and processes we use to 
implement it. Equally, we expect our business partners to 
recognize and uphold human rights.
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 74
People
We also take into account the UN “Protect, Respect and  human rights and wider sustainability risk. Indicators on 
Remedy” framework and the UN Guiding Principles on  the human rights situation of a country are part of the 
Business and Human Rights. To promote a better  country risk ratings assigned by the Compliance function.
understanding of what the Guiding Principles mean for 
the banking sector, Credit Suisse co-initiated the Thun  Furthermore, our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking 
Group together with other banks in 2011. Since its  Transparency Statement (as applicable to the respective 
inception, the Thun Group has worked on providing  in-scope legal entities) sets out the steps that 
guidance for the practical implementation of the Guiding  Credit Suisse is taking to prevent the occurrence of 
Principles in the development or structuring of banking  modern slavery and human trafficking in our business 
products and services.  operations and within our supply chain. 
C
We consider human rights issues in our risk management  More information on the topic of human rights, 
processes, in the procurement of goods and services, and  including our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking 
we recognize our responsibilities as an employer. The  Transparency Statement, can be found at:
provision of certain financial services may be linked to  credit-suisse.com/humanrights
adverse human rights impacts. While companies operat-
ing in sensitive sectors frequently play a key economic 
role in the global supply of energy and commodities and 
as an employer, the activities of these companies can, in 
some cases, have a significant impact on local or indige-
nous communities. In general, heightened attention is 
required when a client operates in a jurisdiction that 
experiences political instability, weak governance, or 
repression of minority groups, and when the bank is 
considering the financing of business activities in a 
conflict zone, developing financial products associated 
with vulnerable client segments, or providing financial 
services to a sector with known human rights issues. 
Credit Suisse therefore examines aspects of client 
relationships or transactions that are sensitive from a 
human rights perspective in our sustainability or reputa-
tional risk review processes. Both processes are sup-
ported by our industry-specific sector policies and risk 
appetite statements that contain specific provisions 
relating to human rights. For example, in 2020 we 
introduced a Reputational Risk Appetite Statement for 
business with governmental ministries of sovereign states, 
or for state-owned entities, that takes into account the 
respective country’s political risk, financial crime risk, and 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 75
Sustainable Products 
and Services
The growing need to combine 
prosperity with ESG consider-
ations has started 
transforming businesses and 
the world of investing. With 
our sustainable finance and 
impact investing products, we 
generate returns and drive 
change. 
Sustainable Products and Services
Attracting private capital into  Clients need to invest 
emerging sectors such as  their wealth where they 
 biodiversity requires breaking  have strong convictions 
down investment barriers and  and where they feel they 
originating bankable projects  will have an impact on 
that create sustainable  the course of the world.
Michael Strobaek 
Marisa Drew  and inclusive opportunities  Global Chief Investment Officer 
Chief Sustainability 
& Head of Investment Solutions 
Officer & Global Head  for investors. & Products
Sustainability Strategy, 
Advisory and Finance
Our approach is grounded in enabling 
our clients to become more 
sustainable, while also examining our 
L
own sustainability as a firm. They are 
Helman Sitohang  On our approach to sustainable 
CEO Asia Pacific two sides of the same coin, and each  products and services:
is necessary to deliver long-term, 
shared prosperity.
 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 77
Sustainable Products and Services
The sustainability evolution
groundswell of interest in environmental factors, 2020 
was the year that social themes came to the fore. Such 
Client demand for sustainable and impact investment  social themes, including access to basic goods and 
opportunities has grown significantly in recent years, and  services, for example healthcare and education, and 
we believe this trend is poised to accelerate further in the  diversity and inclusion, featured prominently on investors’ 
future. At Credit Suisse, we strive to create and facilitate  agendas.
investment products and services that generate environ-
mental and social benefits as well as financial returns,  That is why, in July 2020, we established the Sustainabil-
and to support the changing needs of our clients,  ity, Research & Investment Solutions (SRI) function at the 
regulators and the markets in which we operate. Executive Board level, which allows us to accelerate and 
embed our sustainability efforts throughout all client 
Climate change may very well be the greatest challenge  segments. This new function is dedicated to supporting 
of our lifetime, presenting tangible physical and valuation  divisions across the bank in delivering innovative products, 
risk for investors, but it also offers significant returns  content and solutions to our wealth management, 
potential from the inevitable shift to a low-carbon econ- corporate and institutional clients. Our aim is to be a 
omy. Not only do we view climate risk as a material issue  leader in our core competencies, providing bespoke 
that needs to be integrated into our mainstream invest- advisory services to private and corporate clients, to 
ment process, but also we seek to offer our clients  develop proprietary sustainable investment solutions, to 
opportunities to gain exposure to the sectors that are  produce thematic industry research and to deliver 
expected to benefit from this transition, such as green  best-in-class house views. Furthermore, we have set bold 
energy, sustainable and regenerative food production,  new objectives in line with our ambition to become a 
smart cities and water access. In addition to the  leader in sustainability – committing to at least 
CHF 300 billion of sustainable financing over the next ten 
years – while assisting our clients in their energy 
transition.
Enabling sustainability
The key themes we use to guide our sustainable product 
Our focus areas for these products and  and solutions focus are Disrupt for progress, Transi-
solutions are sustainable disruption,  tion to better and Protect the future. 
supporting disruptors in making step 
changes, transition to better, enabling 
clients to transition current operations  “Growth spurt” for sustainable investing
and out-dated business models, and 
protect the future for what is precious  Through our Research, CIO and advisory teams, we 
today. continue to expand our investment suite to provide clients 
with a larger and more diversified set of options across 
C the spectrum of sustainable investing. Our investment 
Further information can 
strategies for managed accounts offer access to a full 
be found on our website
range of financial instruments, with a mix of mutual funds, 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 78
Sustainable Products and Services
Looking back, it is clear that sustainable finance has 
come a long way. When we first embarked upon the 
sustainable investment journey with our clients nearly two 
decades ago, there were limited sustainable options 
Sustainable  Financing sustainable  Research available in the market and even fewer that proactively 
 solutions for  businesses and  sought to address climate change. We have seen a 
private and institu- social invest ments significant shift over the past decade, with significant 
tional investors  growth in sustainable and impact investing, driven in part 
by a greater recognition from the world’s leading investors 
that exciting opportunities exist to tackle systemic 
 Thematic funds  Green bonds, blue bonds,   Thematic research
challenges while also generating attractive returns.
 Impact funds social bonds, transition bonds   Company-specific ESG 
 ESG-integrated funds abnodn dssustainability- linked  research
 Exclusionary funds  Sustainability-linked loans  HprOopLrTie EtaSryG b tuosoilnse, sinsc ludiing 
 Sustainable index funds  Sustainable IPOs, sustainable  sustainability ratings
A strong foundation
 Structured solutions private placement, follow-on 
  ESG indices and equity  offerings and SPACs
derivatives products  Energy transition strategies  Our clients increasingly recognize the importance of 
 Sustainable and renewable  incorporating ESG factors into their portfolios. However, 
M&A advisory there is the added complexity, given the fast-evolving 
 ESG shareholder defense  nature of the sustainable investing market. Credit Suisse 
strategies offers a multitude of funds and single instrument options 
 Renewables securitized  that capture the broad climate thematic. Our goal is to 
products
continue to expand our investment suite to provide our 
clients with an increasingly larger, diversified set of 
options. 
exchange-traded funds (ETFs), customized environmen- Our sustainable product offering is based on our 
tal, social and governance (ESG) products, private equity  Credit Suisse Sustainable Investment Framework 
and alternative investments that aim to generate attractive  ( P see infographic on page 80), which outlines our 
returns while integrating ESG criteria and specific impact  investment approach across the sustainable investment 
themes. Our sustainable product offering takes ESG  strategies of exclusion, integration and thematic and 
factors into consideration in the investment strategy as a  impact-aligned and investing strategies. This framework 
baseline and our product shelf includes a suite of prod- has been developed by our specialists, who have deep 
ucts that go further in seeking to deliver a positive social  expertise in sustainability and portfolio management. In 
and environmental impact that is both measurable and  2020, we developed a comprehensive internal sustain-
intentional. ability classification system for funds to indicate which 
investments are compatible with these sustainable 
investing strategies, providing transparency to clients and 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 79
Sustainable Products and Services
Credit Suisse Sustainable Investment Framework allowing them to align their portfolios with their sustain-
ability preferences. We also began the process to classify 
single securities along a sustainability spectrum to further 
assist our clients in identifying sustainability aware 
Client Journey (Advisory and Reporting)
companies, sustainability leaders and those companies 
delivering deep impact. 
Full transparency on portfolio exposure to “ESG-related” risks, opportunities and impact.
Active Ownership & Collaborative Leadership
Collaborative Leadership has the potential to transform our role from a capital allocator to an  Sustainable investment solutions 
agent of change. Through corporate engagement, voting and collective action, we exert our 
influence and help corporate transitions towards more sustainable pathways. for private and institutional 
investors
(Hard) Exclusions (2*) Integration (3*) Thematic (4*) & Impact (5*)
Avoiding harmful investments Better informed investment  Investment solutions for the 
decisions through integration of  sustainable development goals
A range of solutions
ESG insights
 Systematic avoidance of   Consideration of financially  Thematic and impact 
exposure to controversial  material ESG risks and  aligned As the infographic on this page shows, integrating ESG 
areas or unethical behaviors  opportunities   Participation in sustainable  considerations throughout our investment process is an 
 Norms-based exclusions   Based on industry-specific  growth themes  ongoing task, and we do not believe in a one-size-fits-all 
 Values-based exclusions sustainability expertise   Firms with positive   approach. ESG integration strategies focus on how 
 Exclusions based on   Reflects the Credit Suisse  contribution to the SDGs
significant ESG issues can be leveraged to achieve 
business conduct  house view on ESG topics  Mostly liquid strategies
(UN Global Compact   ESG integration in  superior risk-adjusted returns. Examples include invest-
breaches) investment processes in  Impact investing ments in renewable energy, sustainable agriculture, or 
combination with financial   Products that fully comply  gender and diversity leaders.
analysis  with the IFC definition of 
 Approach adapted to asset  impact investing:  
Thematic, impact-aligned and impact investments 
class, product features and  measurable positive social 
investment objectives or environmental impact,  oriented towards the UN’s SDGs seek to make a positive 
alongside financial returns social and/or environmental impact while also generating 
 Investor contribution to the  a financial return. Strategies based on such investments 
impact of the enterprises  
offer clients exposure to fast-growing sectors such as 
via financing growth or 
electric vehicles, education and water. A growing number 
active ownership
 Mostly illiquid strategies of investors are using the SDGs as a reference point to 
align investments and impact goals, and they are working 
* Numbers 2, 3, 4, 5 refer to our internal categorization of instruments as per our Sustainable Investment  with companies they invest in to measure the impact of 
Framework. For completeness, 0 refers to the “not sustainable” category and 1 to traditional instruments. their products and services. 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 80
Sustainable Products and Services
Incorporating the “S” factor grant-funding and employee engagement. They also work 
With so many employees, clients and suppliers impacted  closely with internal specialist units to provide philan-
by COVID-19, the pandemic has put a spotlight on  thropic advice and services to our clients and help develop 
companies’ social policies toward these key stakeholders  impact investing products to further increase our com-
and the companies that have responded in a supportive  bined social impact ( P see pages 43-47). 
manner. In addition, the protests in the US in the summer 
of 2020 quickly gained global traction and have rightly 
served to remind corporations across the world of their  Bridging the financial services divide
responsibilities to address inequity in society. Studies, 
such as the CSRI Gender 3000 report, have shown that a  An example of how we are incorporating the “S” factor is 
more diverse labor force generates a diversity of thought  structuring sustainable and impact investments that are 
and thus increased innovation and growth. In a post- designed to provide economically disadvantaged people 
COVID-19 world, we expect investors that integrate ESG  – especially those in developing countries – with access 
considerations to increasingly focus on the “S” factor  to financial services. By providing these essential ser-
(social) from both a risk management and opportunity  vices, we believe that we can help unlock inclusive 
standpoint, particularly as it relates to a company’s  growth. We offer higher education structured notes 
policies toward all stakeholders. solutions that are designed to provide funding to talented 
students from frontier markets to get loans for advanced 
As a result, we have made changes in our organization  education, the majority of whom have no alternative 
that reflect the increasing importance of the “S” factor.  source of funding.
We appointed a Global Head of Social Sustainability for 
the SSAF unit in January 2021. Social Sustainability at  We are a member of the European Microfinance Plat-
Credit Suisse is a commercial enterprise to help clients  form, a network of about 130 organizations, and have a 
along their journey of social transformation. It is also  seat on its board. We are also part of the Swiss Capacity 
focused on increased stakeholder engagement. The  Building Facility, a public-private partnership between the 
mission of this role is to elevate business strategies and  Swiss financial sector and the Swiss Agency for Develop-
behaviors that reflect our social purpose through product  ment Collaboration (SDC). Our Financial Inclusion 
innovation, stakeholder engagement, transparency and  Initiative (FII) helps to drive market development and 
social stewardship to sustain long-term economic growth  innovation in this sector. We support the development of 
and meet social impact goals. This is consistent with our  new products and services focusing on themes such as 
ESG framework and aligns with our overarching SRI  education, agriculture and gender diversity. We also make 
sustainability strategy to deliver sustainable solutions,  the expertise of our employees available to our financial 
enable client transitions, set leadership standards and  inclusion and impact and SDG-oriented thematic investing 
conform to our cultural values.  partners through several volunteering programs, and we 
invest in early-stage innovation and financial technology 
In addition, our Corporate Citizenship teams lead the  (fintech) through our partnership with Accion’s financial 
bank’s long-term commitment to local communities and  technology accelerator Venture Lab.
advancing the SDGs to address inequity in society 
through education, gender equality and decent work with 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 81
Sustainable Products and Services
Expanding our product reach  In a sign that a sustainable investment focus need not 
mean sacrificing returns, our flagship liquid sustainability 
In 2020, we continued to expand our sustainable and  funds have all outperformed their respective benchmarks 
impact thematic offering with funds targeting the UN  during 2020 or since their inception.
SDGs. Recent fund launches have included Responsible 
Consumption and Production (SDG 12), Good Health and 
Wellbeing (SDG 3) and Quality Education (SDG 4). Safeguarding biodiversity and natural capital
We are also broadening the focus of the Supertrends, our  In order to preserve the natural habitats and processes 
long-term investment themes that reflect global societal  that are vital for the survival of human beings, animals and 
trends and form a core part of our sustainable and impact  other species, significantly more capital will be required 
thematic offering, as well as our house view. In addition to  than has so far been deployed. Credit Suisse is active in 
our existing themes (Anxious societies – Inclusive  the conservation finance space, which focuses on the 
capitalism; Infrastructure – Closing the gap; Technology at  creation of new, long-term and diversified sources of 
the service of humans; Silver economy – Investing for  revenue that can play a role in ensuring terrestrial as well 
population aging; and Millennials’ values), we included  as marine biodiversity conservation and the health of 
Climate change – Decarbonizing the economy in 2020.  natural ecosystems. Credit Suisse in 2020 continued its 
commitment to supporting nature conservation by 
Credit Suisse also partnered with a leading Asian health- expanding our financing structures and opportunities for 
care impact fund manager to invest in potential Asian  investors. 
healthcare market leaders, including in healthcare 
networks, cancer diagnostics, hospital groups and  Our investment products focused on SDG 14 aim to have 
pharma products. The fund aims to meet the increasing  a tangible impact on the health of our oceans by halting 
demand for healthcare infrastructure and access to high  destruction of the ocean and simultaneously promoting 
quality and affordable healthcare products and services in  restorative processes to protect this vital resource. 
underserved markets.  Credit Suisse is also a member of the advisory network 
for the High Level Panel for a Sustainable Ocean 
At year-end 2020, Credit Suisse’s sustainable assets  Economy.
under management (AuM) were CHF 108 billion, of 
which over CHF 16 billion comprised thematic and impact  In 2020, we hosted the eighth Credit Suisse Annual 
investment AuM.1  Conservation Finance Investor Conference, providing a 
forum where investors, practitioners and philanthropists 
1 Includes only AuM balances from managed solutions that to date have  can discuss solutions to catalyze investments in the 
been mapped to a sustainability rating of 2 and higher, based on our 
conservation finance sector. 
internal ESG framework scale of 0-5 (see table Credit Suisse 
Sustainable Investment Framework on page 80)
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 82
Sustainable Products and Services
Financing a sustainable business 
Climate-aware solutions for wealth 
management clients world 
For those clients who seek a more holistic investment 
strategy, we introduced a new actively-managed discre- Our Investment Bank division executes transactions 
tionary solution in 2020, offering our clients with exposure  across all industries in capital markets, supporting our 
to companies that contribute to efforts to adapt to and/or  corporate clients as they adapt, refine or transition their 
mitigate climate change. This solution provides clients  business models to a more sustainable world. This 
with the opportunity to generate financial returns, while  includes advising on mergers and acquisitions (M&A), 
integrating ESG factors into the security selection process  restructurings and spin-offs, as well as debt and equity 
and focusing on climate themes that offer strong invest- underwriting of public offerings and private placements. 
ment opportunities. We help companies to identify new growth opportunities 
and sustainable finance solutions, accelerating the 
The solution covers five themes linked to climate change:  transformation of traditional industries and infrastructure 
water and the ocean; green energy; smart cities; food  systems.
and agriculture; and health and inclusion. The mandate 
solution invests in climate leaders and helps support 
sustainable development and human prosperity. In terms  Green and sustainable debt capital markets 
of financial returns, the strategy seeks out opportunities 
arising from climate change by investing in companies  Credit Suisse has a considerable pedigree in the green 
already prepared for it.  bond market, underwriting the first-ever green bond 
issuance in 2008 from development funding institutions.
Next to an active and carefully constructed tactical and 
strategic asset allocation (SAA), the mandate solution  Credit Suisse has long been a supporter of the Green 
aims to add value through its special fund selection  Bond Principles and we are actively seeking to help 
process in which each fund is directly allocated to one of  mobilize more capital toward a “low carbon” economy. In 
the climate subthemes. The mandate also provides  this respect, Credit Suisse and the Climate Bond Initiative 
investors with dedicated climate reporting (i.e. theme  (CBI) joined forces in September 2020 and published 
allocation, market updates regarding new climate policies  “Financing Credible Transitions,” which presents a 
and sustainability metrics), access to a dedicated portfolio  framework for defining ambitious and credible transition 
manager as well as a sustainability expert – all of which  pathways for companies to collectively reduce global 
provide increased transparency to clients. emissions in line with the goals of the Paris Agreement. 
Its aim is to support rapid growth of a transition bond 
market as part of a larger and liquid climate-related 
market, and to deliver confidence for investors, clarity for 
bankers and credibility for issuers. 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 83
Sustainable Products and Services
Growth in green bond issuance  Capital for sustainable businesses
From 2013 to the end of 2020, we supported the 
USD 
issuance of over USD 49 billion of sustainable debt  4.3 billion
capital markets products such as green, social, sustain- 150 transactions
of tax equity has been committed 
ability, sustainability-linked and transition bonds as well as 
in clean and renewable energy  to 29 renewable energy 
green certificates of deposits and commercial paper.  businesses opportunities warehouse capacity
These activities include coordinating and underwriting a  Credit Suisse actively supports clean and  Over the past decade, a total of approximately 
renewable energy businesses and, by the end of  USD 4.3 billion of tax equity has been committed 
number of landmark and inaugural deals, including a 
2020, had been involved in over 150 transactions  to 29 renewable energy opportunities as a result 
sustainability-linked bond, with a USD 900 million  in this field with a value of more than USD 130  of the collaboration between our Strategic 
sustainability-linked tranche (out of a USD 3.8 billion  billion since 2010. Transactions Group and our Debt Capital Markets 
bond issuance) for a leading integrated US power  Solutions team. Multiple transactions were closed 
company – the first sustainability-linked bond from a US  in 2020, which included Credit Suisse’s inaugural 
community solar investment.
issuer – as well as a USD 1.25 billion issuance from a 
global pharma company that marked the first sustainabili- USD 
ty-linked bond in the global pharmaceutical industry.  1.6 billion
of renewables asset-backed  Ethical food 
In Switzerland, Credit Suisse acted as global coordinator  warehouse capacity
and sustainable farming 
and bookrunner on the first green bond issued by a listed 
In 2020, Credit Suisse served as structuring 
Swiss company. Furthermore, we acted as bookrunner on  In 2020, Credit Suisse served as the bookrunner 
agent and bookrunner on a number of solar 
a number of green and SDG-linked bonds, notably with  on the IPO for an ethical food company disrupting 
securitizations, notably two totaling USD 571 
an issuance of the latter gaining industry recognition as  million, as well as another USD 247 million solar  the US food system with its model of conscious 
capitalism focused on the humane treatment of 
the most innovative bond structure by the Environmental  securitization. Credit Suisse also served as 
animals and sustainable farming practices. We also 
Finance news and analysis service.  placement agent for a USD 216 million residential 
worked with a number of companies in the 
solar portfolio and a portfolio of German 
electrical vehicles and mobility industry, including a 
transmission infrastructure assets of undisclosed 
We are also active in the sustainability lending market and  Chinese smart electric vehicle company on its IPO.
size. In addition, Credit Suisse put in place an 
during 2020 we participated in a total of over  additional approximately USD 1.6 billion of 
USD 34 billion worth of sustainability-linked loans,  renewables asset-backed warehouse capacity.
including loan renewals and extensions. 
ESG
Accelerating renewable energy and other  energy transition and 
sustainable solutions   social impact
Creating
We have wide-ranging expertise across the area of 
In 2020, we worked on a number of ESG, 
renewables such as solar, wind, geothermal, biomass,  sustainable businesses
energy transition and social impact Special 
biofuels, fuel cells and energy efficiency.  Purpose Acquisition Corporations (SPACs).
In providing merger and acquisitions services we 
are creating sustainable businesses through 
transactions. For instance, we advised exclusively 
on the largest US residential solar merger. 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 84
Sustainable Products and Services
Research and insights into  As a global bank, we consider it part 
sustainability of our responsibility and part of our 
opportunity to help facilitate a 
Shedding light on a world in transition
sustainable transition by mobilizing 
Throughout 2020, we conducted sustainability-related  capital, and assisting our clients in 
research across our divisions. Research is a key part of 
our sustainable products and financing offering, helping  their transition strategies.
explain and uncover both opportunities and risks as the 
global economy embarks upon a major transition to 
address and prepare for climate change.  Lydie Hudson,
CEO Sustainability, Research & Investment Solutions
Wealth management clients
In 2020, we elevated efforts to bring awareness to secular 
themes with an emphasis on sustainability topics. Our  accelerate the development of the impact investing 
Supertrends thematic framework sheds light on long-term  industry by facilitating knowledge exchange, highlighting 
investment themes that reflect global societal trends. innovative investment approaches and producing tools 
and resources for market participants. 
Institutional clients
Over the last year, our research teams have explored many  In Switzerland, we are also involved in organizations such 
issues across the ESG spectrum, engaging the opinions of  as Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF) and Sustainable 
thought leaders and industry pioneers who are working to  Finance Geneva, which seek to strengthen the position of 
achieve solutions across an array of different sectors.  Switzerland in the global market for sustainable finance by 
informing, educating and catalyzing growth.
Forging ties to promote a new approach to  Credit Suisse believes that transparency and a common 
financing understanding of standards in impact investing are crucial 
to developing this market. Due to the lack of common 
Credit Suisse is involved in a number of industry organiza- standards and fund manager guidelines for best practice 
tions seeking to promote and catalyze sustainable and  in the impact investment area, the International Finance 
impact financing. Our approach includes helping to set  Corporation (IFC) introduced the Operating Principles for 
industry standards and participating in new sustainability  Impact Management in 2019. As one of the original 
initiatives worldwide. signatories, Credit Suisse in 2020 published its methodol-
ogy and impact AuM according to the IFC’s nine impact 
Through these memberships, we can contribute to the  principles. Our impact management systems have 
dialogue on developments in the sustainable investment  received independent assurance from KPMG, and have 
space. For instance, we are a member of the Global  been confirmed to align with the Operating Principles. 
Impact Investing Network (GIIN), which seeks to 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 85
Sustainable Products and Services
Thought leadership
In 2020, Credit Suisse Asset Management became a 
member of Climate Action 100+, an industry-wide 
investor initiative committed to reducing greenhouse gas  Delivering best-in-class, sustainable solutions to our 
emissions and fighting climate change. Credit Suisse also  clients starts with thought leadership. Credit Suisse 
acts as a commissioner for the Energy Transitions  produces regular thought leadership pieces and research 
Commission, a coalition of leaders from across the energy  to inform investors and the wider public on key sustain-
landscape committed to achieving net-zero emissions by  ability issues, partnering with prominent practitioners in 
2050.  the field and drawing on our global network of analysts, 
strategists and economists. In 2020, we published a 
In corporate governance and reporting industry initiatives,  number of reports highlighting emerging sector trends 
Credit Suisse became one of the initial working group  and themes, including the rise of alternative proteins and 
members of the Task Force for Nature-Related Financial  in particular their increasing popularity in Asia, as well as 
Disclosures (TNFD), which aims to develop a framework  our publications on investors and the blue economy, 
for the reporting, metrics and data disclosure of global  focusing on SDG 14: 
financial institutions to enable those institutions to better 
C
understand their risks, dependencies and impacts on  Life Below Water 
nature. We also became a member of the International  Click here to read the full report
Corporate Governance Network (ICGN), an investor-led 
organization to promote effective standards of corporate 
governance to advance sustainable economies and  When the COVID-19 pandemic struck in early 2020, we 
efficient markets. recognized that the great challenges it brought also made 
apparent the need to transform the education industry 
Additionally, we joined the FAIRR Initiative, a collaborative  through education technology, highlighting trends and 
investor network that aims to raise awareness of the  opportunities for investors as well as the positive impact 
significant ESG risks and opportunities in sustainable  of Education Technology (EdTech) in achieving UN SDG 
agriculture and related supply chains.  4: Quality Education. We also launched our ongoing 
“Exploring Impact” series, in which we examine develop-
We are also part of the Financial Services Task Force of  ments in the sustainable and impact investing sector.  
the Sustainable Market Initiative, which was launched in 
2020 by His Royal Highness The Prince of Wales  The Credit Suisse Research Institute (CSRI) is 
together with the World Economic Forum. The initiative  Credit Suisse’s in-house think tank. It studies long-term 
seeks to kick-start bold and imaginative action through  economic developments that have a global impact within 
programs and industry roundtables aimed at creating  and beyond the financial services sector. The CSRI 
global engagement in sustainable markets. publishes original research on topics ranging from 
economics and monetary policy to gender equality and 
consumer behavior as well as sustainability. In 2020, the 
CSRI published sustainability-related reports on the 
long-term implications of COVID-19 on existing trends, 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 86
Sustainable Products and Services
C
the impact of the pandemic on the distribution of wealth  Water Scarcity: Addressing the Key Challeng-
and the energy transition.   es: Water scarcity, and the societal risks it poses, is 
one of the primary challenges faced by the world 
C
What Will Last? The Long-Term Implications of  today. The report called for action to be taken on a 
COVID-19: The report suggests that rather than  coordinated global basis.
radically changing the world, the COVID-19 
pandemic has accelerated existing trends. Click here to read the full report 
Click here to read the full report 
C
Rethinking Retirement: The report took an 
in-depth look at the most important pension and 
C
Global Wealth Report 2020: The COVID-19  retirement-related questions and trends.
pandemic has triggered the worst global economic 
crisis since the Second World War and affected  Click here to read the full report 
human life in boundless ways. The Global Wealth 
Report 2020 examined the impact of the outbreak 
on wealth and the distribution of wealth. Global ESG Equity Strategy – Beyond the Pan-
demic: The Green-Shaped Recovery: This report uses 
Click here to read the full report our proprietary global policy database to construct 
sensitivity analysis, concluding that the market is underes-
timating the scale and impact of green stimulus at the 
C
Climate Change: The Energy Transition: CSRI  global level. Breaking the stimulus into four key themes: 
organized a forum bringing together a dozen  Energy Transition; Transport & Infrastructure; Energy 
renowned specialists and members of Credit  Efficiency; and the Circular Economy, we outline key 
Suisse’s top management to discuss these defining  drivers and key beneficiaries.
and current issues.
Click here to read the full report 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 87
Sustainable Products and Services
The Family 1000: Post the pandemic
On a long-term view, research to date has shown that 
family-owned businesses deliver higher levels of profitabil-
ity and stronger revenue growth in all regions, particularly 
in Asia, mainly as they pursue a longer time horizon in 
their investment strategy. The study also reviews family 
businesses in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic and 
the findings indicate their business models to be fairly 
robust. Finally, the report examines family-owned compa-
nies against the backdrop of their ESG performance and 
it appears they also have slightly better outcomes than 
non-family-owned companies.
Credit Suisse Global Investment Returns Yearbook 
2020
With its 120 years of financial history, the publication 
remains one of the most comprehensive sources of 
historical global investment returns, providing long-run 
return data and risk premium estimates for 23 national 
stock and bond markets. The 2020 edition included a 
dedicated chapter on ESG investing.
Collectibles: An integral part of wealth
The CSRI Collectibles report, published in collaboration 
with Deloitte Luxembourg, provides an overview and a 
first look at some popular collectible assets that have 
fuelled the imaginations of investors over the years. The 
publication also sheds light on the impact of the COVID-
19 pandemic on the high-end collectibles market.
 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 88
Disclosure  
Frameworks
Disclosure Frameworks
Scope of the report
This report forms an integral part of our Annual Reporting 
Suite and focuses on the financial year 2020. It explains 
how our commitments and aspirations in the area of 
sustainability are put into practice as a key component of  Credit Suisse is 
our operations, and it provides an overview of our principal 
activities and milestones in 2020.  committed to enhancing 
transparency with our 
It also documents the progress we have made in imple-
menting the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact  own disclosures as part 
and the Principles for Responsible Banking, as well as the 
measures we have put in place to contribute to the  of our ESG journey. As a 
achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. 
first step, we have 
David Mathers 
For the first time, Credit Suisse also reports pursuant to  Chief Financial Officer upgraded our 2020 
the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 
Standards, underscoring our commitment to enhanced  reporting by disclosing 
transparency and disclosure.
according to SASB 
C
Furthermore, a separate GRI Content index is  metrics for the first time 
available at 
credit-suisse.com/gri  and considerably 
enhancing our disclosure 
C
The contents of the report, along with additional  against the TCFD 
information about our efforts relating to sustainabili-
ty, are also available at: framework.
L
credit-suisse.com/sustainability
David Mathers on our sustainability- 
related disclosures:
 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 90
Disclosure Frameworks
Materiality assessment
The greatest increase in relative importance compared to 
the previous year was attributed to the issues of environ-
Our sustainability reporting activities focus on topics that  mental and social risk management and human resources 
are relevant to our business and our stakeholders. We  management. New topics included in the 2020 materiality 
regularly undertake a materiality assessment in order to  assessment are: Corporate culture & values, Transpar-
identify economic, environmental and social issues that  ency & alignment to ESG frameworks, and Financial 
may either have a significant impact on the company’s  inclusion & accessibility.
business performance or substantively influence the 
C
assessments and decisions of our stakeholders. We  The materiality assessment is also available 
believe that this helps us recognize new trends and evolve  online at: 
our strategy accordingly, as well as align our reporting  credit-suisse.com/materialityassessment
with the interests and needs of our business and our 
stakeholders.
The materiality assessment is based on our ongoing 
dialogue with stakeholders across all parts of our organi-
zation. We strive to ensure that the list of material issues 
identified in the past remains relevant and that important 
new topics are addressed.
To explore our stakeholders’ views on their perceived 
importance of issues for Credit Suisse, we conducted a 
structured online survey in 2019, reaching out to a broad 
range of external and internal stakeholders in all regions 
where we operate. Building on the results of this survey, 
the list of material issues was revised and updated in 
2020 in a process that included the analysis of informa-
tion from monitoring tools, a dedicated media review, as 
well as the views of internal experts who participate in an 
ongoing dialogue with relevant stakeholder groups. 
Throughout this process, we considered the perspectives 
of clients, investors and analysts, policymakers, non-gov-
ernmental organizations (NGOs), employees and other 
stakeholders. The 2020 list of material issues is the result 
of this analysis and reflects average values of perceived 
importance.
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 91
Disclosure Frameworks
Credit Suisse materiality assessment
Importance  See  Importance  See 
Material issues Definition and scope of terms pages Material issues (high to very high) Definition and scope of terms pages
Environmental management system /  19-25  Company culture and  Corporate culture / values / company purpose / 36-39
10
assessment of sustainability risks in transactions 31  values reputation / trust
Environmental and  / policies for sensitive industries / impacts on  56-59 
 1 social risk management eagcoriscyuslttuerme sa nadn df olarensdtsrcy)a p/ erse s(pinocnl.s bibioled sivueprspiltyy ,  60-61 11 Cproontseucmtioenr and investor  Spruivitaacbyil i/ty t raannds paaprpernocpyr iaotfe fneeesss /data security /  29-30
chain management Advisory process, relationship managers /  29-30 
range and quality of products and services /  76-88
Compliance with laws and regulations /  26-29  Quality and range of 
prevention of money laundering and terrorist  31-32 12 services and advice expertise (e. g. research, advisory) / 
performance and pricing of products and 
Compliance and  financing / anti-corruption / combating financial 
 2 conduct market crime (e. g. fraud, anti-competitive  services / technology
practices) / sanctions compliance / tax  Operational structure / governance framework / 12-16
compliance 13 Corporate governance management team / voting rights
Reducing the carbon footprint of own operations 50-60  Paris Agreement / UN Sustainable  50-51 
/ greenhouse gas neutrality / managing climate  83-84 Development Goals /  Principles for  59-60 
 3 Climate Change risks / facilitate transition to a low carbon and  Transparency &  Responsible Banking / Principles for  93-116
climate resilient economy through product  14 alignment to ESG  Responsible Investment / national and 
offering / climate-related disclosure frameworks international sustainable finance frameworks 
and regulations/ ESG disclosure requirements 
Business strategy / financial results / share  10 
and standards / TCFD / EU Taxonomy
price / capital distribution (incl. dividends and  33
Company performance  share buybacks) / capital, liquidity and funding  Purchasing, sourcing / tax contribution /  31-32 
 4 and strategy position / stability of the company / operational  15 Contribution to the  lending to small and medium-sized enterprises  39-41 
risk (incl. business continuity management,  economy (SMEs) and start-ups 45
technology risks) / cost efficiency / cost 
reductions Fair working conditions; no child labor, no forced 23-25 
labor / human rights aspects in supply chain  31 
Diversity and inclusion / non-discrimination /  62-75
Human resources and  training and skills management / attracting and  16 Human rights and business relations / indigenous peoples  74-75
 5 talent management retaining talent / health and safety / work-life  rights / positive contribution to the realization of 
human rights
balance / employees over 50 years of age
User-friendly banking services / accessibility for  43 – 48, 
Responsible approach to compensation /  33-35 Financial inclusion & 
Incentives and  17 all to products and services / financial literacy  81
 6 compensation policy executive compensation / criteria for incentives  accessibility among customers
/ deferral, claw-backs
Philanthropy / supporting social and  42 – 48
Systemic risk / capital and liquidity / total  10
humanitarian projects / employee engagement, 
Financial and political  loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) / legal entity  18 Social commitments
 7 system stability structure / resolvability / political and economic  incl. skills-based volunteering / “militia” system 
of politics in our Swiss home market
stability / negative interest rates
Blockchain / fintech / digital transformation /  40
 8 Digitalization / fintech big data, automation
Sustainable products and services / impact  76-88
investing (incl. microfinance, conservation 
Responsible  Relevance to stakeholders (average) Detailed information on Credit Suisse Group’s financial 
 9 finance) / integration of environmental, social 
investments Impact on Credit Suisse performance, corporate governance, compensation practices, 
and governance (ESG) criteria in products and 
Range of stakeholder views liquidity and funding management, capital management and risk 
services
management can be found in the Annual Report 2020
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 92
Disclosure Frameworks
Implementation of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact
Over 12,000 businesses from around 160 countries have pledged to uphold the principles relating to human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption efforts defined in the 
Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. Credit Suisse has been a signatory to this leading international initiative since its inception in 2000, and we are an active member of the Global Compact 
Network Switzerland & Liechtenstein. Through our Sustainability Report, we communicate annually on the progress we have made in implementing the Ten Principles.
“We recognize the importance of upholding international standards and best practices to promote responsible business conduct, such as the UN Global Compact with its Ten Principles on human rights, 
labor standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption efforts. I am happy to reaffirm our support for this important initiative again this year.” – Thomas Gottstein, Chief Executive Officer.
The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact      Implementation at Credit Suisse   See pages  The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact      Implementation at Credit Suisse   See pages 
Human rights             Environment            
                                 
P rinciple 1  Bu  sinesses should support and   Participation in the Thun Group to promote    26, 75  P rinciple 7  Bu  sinesses should support   a         Group-wid e Climate Risk Strategy program   51-55 
     re s pect the protection of internationally    a better understanding of the UN Guiding           pr e cautionary approach to   Statement on Climate Change   51 
   pr o claimed human rights; and   Principles on Business and Human Rights          en  vironmental challenges;  Assessment of sustainability risks   18-26 
        for the banking sector            Sector policies and guidelines   23-25 
      Statement on Human Rights   74-75         Signatory to the Principles for    96-101 
                        Responsible Banking (PRB)    
P rinciple 2  ma  ke sure that they are  not c omplicit      Assessme nt of sustainability risks   18-26        Signatory to the Principles for    102 
      in   human rights abuses  Sector policies and guidelines   23-25           Responsible Investment (PRI)    
        Addressing the recommendations    59-60 
         of the Financial Stability Board’s     
Labor                    Task Force on Climate-related     
                              Financial Disclosures (TCFD)    
P rinciple 3  Bu  sinesses should upho ld the           Credit Su   isse Staff Council in Switzerland    74        Signatory to the Poseidon Principles   25 
     fre  edom of association and the    (internal employee representation)                          
   ef f ective recognition of the right   European Works Council   74  P rinciple 8  un  de r take initiativ es to promote        Commitm  ent to achieve net zero emissions    50-51 
     to   collective bargaining;              gr e ater environmental responsibility;    from our operations, supply chain and     
                  an  d   financing activities no later than 2050, with     
P rinciple 4  th e  elimination of all fo rms of  forced      Credit Su isse Supplier Code of Conduct    31          intermediate emissions goals for 2030    
     an  d compulsory labor;   and Third Party Risk Management (TPRM)            Global greenhouse gas neutrality since 2010  56-58 
       framework             ISO 14001-certified environmental    58 
       Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking    75          management system    
        Transparency Statement            Activities in the area of conservation finance   82 
                        Sustainability Strategy Advisory and    21-22 
P  rinciple 5  th e  e  ffective aboli tion of child labor;     Sector po licies and guidelines   23-25          Finance (SSAF)    
     an  d  Credit Suisse Supplier Code of Conduct    31                     
        and Third Party Risk Management (TPRM)      P  rinciple 9  en  courage the  de velopment a nd        Use of clim   ate-friendly energy sources    56-59 
       framework          dif  fusion of environmentally friendly   for our operations    
                 tec  hnologies.  Green finance   83-84 
P rinciple 6  th e  elimination of discrimination in       Commitm  ent to equality, diversity    63-69          Renewable energy financing   84 
      re s pect of employment and occupation.   and inclusion, including special programs,             Sustainable real estate   55 
       trainings and objectives      
 
Anti-corruption            
                    
P rinciple 10  Bu  sinesses should wo rk agai nst         Member o  f the Wolfsberg Group   27 
     co  rruption in all its forms, including   Internal standards and training for employees  69-70 
    ex  tortion and bribery.  Global whistleblowing framework including    29 
        a web-based Integrity Line    
 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 93
Disclosure Frameworks
Our contribution to the realization of the Sustainable Development Goals
The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations in 2015 form a core element of the UN Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development. As the SDGs are based on a 
participatory process, responsibility for achieving them is shared among states, the private sector, the scientific community and civil society. Since their introduction, we have been pursuing activities 
designed to contribute to the realization of the SDGs in our role as a global financial institution. The following table provides an overview on our wide-ranging activities relating to selected objectives of 
most relevance to Credit Suisse, as also confirmed by stakeholder interactions. Furthermore, Credit Suisse published six case studies providing details on our SDG implementation efforts for selected 
SDGs, see: credit-suisse.com/sdg
SDG    Our contribution   See pages  SDG    Our contribution   See pages 
Goal 4: Quality education          Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth        
                                  
E  nsure  inclu sive and equ itable         We suppo   rt financial education programs for girls through    44  P  romote sustained,  inclu sive and         We offer    progressive working conditions for our employees   63-75 
 q uality education and promote    our Financial Education Initiative in Brazil, China, Sri Lanka      s  ustainable economic growth, full   We support economic growth and entrepreneurship through    39-40 
 l ifelong learning opportunities    and Tanzania      a nd productive employment and    our role as a lender and financial intermediary    
 f or all.  We promote financial education and future skills through    44-45   d ecent work for all.  We are an integral part of the economy and society in our role    40-41 
     our respective regional programs          as an employer, client, contractual partner and taxpayer    
    We offer our clients the opportunity to make a contribution    81      We help to strengthen local economies in developing countries    44-45, 81 
     to SDG4 through our higher education structured notes solutions          and emerging markets through our activities in the area     
    We invest in young talent as an employer by providing attractive    71       of financial inclusion    
     opportunities for young professionals and graduates    
Goal 9: Industry, innovation and infrastructure         
Goal 5: Gender equality                          
         B  uild resilient infrastru c t  ure,         We suppl  y risk capital to support growth and innovation, including    40 
A  chieve gender equality and        We foste  r diversity and inclusion within our organization   63-69   p romote inclusive and    through Credit Suisse Entrepreneur Capital AG in Switzerland    
e  mpower all women and girls.  We take measures to increase the proportion of women in    65-67   s ustainable industrialization   We help to strengthen local economies in developing countries    44-45, 81 
     management positions within our organization     a  nd foster innovation.   and emerging markets through our activities in the area of     
    We support the development of new products and services    80-81       financial inclusion    
     focusing on gender diversity         We provide renewable energy financing   84 
    We address female empowerment across the globe through    44-46      We focus on sustainability risk management and have    18-26 
     our Corporate Citizenship programs, such as our Financial           sector-specific policies and guidelines in place    
     Inclusion and Education Initiatives    
Goal 11: Sustainable cities and communities         
Goal 7: Affordable and clean energy                      
               M  ake cities and human           We inves   t in sustainable real estate   55 
E  nsure access  to afforda ble,         We provid  e renewable energy financing   84   s ettlements inclusive, safe,   We are committed to continuously improving the ESG performance    55 
r  eliable, sustainable and modern   We support our clients’ energy transition toward low-carbon    51-55   r esilient and sustainable.   (environmental, social and governance performance), energy     
 e nergy for all.   operations, technologies and services          efficiency and carbon footprint of our real estate investment portfolio    
    We use climate-friendly energy sources for our business    56-59 
     premises and have buildings certified according to energy     
     efficiency standards    
    We run an ISO 14001-certified environmental management system   58 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 94
Disclosure Frameworks
Our contribution to the realization of the Sustainable Development Goals
SDG    Our contribution   See pages 
Goal 13: Climate action         
         
T  ake urgent action to combat         We are co  mmitted to develop science-based targets in 2021    50-51 
 c limate change and its impacts.   and 2022 for achieving net zero emissions from our operations,     
     supply chain and financing activities no later than 2050    
    We have a Group-wide Climate Risk Strategy program in place   22-24, 51-55 
    We focus on sustainability risk management and have    18-26 
     sector-specific policies and guidelines in place    
    We are addressing the recommendations of the Financial Stability    59-60 
     Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)    
    We offer a range of green finance products and services    83-84 
     for our clients    
    We are greenhouse gas neutral across all our operations globally   58 
    We are a signatory to the Poseidon Principles   25 
Goal 14: Life below water         
                 
C  onserve and  sustainab ly u se         We offer    sustainable and impact products targeting    82-83 
t  he oceans, seas and marine    ocean conservation    
 r esources for sustainable   We are a member of the advisory network for the    82 
d  evelopment.   High Level Panel for a Sustainable Ocean Economy    
Goal 15: Life on land        
                        
P  rotect, restore and prom ote             We are a      ctive in the a rea of conservation finance   82 
s  ustainable use of terrestrial   We have an ongoing advisory role to the Zoological    61 
e  cosystems, sustainably manage    Society of London’s Sustainability Policy Transparency     
 f orests, combat desertification, and    Toolkit (SPOTT)    
 h alt and reverse land degradation   We consider biodiversity-related issues in our sustainability    60-61, 23-25 
a  nd halt biodiversity loss.   risk management process and have sector-specific policies     
     and guidelines in place    
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 95
Disclosure Frameworks
UNEP FI Principles for Responsible Banking
In 2019, Credit Suisse became a founding signatory to the Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB) of the UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). The PRB call for the 
alignment of the banking sector with the UN SDGs and the objectives of the Paris Agreement and represent a comprehensive framework for the integration of sustainability across all areas 
of banking. Signatories commit, among other things, to align their business strategy to contribute to individuals’ needs and society’s goals, and to set targets to continuously increase the 
positive impacts of their activities, products and services. By the end of 2020, more than 200 banks had signed up to the PRB. Credit Suisse has taken first steps towards PRB implementa-
tion as shown in our first reporting on progress below. 
Credit Suisse reporting on the Principles for Responsible Banking
Principle 1: Alignment
We will align our business strategy to be consistent with and contribute to individuals’ needs and society’s goals, as expressed in the Sustainable Development Goals, the Paris Climate Agreement and relevant national and regional 
frameworks.
Reporting and self-assessment requirements High-level summary of bank’s response  References/relevant information
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
1.1. Describe (high-level) your bank’s business model, including the main  As one of the world’s leading banks, we are committed to delivering our financial experience and expertise to corporate,   Annual Report 2020, “Credit Suisse at a glance”, p. 12
customer segments served, types of products and services provided, the main  institutional and government clients as well as to ultra-high-net-worth individuals worldwide, in addition to affluent and   Sustainability Report 2020, “Our company”, p. 10 
sectors and types of activities, and where relevant the technologies financed  retail clients in Switzerland. Founded in 1856, Credit Suisse today has a global reach with operations in around 50   Our company (Website)
across the main geographies in which your bank has operations or provides  countries and a work force of over 48,770 employees. Our strategy is to be a leading wealth manager with strong global 
products and services. investment banking capabilities.
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
1.2. Describe how your bank has aligned and/or is planning to align its  Credit Suisse strives to create sustainable value for all its stakeholders. We do so based on our broad understanding of   Code of Conduct (PDF)
strategy to be consistent with and contribute to society’s goals, as expressed in our duties as a financial services provider and employer and as an integral part of the economy and society. Our approach  Statement on Sustainability (PDF)
the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the Paris Climate Agreement, and  also reflects our commitment to protecting the environment.   Statement on Climate Change (PDF)
relevant national and regional frameworks. Tenhtisre apprepnroeaucrhia li ss psiuript”p)o arntedd o buyr  oCuord Peu orfp oCsoen dSutactte.ment (“We build lasting value by serving our clients with care and    SS– tuEastvteoamlivnieannbgti l iootyun r R Hoerupgmoarantn iz2 aR0tii2og0nh: ttso ( sPuDpFp)ort sustainability, p. 11-12
In 2020, we launched the new Executive Board-level Sustainability, Research & Investment Solutions (SRI) function to  – Sustainability governance, p. 14-17
deliver on our ambition to become a leader in sustainability. We also established a dedicated Board of Directors  – Our role in addressing climate change, p. 50-51
Sustainability Leader on the Group Board of Directors, who will enable and help supervise the sustainability agenda.  – Climate Risk Strategy program, p. 51-55
Since 2020, Credit Suisse has announced a number of commitments and measures in support of the Paris Agreement  – Committed to equality, diversity and inclusion, p. 63-69
and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).  – Our contribution to the realization of the Sustainable 
Development Goals, p. 94-95
   SDG Case Studies (Website)
Ɓ  Ɓ
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 96
Disclosure Frameworks
Principle 2: Impact and Target Setting
We will continuously increase our positive impacts while reducing the negative impacts on, and managing the risks to, people and environment resulting from our activities, products and services. To this end, we will set and publish targets 
where we can have the most significant impacts.
Reporting and self-assessment requirements High-level summary of bank’s response   References/relevant information
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
2.1 Impact Analysis:  Credit Suisse’s impact analysis was conducted using the UNEP FI Portfolio Impact Analysis tool (UNEP FI Tool). For   UNEP FI Portfolio Tool (Website)
Show that your bank has identified the areas in which it has its most significant  more information on the methodology, please refer to the UNEP FI “Guide to Holistic Impact Analysis” (October 2020).   UNEP FI Guide to Holistic Impact Analysis (Website)
(tahp) eoS tfeconolltopiawel):i  npTgoh seeil tebivmaen eaknn’tsds  :cn oereg abtuivsei nimespsa actr etahsro, upgrohd aunc tism/psaecrvt icaensa layscirso sthsa tth feu lmfilalsin   Fbaonllokwinign.g T trhaed inUgN aEcPti vFitIy T (ocoals mh eatnhdo ddoelroivgayt,i vbeuss)i,n persivsa ltinee bsa cnokvinegre adn idn calsusdeet  cmoannsaugmeemr,e bnut sainree scsu,r creonrptloy roautet  oafn dsc ionpvees atms ent    CS– urEesvdtoaitli vnSianubgiis liostyeu  rRB oeurpgsoianrnet isz2as0t iD2o0niv: i tsoio snusp (pWoretb ssuitset)ainability, p. 11-12
geographies that the bank operates in have been as described under 1.1.  these are not yet covered by the UNEP methodology. Credit Suisse data was matched to the business lines as defined by  – Dialogue with stakeholders, p. 42
have been considered in the scope of the analysis. the UNEP FI Tool described above. – Our role in addressing climate change, p. 50-51
b) Scale of Exposure: In identifying its areas of most significant impact, the bank The geographical focus of the analysis for consumer and business banking was Switzerland, as this is our country of  – Global Real Estate, p. 55
has considered where its core business/its major activities lie in terms of  incorporation (home market) and the country from which we offer such services to our clients. With respect to corporate  – Biodiversity and natural capital, p. 60-61
industries, technologies and geographies. and investment banking, we included all countries of operation with a relevant footprint in our analysis (>15% exposure  – Safeguarding biodiversity and natural capital, p. 82
c) Context & Relevance:  Your bank has taken into account the most relevant  per analyzed portfolio or Top 3 position in relevant league tables). – Climate-aware solutions for wealth management clients, p. 83
challenges and priorities related to sustainable development in the countries/ – Sustainability networks and initiatives, p. 102
regions in which it operates. Credit Suisse’s impact analysis was performed against the FY 2019 loan portfolio using potential exposure data.   Ongoing dialogue with stakeholders (Website)
d) Scale and intensity/salience of impact: In identifying its areas of most 
Based on the analysis, real estate was identified as the prominent sector in the consumer, business and corporate 
significant impact, the bank has considered the scale and intensity/salience 
banking business lines, followed by the financial services sector. 
of the (potential) social, economic and environmental impacts resulting from 
the bank’s activities and provision of products and services.  For investment banking, a very diverse set of sectors were identified, including civil engineering, electric power 
  (your bank should have engaged with relevant stakeholders to help inform  generation, fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG), IT and telecommunication, mining, oil and gas, pharmaceuticals, real 
your analysis under elements c) and d))  estate and transportation. 
Show that, building on this analysis, the bank has  A number of significant impact areas for each business line have been identified based on Credit Suisse data (e.g. 
Ɓ Identified and disclosed its areas of most significant (potential) positive and  percentage of portfolio associated to a given sector), as well as the country needs and positive and negative impacts 
negative impact associated with relevant sectors and activities as defined by the UNEP FI Tool. 
Ɓ Identified strategic business opportunities in relation to the increase of positive 
impacts / reduction of negative impacts Through the analysis of our different portfolios in Switzerland, housing and employment were identified as the two most 
prominent positive impact areas.
Based on our analysis of the corporate and investment banking portfolio and based on our continued dialogue with 
relevant stakeholders (e.g. investors, clients, NGOs, regulators), we determined resource efficiency, climate, and 
biodiversity and ecosystems as areas with potential negative impacts. 
In line with the outcome of the impact analysis, Credit Suisse actively addresses climate change and biodiversity-related 
issues. For example, we have a Climate Risk Strategy program in place and we continue to work towards the 
implementation of the TCFD recommendations. Biodiversity-related issues are considered in our risk management 
processes and we have identified biodiversity as a strategic business opportunity in order to increase our positive impacts. 
We also engage with stakeholders in a regular dialogue on both topics, for example through our membership in 
sustainability networks and initiatives such as the Informal Working Group for the Task Force on Nature-related Financial 
Disclosures TNFD or our partnership with the Climate Bonds Initiative to help create a framework for transition finance. 
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
Bank conclusion statement regarding impact analysis We have conducted an impact analysis as required by the Principles. In the future, we aim to periodically update our 
impact analysis, focusing on the most relevant business lines.
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 97
Disclosure Frameworks
Principle 2: Impact and Target Setting
Reporting and self-assessment requirements High-level summary of bank’s response   References/relevant information
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
2.2. Target Setting:  In 2020, we announced the goal to provide at least CHF 300 billion of sustainable financing to support transition   Sustainability Report 2020:
Show that the bank has set and published a minimum of two Specific,  strategies (renewables, Green/Blue/Transition bonds, low-carbon energy solutions and UN SDG-aligned) over the next  – 2020 sustainability highlights at Credit Suisse, p. 5-6
Measurable (can be qualitative or quantitative), Achievable, Relevant and  ten years.  – Committed to equality, diversity and inclusion, p. 63-69
Time-bound (SMART) targets, which address at least two of the identified “areas 
of most significant impact”, resulting from the bank’s activities and provision of  In December 2020, Credit Suisse committed to develop science-based targets in 2021 and 2022, including our 
products and services.  commitment to align our operations, supply chain and financing activities to net zero emissions by 2050. 
Show that these targets are linked to and drive alignment with and greater  We also announced that we would align our financing with the Paris Agreement objective of limiting global warming to 
contribution to appropriate Sustainable Development Goals, the goals of the  1.5° C and to reposition our portfolio to mobilize capital towards our clients’ transitions.
Paris Agreement, and other relevant international, national or regional  In order to maximize the impact of our Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) imperative across people management, culture 
frameworks. The bank should have identified a baseline (assessed against a  development and our sustainability strategy, we elevated our global D&I function to report to two Executive Board 
particular year) and have set targets against this baseline. members, to reflect a mandate that is tied not only to Human Resources but also embedded in our new SRI function 
Show that the bank has analyzed and acknowledged significant (potential)  providing enhanced oversight and executive focus. We also set out additional commitments to accelerate our progress. 
negative impacts of the set targets on other dimensions of the SDG/climate 
change/society’s goals and that it has set out relevant actions to mitigate those 
as far as feasible to maximize the net positive impact of the set targets.
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
Bank conclusion statement regarding target setting We have already set ourselves ambitious aspirations in the area of climate change, including announcing planned milestones (see 2.3). 
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
2.3. Plans for Target Implementation and Monitoring Over the course of 2021, we intend to release guidance on the methodology we have developed to illustrate how we   Sustainability Report 2020: 
count transactions toward the target of CHF 300 bn of sustainable financing and provide insight on the associated  – 2020 sustainability highlights at Credit Suisse, p. 5-6
Show that your bank has defined actions and milestones to meet the set targets.
criteria.
Show that your bank has put in place the means to measure and monitor 
In December 2020, Credit Suisse committed to develop science-based targets in 2021 and 2022, including our 
progress against the set targets. Definitions of key performance indicators, any 
commitment to align our operations, supply chain and financing activities to net zero emissions by 2050, with intermediate 
changes in these definitions, and any rebasing of baselines should be 
emissions goals for 2030.
transparent.
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
Bank conclusion statement regarding plans target implementation and  Credit Suisse has set up the internal governance structures and project teams to work on the implementation of its 
monitoring aspirations. We will report on our progress in our 2021 corporate reporting. 
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
2.4. Progress on Implementing Targets   Credit Suisse has set up the internal governance structures and project teams to work on the implementation of its 
For each target separately:   aspirations.
Show that your bank has implemented the actions it had previously defined to 
meet the set target.
Or explain why actions could not be implemented / needed to be changed and 
how your bank is adapting its plan to meet its set target.  
Report on your bank’s progress over the last 12 months (up to 18 months in 
your first reporting after becoming a signatory) towards achieving each of the set 
targets and the impact your progress resulted in (where feasible and appropriate, 
banks should include quantitative disclosures).
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
Bank conclusion statement regarding implementing targets Credit Suisse has set up the internal governance structures and project teams to work on the implementation of its 
aspirations. We will report on our progress in our 2021 corporate reporting. 
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 98
Disclosure Frameworks
Principle 3: Clients and Customers
We will work responsibly with our clients and our customers to encourage sustainable practices and enable economic activities that create shared prosperity for current and future generations.
Reporting and self-assessment requirements High-level summary of bank’s response    References/relevant information
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
3.1. Provide an overview of the policies and practices your bank has in  In January 2021, we launched our new Code of Conduct, which describes our purpose and values and includes focus on   Code of Conduct (PDF)
place and/or is planning to put in place to promote responsible  serving our clients.   Sustainability Report 2020
relationships with its customers. This should include high-level information  – Consumer and investor protection, p. 29-30
on any programs and actions implemented (and/or planned), their scale and,  Credit Suisse believes in establishing long-term relationships based on trust and integrity between our relationship  – Focus on clients, p. 41-42
where possible, the results thereof. managers and clients. When providing advice to our clients regarding one or more transactions involving financial  – Client skills and sustainability, p. 69-70
instruments, we assess the suitability and appropriateness of such transactions. – Evolving our organization to support sustainability, p. 11-12
Our new Executive Board-level function Sustainability, Research & Investment Solutions (SRI) will allow us to drive a  – Risk Management / Sustainability Risk Management, p. 18-26
globally consistent approach and help us to meet the evolving needs of our clients, investors, employees and society in  – Sector policies and guidelines, p. 23-25 
general. Further, a new group entitled Sustainability Strategy, Advisory & Finance (SSAF) was established to support the 
creation of a cohesive and dedicated bank-wide sustainability offering within SRI.
Our risk processes enable us to take account of the potential wider implications of our business activities and products 
and services, for example on the environment and society. To assess potential transactions with clients or prospects in 
industries that are particularly sensitive from a social or environmental perspective (including impacts to the climate), we 
have defined specific policies and guidelines that are globally applicable.
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
3.2. Describe how your bank has worked with and/or is planning to  SSAF sets the bank’s sustainability ambition and public commitments and is responsible for selecting the bank’s core   Sustainability Report 2020:
work with its clients and customers to encourage sustainable practices  sustainability themes. It will also determine flagship initiatives, divisional sustainability metrics and lead the bank’s public  – Evolving our organization to support sustainability, p. 11-12
and enable sustainable economic activities. This should include information profile on sustainability. This includes establishing the governance processes and frameworks for the implementation of  – Sustainability risk review, p. 19-21
on actions planned/implemented, products and services developed, and, where  sustainability measures as well as joining forces with relevant initiatives (see references for examples). – Governance for sustainable products and services, p. 21-22
possible, the impacts achieved. – Climate Risk Strategy program, p. 51-55
In the context of our sustainability risk reviews and our Climate Risk Strategy program (incl. the Client Energy Transition  – Sustainable products and services, p. 76-88
Frameworks), we engage with our clients to understand their approach to managing environmental and social risks as  – Credit Suisse Sustainable Investment Framework, p. 80
well as their transition strategy.  Global ESG Investment Principles (PDF)
 Credit Suisse Engagement Policy Statement (PDF)
   Unearthing investor action on biodiversity (PDF)
Ɓ  Ɓ
Principle 4: Stakeholders
We will proactively and responsibly consult, engage and partner with relevant stakeholders to achieve society’s goals.
Reporting and self-assessment requirements High-level summary of bank’s response  References/relevant information
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
4.1 Describe which stakeholders (or groups/types of stakeholders) your Credit Suisse considers it important to engage in discussions with various stakeholders – from clients, employees and   Sustainability Report 2020
bank has consulted, engaged, collaborated or partnered with for the  investors to policymakers, legislators, regulators and representatives of the business community and society – to  – Dialogue with stakeholders, p. 42
purpose of implementing these Principles and improving your bank’s impacts.  understand the issues that are important to them and to help find constructive solutions to current challenges.  – Dialogue and knowledge-sharing, p. 26 
This should include a high-level overview of how your bank has identified  – Thought leadership, p. 86-88
relevant stakeholders and what issues were addressed/results achieved. As Credit Suisse continues to develop its sustainability risk management practices, we engage in dialogue with a range of  Ongoing dialogue with stakeholders (Website)
stakeholders. This includes our ongoing exchange with NGOs and other actors in the conversation on sustainability risk   Network & partnerships (Website)
management and climate change topics, as well as our active participation in industry initiatives and contribution to   Sustainability networks and initiatives (Website)
thought leadership. 
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 99
Disclosure Frameworks
Principle 5: Governance & Culture
We will implement our commitment to these Principles through effective governance and a culture of responsible banking.
Reporting and self-assessment requirements High-level summary of bank’s response   References/relevant information
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
5.1. Describe the relevant governance structures, policies and  In July 2020, Credit Suisse established the new Sustainability, Research & Investment Solutions (SRI) function at the   Sustainability Report 2020:
procedures your bank has in place/is planning to put in place to manage  Executive Board level and announced the appointment of a dedicated Sustainability Leader on the Board of Directors,  – Evolving our organization to support sustainability, p. 11-12
significant positive and negative (potential) impacts and support effective  and the creation of the Board Advisory Committee as part of the Bank’s ambition to integrate sustainability into its  – Sustainability governance, p. 14-17
implementation of the Principles. strategy.  – Climate risk governance and organization, p. 22-23
Ttaimhone pdc l Beocmmaonnepktnlre othmala tfesiuo nnnatc.l s tthoioi sne, s tatoan bddlr isiavhsee  padan ardt   Soeufx esthtcaeui ntiena tborioulidtry us cLtrteaioatned geoyrf.s  thThihpee  CS SouLmsCtma iwnitatilelb ebil iet(yS ,t hLReCe )gs ewoaviterhcr nhsa e&nn ciIonerv  serpesoptmnresesonert n tStoa otsilvuuetpisop nofrsrot  (mtSh Ree IaP) cfRhuB ndc ivtiiosino,n       CSSSStttuoaaasdtttteeeea mmmioneeefa nnnbCtttiol   ioootnynnnd    nuSCHeculutitmws m(tPoaaartiDnnke asF RC b)aihiglniathdynt  sgi(n Pe(iPtD i(aDPFtiFD)ve)Fs) (Website)
In addition, CS appointed a Chief Sustainability Officer and a Group Head of Reputational Risk, Sustainability and Climate 
Risk in 2020.  CS also created a new role and appointed a Global Head of Social Sustainability. 
The SRI function includes a Risk Management Committee (RMC) and Divisional Client Risk Committee (DCRC) to ensure 
strong review and challenge from across the second line of defense. In addition, the implementation of the Client Energy 
Transition Frameworks (CETF) serves to encourage clients in their energy transition but may also lead to decisions to 
decline certain transactions.
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
5.2. Describe the initiatives and measures your bank has implemented  The Credit Suisse Code of Conduct underpins many of our control and human capital processes and policies at   Code of Conduct (PDF)
or is planning to implement to foster a culture of responsible banking  Credit Suisse. It reflects what we expect from employees and what our stakeholders expect from Credit Suisse, as well   Sustainability Report 2020: 
among its employees. This should include a high-level overview of capacity  as explaining how we want to interact within Credit Suisse and with the world around us.  – Talent Development in 2020, p. 70
building, inclusion in remuneration structures and performance management and 
leadership communication, amongst others. To ensure that we are continuously informed of the latest regulations and industry standards, our employees are required 
to participate in an annual targeted and tailored training curriculum. The training program includes topics such financial 
crime compliance awareness, data security, as well as environmental management, health and safety and sustainability 
risk management. 
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
5.3. Governance Structure for Implementation of the Principles   The Sustainability Leadership Committee, which is co-chaired by the CEO of Sustainability, Research & Investment   Sustainability Report 2020: 
Show that your bank has a governance structure in place for the implementation Solutions (SRI), and the Chief Sustainability Officer is responsible for driving the development and implementation of the  – Sustainability governance, p. 14-17
of the PRB, including:  sustainability strategy and responsible for assessing progress against the Bank’s strategic sustainability objectives and 
a) target-setting and actions to achieve targets set  commitments including the PRB. 
b) remedial action in the event of targets or milestones not being achieved or 
unexpected negative impacts being detected. The Sustainability Leadership Committee will report its decisions and key strategic updates to the Sustainability Advisory 
Committee.  
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
Bank conclusion statement regarding Governance Structure for  The Sustainability Leadership Committee has taken on the responsibility for the implementation of the Principles for 
Implementation of the Principles Responsible Banking. Having the mandate to develop such strategic decisions, the SLC is well placed to guide and 
assess the progress of the PRB targets. 
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 100
Disclosure Frameworks
Principle 6: Transparency & Accountability
We will periodically review our individual and collective implementation of these Principles and be transparent about and accountable for our positive and negative impacts and our contribution to society’s goals.
Reporting and self-assessment requirements High-level summary of bank’s response   References/relevant information
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
6.1. Progress on Implementing the Principles for Responsible Banking  In 2020, Credit Suisse undertook a wide range of activities that reflect its commitment to sustainability, and we made a   Sustainability Report 2020
number of important achievements towards further embedding environmental, social and governance (ESG) consider- – 2020 sustainability highlights at Credit Suisse, p. 5-6
Show that your bank has progressed on implementing the six Principles over the 
ations in various aspects of our business endeavors.  – Evolving our organization to support sustainability, p. 11-12
last 12 months (up to 18 months in your first reporting after becoming a 
– Sustainability governance, p. 14-17
signatory) in addition to the setting and implementation of targets in minimum  Please see “2020 Highlights” (p. 5-6) for a list of examples, such as the creation of Sustainability, Research &  – Sustainability networks and initiatives, p. 102
two areas (see 2.1-2.4).   Investment Solutions (SRI), our commitment to align our operations, supply chain and financing activities to net zero 
emissions by 2050 or strong diversity and inclusion commitments. 
Show that your bank has considered existing and emerging international/
regional good practices relevant for the implementation of the six Principles for  In line with the PRB requirements, our first impact analysis was conducted in 2020 using the UNEP FI Tool. We have 
Responsible Banking. Based on this, it has defined priorities and ambitions to  already set ourselves ambitious aspirations in the area of climate change and will consider setting further targets based on 
align with good practice. the outcome of our impact analysis and report on them in our 2021 corporate reporting. 
Show that your bank has implemented/is working on implementing changes in  Furthermore, we set up a governance structure responsible for driving the development and implementation of the 
existing practices to reflect and be in line with existing and emerging  sustainability strategy and responsible for assessing progress against the bank’s strategic sustainability objectives and 
international/regional good practices and has made progress on its implementa- commitments, including the PRB.
tion of these Principles.
Through our active participation in a number of sustainability networks and initiatives, we aim to ensure our alignment with 
international best practices. 
For example, as one of the original signatories of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Operating Principles for 
Impact Management, Credit Suisse in 2020 published its methodology and impact AuM according to the IFC’s nine 
impact principles.
Also, in its Sustainability Report 2020, Credit Suisse is for the first time reporting pursuant to the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards, underscoring our commitment to enhanced transparency and disclosure.
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
Bank conclusion statement regarding progress on PRB Implementation We have made progress in implementing the PRB over the past 18 months. We have set up a governance structure for 
implementation of the principles, we have conducted our first impact analysis and we have undertaken a wide range of 
activities that reflect our commitment to sustainability. 
 
Ɓ  Ɓ
 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 101
Disclosure Frameworks 
Sustainability indices and  Sustainability networks and 
ESG ratings initiatives
The analyses and ratings produced by specialized  Credit Suisse actively participates in a number of sustain-
sustainability rating agencies and index providers – which  ability networks and initiatives worldwide, including the 
assess companies according to environmental, social and  following:
governance (ESG) criteria – provide guidance and serve 
as a point of reference to investors interested in environ-   Climate Bonds Initiative
mentally and socially responsible investments.    ClimateAction100+
Credit Suisse has been included in leading sustainability    Equator Principles
indices for a number of years and is assessed by ESG    FAIRR Initiative
rating providers such as S&P Global (Corporate Sustain-   Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN)
ability Assessment), Sustainalytics, MSCI and CDP. In    Green Bond Principles
2020, Credit Suisse was once again selected as an index    International Corporate Governance Network (ICGN)
component for both the Dow Jones Sustainability World    Oebu – Swiss Business Council for Sustainable 
Index (DJSI World) and the Dow Jones Sustainability  Development
Europe Index (DJSI Europe). Furthermore, our CDP    Ocean Panel
climate change score improved to an A-, and    Operating Principles for Impact Management
Credit Suisse’s MSCI ESG Rating increased to an A.   Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB)
  Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI)
C
Further information     Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO)
can be found on our website    Sustainable Finance Geneva (SFG)
  Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF)
    Task Force on Nature-Related Financial Disclosures 
(TNFD)
  UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative 
(UNEP FI)
  UN Global Compact
  Wolfsberg Group
C
Further information can be found online at:
credit-suisse.com/agreements
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 102
Disclosure Frameworks
GRI Standards WEF Stakeholder Capitalism 
Metrics
Our reporting on sustainability addresses the growing 
importance of ESG disclosure and the increasing stake-
holder demand for relevant information in this area.  In early 2021, Credit Suisse announced its commitment 
to the “Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics” released by the 
The Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 has been  International Business Council (IBC) of the World Eco-
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: “Core  nomic Forum (WEF) in 2020. The IBC published this set 
option”. The GRI Standards provide a framework for  of universal, material ESG metrics and recommended 
voluntary sustainability reporting, helping to increase  disclosures in September 2020, seeking to improve the 
transparency and comparability. In line with the GRI  ways that companies measure and demonstrate their 
Standards, Credit Suisse regularly conducts a materiality  contributions towards sustainable development. Building 
assessment to better understand the views and interests  upon our existing disclosure efforts, we will consider how 
of our stakeholders. This report focuses on issues  to best reflect the WEF core metrics in our future 
classified as particularly important in the context of the  reporting. 
materiality assessment (see p. 92). Selected indicators in 
our GRI-based disclosure on sustainability are externally 
assessed and independently assured by SGS. Our 
Sustainability Report 2020 is reported to the SIX Swiss 
Exchange in accordance with the opting-in regulation for 
companies issuing sustainability reports.
C
Further details regarding our GRI indicators and 
the external review are available at:
credit-suisse.com/gri
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 103
Disclosure Frameworks
TCFD Metrics and targets
Exposure to carbon-related assets and climate-sensitive sectors
Purpose: To provide transparency on  Direction: Credit Suisse is working with 
financing to climate-sensitive sectors.  clients to support their transition to  Key Takeaways Technical Corner
low-carbon and climate-resilient business 
Coverage: Credit Suisse’s corporate  models. As a result, exposure to    Credit Suisse’s total exposure to car-   The focus is to capture how much 
finance Credit Suisse provides to climate 
lending exposure, including mortgages,  carbon-related businesses is expected to  bon-related sectors is approximately 
sensitive businesses, hence gross 
has been subject to a review (approx.  decrease over the years, albeit not  4.5% of the total exposure2. Corporate 
exposure is more appropriate than net 
$473 billion). The exposure view is based  necessarily in a linear fashion. The  lending to climate-sensitive sectors is 
exposure. We take into account both 
on the internal metric “Potential Expo- quantum of reduction on a yearly basis will  approximately 17.6% of the total 
drawn and committed components. 
sure”, not reflecting collateral and other  depend on factors such as market drivers,  exposure, excluding mortgage related 
credit risk mitigation.  developing science, client engagement  lending, or 52.4% including mortgage    Carbon-related and climate-sensitive 
and credit risk considerations.     related lending.  sectors are allocated based on client 
  Transition: Reposition corporate oil &  industry codes used in internal credit risk 
gas and coal business by reducing  management processes (NAIC/NOGA).
   Potential     
Sector   Exposure [mn $]   %  exposure to traditional business. Utilize 
Oil & Gas   13,073   2.8%  our broader Client Energy Transition    Due to the nature of the product, 
mortgages are assumed as climate 
Frameworks to guide engagement with 
Metals and Mining (Coal)   1,049   0.2% 
sensitive and represented alongside.
high carbon-emitting industries.
Power Generation (Fossil Fuels)   7,279   1.5% 
Metals and Mining (ex. Coal)   4,865   1.0%    Restrictions: No lending or capital    Exposure is captured via an internal risk 
markets underwriting to any company  management metric6 as opposed to an 
Industrials – Cement or Concrete   620   0.1% 
deriving more than 25% of its revenue  accounting metric; this choice is in line 
Industrials – Chemicals   12,998   2.7%  from thermal coal extraction3,4 or coal  with TCFD recommendations.
Industrials – Machinery and Equipment Manufacturing   9,799   2.1%  power3,5. No financing related to offshore 
Industrials – Textiles & Clothing   401   0.1%  and onshore oil & gas projects in the 
Transportation (incl. Automotive)   23,615   5.0%  Arctic region.
Agriculture   645   0.1%  1 Including wholesale of solid, liquid and gaseous fuels and related products     
2 Coverage was defined based on the first 3 sectors in the table. Please note that Commodity Trade Finance business includes, 
Non-power generating utilities – sewage, waste management   441   0.1%  amongst others, activities which can be considered carbon-related. We are considering possible approaches on allocating these 
Commodity Trade Finance 1  8,212   1.7%  activities accordingly for the purpose of future disclosures
3 Direct lending 
Mortgage Related Lending   164,736   34.8%  4  Unless such transaction is to help the company specifically transition and the use of proceeds are tied to such transition 
strategies aligned with the Paris Agreement; for greater certainty, these exclusions do not apply to metallurgical coal
Other Lending   225,147   47.6%  5  Unless company can demonstrate decreasing share of coal in generation portfolio consistent with our Energy Transition 
T otal Potential Exposure   472,879   100.0%  Framework or such transaction is to help the company specifically transition and the use of proceeds are tied to such transition 
strategies (and will continue our policy of not financing the development of new coal-fired power plants)
6 The metric includes both on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet; no hedging assumed
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 104
Disclosure Frameworks
Potential Exposure & Net Loans
Potential exposure is an internal credit exposure measurement metric used for    Potential exposure from the Group’s lending activities do not reflect collateral and other 
credit risk management purposes.  risk mitigations. 
  It provides a conservative estimate of the amount of exposure the Group may have to    The Group’s Net Loans comprise loans held-to-maturity, which are carried at amortized 
counterparties over time that could be lost in the event of a default of the client or  cost less an allowance for credit losses. In addition, the Group elects certain of 
counterparty. these loans held-to-maturity to fair value under the fair value option. Refer to ‘Loans’ in 
‘Note 1 – Summary of significant accounting policies’ and ‘Note 19 – Loans’ and 
  With respect to loans, the potential exposure reflects the aggregate of both drawn  ‘Note 20 – Financial instruments measured at amortized cost and credit losses’ in 
exposures and undrawn commitments. This assumes that all available credit lines get  ‘VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group’ of the 2020 Annual 
drawn at the same time to the maximum contractual amount, representing the worst  Report.
case gross amount. 
in CHF billion
500
400
300
200
100
0
Total Potential Exposure Net Loans
 Commitments (incl. off-balance sheet exporuse)   Allowances for Credit Losses 
 Net Drawn Amount  Net Loans
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 105
Disclosure Frameworks
Client Energy Transition Framework1 (CETF)
Client Characterisation2
Purpose: To support the transition of our  Direction: Financing to clients with the 
clients toward Paris alignment. lowest categorization in terms of transition  Key Takeaways Technical Corner
Coverage: Oil & Gas, Coal Mining and  readiness, i.e., to “Unaware” clients, will 
Utilities/Power Generation clients, covering  be phased out over time. Furthermore, we    90% of clients in the Carbon Intensive    Financing of clients with the lowest 
sectors have been categorized within the  categorization in terms of transition 
a $20.6 billion lending portfolio. Internal  expect an increasing number of clients to 
CETF framework; of which, 86% of the  readiness, i.e., of “Unaware” clients, will 
criteria, including a revenue-based threshold,  move from “Aware” to other categories, as 
categorized clients are considered as  be phased out over time.
are applied in order to define in-scope  they progress in their transition planning. 
Strategic, Aware and Aligned (78% of 
clients. As an example, companies with pure  The main goal of Client Energy Transition    The results are computed based on the 
the entire client population). 
downstream operations (such as operating  Framework (CETF) is to encourage our  gross exposure of drawn and committed 
petrol stations) are out of scope. We use an  clients to transition to low-carbon    The development and roll-out of client  amounts. 
exposure weighted measure to show the  activities. energy transition frameworks for addi-
portfolio split across clients categories.  tional industry sectors is ongoing, with 
internal plans to extend coverage in 
2021 to Shipping, Aviation, Commodities 
Trade Finance, Manufacturing, Construc-
10%
Not Categorized 17% tion / Real Estate, Agriculture & 
Aligned Forestry.
12%   Over 1,300 employees were trained on 
Unaware sustainability risk in specific industry 
sectors, or on the application of the 
CETF for in-scope sectors.
USD 20.6 billion
33%
Strategic
28% 1 Incl. oil and gas, coal mining and utilities / power generation: fossil fuel based
Aware 2 Unaware – Little to no evidence of steps towards transition; Aware – Identifies and manages risks; Strategic – Transition 
strategy in place; Aligned – Overall business is aligned to the Paris Agreement; Out of Scope –  counterparty does not 
need to be tested against CETF criteria and only subject to usual risk management controls
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 106
Disclosure Frameworks
Top 50 Loans to Upstream Fossil Fuel Producers 
Weighted Average Carbon Intensity1
Purpose: To support transition towards  Direction: We expect the weighted 
lower carbon emissions and net zero  average carbon intensity metric to  Key Takeaways Technical Corner
2050 by pivoting financing towards  decrease as we progressively reduce 
lower-carbon fuels.  coal-related financing. This expected    The metric shows the amount of CO     Data gathering poses a key challenge. 
2
direction is consistent with our commitment  tons attributable to USD 1 million of  We have used data collected through 
Coverage: Top 50 lending financing,  to develop science-based targets in 2021  revenues of companies financed by  public information (e.g. annual reports) 
ranked by exposure gross of credit  and 2022 for achieving net zero emissions  Credit Suisse in the sub-sector of  and client questionnaires. 
mitigation (USD 6 billion), of which 34  from our operations, supply chain and  upstream fossil fuel producers.   Data coverage for emissions Scope 1&2 
counterparties with full data available  financing activities no later than 2050, with    This intensity metric builds on the TCFD  is 79% of the financing provided to the 
(USD 4.7 billion), out of 242 counterpar- intermediate emissions targets to be set  recommendations. It applies an expo- top 50 clients, mainly based on data 
ties (USD 14.1 billion) in Oil & Gas and  for 2030. The Client Energy Transition  sure-based weighted average across the  publicly disclosed by clients. In addition, 
Coal sectors (incl. downstream). Framework also supports the direction  top 50 names to provide a portfolio-level  the revenues data coverage is 98%.
toward low-carbon financing.  perspective.    For Scope 3, where a production based 
  We have decided to include Scope 3  proxy is used, fossil fuel production data 
emissions covering the use of fossil fuel  coverage is 94% of top 50 names, 
tons CO/million$
2 produced, which is key for this sub-sec- covering 98% of the financing provided.
12,000
Scope 1 covers direct emissions   tor, in order to drive our financing toward    The data is largely based on the 2019 
less carbon intensive products. reporting3.
Scope 2 covers indirect emis- 10,000
sions from the generation of    Comparability is limited across peer    Scope 3 emissions, where not available, 
purchased electricity, steam, 
banks, as Weighted Average Carbon  have been estimated applying conversion 
heating and cooling consumed   8000
Intensity has not been widely disclosed  factors on production volume, following 
Scope 3 covers supply chain and 
to date. the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
“end product emissions”²  10,257
6000
   We expect the metric to decrease  Change (IPCC) approach.
through time, as we reduce financing    We expect portfolio coverage to increase 
4000 toward coal production.  through time. We expect clients in this 
sector to refine and expand emission 
2000 Weighted Average Across Top 50 exposures reporting coverage, in turn enabling our 
1 WACI: ∑( Total TEoxpp5o0s uErxeposure * SCcoomppea 1n&y 2R&e3ve CnuOe2se ) transition journey further. 
872 2 End use scope 3 emissions refer to the scope 1 and scope 2 
0
emissions of end users. End users include both consumers and 
 Scope 1&2    Scope 3 business customers that use final products; e.g. emissions 
related to the electricity production based on the produced coal.
3 A single case of a data point from 2018
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 107
Disclosure Frameworks
Top 50 Loans to Upstream Fossil Fuel Producers
Fossil Fuel Production Mix
Purpose: To support transition toward  (USD 4.7 billion), out of 242 counterpar-
lower carbon emissions and net zero  ties (USD 14.1 billion) in Oil & Gas and  Key Takeaways Technical Corner
2050 by pivoting financing toward  Coal sectors (incl. downstream).
lower-carbon fuels. Reduction of overall  Direction: Our Fossil Fuel Production Mix    Credit Suisse’s mix of fossil fuel financed    The NGFS Orderly transition scenario is 
in relation to top 50 loans in this  taken as reference in order to describe a 
financing of upstream fossil fuel  is ahead of the NGFS mix trajectory to 
sub-sector is ahead of the overall  reference trajectory toward Paris 
production is not reflected in this  reduce coal-related financing. Although 
alignment trajectory set by NGFS. alignment. This trajectory may change as 
production mix metric, however it is  this is an encouraging starting point, we 
science evolves, potentially moving 
illustrated by Network for Greening the  recognize that absolute volumes will also    NGFS scenarios require absolute 
toward a steeper reduction to protect the 
Financial System (NGFS) scenarios¹.    need to decrease significantly to reach a  amounts of financing to fossil fuel 
planet from 1.5 degree warming.
Coverage: Top 50 lending financing,  “net zero” alignment. Targets toward “net  production to decrease from a total of 
ranked by exposure gross of credit  zero” will be set by 2022 as announced in  490 EJ2 in 2020 to 312 EJ in 2050 in    In the chart, we have set 100% for 
mitigation (USD 6 billion), of which 34  the context of the Science Based Targets  order to align to the Paris agreement. NGFS scenarios in relation to 490 EJ in 
counterparties with full data available  initiative.  2020 as an anchor to show relative 
  Constraints on both absolute financing 
reductions through the years to 2050.
and composition mix will be key to 
effectively drive the transition.   We are developing targets as part of the 
550000
7% overall Science Based Targets initiative 
within Credit Suisse, which will allow for 
31%
440000 13% a more granular description of the future 
4% Credit Suisse path.
53% 4%
330000   The data is based on the 2019 reporting. 
48%
55%
39%
55%
220000
110000 40% 38%
31% 41%
41%
00
Credit Suisse NGFS 2020 NGFS 2030 NGFS 2040 NGFS 2050
1 See Network for Greening the Financial System, NGFS Climate Scenarios for central banks and supervisors, June 2020
 Gas Primary Energy     Oil Primary Energy     Coal Primary Energy 2 EJ – Exajoule, which equals 1018 Joules    
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 108
Disclosure Frameworks
Flooding Risk – Real Estate Financing
Number and value of mortgage loans by flood zone
Purpose: In line with SASB recommen- of Credit Suisse’s direct mortgage related 
dations, we believe that disclosure of  lending portfolio, which is a large subset  Key Takeaways Technical Corner
climate change into lending analysis will  of the wider Mortgage Related Lending 
allow shareholders to determine which  CHF 165 billion portfolio credit exposure.   Credit Suisse’s financed mortgages are    Mortgages financed by Credit Suisse 
expected to be largely protected from  have been linked to externally developed 
mortgage finance firms are best 
flooding risk, as a result of geographical  Flooding Risk maps.  
positioned to protect value in light of  Direction: Largely dependent on how 
location in Switzerland and UK.
environmental risks. flooding risk probability maps evolve as    Where possible, data was collected at 
physical risk becomes more prominent in    The majority of the UK mortgages relate  the street level for the Swiss located 
Coverage: Swiss and UK real estate  a warming planet. Further developments  to properties in Central London, where a  properties, while where the data was not 
financed portfolio. Swiss: 186k properties  in the measurement of physical risk are  strong flooding protection system is in  available, postal code was used as a 
across over 3k postal codes with total  expected. This would include better data  place; as a result, Credit Suisse’s  proxy. 
exposure of CHF 139 billion. UK: 359  granularity, as well as the scope of  financed real estate displays lower 
properties with total exposure of GBP 3.7  physical risks.  flooding risk than UK real estate in    Postal code level data is used for the UK 
portfolio.
billion. The scope covers the vast majority  general.
  Postal code level data might lead to 
  According to the Notre Dame Global 
Flood Risk Probability per Gross Exposure (UK) Flood Risk Probability per Count (UK) potential inaccuracies. 
Adaptation Initiative (2018), Switzerland 
L7ow M31edium Low Medium and UK have low vulnerability to physical    We are in the process of further refining 
Very Low No Data 1 2 risk, respectively 2nd and 8th safest  measurement of flooding risk in collabo-
3,409 GBP  210 V3e5r9y Low #372 N10o Data countries in the world.  ration with external partners. 
3,656 million
Flood Risk Probability per Gross Exposure (CH) Flood Risk Probability per Count (CH)
No Data Medium No Data Medium
293 10,115 312 14,930
Very Low Low Very Low Low
CHF 
123,110 5,709 163,084 7,774 Risk of Flood categories:
139,227 #186,100  High – each year, there is a chance of flooding greater than 1 in 30 (3.3%)
 Medium – each year, chance of flooding between 1 in 31 (3.3%) and 1 in 100 (1%)
 Low – each year, chance of flooding between 1 in 101 (1%) and 1 in 1000 (0.1%)
 Very Low – each year, chance of flooding of less than 1 in 1001 (0.1%)
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 109
Disclosure Frameworks
Climate-related opportunities
   
# Type Climate-Related Opportunity* # Type Climate-Related Opportunity Horizon*
         
Ɓ Ɓ Ɓ  Ɓ Ɓ
1 Markets Financing: Equity issuance (e.g., through sustainable capital markets transactions, private placements, or  1 Resource  Office Efficiency: Improve energy efficiency of current office space and capture cost-savings from  ST-LT
SPACs) aligned with the Credit Suisse Sustainable Activities Framework as well as M&A sell-side and buy-side  Efficiency optimization programs and investments in energy-efficient technologies and energy storage.
   
advisory to support the transition of our clients to reach a stronger ESG performance. Ɓ  Ɓ Ɓ
      2 Resource  Office Space Optimization: Optimize office occupancy rate by rationalizing down office space in a 
Ɓ Ɓ
2 Markets Financing: Issue green debt financing instruments (private or public debt, structured notes) to fund projects or  Efficiency hybrid working model that is flexible to allow for increased levels of home working.
   
assets that mitigate climate change by reducing emissions, protect ecosystems, or otherwise have a positive  Ɓ  Ɓ Ɓ
environmental impact. 3 Resource  Office Lease: Develop sustainability criteria for office selection and green leasing policies for  ST-LT
      Efficiency landlord-controlled spaces to create incentives for efficiency gains.
Ɓ Ɓ    
3 Markets Financing: Lending to fund green or climate-related projects (e.g., renewable energy infrastructure, low-carbon  Ɓ  Ɓ Ɓ
public transportation) or technologies that are expected to play an important role in decarbonizing the economy  4 Resource  Data Center Efficiency: Improve utilization and energy efficiency of in-house data centers and  ST-LT
(“green loans”) or offering sustainability-linked loans whose pricing is based on the borrower’s ESG score or  Efficiency capture cost-savings from optimization programs and investments in energy-efficient technologies 
4  ƁM arkets ƁoF vinearanlcl isnugs: tEaivnaalubailittey  naechwie pvreompeerntyts i.nvestments also from an ESG perspective with respect to the impact on a   5 ƁR esource  ƁaD nadta e Cneerngtye rs Otopratigmei.zation: Source third-party suppliers and cloud providers with improved energy  ƁST-LT
property’s current and potential future value as it relates to energy efficiency, public transport connectivity, use of    Efficiency a nd carbon performance aligned with industry best practice.
    s ustainable materials, tenant wellbeing, and community engagement. 6 ƁE nergy  ƁRenewable Electricity Supply: Source 100% of electricity from renewable sources for all data  ƁMT
5 ƁProducts  ƁInvesting: Actively exercise the bank’s rights as shareholder in companies or on behalf of clients by voting at    Source c enters and office space.
and  shareholder meetings and actively engaging with investee companies in order to preserve long-term shareholder  7 ƁE nergy  ƁTransition Heating to Zero Carbon: Replace fossil fuel heating with efficient electrical systems using ƁMT-LT
6  ƁSP erorvdiuccetss  ƁvI navlueest,i negn:h Ianntceeg rlaotneg e-tnevrimro nremtuernntas,l,  asnodc iianlf,l uaenndc geo cvoemrnpaannciee s(’E ESSGG)  cpreiterfroiarm aalonncge .the investment process   8 ƁSE noeurrgcey  ƁaO irn -ssoiuterc aen odr  ogffr-osuitned  gseonuercraet ihoena: tO pnu-msiptes  apnodw oefrfe-ds itbey  greenneewraatibolne  feoler cotfrfiicciety .buildings and parking lots ƁMT-LT
and  consequently and broad-based with the objective to achieve an improved risk-return profile in clients’ investment  Source (e.g., solar panels).
  S ervices  p ortfolios and make portfolios more resilient against financial market shocks resulting from climate risks.   Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Ɓ Ɓ 9 Energy  Vehicles: Shift leased, owned, and third-party fleets to low carbon vehicles, install on-site charging  MT-LT
7 Products  Investing: Develop investment strategies premised on the view that a rapid shift in public sentiment and  Source infrastructure for electric vehicles and introduce employee schemes for electric vehicles or low 
and  policy-making regarding the climate may lead to a large variation in the fortunes of companies that stand to gain  carbon alternatives.
  S ervices f rom the resulting transition, and those that will lose.   Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Ɓ Ɓ 10 Resilience Procurement: Engage suppliers across our supply chain to improve carbon performance and  ST-LT
8 Products  Investing: Expand the product offering to investment strategies that are aligned with the Credit Suisse ESG  introduce low carbon policies.
and  Investment Framework, which allows clients to make a positive impact on society and the environment without    Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Services sacrificing returns. 11 Resilience Sourcing: Increase supply of renewable energy to offices and data centers and use electrical  MT-LT
     
Ɓ Ɓ storage where possible.
9 Products  Advise: Provide financial advice and develop financing strategies that enable existing and prospective clients to    Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
and  move towards a low-carbon economy and reach a stronger ESG performance.  12 Resilience Employee Engagement: Encourage employees to take climate actions in office, expand employee  MT-LT
Services training and benefit programs that enable employees to calculate their own carbon footprint, and 
     
Ɓ Ɓ reduce carbon emissions through a range of actions that include renewable energy, electric 
10 Products  Advise: Provide investment advice to enable existing and prospective clients to better understand and manage  vehicles, and more efficient modes of travel.
and  their exposure to climate risks and enhance their resilience to both physical and transition risk.   Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Services 13 Resilience Data and Management Information:  Develop management information dashboards structured on  MT-LT
   
Ɓ  Ɓ Ɓ climate-impact data, to enable decision-making processes.
   
Ɓ  Ɓ Ɓ
We believe that climate transition opportunities are material in the short term, and will increase in prominence even further in the   
medium-long term. In addition, we expect the potential financial impact of these opportunities will be as follows: *ST = Short-term, MT = Medium-term, LT = Long-term
Ɓ Increased revenues from financing or investments in low-carbon industries
Ɓ Better competitive position to reflect shifting stakeholder demand We believe that the opportunities in resource efficiency, energy source, and resilience have the potential to deliver financial and 
Ɓ Increased portfolio diversification of financial assets business benefit through:
Ɓ Increased revenue through growth in financing activities to support the energy transition Ɓ Cost savings from energy efficiency gains and reduced purchase of carbon removals to achieve net zero
Ɓ Increased revenue through demand for lower emission products or services Ɓ Improved business continuity through reducing risk of power outages in operations and in the supply chain
Ɓ Increased revenue through new solutions Ɓ Reduced future costs of meeting new carbon regulations and potential carbon taxes
Ɓ Improved competitive position through delivering better carbon reduction performance relative to peers
Ɓ Talent retention and acquisition as CS ‘walks the talk’ in reducing its own carbon footprint, and demonstrating its performance as a 
sustainability leader
Ɓ Market-leading branding & reputation through achieving carbon reduction targets across financing, operations and supply chain
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 110
Disclosure Frameworks
Sustainability Accounting  Standards Board (SASB) 
In its Sustainability Report 2020, Credit Suisse is for the first time reporting pursuant to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards. The SASB Standards are 
designed to identify a set of sustainability issues most likely to impact the operating performance or financial condition of a company and to enable communications on corporate perfor-
mance on industry-level sustainability issues which is decision-useful to investors. Our SASB index can be found below.  
SASB Index
Our disclosure relates to the three SASB industry standards within the “Financials” sector that we consider most relevant to our business: Asset Management and Custody Activities, 
Commercial Banks and Investment Banking and Brokerage. We do not currently disclose all metrics included in these standards and we anticipate enhancing our SASB reporting over time. 
In addition, given the scope, nature and geographical presence of our business we have sought to disclose against those SASB metrics that we feel will be most relevant to provide insight 
and transparency and left out metrics not deemed applicable to our overall business model. Unless otherwise noted, all data reported is as of and for the year ended December 31, 2020 
and descriptions apply to Credit Suisse Group AG, and not just to the businesses or segments relevant to the particular industry.
Disclosures Included in Multiple Sector Standards
Topic Code Accounting Metric Category & Unit of measure References / Comments
 
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Employee  FN-IB-330a.1  Percentage of gender and racial/ Quantitative  For diversity representation, please refer to “People” section in the Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020: “Committed to equality, 
FN-AC-330a.1 ethnic group representation for (1)  Percentage (%) diversity and inclusion” / “Employee facts and figures” (pages 63 to 66).
 Diversity &  executive management, (2) 
 Inclusion non-executive management, (3)  As part of our commitment to advancing diversity, inclusion, equity and belonging at the firm, we have published our diversity strategy, 
professionals, and (4) all other  representation targets, and key initiatives in the Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020, see “People” section: “Committed to equality, 
employees diversity and inclusion” / “Our approach and strategy” / “Our key initiatives” (pages 63 to 65). 
 
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Business   FN-IB-510a.1  Total amount of monetary losses as  Quantitative  Please refer to the 2020 Annual Report, “Note 40 – Litigation” in “VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group” (pages 
FN-AC-510a.1  a result of legal proceedings  Reporting currency 400 to 411) for information on the firm’s aggregate litigation provisions and material legal proceedings.
Ethics FN-CB-510a.1 associated with fraud, insider 
trading, anti-trust, anti-competitive 
behavior, market manipulation, 
malpractice, or other related 
financial industry laws or regulations
   
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
  FN-IB-510a.2  Description of whistleblower policies  Discussion and Analysis Details around the whistleblowing policies and procedures are included in the Sustainability Report 2020 chapter “Organization and 
FN-AC-510a.2  and procedures Governance”, sections “Compliance” (page 26) and “Escalation and whistleblowing” (page 29). 
FN-CB-510a.2
Our escalation process is also available on the internet
 
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 111
Disclosure Frameworks
Disclosures Included in Multiple Sector Standards
Topic Code Accounting Metric Category & Unit of measure References / Comments
 
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Systemic Risk  FN-IB-550a.1  Global Systemically Important Bank  Quantitative  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s assessment methodology for global systemically important banks (G-SIB) requires such 
FN-CB-550a.1 (G-SIB) score, by category Basis points (bps) banks to report on a prescribed set of indicators used by national supervisory authorities to assess their systemic importance. 
Management Credit Suisse Group, continued to be classified as a G-SIB in 2020, is required to disclose the twelve indicators under the five categories, 
on an annual basis. These indicators are used for the score calculation applied in determining the G-SIB add-on charge to the CET1 
capital ratio requirements. Credit Suisse Group provides data for twelve indicators under the five categories, these include i) cross-jurisdic-
tional activity ii) size iii) interconnectedness iv) substitutability/financial institution infrastructure and v) complexity to FINMA on an annual 
basis. The data submitted to FINMA on G-SIB indicators and categories is disclosed on the Credit-Suisse investor relations webpage 
(please refer to G-SIB indicators). 
The G-SIB add-on charge is disclosed in the 2020 Annual Report “Capital Management” in “III – Treasury, Risk, Balance Sheet and 
Off-balance sheet” (pages 122 to 125). BCBS requirements are minimum requirements that regulators must put in place in their 
respective jurisdictions. As the Swiss capital requirements for systemically important banks go beyond the BCBS requirements, including 
the G-SIB buffer, Credit Suisse Group is not affected by these additional G-SIB requirements.
   
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
  FN-IB-550a.2  Description of approach to  Discussion and Analysis Please refer to the 2020 Annual Report, “Evaluation and management of capital risk” in “III – Treasury, Risk, Balance Sheet and 
FN-CB-550a.2 incorporation of results of mandatory  Off-balance sheet” (pages 148 to 149).
and voluntary stress tests into capital 
adequacy planning, long-term 
corporate strategy, and other 
business activities
 
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Asset Management and Custody Activities (FN-AC)
Topic Code Accounting Metric Category & Unit of measure References / Comments
 
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Transparent  FN-AC-270a.2 Total amount of monetary losses as  Quantitative   Please refer to the 2020 Annual Report, “Note 40 – Litigation” in “VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group” 
a result of legal proceedings  Reporting currency (pages 400 to 411) for information on the firm’s aggregate litigation provisions and material legal proceedings.
Information &   associated with marketing and 
Fair Advice for  communication of financial product 
related information to new and 
Customers returning customers
   
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
  FN-AC-270a.3 Description of approach to informing  Discussion and Analysis Please refer to the Sustainability Report 2020, chapter “Organization and Governance”, section “Consumer and investor protection”: 
customers about products and  High-quality service and advice (page 29) and “A high level of investor protection” (pages 29 to 30).
services
 
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 112
Disclosure Frameworks
Asset Management and Custody Activities (FN-AC)
Topic Code Accounting Metric Category & Unit of measure References / Comments
 
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Incorporation of  FN-AC-410a.1 Amount of assets under manage- Quantitative  At year-end 2020, CS’s sustainable assets under management (AuM) was CHF 108 billion, of which over CHF 16 billion was thematic 
ment, by asset class, that employ   Reporting currency and impact investment AuM (Includes only AuM balances from managed solutions that to date have been mapped to a sustainability rating 
ESG Factors in  (1) integration of  environmental,  of 2 and higher, based on our internal ESG framework scale (0-5). See table Credit Suisse Sustainable Investment Framework on 
Investment  social, and governance (ESG)  page 80 of the Sustainability Report 2020).
issues, (2) sustainability themed 
Management &  investing, and (3) screening
Advisory
   
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
  FN-AC-410a.2 Description of approach to  Discussion and Analysis  Please refer to the Credit Suisse Sustainable Investment Framework.
incorporation of environmental, 
social, and governance (ESG) 
factors in investment and/or wealth 
management processes and 
strategies
   
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
  FN-AC-410a.3 Description of proxy voting and  Discussion and Analysis Please refer to the Credit Suisse Engagement Policy Statement and Active Ownership Report.
investee engagement policies and 
procedures
 
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Systemic Risk  FN-AC-550a.1 Percentage of open-end fund assets  Quantitative  Following dialogue with SASB we understand this metric to be proposed for removal, and we will await further clarification from SASB to 
under management by category of  Percentage (%) guide our disclosure for 2021.
Management liquidity classification
   
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
  FN-AC-550a.2 Description of approach to  Discussion and Analysis Credit Suisse has a formal fund liquidity risk management framework and policy. We define portfolio liquidity risk as the risk that a fund is 
incorporation of liquidity risk  not able to meet redemption requests or cannot meet its liabilities without materially affecting the fund’s net asset value (NAV) per share. 
management programs into portfolio  Liquidity risk management is integrated into our portfolio investment process (1st Line) and fiduciary risk management oversight program 
strategy and redemption risk  (2nd Line). 
management
Our assessment commences prior to fund launch and during the product structuring phase to ensure underlying fund assets and liabilities 
(redemption terms and financing) are feasible/practical vs. offered fund liquidity terms. Portfolio construction, execution process, portfolio 
diversification, and asset allocation to liquid assets and cash are also evaluated including available credit facilities. 
Liquidity risk indicators including holdings, subscription and redemptions, investor type and concentrations, credit facility usage, and 
liquidity stress testing (e.g. material redemption withdrawals, etc.) are monitored by both portfolio management and independently by 
fiduciary risk management on an ongoing basis. This includes having a liquidity crisis playbook and protocol for escalation to senior 
management.
   
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
  FN-AC-550a.3 Total exposure to securities  Quantitative  Please refer to the 2020 Annual Report, “Note 15 – Securities borrowed, lent and subject to repurchase agreements” in “VI – Consoli-
financing transactions Reporting currency dated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group” (page 300) and “Note 34 – Guarantees and commitments” in “VI – Consolidated 
financial statements – Credit Suisse Group” (pages 357 to 360).
   
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
  FN-AC-550a.4 Net exposure to written credit  Quantitative   Please refer to the 2020 Annual Report, “Fair value of derivative instruments” and “Credit derivatives” in “Note 33 Derivatives and hedging 
derivatives Reporting currency activities” in “VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group” (pages 351 to 357). 
 
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 113
Disclosure Frameworks
Investment Banking & Brokerage (FN-IB)
Topic Code Accounting Metric Category & Unit of measure References / Comments
 
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Incorporation of  FN-IB-410a.1 Revenue from (1) underwriting, (2)  Quantitative Reporting  Please refer to the Sustainability Report 2020, chapter “Sustainable Products and Services”:
advisory, and (3) securitization  currency  Bridging the financial services divide (p. 81)
Environmental,  transactions incorporating integration   Expanding our product reach (p. 82)
Social, and  of environmental, social, and   Safeguarding biodiversity and natural capital (p. 82)
governance (ESG) factors, by   Climate-aware solutions for wealth management clients (p. 83)
Governance  industry  The green and sustainable debt capital markets (p. 83)
( ESG) Factors     Accelerating renewable energy and other sustainable solutions (p. 84)
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
i n Investment  FN-IB-410a.2 (1) Number and (2) total value of  Quantitative  Please refer to the Sustainability Report 2020, sections:
Banking &  investments and loans incorporating  Number,    Bridging the financial services divide (p. 81)
integration of environmental, social,  Reporting currency  Expanding our product reach (p. 82)
Brokerage  and governance (ESG) factors, by   Safeguarding biodiversity and natural capital (p. 82)
Activities industry  Climate-aware solutions for wealth management clients (p. 83)
 The green and sustainable debt capital markets (p. 83)
     Accelerating renewable energy and other sustainable solutions (p. 84)
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
  FN-IB-410a.3 Description of approach to  Discussion and Analysis Please refer to the Sustainability Report 2020, chapter “Organization and Governance”, section “Sustainability Risk Review” (pages 19 
incorporation of environmental,  to 21), in particular the box “Transactions assessed on the basis of potential environmental and social risks in 2020” (page 24). 
social, and governance (ESG) 
factors in investment banking and 
brokerage activities
 
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Professional  FN-IB-510b.3 Total amount of monetary losses as  Quantitative  Please refer to the 2020 Annual Report, “Note 40 – Litigation” in “VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group” (pages 
a result of legal proceedings  Reporting currency 400 to 411) for information on the firm’s aggregate litigation provisions and material legal proceedings.
Integrity associated with professional 
integrity, including duty of care
   
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
  FN-IB-510b.4 Description of approach to ensuring  Discussion and Analysis For details please refer to our Code of Conduct (available online: https://codeofconduct.credit-suisse.com/en/coc/report/code-of-conduct) 
professional integrity, including duty  and our Sustainability Report 2020, “Organization and Governance” chapter, section “Professional integrity” (pages 28 to 29).
of care
 
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Employee  FN-IB-550b.1 Percentage of total remuneration  Quantitative   Of the CHF 1,607 million total compensation awarded to Material Risk Takers and Controllers (MRTCs) for 2020, 58% was in the form of 
that is variable for Material Risk  Percentage (%) variable compensation. The definition of MRTC as used by Credit Suisse Group includes employees identified as taking or controlling 
 Incentives & Risk  Takers (MRTs) material risks on behalf of the Group, as prescribed by EU/UK regulators. Please refer to the 2020 Annual Report, “Group compensation 
Taking framework” in “V – Compensation” (pages 251 to 254) for further information.
   
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
  FN-IB-550b.2 Percentage of variable remuneration  Quantitative   In 2020, 75% of variable compensation awarded to MRTCs was subject to malus. Please refer to the 2020 Annual Report, “Group 
of Material Risk Takers (MRTs) to  Percentage (%) compensation” in “V – Compensation” (pages 246 to 254) for further information on malus and clawback provisions and changes to 
which malus or clawback provisions  outstanding deferred compensation awards for MRTC, as well as risk considerations in determining variable compensation pools.
were applied
   
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
  FN-IB-550b.3 Discussion of policies around  Discussion and Analysis Please refer to the 2020 Annual Report, “Qualitative disclosures of valuation techniques” in “Note 36 – Financial Instruments” in “VI – 
supervision, control, and validation  Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group” (page 372).
of traders’ pricing of Level 3 assets 
and liabilities
 
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 114
Disclosure Frameworks
Commercial Banks (FN-CB)
Topic Code Accounting Metric Category & Unit of measure References / Comments
 
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Data Security FN-CB-230a.1 (1) Number of data breaches, (2)  Quantitative   Please refer to the Sustainability Report 2020, “Organization and Governance” chapter, section “Privacy and data security” (page 30).
percentage involving personally  Number, Percentage (%)
identifiable information (PII), (3) 
number of account holders affected
   
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
  FN-CB-230a.2 Description of approach to  Discussion and Analysis Consistent with industry standards such as the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework, the 
identifying and addressing data  International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 27002 (17799), and the Control Objectives for Information and related Technology 
security risks (COBIT), Credit Suisse’s information security program leverages administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect the 
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information. Such safeguards are designed to: 
 Provide for the security and confidentiality of client, business proprietary, and personal information 
 Protect against anticipated threats to the security or integrity of such information 
 Protect against unauthorized access or use of information that could result in harm to any client 
Policies and standards: 
Credit Suisse’s information security framework of policies and standards aligns to the NIST Cybersecurity Framework and the ISO 27002. 
Credit Suisse has a Global Information Security Policy mandating global information security controls across the organization. Policies and 
standards cover, but are not limited to: information security management; information ownership, classification and handling; end user 
computing; and IT acceptable use. These policies and standards establish individual controls for user access management (including 
access control and passwords), privileged access management, change management, security incidents, data handling and destruction, 
and other security measures. 
Data loss prevention: 
Credit Suisse has implemented a diverse set of layered controls (technical, physical, and administrative) to restrict information leakage. 
Credit Suisse policies define requirements for information handling including classification and ownership, access control requirements 
based on need-to-know principle, and acceptable use of systems. Technical controls include, but are not limited to: data leakage 
prevention systems, information rights management, website and email content control systems, restricted and strictly controlled operating 
systems, application environments and hardware controls such as removable storage blocking and remote printing prevention. Information 
rights management tools enable the enforcement of classification of documents through warning and blocking mechanisms when emails 
are sent externally, and for encrypting attachments. Monitoring procedures are in place for the surveillance of email communications.
 
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Financial  Inclusion FN-CB-240a.4 Number of participants in financial  Quantitative  Please refer to the Sustainability Report 2020, “Purpose” chapter, “Commitments to our communities” section: boxes on “Financial 
literacy initiatives for unbanked,  Number education” and “Financial inclusion” (pages 44 to 45):
& Capacity  underbanked, or underserved   Financial Education Initiative (FEI) – selected figures 2014 – 2020
Building customers  Financial Inclusion Initiative (FII) – selected figures for 2020
 
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Incorporation of  FN-CB-410a.1 Commercial and industrial credit  Quantitative  Please refer to: 
exposure, by industry Reporting currency  Form 20F 2020, “Loan portfolio by industry” in “X-Additional Information” (page 565)
Environmental,    Pillar 3 and regulatory disclosures report, “CR4 Credit Risk exposure and CRM effects” in “Credit risk” (page 18)
Social, and    2020 Annual Report, “Loans and irrevocable loan commitments” and “Loans” in “Risk Management” in “III – Treasury, Risk, Balance 
Sheet and Off-balance sheet” (pages 165 to 166) 
Governance  
Factors in Credit  
Analysis
   
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
  FN-CB-410a.2 Description of approach to  Discussion and Analysis Please refer to the Sustainability Report 2020, “Organization and Governance” chapter, sections “Sustainability risk review” (pages 19 
incorporation of environmental,  to 21) and “Selected examples of reputation risk decisions” (page 19).
social, and governance (ESG) 
factors in credit analysis
 
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 115
Disclosure Frameworks
SASB Activity metrics
  Code Activity Metric Category & Unit of measure References / Comments
 
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Asset  FN-AC-000.A (1) Total registered and (2) total  Quantitative Reporting currency Please refer to the 2020 Annual Report, “Note 39 – Assets Under Management” in “VI – Consolidated financial statements – 
unregistered assets under  Credit Suisse Group” (pages 399 to 400).
 Management and  management (AUM)
Custody Activities 
   
(FN-AC) Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
  FN-AC-000.B Total assets under custody and  Quantitative  Please refer to the 2020 Annual Report, “Assets under management and client assets” in “Assets under management” in “II – Operating 
supervision Reporting currency and financial review” (page 103). 
 
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Investment  FN-IB-000.A (1) Number and (2) value of (a)  Quantitative  Please refer to the 2020 Annual Report, “Asia Pacific” and “Investment Bank” In “II – Operating and Financial Review” (pages 91 to 98), 
underwriting, (b) advisory, and (c)  Number, Reporting currency “Securitizations” in “Note 35 Transfer of financial assets and variable interest entities” in “VI – Consolidated financial statements – 
Banking &  securitization transactions  Credit Suisse Group” (page 361 to 362).
Brokerage (FN-IB)
   
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
  FN-IB-000.B (1) Number and (2) value of  Number, Reporting currency Please refer to:
proprietary investments and loans by   2020 Form 20F, “Loan portfolio by industry” in “X-Additional Information” (page 565)
    sector  2020 Annual Report, “Loans” in “Risk Management” in “III – Treasury, Risk, Balance Sheet and Off-balance sheet” (page 166) 
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
  FN-IB-000.C (1) Number and (2) value of market  Quantitative  Please refer to the 2020 Annual Report, “Note 7 – Trading Revenues” in “VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group” 
making transactions in (a) fixed  Number, Reporting currency (pages 295 to 296). 
income, (b) equity, (c) currency, (d) 
derivatives, and (e) commodity 
products
 
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
Commercial  FN-CB-000.A (1) Number and (2) value of  Quantitative  Please refer to the 2020 Annual Report, “Note 25 – Deposits” in “VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group” (page 
checking and savings accounts by  Number, Reporting currency 322).
Banks (FN-CB) segment: (a) personal and (b) small 
business
   
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
  FN-CB-000.B (1) Number and (2) value of loans  Quantitative  Please refer to:
by segment: (a) personal, (b) small  Number, Reporting currency  2020 Annual Report, “Loans” in “Risk Management” in “III – Treasury, Risk, Balance Sheet and Off-balance sheet” (page 166) and 
business, and (c) corporate “Note 19 – Loans” in “VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group” (page 303).
   2020 Form 20F, “Loan portfolio by industry” in “X-Additional Information” (page 565)
Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ  Ɓ
 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 116
Disclaimer/inquiries
Disclaimer/inquiries
These factors include:
  the ability to maintain sufficient liquidity and access 
Cautionary statement regarding forward- capital markets;
looking information   market volatility and interest rate fluctuations and 
developments affecting interest rate levels, including 
This report contains statements that constitute for- the persistence of a low or negative interest rate 
ward-looking statements. In addition, in the future we,  environment;
and others on our behalf, may make statements that    the strength of the global economy in general and the 
constitute forward-looking statements. Such for- strength of the economies of the countries in which we 
ward-looking statements may include, without limitation,  conduct our operations, in particular the risk of negative 
statements relating to the following: impacts of COVID-19 on the global economy and 
financial markets and the risk of continued slow 
  our plans, targets or goals; economic recovery or downturn in the EU, the US or 
  our future economic performance or prospects; other developed countries or in emerging markets in 
  the potential effect on our future performance of  2021 and beyond;
certain contingencies; and   the emergence of widespread health emergencies, 
  assumptions underlying any such statements. infectious diseases or pandemics, such as COVID-19, 
and the actions that may be taken by government 
Words such as “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,”  authorities to contain the outbreak or to counter its 
“intends” and “plans” and similar expressions are intended  impact;
to identify forward-looking statements but are not the    potential risks and uncertainties relating to the severity 
exclusive means of identifying such statements. We do  of impacts from COVID-19 and the duration of the 
not intend to update these forward-looking statements. pandemic, including potential material adverse effects 
on our business, financial condition and results of 
By their very nature, forward-looking statements involve  operations;
inherent risks and uncertainties, both general and    the direct and indirect impacts of deterioration or slow 
specific, and risks exist that predictions, forecasts,  recovery in residential and commercial real estate 
projections and other outcomes described or implied in  markets;
forward-looking statements will not be achieved. We    adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies in 
caution you that a number of important factors could  respect of us, sovereign issuers, structured credit 
cause results to differ materially from the plans, targets,  products or other credit-related exposures;
goals, expectations, estimates and intentions expressed    the ability to achieve our strategic goals, including 
in such forward-looking statements and that the COVID- those related to our targets, ambitions and financial 
19 pandemic creates significantly greater uncertainty  goals;
about forward-looking statements in addition to the    the ability of counterparties to meet their obligations to 
factors that generally affect our business. us and the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses;
  the effects of, and changes in, fiscal, monetary, 
exchange rate, trade and tax policies;
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 117
Disclaimer/inquiries
  the effects of currency fluctuations, including the    the ability to maintain our reputation and promote our 
related impact on our business, financial condition and  brand;
results of operations due to moves in foreign exchange    the ability to increase market share and control 
rates; expenses;
  political, social and environmental developments,    technological changes instituted by us, our counterpar-
including war, civil unrest or terrorist activity and climate  ties or competitors;
change;   the timely development and acceptance of our new 
  the ability to appropriately address social, environm  ental  products and services and the perceived overall value 
and sustainability concerns that may arise from our  of these products and services by users;
business activities;   acquisitions, including the ability to integrate acquired 
  the effects of, and the uncertainty arising from, the  businesses successfully, and divestitures, including the 
UK’s withdrawal from the EU; ability to sell non-core assets; and
  the possibility of foreign exchange controls, expropria-   other unforeseen or unexpected events and our 
tion, nationalization or confiscation of assets in coun- success at managing these and the risks involved in 
tries in which we conduct our operations; the foregoing.
  operational factors such as systems failure, human 
error, or the failure to implement procedures properly; We caution you that the foregoing list of important factors 
  the risk of cyber attacks, information or security  is not exclusive. When evaluating forward-looking 
breaches or technology failures on our reputation,  statements, you should carefully consider the foregoing 
business or operations, the risk of which is increased  factors and other uncertainties and events, including the 
while large portions of our employees work remotely; information set forth in “Risk factors” in I – Information on 
  the adverse resolution of litigation, regulatory proceed- the company in our Annual Report 2020.
ings, and other contingencies;
  actions taken by regulators with respect to our busi-
ness and practices and possible resulting changes to  Important information about this publication
our business organization, practices and policies in 
countries in which we conduct our operations; Information referenced in this Sustainability Report, 
  the effects of changes in laws, regulations or account- whether via website links or otherwise, is not incorporated 
ing or tax standards, policies or practices in countries in  into this Sustainability Report. This document may provide 
which we conduct our operations; the addresses of, or contain hyperlinks to, third-party 
  the expected discontinuation of LIBOR and other  websites. Credit Suisse has not reviewed such linked 
interbank offered rates and the transition to alternative  sites and takes no responsibility for the content contained 
reference rates; therein. Any addresses or hyperlinks within this Report 
  the potential effects of changes in our legal entity  (including addresses or hyperlinks to Credit Suisse’s own 
structure; website material) is provided solely for your convenience 
  competition or changes in our competitive position in  and information and the content of the linked site does 
geographic and business areas in which we conduct  not in any way form part of this document. Accessing 
our operations; such website or following such link through this document 
  the ability to retain and recruit qualified personnel; or Credit Suisse’s website shall be at your own risk.
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 118
Disclaimer/inquiries
For more comprehensive information about our results  do not take into account variations in operating results, 
and operations, including risks that could adversely affect  seasonality and other factors and may not be indicative of 
our results of operations and financial condition, please  actual, full-year results. Figures throughout this document 
refer to our annual reports and quarterly reports available  may also be subject to rounding adjustments. All opinions 
at www.credit-suisse.com.  and views constitute judgments as of the date of writing 
without regard to the date on which the reader may 
We may not achieve all of the expected benefits of our  receive or access the information. This information is 
strategic initiatives. Factors beyond our control, including  subject to change at any time without notice and we do 
but not limited to the market and economic conditions  not intend to update this information.
(including macroeconomic and other challenges and 
uncertainties, for example, resulting from the COVID-19  Credit Suisse is subject to the Basel III framework, as 
pandemic), changes in laws, rules or regulations and  implemented in Switzerland, as well as Swiss legislation 
other challenges discussed in our public filings, could limit  and regulations for systemically important banks, which 
our ability to achieve some or all of the expected benefits  include capital, liquidity, leverage and large exposure 
of these initiatives. requirements and rules for emergency plans designed to 
maintain systemically relevant functions in the event of 
In particular, the terms “Estimate”, “Illustrative”, “Ambi- threatened insolvency.
tion”, “Objective”, “Outlook” and “Goal” are not intended 
to be viewed as targets or projections, nor are they  References to Wealth Management mean Private Clients 
considered to be Key Performance Indicators. All such  within Swiss Universal Bank, Private Banking within 
estimates, illustrations, ambitions, objectives, outlooks  International Wealth Management, and Asia Pacific or 
and goals are subject to a large number of inherent risks,  their combined results. References to Wealth Manage-
assumptions and uncertainties, many of which are  ment-related mean Swiss Universal Bank, International 
completely outside of our control. These risks, assump- Wealth Management and Asia Pacific or their combined 
tions and uncertainties include, but are not limited to,  results. References to global investment banking mean 
general market conditions, market volatility, interest rate  the Investment Bank, APAC advisory and underwriting as 
volatility and levels, global and regional economic condi- well as M&A, DCM and ECM in SUB C&IC.
tions, challenges and uncertainties resulting from the 
COVID-19 pandemic, political uncertainty, changes in tax  Investors and others should note that we announce 
policies, regulatory changes, changes in levels of client  important company information (including quarterly 
activity as a result of any of the foregoing and other  earnings releases and financial reports as well as our 
factors. Accordingly, this information should not be relied  annual sustainability report) to the investing public using 
on for any purpose. We do not intend to update these  press releases, SEC and Swiss ad hoc filings, our website 
estimates, illustrations, ambitions, objectives, outlooks or  and public conference calls and webcasts. We also 
goals. routinely use our Twitter account @creditsuisse (https://
twitter.com/creditsuisse), our LinkedIn account (https://
In preparing this document, management has made  www.linkedin.com/company/credit-suisse/), our Insta-
estimates and assumptions that affect the numbers  gram accounts (https://www.instagram.com/creditsu-
presented. Actual results may differ. Annualized numbers  isse_careers/ and https://www.instagram.com/
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 119
Disclaimer/inquiries
creditsuisse_ch/), our Facebook account (https://www. Inquiries
facebook.com/creditsuisse/) and other social media 
channels as additional means to disclose public informa- Credit Suisse Corporate Communications
tion, including to excerpt key messages from our public  Tel. +41 844 33 88 44
disclosures. We may share or retweet such messages  media.relations@credit-suisse.com 
through certain of our regional accounts, including through  responsibility.corporate@credit-suisse.com 
Twitter at @csschweiz (https://twitter.com/csschweiz) 
and @csapac (https://twitter.com/csapac). Investors and  Concept & Design
others should take care to consider such abbreviated  SOURCE Associates AG, www.source.ch  
messages in the context of the disclosures from which they 
are excerpted. The information we post on these social  Realization & Online Concept/Design
media accounts is not a part of this document. Management Digital Data AG, www.mdd.ch   
Konoma GmbH, www.konoma.ch 
Certain material in this document has been prepared by 
Credit Suisse on the basis of publicly available informa- Photography
tion, internally developed data and other third-party  Picture sources: Credit Suisse, Getty Images, 
sources believed to be reliable. Credit Suisse has not  Stocksy Images
sought to independently verify information obtained from  Illustrations: Oculus Illustration GmbH,  
public and third-party sources and makes no representa- www.oculus-illustration.ch 
tions or warranties as to accuracy, completeness or 
reliability of such information.
The English language version of this document is the 
controlling version.
 
Credit Suisse Sustainability Report 2020 120