
Credit Suisse Group AG
Annual Report
2020
 
 
   
Key metrics           
        in / end of      % change 
   2020   2019   2018   20 / 19   19 / 18 
C     redit Suisse (CHF million)         
Net revenues   22,389   22,484   20,920   0   7 
Provision for credit losses   1,096   324   245   238   32 
Total operating expenses   17,826   17,440   17,303   2   1 
Income before taxes   3,467   4,720   3,372   (27)   40 
Net income attributable to shareholders   2,669   3,419   2,024   (22)   69 
Cost/income ratio (%)   79.6   77.6   82.7   –   – 
Effective tax rate (%)   23.1   27.4   40.4   –   – 
Basic earnings per share (CHF)   1.09   1.35   0.79   (19)   71 
Diluted earnings per share (CHF)   1.06   1.32   0.77   (20)   71 
Return on equity (%)   5.9   7.7   4.7   –   – 
Return on tangible equity (%)   6.6   8.7   5.4   –   – 
A     ssets under management and net new assets (CHF billion)         
Assets under management   1,511.9   1,507.2   1,344.9   0.3   12.1 
Net new assets   42.0   79.3   53.7   (47.0)   47.7 
B     alance sheet statistics (CHF million)         
Total assets   805,822   787,295   768,916   2   2 
Net loans   291,908   296,779   287,581   (2)   3 
Total shareholders’ equity   42,677   43,644   43,922   (2)   (1) 
Tangible shareholders’ equity   38,014   38,690   38,937   (2)   (1) 
B     asel III regulatory capital and leverage statistics (%)         
CET1 ratio   12.9   12.7   12.6   –   – 
CET1 leverage ratio   4.4   4.0   4.1   –   – 
Tier 1 leverage ratio   6.4   5.5   5.2   –   – 
S     hare information         
Shares outstanding (million)   2,406.1   2,436.2   2,550.6   (1)   (4) 
   of which common shares issued   2,447.7   2,556.0   2,556.0   (4)   0 
   of which treasury shares   (41.6)   (119.8)   (5.4)   (65)   – 
Book value per share (CHF)   17.74   17.91   17.22   (1)   4 
Tangible book value per share (CHF)   15.80   15.88   15.27   (1)   4 
Market capitalization (CHF million)   27,904   32,451   27,605   (14)   18 
Dividend per share (CHF)   0.2926   0.2776   0.2625   5   6 
N     umber of employees (full-time equivalents)         
Number of employees   48,770   47,860   45,680   2   5 
See relevant tables for additional information on these metrics.
 
   
Annual Report 2020
Credit Suisse Group AG
 
   
Credit Suisse – 
Annual Reporting Suite
CCrreeddiitt  SSuuiissssee  AGGroup AG  
Annual Report
2020
Sustainability  
Report 2020
P re-Proof 3, Feb 24, 2021
Annual Report Sustainability Report
The Annual Report is a detailed pres- The Sustainability Report explains how 
entation of Credit Suisse Group’s com- Credit Suisse’s commitments and aspi-
pany  structure,  corporate govern ance,  rations in this area are put into practice 
compensat ion  practices and treasury  as a key component of its operations.
and risk management  framework, and  credit-suisse.com/sustainabilityreport
it includes a review of Credit Suisse 
Group’s oper ating and fi nancial results 
accompanied by its annual fi nancial 
statements.
credit-suisse.com/ar
Credit Suisse Apps – 
Available in the App Store and Google Play Store
Investor 
Relations
Credit Suisse Direct Investor Relations
With the Credit Suisse Direct app for  allows investors, analysts, media and 
smartphones and tablets you have all  other interested parties to remain up to 
the advantages of mobile banking at  date with relevant online and offline 
your fingertips – anytime, anywhere.  financial  information on Credit Suisse.
Whether you want to pay bills, transfer 
account, trade securities, check your 
credit card details or follow your safe-
keeping account in real time or catch 
up on financial information.
For the purposes of this report, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Credit Suisse Group”, “Credit Suisse”, the “Group”, “we”, “us” and “our” 
mean Credit Suisse Group AG and its consolidated subsidiaries. The business of Credit Suisse AG, the direct bank subsidiary of the Group, is substantially 
similar to the Group, and we use these terms to refer to both when the subject is the same or substantially similar. We use the term the “Bank” when we 
are referring only to Credit Suisse AG and its consolidated subsidiaries. Abbreviations and selected terms are explained in the List of abbreviations and the 
Glossary in the back of this report. Publications referenced in this report, whether via website links or otherwise, are not incorporated into this report. The 
English language version of this report is the controlling version. In various tables, use of “–” indicates not meaningful or not applicable.
 
   
4  Message from the Chairman  269	VI	–	Consolidated	financial	
and the Chief Executive Officer statements – Credit Suisse 
8  Interview with the Chairman  Group
and the Chief Executive Officer
427 VII – Parent company 
11  I – Information on the 
financial	statements	–	Credit	
company
Suisse Group
12  Credit Suisse at a glance
13  Strategy
19  Divisions
26  Regulation and supervision
45  Risk factors Appendix
A-2  Selected five-year information
A-4  List of abbreviations
A-6  Glossary
59	 II	–	Operating	and	financial	
A-10 Investor information
review A-12 Financial calendar and 
contacts
60  Operating environment
63  Credit Suisse
76  Swiss Universal Bank
83  International Wealth 
Management
91  Asia Pacific
95  Investment Bank
99  Corporate Center
103 Assets under management
106 Critical accounting estimates
113 III – Treasury, Risk, Balance 
sheet and Off-balance sheet
114 Liquidity and funding 
management
122 Capital management
139 Risk management
179 Balance sheet and off-balance 
sheet
183 IV – Corporate Governance
233 V – Compensation
 
   
Message from the Chairman and 
the Chief Executive Officer
In 2020, we recorded strong operating performance in Wealth 
Management-related and Investment Bank divisions. We confirmed 
our strategy of being a leading Wealth Manager with strong global 
Investment Banking capabilities by launching a number of strategic 
initiatives to support our growth ambitions. In a year dominated by 
the global COVID-19 pandemic, we generated net income attrib-
utable to shareholders of CHF 2.7 billion. Group net new assets were 
CHF 42 billion.
Dear shareholders, clients and colleagues well as the impairment to the valuation of our minority sharehold-
ing in York Capital Management. Across the Group, we attracted 
In our previous Annual Report, we noted that the COVID-19 pan- net new assets of CHF 42 billion in 2020, and recorded assets 
demic, still in its early stages at the time, would have a significant  under management in excess of CHF 1.5 trillion at year end.
impact on the global economy. Like others, we are devastated by 
the enormous human and economic toll that this crisis inflicted,  Operating performance supporting our growth agenda
and continues to inflict. Even as we work hard to achieve our  The repercussions of the COVID-19 pandemic brought macro-
business goals, we cannot lose sight of what is happening around  economic challenges in their wake, along with very unfavorable 
us in our communities and societies. We must keep events in  exchange rate movements. As only around a quarter of our busi-
their proper perspective. Nonetheless, we are proud of what our  ness is generated in our reporting currency, the Swiss franc, a 
roughly 49,000 employees in all markets have achieved for our  depreciation of the dollar – precisely the scenario that unfolded 
clients, the bank and its shareholders over the last 12 months.  in the reporting year – feeds through into the final numbers. 
However, our strategy of being a leading wealth manager with 
Solid result in a difficult operating environment strong global investment banking capabilities proved robust in this 
The outstanding commitment and loyalty of our employees made  environment. We recorded a strong underlying performance that 
it possible for us to deliver a solid result even in the difficult year  would have seen adjusted income before taxes, excluding signifi-
of 2020. After equity markets – and not least financial stocks  cant items* rise by 6% and adjusted pre-provision profit, excluding 
– came under great pressure in March and April, the global  significant items* rise by 22%. 
economy contracted with extraordinary severity at the start of 
the second quarter of 2020 as a result of the measures taken to  In keeping with our strategy, we launched four key strategic initia-
combat the pandemic. Central banks and governments reacted  tives in the reporting year. First, we created a global Investment 
with monetary and fiscal stimulus of an unprecedented magni- Bank (IB), including our Global Trading Solutions (GTS) business 
tude. The period from May to August was then characterized by a  and a globally integrated equities platform. Second, we affirmed 
sharp recovery as volatility declined and stock markets bounced  our commitment to play a leading role as a provider of sustainable 
back impressively. The resurgence of new case numbers in the  financial services with the establishment of a new Sustainability, 
US, Europe and a number of Asian countries from the fall onward  Research & Investment Solutions (SRI) function at the Executive 
then led to new restrictions on public life, together with commer- Board level. Third, we are on track in integrating Neue Aargauer 
cial restrictions in certain sectors. While expectations of a return  Bank into the Swiss Universal Bank (SUB) and have successfully 
to normality have risen against a backdrop of vaccine program  launched a digital banking offering – CSX – for Swiss retail cli-
rollouts since December, the situation remains challenging in view  ents. Fourth, we are ensuring alignment across our control func-
of the emergence of new virus mutations. tions in respect of risk and compliance business practices through 
the new, integrated Chief Risk and Compliance Officer (CRCO) 
In this environment, net revenues in the Wealth Management- function, which will be retained at Executive Board level. We 
related businesses across our divisions declined by 8% in total to  anticipate gross savings of approximately CHF 400 to 450 million 
CHF 13.6 billion in 2020. Global investment banking revenues  annually from these initiatives, which should feed through into our 
of USD 10.2 billion in 2020, increased 19% year on year. With  results fully from 2022 onward. Assuming favorable commercial 
overall net revenues for the Group remaining stable at CHF 22.4  market and economic conditions, we will be able to reinvest this 
billion and a 2% increase in total operating expenses to CHF 17.8  entire amount in our business.
billion, the Group recorded income before taxes of CHF 3.5 bil-
lion, 27% lower than in the previous year. Net income attributable  Divisional results
to shareholders amounted to CHF 2.7 billion for 2020. This was  The SUB division recorded income before taxes of CHF 2.1 billion 
a decline of 22% year on year including primarily the effects of  for the full year 2020, a decline of 18% compared to 2019. Net 
higher provision for credit losses and major litigation provisions, as  revenues declined 5% year on year to CHF 5.6 billion, or on 
4 Message from the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
   
Urs Rohner, Chairman of the Board of Directors (left) and Thomas Gottstein, Chief Executive Officer.
an adjusted* basis were almost precisely the amount that we were  attracted high net new assets of CHF 32.2 billion in 2020. In 
able to generate the previous year. Net new assets for the division  Private Banking, income before taxes for 2020 totaled CHF 1.1 
as a whole amounted to CHF 7.8 billion. Total operating expenses  billion, a decline of 31% year on year. Net revenues for 2020 
remained stable compared to the previous year at CHF 3.2 billion,  declined by 10% to CHF 3.7 billion. Private Banking recorded 
despite litigation expenses of CHF 45 million and restructuring costs  record-high net new assets of CHF 16.7 billion, a rise of 5% year 
of CHF 44 million, primarily incurred in connection with the integra- on year, with notable inflows from emerging markets and West-
tion of Neue Aargauer Bank. The Private Clients area recorded a  ern Europe. Asset Management generated a loss before taxes of 
16% decline in income before taxes to CHF 1.1 billion year on year.  CHF 39 million for 2020, which mainly reflected the impairment 
Net revenues amounted to CHF 3.1 billion, or 4% lower than in the  loss from York in the final quarter. At CHF 1.1 billion, net rev-
previous year. Corporate & Institutional Clients generated income  enues were down 33% compared to 2019.
before taxes of CHF 1.0 billion, down 21% on the prior year due to 
a 6% decline in net revenues to CHF 2.6 billion. The Asia Pacific (APAC) division increased net revenues to 
CHF 3.2 billion in 2020, 4% up from the previous year. Income 
The International Wealth Management (IWM) division recorded  before taxes for 2020 totaled CHF 828 million, a decline of 10% 
income before taxes of CHF 1.1 billion in 2020, 49% lower than  year on year. The rise in transaction-based revenues only partially 
in the previous year, with net revenues recording a decline of  compensated for higher provision for credit losses. Total operat-
17% year on year to CHF 4.8 billion. The result was impacted by  ing expenses rose by 2% to CHF 2.1 billion compared to 2019. 
significant items that resulted in a net negative effect of CHF 84  The division attracted net new assets of CHF 8.6 billion in 2020, 
million – compared to a positive effect of CHF 323 million in  an impressive result. APAC had assets under management of 
2019 – and by restructuring costs of CHF 55 million. The division  CHF 221.3 billion at the end of the year.
Message from the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer 5
   
The IB division recorded income before taxes of CHF 1.7 billion  remained stable at CHF 15.80 at the end of 2020, compared to 
in 2020, an increase of 61% year on year. Net revenues rose by  CHF 15.88 at the end of 2019. 
11% to CHF 9.1 billion compared to the previous year, with all busi-
ness lines contributing to this result. Total operating expenses for  Cooperative dialogue with regulators
2020 declined by 1% year on year. Return on regulatory capital**  As reported in last year’s Annual Report, the Swiss Financial 
was 12.2% for 2020, compared to just 7.1% for the prior year. The  Market Supervisory Authority FINMA (FINMA) regarded our 
IB achieved this outstanding result in an environment character- emergency plan for Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG in February 2020 
ized by the repercussions of the COVID-19 pandemic and high  as effective. In September 2020, FINMA announced that it was 
volatility, which was also impacted by geopolitical and macroeco- opening enforcement proceedings against Credit Suisse in the 
nomic uncertainties such as the UK’s exit from the EU and the US  context of the “observation activities.” We are cooperating fully 
presidential elections. The weakening of the US dollar impacted our  in these proceedings, and working with our Swiss regulator to 
reported result in Swiss francs as it had a negative effect on rev- ensure a comprehensive and brisk resolution of this matter.
enues while at the same time reducing operating expenses.
Changes to the Board of Directors and Executive Board
Creating value for shareholders  After serving on the Board of Directors for 12 years and chair-
In keeping with our intention to increase the ordinary dividend per  ing this body for 10 of them, Urs Rohner will step down from the 
share by at least 5% per annum, the Board of Directors will pro- Board at this year’s Annual General Meeting, in keeping with the 
pose a cash distribution of CHF 0.2926 per share for the 2020  maximum term of 12 years introduced during his time in office. 
financial year to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on  The Board of Directors is pleased to be able to propose António 
April 30, 2021. Half of the distribution will be paid out of capital  Horta-Osório for election as the new Chairman of the Board 
contribution reserves, free of withholding tax and not subject to  of Directors at the Annual General Meeting on April 30, 2021. 
income tax for Swiss resident individuals who hold the shares  António Horta-Osório has been Group Chief Executive Officer of 
as a private investment; the remaining half will be paid out of  Lloyds Banking Group, the largest retail and commercial bank in 
retained earnings, net of 35% Swiss withholding tax. the UK, since 2011. With this proposed appointment, the Board 
of Directors is looking forward to gaining as its new Chairman a 
In December, we completed our share buyback program for 2020  profoundly experienced figure in the international banking industry 
that we had started on January 6, 2020 and then had to sus- with a proven track record. 
pend in March as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. As part of 
this program, we bought back approximately 28.5 million shares  In addition to Urs Rohner, two other current members of the 
for a total of CHF 325 million, which were then cancelled in line  Board of Directors will not be standing for re-election at the 2021 
with the capital reduction approved by shareholders at the 2020  Annual General Meeting: Joaquin J. Ribeiro and John Tiner. 
Annual General Meeting. As already communicated at the end of October last year, the 
Board of Directors of Credit Suisse Group AG will be proposing 
Our share buyback program for 2021, through which we intend  the election of two new, non-executive members of the Board 
to buy back shares amounting to at least CHF 1.0 billion with an  of Directors at the Annual General Meeting on April 30, 2021, 
upper limit of CHF 1.5 billion, subject to market and economic con- namely Clare Brady and Blythe Masters. Clare Brady, a British 
ditions, kicked off in January. The shares bought back in 2021 are  citizen, was previously director of Internal Audit at the Interna-
expected to be cancelled via a capital reduction, in line with a reso- tional Monetary Fund. She is currently a member of the Audit and 
lution expected to be passed at a later Annual General Meeting. Risk Commission of the International Federation of Red Cross 
and Red Crescent Societies in Switzerland, and a non-executive 
Resilient business model generates capital member of the Board of Directors of Fidelity Asian Values, PLC 
Our resilient diversified business model allows us to continue  in the UK. Blythe Masters, likewise a British citizen, held a num-
to generate capital. Already at the end of 2019, our capital and  ber of leading functions at J.P. Morgan Chase over a period of 27 
leverage ratios met the Swiss regulatory requirements that took  years. She then moved to Digital Asset Holdings, an enterprise 
effect in 2020. We strengthened our capital base once again  blockchain company for which she acted as CEO until 2018. She 
last year. This is reflected in our common equity tier 1 (CET1)  is currently a member of the Board of Directors of A.P. Møller-
ratio, which rose from 12.7% at the end of 2019 to 12.9% at  Maersk, as well as Chair of the Board of Directors and Audit 
the end of 2020.  Committee of Phunware, an enterprise mobile platform. 
Reflecting the fourth quarter results, the Group’s Return on Tan- In keeping with the launch of the above-mentioned strategic ini-
gible Equity (RoTE)** declined to 6.6% for the full year 2020. For  tiatives, there have also been changes to the Executive Board. 
the first nine months of 2020, this figure stood at 9.8%, higher  We transferred management responsibility for the global Invest-
than the 8.7% reported for the full year 2019. We are maintaining  ment Bank to Brian Chin, who previously headed up our former 
our medium-term RoTE** target of 10-12%, in a normalized envi- Global Markets division. David Miller, previously CEO of the for-
ronment and subject to market and economic conditions. Diluted  mer Investment Banking & Capital Markets division, has stepped 
earnings per share for 2020 amounted to CHF 1.06, compared  down from the Executive Board and taken over management of 
to CHF 1.32 for 2019, while the tangible book value per share**  the capital markets and advisory business within IB. With the aim 
6 Message from the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
   
of bringing greater effectiveness and efficiency to our control- Credit Suisse Asset Management (CSAM) with assets origi-
ling environment given changing regulatory parameters, we have  nated and structured by Greensill Capital, Credit Suisse’s prior-
now combined Risk and Compliance into the single function of  ity remains the recovery of funds for CSAM’s investors. CSAM 
Chief Risk and Compliance Officer (CRCO), which is held by Lara  is working closely with the administrators of Greensill Capital, 
Warner. The new Sustainability, Research & Investment Solutions  Grant Thornton, and with other parties to facilitate this process. 
(SRI) function is headed by Lydie Hudson as CEO. Initial redemption repayments totalling USD 3.1 billion across the 
four funds have been made beginning on March 8, 2021. The 
Ongoing commitment to sustainability funds’ management companies intend to announce further cash 
The new Executive Board-level function for sustainability under- distributions over the coming months, and we will update fund 
scores our commitment to this topic, which formed an important  investors accordingly. With respect to the collateralized USD 140 
aspect of Group strategy in 2020. While the challenge of climate  million bridge loan made by Credit Suisse to Greensill Capital last 
change received rather less public attention last year due to the  year, USD 50 million has been recently repaid by the administra-
pandemic, we are in no doubt that the Earth’s climate and other  tors of Greensill Capital, reducing the outstanding loan to USD 
sustainability questions will rightfully remain in the spotlight over  90 million. While these issues are still at an early stage, we would 
the coming decade. We want to be a leading provider of sus- note that it is reasonably possible that Credit Suisse will incur a 
tainability solutions in the financial industry, across our Wealth  charge in respect of these matters. 
Management and the Investment Bank. We are underlining this 
ambition by assigning the mandate of a Board of Directors Sus- On March 17, 2021, and subsequent to the recent reports and 
tainability Leader to our board member Iris Bohnet. announcements regarding the CSAM managed supply chain 
finance funds, the Board of Directors of the Group decided to 
In 2020, we made significant progress in this area. Specifically,  appoint Ulrich Körner as CEO of Asset Management and a mem-
we introduced the Client Energy Transition Frameworks for the  ber of the Group Executive Board, effective April 1, 2021. From 
key industries of oil and gas, mining, and utilities/power genera- that date, the Asset Management business will be separated from 
tion, which we believe will form an important part of our strategic  the International Wealth Management division and managed as 
program of evaluating the energy transition readiness of corpo- a new separate division. As a member of the Executive Board, 
rate clients in these sectors. Our progress in this area is attract- Ulrich Körner will report directly to the Group CEO, Thomas 
ing recognition. For example, as part of the annual review of the  Gottstein.
S&P Dow Jones Indices in November 2020, we were once again 
selected as an index component of both the Dow Jones Sus- As a final point, we would like to thank our roughly 49,000 
tainability World Index and the Dow Jones Sustainability Europe  employees around the world for their terrific work and dedica-
Index. Meanwhile, Credit Suisse’s rating by the Carbon Disclosure  tion in 2020. The repercussions of the coronavirus pandemic 
Project in respect of climate-related disclosure improved to “A-,”  have posed major challenges to our clients, our company and 
while the MSCI ESG rating improved to “A.” the everyday working lives of our employees. What we achieved 
in 2020 for our clients under difficult circumstances makes us 
Outlook and recent events proud, and strengthens confidence that our bank will prove suc-
At our 4Q20 results announcement on February 18, 2021, we  cessful in tackling the challenges that lie ahead – whether that be 
noted in our outlook statement that Credit Suisse has seen a  tackling the ongoing pandemic, the demands posed by the ongo-
strong start to 2021. This has continued over the last month, with  ing digitalization of financial services or the greatest social and 
the Group achieving the highest level of income before taxes in  macroeconomic challenge of our era – climate change. 
both January and February in a decade. Our Investment Bank 
division is benefitting from a particularly strong performance in 
capital markets issuance activity and from a continued good per- Best regards
formance across sales & trading, with overall Investment Bank 
year-to-date revenues up over 50% compared to the same period 
last year. Increased YoY client activity is also benefitting all three 
of our Wealth Management-related businesses, led by growth 
in GTS, and with particular strength in the Asia Pacific division, 
while sequentially net interest income is stabilizing and recur-
ring commissions and fees continue to trend up. Notwithstand- Urs Rohner                            Thomas Gottstein
ing the continued COVID-19 pandemic, our credit loss experience  Chairman of the                      Chief Executive Officer
remains benign, with signs of improvement in the global economy  Board of Directors
beginning to benefit allowance for credit losses under the current 
expected credit loss (CECL) accounting methodology.  March 2021
With regard to the suspension and liquidation of the supply chain 
finance funds (with an aggregate net asset value of approximately  > 
Refer to “Important Information” on page 10 for a reconciliation of adjusted 
USD 10 billion as published in late February 2021) managed by  results and further information.
Message from the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer 7
   
Interview with the Chairman and 
Interview with the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
the Chief Executive Officer
After three very good quarters despite  objectives set out in the Paris Agreement.  exchange of information fundamentally 
a difficult operating environment, you  The strategy is the right one, and we are  redefined the rules of the cross-border 
closed the fourth quarter of 2020 with  making it future-oriented by aligning it with  wealth management business.
a loss due to several items, which had  the key themes of the coming years.
an adverse impact on your results.  And how did these changes impact 
Does that frustrate you? Urs Rohner, after 10 years as Chair- Credit Suisse?
man, 12 years on the Board of 
CEO: The write-downs and costs from   Directors, and a full 17 years at Credit  Chairman: Looking back at my time as 
litigation issues we booked in the fourth  Suisse, you are not standing for re- Chairman, the years from 2011 to 2015 
quarter – with the underlying matters dat- election at this year’s AGM. Is now the  were challenging, as we still had to deal 
ing back several years – do frustrate me,  right time? with the repercussions of 2008. In addi-
yes. This is natural. On the other hand, it  tion to legal disputes and regulatory inves-
was important for us to find a resolution as  Chairman: Well, I suppose I’m at fault  tigations, we were above all grappling 
rapidly as possible and keep these matters  myself when it comes to the timing, as the  with a need for reform that was apparent 
from holding us back in the future.  term restriction of 12 years for a board  throughout the financial industry. And all 
member was after all introduced during my  this came against the backdrop of a euro-
In connection with the presentation of  tenure as Chairman. I am convinced that  zone debt crisis, the new Basel III frame-
the results for the full year 2020, you  in these kinds of functions, change is nec- work, and the “Too Big to Fail” legislation 
talked about a basis for growth. What  essary at appropriate intervals. So in that  in Switzerland. Specifically, we needed to 
do you mean by that? sense, it’s time for a change in my case  be more resilient, build up more capital, 
too. The outstanding qualities my desig- ensure more stable financing and adjust 
CEO: Not only did we have to absorb the  nated successor, António Horta-Osório,  the bank’s business model, as well as exit 
repercussions of the pandemic in 2020,  brings to the table only strengthen me in  certain business areas. With regard to 
we also had to confront other macroeco- that belief. the build-up of capital and the reduction 
nomic challenges, along with highly unfa- of risks, we had met our planned objec-
vorable exchange rate movements. In my  You have joined the Executive Board  tives by the end of 2013. In 2014, we 
view, we did a good job in rising to those  in 2004. How does the Credit Suisse  resolved significant legacy issues relating 
challenges. It became clear last year that  of 2021 differ from the Credit Suisse  to the cross-border business with the US 
our strategy of being a leading wealth  of 2004? authorities, while in the very same year the 
manager with strong global investment  G20 confirmed the automatic exchange of 
banking capabilities could withstand the  Chairman: To be honest, a comprehen- information as a global standard. These – 
kind of pandemic not seen for generations. sive answer to that question would go  combined with the so-called “Swiss finish” 
beyond the scope of this interview. On  – were the key parameters for the world of 
So aren’t any corrections to the strat- the one hand, the DNA of Credit Suisse  banking following the great financial crisis, 
egy needed? is very much the same: an entrepreneur’s  together with the Financial Stability Board’s 
bank that shapes its business in accor- proposal in respect of the loss-absorbing 
CEO: We launched a number of strategic  dance with the social and economic chal- capacity of global systemically important 
initiatives last year to position ourselves  lenges of the era. But when you compare  banks, of which Credit Suisse is one.
for growth. We created a global Invest- operating and strategic business models, 
ment Bank and aligned our Risk and  no stone has been left unturned. And  Did you ever ask yourselves whether 
Compliance control functions in a newly  don’t forget that as an industry we are  growth was even possible against 
integrated Risk and Compliance area at  operating in a very different environment  such a backdrop?
the Executive Board level. In addition, we  compared to 17 years ago. 
established an entirely new function at  Chairman: The strategic question of how 
the Executive Board level – Sustainability,  By that you mean what specifically? a company or indeed an industry can grow 
Research & Investment Solutions – with  sustainably will always arise, irrespective  
the ambition to put sustainability at the  Chairman: It took years to repair the  of the prevailing environment. For 
core of our offering to private, corporate  damage of the financial crisis of 2007- instance, in mid-January 2015, we saw 
and institutional clients. We want to lead  2008 and the subsequent eurozone debt  the decision by the Swiss National Bank to 
the way with our research-based advisory  crisis. Also, for a global, systemically  abandon the minimum level it had set for 
activity. At the same time, we are under- important big bank operating from Swit- the euro-Swiss franc exchange rate, along 
scoring our commitment to achieving the  zerland, the introduction of the automatic  with the introduction of negative
8 Interview with the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
   
interest rates – which at that point was  one, as well as being the right fit for the  Digitalization has progressed to a remark-
supposed to be for just a short period of  parameters in which we are operating. able degree over a very short time, both 
time. The year 2015 turned out to be a  internally and in our contacts with clients. 
transitional one, in which the Board of  Last year, the debate over the merger  Our home working capacity now amounts 
Directors and the executive management  of banking institutions in Europe was  to some 90%, while our online bank-
team embarked on a restructuring led by a  very prominent in the media. What is  ing service in Switzerland recorded 47% 
new CEO. This strategy was to be a lead- your assessment of the situation? growth over the last two years. Things will 
ing Wealth Manager with strong Invest- continue to move in this direction, and I 
ment Banking capabilities. The consis- Chairman: The business models of banks  think that is good: I am a fan of offering 
tent implementation of this strategy led to  nowadays presuppose ongoing cost man- our clients both, “high-tech” and “high-
losses in 2015 and 2016. We also closed  agement, and size can make a difference  touch”, depending on their needs and 
2017 with a loss due to the revaluation of  in this respect because it allows for certain  preferences. 
our tax assets in connection with the US  scale effects. For this reason, consoli-
tax reform, even though we would have  dation in the European banking environ- Alongside the pandemic and the vari-
returned to profitability on a pre-tax basis  ment is rightly a topic of discussion at the  ous economic challenges, a number 
adjusting for this effect. And by 2018,  moment. As Chairman, I can hardly cover  of developments last year showed 
over the course of which we were able to  my ears to this topic, because I believe  that societies are becoming increas-
complete our restructuring, we reported a  that would not be doing justice to my man- ingly aware of social and environ-
net profit once again of more than CHF 2  date, which includes observing the envi- mental issues. How is Credit Suisse 
billion. So to give a simple answer to your  ronment on an ongoing basis. responding?
question: Yes, we have shown that growth 
is possible. Credit Suisse wanted to achieve a  Chairman: We continuously assess our 
return on tangible equity of around  operations, our environmental footprint and 
How are you dealing with the risks  10% in 2020, but missed this ambition  our role in a changing society. At the start 
that arise in an era of pandemic? due to the loss-making fourth quarter.  of the year, we published a revised Code 
Have you nonetheless reaffirmed your  of Conduct, addressing above all the need 
CEO: With the above-mentioned com- commitment to this ambition going  for increased awareness of diversity and 
bination of Risk and Compliance into a  forward? inclusion. And we have made significant 
single Executive Board-level function, we  progress over the last 10 years, as under-
have once again strengthened risk man- CEO: We were at 9.8% for the first nine  lined by the number of female members 
agement. If you look at credit provisions,  months of the year and, as previously  of both the Board of Directors and Execu-
you will see that we are quite prudent. Our  mentioned, confronted a lot of special  tive Board today. However, we still have a 
current provisions are significantly higher  items in the fourth quarter. In view of  long way to go, and we have to continue to 
than our long-term average. So while it is  our robust operating performance in this  infuse this priority throughout our organiza-
a huge rise in relative terms, we believe  challenging environment, we remain com- tion and functions.
it is appropriate for us in the current  mitted to the ambitions we set out at our 
environment. Investor Update last December. With our  Your term as Chairman of the Board 
strategic initiatives, we believe that we are  will end at the upcoming AGM. What 
Following a major slump in the stock  in an excellent position to further invest in  are your hopes for your successor 
price in the spring of 2020, the valu- growth. after he is approved at the AGM?
ation of CS has now recovered along 
with those of other financial stocks.  How has the COVID-19 pandemic  Chairman: Above all, I would like to wish 
But you presumably cannot be satis- changed the nature of the bank’s rela- António Horta-Osório a great start. He will 
fied with where you are now? tionship with its clients? remain with Lloyds Banking Group until 
April, and only then start with us. I have no 
CEO: No, we are not yet satisfied with our  CEO: The crisis has given us the oppor- doubt that together with the Board of Direc-
share price. But I also have confidence in  tunity to do the very best we can for  tors, the Executive Board and our employ-
our fundamental development going for- clients and employees. We co-initiated  ees, he will carry on the tradition and pur-
ward. Our performance last year clearly  Switzerland’s bridge-loan program and  pose of our unique bank, which we express 
demonstrates our potential on the operat- also provided the best possible support  as follows: We build lasting value by serving 
ing side. We also continued to build up our  to our clients in other markets too. This  our clients with care and entrepreneurial 
capital base in this difficult environment.  required a Herculean effort on the part of  spirit. This is ultimately what will benefit our 
This shows that our strategy is the right  our employees, whom we fully supported.  shareholders and society as a whole.
Interview with the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer 9
   
Important Information
*  Refers to adjusted results or adjusted results excluding significant items  We may not achieve all of the expected benefits of our strategic initia-
as applicable. Results excluding items included in our reported results are  tives. Factors beyond our control, including but not limited to the market 
non-GAAP financial measures. and economic conditions (including macroeconomic and other challenges 
and uncertainties, for example, resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic), 
 
in   2020   2019   % change  changes in laws, rules or regulations and other challenges discussed in our 
public filings, could limit our ability to achieve some or all of the expected 
Results (CHF million)            benefits of these initiatives.
Income/(loss) before taxes   3,467   4,720   (27) 
This document contains forward-looking statements that involve inherent 
Total adjustments   1,181   248   376  risks and uncertainties, and we might not be able to achieve the predic-
Adjusted income before taxes   4,648   4,968   (6)  tions, forecasts, projections and other outcomes we describe or imply in 
Significant items           forward-looking statements. A number of important factors could cause 
results to differ materially from the plans, objectives, expectations, esti-
   gain related to InvestLab transfer   268   327   (18) 
mates and intentions we express in these forward-looking statements, 
   gain on equity investment in Allfunds Group   127   0   –  including those we identify in I – Information on the company – Risk factors 
   gain on equity investment in SIX Group AG   158   498   (68)  and in the “Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information” in 
our Annual Report 2020 on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended December 
   gain on equity investment in Pfandbriefbank   134   0   – 
31, 2020 and other public filings and press releases. We do not intend to 
   impairment on York Capital Management   (414)   0   –  update these forward-looking statements.
Adjusted income before taxes           
excluding significant items   4,375   4,143   6  This document contains certain unaudited interim financial information for 
the first quarter of 2021. This information has been derived from man-
Adjusted results are non-GAAP financial measures which exclude certain items included in  agement accounts, is preliminary in nature, does not reflect the complete 
our reported results. Refer to “Reconciliation of adjusted results” in II – Operating and finan- results of the first quarter of 2021 and is subject to change, including as a 
cial review – Credit Suisse for further information. result of any normal quarterly adjustments in relation to the financial state-
ments for the first quarter of 2021. This information has not been subject 
** R eturn on tangible equity, return on regulatory capital and tangible book  to any review by our independent registered public accounting firm. There 
value per share are non-GAAP financial measures. Refer to II – Operat- can be no assurance that the final results for these periods will not differ 
ing and financial review – Credit Suisse for information on how these  from these preliminary results, and any such differences could be material. 
measures are calculated and to “Financial goals” in I- Information on the  Quarterly financial results for the first quarter of 2021 will be included in 
company – Strategy for further information on ambitions that are non- our 1Q21 Financial Report. These interim results of operations are not nec-
GAAP financial measures.   essarily indicative of the results to be achieved for the remainder of the full 
For further details on capital-related information, see “Capital Manage- first quarter of 2021.
ment-Regulatory Capital Framework” in III-Treasury, Risk, Balance sheet 
In preparing this document, management has made estimates and assump-
and Offbalance sheet.
tions that affect the numbers presented. Actual results may differ. Annu-
References to Wealth Management mean SUB Private Clients, IWM  alized numbers do not take into account variations in operating results, 
 Private Banking and APAC or their combined results. References to Wealth  seasonality and other factors and may not be indicative of actual, full-year 
Management-related mean SUB, IWM and APAC or their combined  results. Figures throughout this document may also be subject to rounding 
results. References to global investment banking mean the Investment  adjustments. All opinions and views constitute judgments as of the date 
Bank, APAC advisory and underwriting as well as M&A, DCM and ECM in  of writing without regard to the date on which the reader may receive or 
SUB Corporate & Institutional Clients. References to pre-provision profit  access the information. This information is subject to change at any time 
mean pre-tax income excluding provision for credit losses.   without notice and we do not intend to update this information.
 
10 Message from the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
   
  I – Information on 
the company
Credit Suisse at a glance  12
Strategy  13
Divisions  19
Regulation and supervision  26
Risk factors  45
11
   
Credit Suisse at a glance
Credit Suisse 
Our strategy builds on Credit Suisse’s core strengths: its position as a leading global wealth manager, its specialist investment 
banking capabilities and its strong presence in our home market of Switzerland. We seek to follow a balanced approach with our 
wealth management activities, aiming to capitalize on both the large pool of wealth within mature markets as well as the signifi-
cant growth in wealth in Asia Pacific and other emerging markets. Founded in 1856, we today have a global reach with operations 
in about 50 countries and 48,770 employees from over 150 different nations. Our broad footprint helps us to generate a more 
geographically balanced stream of revenues and net new assets and allows us to capture growth opportunities around the world. 
We serve our clients through three regionally focused divisions: Swiss Universal Bank, International Wealth Management and Asia 
Pacific. These regional businesses are supported by our Investment Bank division. Our business divisions cooperate closely to pro-
vide holistic financial solutions, including innovative products and specially tailored advice.
Swiss    International 
Universal Bank Wealth Management
The Swiss Universal Bank division offers comprehensive advice  The International Wealth Management division through its Private 
and a wide range of financial solutions to private, corporate and  Banking business offers comprehensive advisory services and tai-
institutional clients primarily domiciled in our home market of  lored investment and financing solutions to wealthy private clients 
Switzerland, which offers attractive growth opportunities and  and external asset managers in Europe, the Middle East, Africa 
where we can build on a strong market position across our key  and Latin America, utilizing comprehensive access to the broad 
businesses. Our Private Clients business has a leading franchise  spectrum of Credit Suisse’s global resources and capabilities as 
in our Swiss home market and serves ultra-high-net-worth indi- well as a wide range of proprietary and third-party products and 
vidual, high-net-worth individual, affluent and retail clients. Our  services. Our Asset Management business offers investment 
Corporate & Institutional Clients business serves large corporate  solutions and services globally to a broad range of clients, includ-
clients, small and medium-sized enterprises, institutional clients,  ing pension funds, governments, foundations and endowments, 
external asset managers, financial institutions and commodity  corporations and individuals.
traders.
Asia Pacific Investment Bank
The Asia Pacific division delivers an integrated wealth manage- The Investment Bank division delivers client-centric sales and 
ment, financing, underwriting and advisory offering to our target  trading products, services and solutions across all asset classes 
ultra-high-net-worth, entrepreneur and corporate clients. We  and regions as well as advisory, underwriting and financing ser-
provide a comprehensive suite of wealth management products  vices. Our range of products and services includes global securi-
and services to our clients in Asia Pacific and provide a broad  ties sales, trading and execution, prime brokerage, capital raising 
range of advisory services related to debt and equity underwrit- and comprehensive corporate advisory services. Additionally, our 
ing of public offerings and private placements as well as merg- Global Trading Solutions platform provides centralized trading and 
ers and acquisitions. Our close collaboration with the Investment  sales services to the Group’s other business divisions. Our clients 
Bank supports and enables our wealth management activities in  include financial institutions and sponsors, corporations, govern-
the region through the delivery of holistic, innovative products and  ments, ultra-high-net-worth individuals, sovereigns and institutional 
tailored advice.  investors.
12 Credit Suisse at a glance
   
Strategy
Credit Suisse strategy
Since 2015, we have built on our leading regional wealth man-
agement positions to significantly grow our Wealth Management 
Our strategy is to be a leading Wealth Manager with strong  business. We have attracted CHF 250.9 billion of net new assets 
global Investment Banking capabilities. since the beginning of 2016, leading to record Assets under 
Our strategy has driven our operational success as we have  Management of CHF 1,511.9 billion at the end of 2020. We will 
transformed Credit Suisse since 2015. During our restructur- seek to accelerate our growth by investing into our Wealth Man-
ing phase between 2015 and 2018, we lowered our break-even  agement-related businesses with the ambition to deliver positive 
point through a significant reduction in our cost base, success- operating leverage and a return on regulatory capital of 20-25% 
fully de-risked our investment banking activities and strengthened  in the medium-term. We also aim to grow our Wealth Manage-
our capital base. Since then, we have implemented a series of  ment-related income before taxes to between CHF 5.0-5.5 bil-
structural refinements intended to improve effectiveness, drive  lion in 2023.
efficiencies and capture future growth opportunities. > References to our Wealth Management-related businesses mean our Swiss 
Universal Bank division, our International Wealth Management division and our 
Asia Pacific division or their combined results. 
Our organizational structure now consists of three regionally focused 
Wealth Management-related divisions: Swiss Universal Bank, Inter- > References to our Wealth Management businesses mean the Private Clients 
national Wealth Management and Asia Pacific, supported by the  business within Swiss Universal Bank, the Private Banking business within 
International Wealth Management and the Asia Pacific division or their com-
global Investment Bank. We launched a new Sustainability, Research 
bined results.
& Investment Solutions (SRI) function at the Executive Board level, 
underlining the sharpened focus on sustainability. We combined our 
former Risk Management and Compliance functions into a single  We are implementing the following initiatives with clear medium-
integrated Chief Risk and Compliance Officer function to unlock  term ambition growth rates for the Swiss Universal Bank, Interna-
potential global synergies. Our operating businesses are supported  tional Wealth Management and Asia Pacific to deliver our financial 
by focused corporate functions at the Group Executive Board level,  ambitions in our Wealth Management business:
consisting of: Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief  p Grow client business volume by building on our Bank for 
Risk and Compliance Officer, Sustainability, Research & Investment  Entrepreneurs;
Solutions, General Counsel and Human Resources. p Enhance our financing solutions;
p Grow mandates leveraging our “House View”;
We are now focused on the growth phase of our strategic  p Capture opportunities in private markets;
journey, proactively investing to capture growth opportunities  p Develop sustainable investing and financing solutions;
across all our businesses, and our ambition to be a leader in  p Accelerate digital transformation; and
sustainability. p Extend collaboration with Asset Management, Global Trading 
Solutions (GTS) and the Investment Bank.
Accelerate Wealth Management growth 
Generate sustainable Investment Bank returns
We believe wealth management is one of the most attractive seg-
ments in banking. Global wealth has grown significantly in recent  A strong investment banking business is key to our ability to pro-
years and is projected to continue to outgrow GDP over the com- vide institutional-style solutions as well as capital markets and 
ing years. We seek to follow a balanced approach with our wealth  advisory services to our wealth management clients.
management activities, aiming to capitalize on both the large pool 
of wealth within mature markets as well as the significant growth  Effective August 1, 2020, we created a single, globally-integrated 
in wealth in Asia Pacific and other emerging markets. Investment Bank division through the combination of our former 
Global Markets, Investment Banking & Capital Markets and Asia 
The entrepreneurs and ultra-high-net-worth individuals (UHNWI)  Pacific Markets businesses to achieve critical scale. Our newly 
segment is expected to be the fastest growing wealth segment  integrated global division is intended to be more diversified, more 
especially in the higher growth emerging markets. We believe  balanced, less volatile and more connected to our Wealth Man-
that our positioning as the “Bank for Entrepreneurs” by leverag- agement clients.
ing our strengths in Wealth Management and Investment Banking 
provides us with differentiated capabilities to protect and grow our  In addition, GTS was created within the Investment Bank through 
clients’ wealth and offer an integrated approach across their pri- the combination of the successful businesses of International 
vate and corporate financial needs. Trading Solutions (ITS) and Asia Pacific Solutions. GTS is a 
joint venture between the Investment Bank and our International 
Through our regionalized model, across our three Wealth Man- Wealth Management, Swiss Universal Bank and Asia Pacific divi-
agement-related divisions Swiss Universal Bank, International  sions to provide institutional-style solutions to our wealth man-
Wealth Management and Asia Pacific, we have enhanced our cli- agement clients.
ent proximity and react to changing client needs.
Strategy 13
   
Since 2016, we have transformed the Investment Bank, growing  countries and regions in which the Group operates, the Executive 
our revenues by 13% to USD 9.7 billion and more than tripling our  Board invoked our formal crisis management process and put in 
income before taxes to USD 1.8 billion in 2020 while significantly  place various response measures, including travel restrictions, a 
reducing the risk profile of the business. We are focused on driving  quarantine protocol, guidelines for client meetings and employee 
sustainable returns across the Investment Bank and delivering on our  gatherings and certain changes to the daily operations of critical 
medium-term return on regulatory capital ambition of 10-15%. processes, in order to ensure continuity of our business opera-
tions and protect the health and safety of employees.
We believe we are well-positioned for the post COVID-19 market 
environment, and will benefit from the expected recovery in merg- Through the COVID-19 pandemic, Credit Suisse has supported 
ers and acquisitions (M&A) and asset finance, increased capi- its employees, clients and the communities in which we oper-
tal markets activity driven by leveraged finance and anticipated  ate. We have provided free antibody testing to employees and 
normalization of credit loss provisions. We intend to continue to  extended paid family leave in locations with closed schools. An 
strengthen the connectivity to our Wealth Management-related  internal survey in June 2020 showed that more than 90% of our 
businesses, particularly through GTS, delivering institutional- employees felt well-supported and informed by management’s 
style solutions to Wealth Management clients and the newly  response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
established mid-market M&A and advisory team in International 
Wealth Management. We are focused on disciplined investment in  Credit Suisse has played an active role in the design and execu-
people, capital and technology in our market-leading businesses  tion of the COVID-19 SME financing program sponsored by the 
across equities, fixed income and capital markets and advisory. Swiss government that provided CHF 17 billion of financing and 
we have conducted a bank-wide donation matching program rais-
Be a leader in sustainability ing approximately CHF 25 million for charities focused on allevi-
ating the impact of COVID-19 and supporting those affected by 
Credit Suisse’s commitment to integrating sustainability across  inequality.
our businesses and operations led to the creation of Sustainabil-
ity, Research & Investment Solutions at the Executive Board level.  Credit Suisse was able to process a loan volume of approximately 
We aim to deliver industry-leading sustainable insights and solu- CHF 3 billion in 2020 as part of the COVID-19 bridge loan pro-
tions across wealth management, investment banking, corporate  gram to help support the Swiss economy. As a supplement to this 
and institutional clients and provide a single “House View” with a  program, in January 2021 we also made available to our corpo-
focus on supertrends and sustainability. We are also committed  rate clients an additional credit facility of CHF 500 million.
to driving our own transition, including our commitment to achieve 
net zero emissions from our operations, supply chain and financ- Our COVID-19 crisis management efforts were recognized by 
ing activities no later than 2050, with intermediate emissions  Euromoney with an award for “Global Excellence in Leadership” – 
goals for 2030, as well as our commitment to develop science- Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2020. 
based targets.
We are closely monitoring the spread of COVID-19 and the 
Our ambition is to provide sustainable investment solutions at the  potential effects on our operations, business and financial per-
core of our offering to wealth management clients. We are extending  formance, including credit loss estimates, trading revenues, net 
the breadth and depth of our offering by integrating Environmental,  interest income and potential goodwill assessments.
Social and Governance (ESG) into our investment processes through  > Refer to “COVID-19 pandemic and related regulatory measures” in II – Operat-
our proprietary Credit Suisse Sustainability Framework. In 2020, we  ing and financial review – Credit Suisse for further information regarding other 
developments pertaining to COVID-19.
announced the goal to provide at least CHF 300 billion of sustain-
able financing over the next 10 years, supported by our proprietary 
Client Energy Transition Framework. In addition, we aim to partner 
Financial ambitions
with industry leaders and NGOs to drive best-in-class ESG standard 
setting.
Our financial ambitions are:
We have established a Board-level Sustainability Advisory Com- p Intend to deliver a medium-term Group return on tangible 
mittee to oversee our sustainability strategy and its execution and  equity (RoTE) of 10-12%, in a normalized environment, subject 
have established a Sustainability Leadership Committee with senior  to market and economic conditions;
representatives from each division and control function to drive and  p Aim to increase Wealth Management-related income before 
execute our sustainability strategy across the bank. taxes to between CHF 5.0-5.5 billion in 2023;
p Intend to deliver on our medium-term return on regulatory cap-
COVID-19 pandemic ital ambition of 20-25% in our Wealth Management-related 
businesses and 10-15% for our global Investment Bank;
The spread of COVID-19 has had a significant impact on the  p Drive positive operating leverage, including with continued 
global economy. In response to the COVID-19 outbreak in  innovation in digitalization and automation;
14 Strategy
   
p Continue to accrue for at least 5% dividend growth per annum,  Our UK investment banking entities, Credit Suisse International 
including with respect to the planned 2020 dividend compared  and Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited, have in the past 
to the total 2019 dividend of CHF 0.2776 per share; and provided a comprehensive range of investment banking services 
p Intend to buy back at least CHF 1.0 billion of shares in 2021,  to clients through both the London operations and a number of 
and up to a maximum of CHF 1.5 billion for the full year, sub- different branches across the European Union and, following the 
ject to market and economic conditions. UK’s withdrawal, subject to certain exceptions, we completed 
the transfer of their EU clients and EU venue-facing businesses 
We aim to operate with a common equity tier 1 (CET1) ratio of at  to entities in the EU. In order to provide continued services to 
least 12.5% and a Tier 1 ratio in excess of 17.5% for at least the  EU clients and access to EU markets, we leveraged our exist-
first half of 2021 given the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. ing legal entity network and, where necessary, transferred our 
EU clients and EU venue-facing broker-dealer business to Group 
We expect to record total restructuring expenses over the course  entities incorporated in Spain, Credit Suisse Securities, Sociedad 
of our current restructuring program of approximately CHF 300- de Valores, S.A., and Germany, Credit Suisse (Deutschland) AG. 
350 million which we believe will allow us to generate approxi- We transferred our EU client lending business activities, where 
mately CHF 250-300 million of gross savings in 2021 and  required, to Credit Suisse (Deutschland) AG. Businesses in the 
approximately CHF 400-450 million gross savings from 2022  UK entities’ EU branches were transferred to branches of Credit 
onwards. Together with ongoing productivity measures, this will  Suisse Securities, Sociedad de Valores, S.A.
allow for reinvestment, subject to market and economic condi-
tions, of approximately CHF 300-600 million across Wealth Man- In July 2020, an application for authorization as a credit institution 
agement and the Investment Bank, as well as in technology and  was filed with the Bank of Spain to convert the existing broker-
SRI. dealer entity, Credit Suisse Securities, Sociedad de Valores, S.A., 
into a fully licensed banking entity, Credit Suisse Bank (Europe) 
Our ambitions often include metrics that are non-GAAP financial  SA. The application is currently under consideration by the Bank 
measures and are unaudited. A reconciliation of these ambitions to  of Spain and the European Central Bank, and subject to their 
the nearest generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) mea- authorization, the conversion is anticipated to take place by mid-
sures is unavailable without unreasonable efforts. Adjusted results  year 2021. The new bank will be able to provide the full suite of 
exclude goodwill impairment, major litigation provisions, real estate  investment banking business EU-wide, including capital markets 
gains and other revenue and expense items included in our reported  advice, loan origination, arranging, underwriting, distribution and 
results, all of which are unavailable on a prospective basis. Return  securities and derivatives sales, trading and execution services.
on Tangible Equity is based on tangible shareholders’ equity, a non-
GAAP financial measure also known as tangible book value, which  Our UK wealth management entity, Credit Suisse (UK) Limited, 
is calculated by deducting goodwill and other intangible assets from  has in the past provided a comprehensive range of wealth man-
total shareholders’ equity as presented in our balance sheet, both of  agement services to clients through its London operations and, 
which are unavailable on a prospective basis. Return on regulatory  following the UK’s withdrawal, ceased such services to its EU cli-
capital, a non-GAAP financial measure, is calculated using income/ ents. In order to provide continued services to such clients, where 
(loss) after tax and assumes a tax rate of 25% and capital allocated  necessary, we transferred clients to other existing entities in our 
based on the average of 10% of risk-weighted assets (RWA) and  wealth management entity network in the EU.
3.5% of leverage exposure; the essential components of this cal-
culation are unavailable on a prospective basis. Such ambitions are  Following the UK’s withdrawal from the EU and in the context 
calculated in a manner that is consistent with the accounting policies  of an overarching global legal entity simplification program, the 
applied by us in preparing our financial statements. Group has furthermore developed a comprehensive EU entity 
strategy during 2020, which is in the process of implementa-
tion. The global legal entity simplification program is also defin-
Withdrawal of the UK from the EU 
ing a strategy to optimize the legal entity structure across other 
and our legal entity structure regions, including expediting the closure of redundant entities and 
an optimization of the legal entity structure of our asset manage-
Following extensive negotiations with the EU on the terms of its  ment businesses within International Wealth Management. Over 
withdrawal, the UK ceased to be a member of the EU on Janu- the medium term, the Group anticipates achieving a leaner global 
ary 31, 2020. Under the terms of the withdrawal agreement, the  legal entity structure, which is aligned to the business strategy 
UK continued to be bound by EU laws for a transitional period,  and requires maintaining fewer legal entities with the respective 
through December 31, 2020. capital benefits for the parent entity, Credit Suisse AG.
Strategy 15
   
Products and services 
industry leader in alternative investments and, in close collabora-
tion with our asset management business and Investment Banking 
Private banking offerings and Wealth  businesses, we offer innovative products with limited correlation to 
Management solutions equities and bonds, such as hedge funds, private equity, commodi-
ties and real estate investments. 
We offer a wide range of private banking and Wealth Manage-
ment solutions tailored for our clients in our Swiss Universal Bank,  In addition, we offer solutions for a range of private and corporate 
International Wealth Management and Asia Pacific divisions. Wealth Management needs, which include financial planning, 
succession planning and trust services.
Client segment specific value propositions
Our wide range of Wealth Management solutions is tailored to  Financing and lending 
specific client segments. Close collaboration with our Invest- We offer a broad range of financing and lending solutions across all 
ment Banking businesses enables us to offer customized and  of our private client segments, including consumer credit and real 
innovative solutions to our clients, especially in the UHNWI seg- estate mortgage lending, real asset lending relating to ship and avi-
ment, and we have specialized teams offering bespoke and com- ation financing for UHNWI, standard and structured hedging and 
plex solutions predominantly for our sophisticated clients. This  lombard lending solutions as well as collateral trading services. 
distinct value proposition of our integrated bank remains a key 
strength in our client offerings. Multi-shore platform 
With global operations comprising 13 international booking cen-
Structured advisory process ters in addition to our operations in Switzerland, we are able to 
We apply a structured approach in our advisory process based on  offer our clients booking capabilities locally as well as through our 
a thorough understanding of our clients’ needs, personal circum- international hubs. Our multi-shore offering is designed to serve 
stances, product knowledge, investment objectives and a com- clients who are focused on geographical risk diversification, have 
prehensive analysis of their financial situation to define individual  multiple domiciles, seek access to global execution services or 
client risk profiles. On this basis, we define an individual investment  are interested in a wider range of products than is available to 
strategy in collaboration with our clients. This strategy is imple- them locally. 
mented to help ensure adherence to portfolio quality standards 
and compliance with suitability and appropriateness standards for  Corporate client and institutional client offerings
all investment instruments. Responsible for the implementation are 
either the portfolio managers or our relationship managers working  In accordance with our ambition to position ourselves as the 
together with their advisory clients. Our UHNWI relationship man- “Bank for Entrepreneurs”, we provide corporate and institu-
agers are supported by dedicated portfolio managers. tional clients, predominantly in Switzerland, with a broad range 
of financial solutions. To meet our clients’ evolving needs, we 
Comprehensive investment services deliver our offering through an integrated franchise and interna-
We offer a comprehensive range of investment advice and dis- tional presence. Based on this model, we are able to assist our 
cretionary asset management services based on the outcome of  clients in virtually every stage of their business life cycle to cover 
our structured advisory process and the global “House View” of  their banking needs. For corporate clients, we provide a wide 
our Credit Suisse Investment Committee. We base our advice and  spectrum of banking products such as traditional and structured 
services on the analysis and recommendations of our research and  lending, payment services, foreign exchange, capital goods leas-
investment strategy teams, which provide a wide range of invest- ing and investment solutions. In addition, we apply our Investment 
ment expertise, including macroeconomic, equity, bond, commodity  Banking capabilities to supply customized services in the areas 
and foreign-exchange analysis, as well as research on the econ- of M&A, syndications and structured finance. For corporations 
omy. Our investment advice covers a range of services, from port- with specific needs for global finance and transaction banking, 
folio consulting to advising on individual investments. We offer our  we provide services in commodity trade finance, trade finance, 
clients portfolio and risk management solutions, including managed  structured trade finance, export finance and factoring. For our 
investment products. These are products actively managed and  Swiss institutional clients, including pension funds, insurance 
structured by our specialists or third parties, providing private inves- companies, public sector and UHNWI clients, we offer a wide 
tors with access to investment opportunities that otherwise would  range of fund solutions and fund-linked services, including fund 
not be available to them. For clients with more complex require- management and administration, fund design and comprehen-
ments, we offer investment portfolio structuring and the implemen- sive global custody solutions. Our offering also includes ship and 
tation of individual strategies, including a wide range of structured  aviation finance and a competitive range of services and products 
products and alternative investments. Discretionary asset manage- for financial institutions such as securities, cash and treasury 
ment services are available to clients who wish to delegate the  services. 
responsibility for investment decisions to Credit Suisse. We are an 
16 Strategy
   
Asset management offerings Prime services, through our globally integrated platform, offers 
hedge funds and institutional clients execution, financing, cus-
Our traditional investment products provide strategies and com- tody, clearing and risk advisory services across various asset 
prehensive management across equities, fixed income, and multi- classes through prime brokerage, synthetic financing and listed 
asset products in both fund formation and customized solutions.  and OTC derivatives. In addition, we partner with the most estab-
Stressing investment principles, such as risk management and  lished fund managers, fast-growing funds and select startups, 
asset allocation, we take an active and disciplined approach to  blending traditional prime brokerage services with innovative 
investing. Alongside our actively managed offerings, we have  financing solutions and comprehensive capital and consulting 
a suite of passively managed solutions, which provide clients  advisory services, to help funds build durable organizations across 
access to a wide variety of investment options for different asset  their lifecycle.
classes in a cost-effective manner.
Equity derivatives provides a full range of equity-related and 
We also offer institutional and individual clients a range of alterna- cross-asset products globally, including investment options, sys-
tive investment products, including credit investments, hedge fund  tematic strategies and financing solutions, as well as sophisti-
strategies, real estate and commodities. We are also able to offer  cated hedging and risk management expertise and comprehen-
access to various asset classes and markets through strategic  sive execution capabilities to private banking clients, financial 
alliances and key joint ventures with external managers. institutions, hedge funds, asset managers and corporations. 
Investment Banking financial solutions  Convertibles: The convertibles team provides secondary trading 
and market making of convertible bonds as well as pricing and 
Capital markets and advisory distribution of Credit Suisse-originated convertible issuances.
Equity capital markets originates, syndicates and underwrites 
equity in initial public offerings (IPOs), common and convertible  Fixed income
stock issues, acquisition financing and other equity issues.  Global credit products is an industry-leading, client-focused 
credit franchise that provides expert coverage in credit trading, 
Debt capital markets originates, syndicates and underwrites  sales and financing. Our strong history of credentials, includ-
corporate and sovereign debt, including investment grade and  ing a strong record in leveraged finance, reflect our unique ability 
leveraged loans, investment grade and high yield bonds and unit  to provide value-added products and solutions to our investors. 
transactions. We are also a leading provider of committed acquisi- We are a leading sales and trading market-maker in private and 
tion financing, including leveraged loan, bridge finance and mez- public debt across the credit spectrum, including leveraged loans, 
zanine finance and collateralized loan obligation formation. high yield and investment grade cash, as well as systematic trad-
ing. We are also a market-maker in the credit derivatives market, 
Advisory services advises clients on all aspects of M&A, cor- including the credit default swap index (CDX) suite, liquid single-
porate sales, restructurings, divestitures, spin-offs and takeover  name credit default swaps (CDS), sovereign CDS, credit default 
defense strategies. swaptions and iBoxx total return swaps. We offer clients a com-
prehensive range of financing options for credit products includ-
Equities ing, but not limited to, repurchase agreements, short covering, 
Cash equities provides a comprehensive suite of offerings,  total return swaps and portfolio lending.
including: (i) sales trading, responsible for managing the order 
flow between our clients and the marketplace and providing  Securitized products is a market-leading franchise provid-
clients with trading ideas and capital commitments, identify- ing asset based liquidity and financing solutions and products to 
ing trends and delivering the most effective trade execution; (ii)  institutional and Wealth Management clients. We have experience 
high touch and program trading, exchange-traded funds (ETFs)  in a broad range of asset categories including consumer, com-
and advanced execution services (AES) platform under our  mercial, residential, commercial real estate, transportation and 
global execution services group, which executes client orders  alternatives. Our finance business focuses on providing asset and 
and makes markets in listed and over-the-counter (OTC) cash  portfolio advisory services and financing solutions (warehouse, 
securities, ETFs and programs, providing liquidity to the mar- bridge and acquisition) and originates, structures and executes 
ket through both capital commitments and risk management.  capital markets transactions for our clients. Our trading platform 
AES is a sophisticated suite of algorithmic trading strategies,  provides market liquidity across a broad range of loans and secu-
tools and analytics that facilitates global trading across equities,  rities, including residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS), 
options, futures and foreign exchange. By employing algorithms  asset-backed securities (ABS) and commercial mortgage-backed 
to execute client orders and limit volatility, AES helps institutions  securities (CMBS). CMBS and RMBS include government- and 
and hedge funds reduce market impact. Credit Suisse provides  agency-backed as well as private-label loans. We have a sea-
access to over 100 trading destinations in over 40 countries and  soned and dedicated securitized product sales force that distrib-
six continents. In addition, we also provide specific research and  utes our primary and secondary product offerings to our client 
analytics through the Group’s SRI function and other content- base. We also offer residential mortgage servicing capabilities 
driven products and services. through our mortgage servicer Select Portfolio Services.
Strategy 17
   
Macro products includes our global foreign exchange and rates  Other
businesses and investment grade capital markets team in Swit- Other products and activities include lending and certain real 
zerland. Our rates business offers market-making capabilities  estate investments. Lending includes senior bank debt in the form 
in US cash and derivatives, European cleared swaps and select  of syndicated loans and commitments to extend credit to invest-
bilateral and structured solutions. Our investor products busi- ment grade and non-investment grade borrowers.
ness manufactures credit rates, foreign exchange and commod-
ity based structured products for institutional and private banking  Research and HOLT
clients. Our equity and fixed income businesses are enhanced by the 
research and HOLT functions. HOLT offers a framework for 
Emerging markets, financing and structured credit includes  objectively assessing the performance of over 20,000 companies 
a range of financing products including cash flow lending, share- worldwide, with interactive tools and consulting services that cli-
backed lending and secured financing transactions and onshore  ents use to make informed investment decisions.
trading in Brazil, Mexico, Russia, Turkey, China, India and South 
Korea. In addition, we offer financing solutions and tailored  Equity and fixed income research uses in-depth analytical frame-
investment products for Latin American, Central and Eastern  works, proprietary methodologies and data sources to analyze 
European, Middle Eastern and African financial institutions and  approximately 3,000 companies worldwide and provide macro-
corporate and sovereign clients. economic insights into this constantly changing environment.
18 Strategy
   
Divisions
Swiss Universal Bank
average levels of wealth per adult. We remain well-positioned 
in the Swiss market with strong market shares across our cli-
Business profile  ent segments, although the rise of financial technology (Fintech) 
companies in Europe and Switzerland with aggressive market 
Within Swiss Universal Bank, we offer comprehensive advice and a  entry strategies might increase the competition in the retail seg-
broad range of financial solutions to private, corporate and institu- ment going forward.
tional clients primarily domiciled in Switzerland. We serve our clients 
through the following six dedicated business areas in order to  The corporate and institutional clients business continues to offer 
cater to our Swiss client base: Digital Banking, Private Bank- attractive opportunities, supported by the resilience of the Swiss 
ing and Premium Clients within the Private Clients business, and  economy. We are a leading provider of banking services to corpo-
Corporate Banking, Investment Banking and Institutional Clients  rate and institutional clients in Switzerland, utilizing our market-
within the Corporate & Institutional Clients business.  leading investment banking capabilities in Switzerland for local 
execution while leveraging the international reach and placing 
Our Private Clients business has a leading client franchise in Swit- power of our global Investment Bank.
zerland, serving approximately 1.5 million clients, including UHNWI, 
high-net-worth individual (HNWI), affluent and retail clients. Our  Structurally, the industry continues to undergo significant change. 
service offering is based on our structured advisory process, distinct  Regulatory requirements for investment advisory services continue 
client-segment-specific value propositions and coverage mod- to increase, including in the areas of suitability and appropriateness 
els as well as access to a broad range of comprehensive products  of advice, client information and documentation. This is expected to 
and services. Our network includes 1,290 relationship managers  drive further consolidation of smaller banks due to the higher critical 
in 109 branches. Additionally, our clients benefit from the advice of  size necessary to fulfill business and regulatory requirements. We 
more than 300 specialists in areas such as investing, wealth and  continue to believe that we are well-positioned to opportunistically 
real estate planning, and lending. Our consumer finance business  take advantage of this potential market consolidation. We have 
BANK-now has 17 branches. Also, we offer our clients the world’s  made additional progress in adapting to the changing regulatory 
leading credit card brands through Swisscard AECS GmbH, an  environment and are continuing to dedicate significant resources 
equity method investment jointly owned with American Express. to ensure our business is compliant with regulatory standards. 
Furthermore, interest rates are expected to remain negative for a 
Our Corporate & Institutional Clients business offers expert  longer period of time. In 2020, we continued to pursue mitigat-
advice and high-quality services to a wide range of clients, serving  ing actions and charged negative interest rates on Swiss franc 
the needs of over 100,000 corporations and institutions, including  deposits above a certain threshold.
large corporate clients, small and medium-size enterprises (SMEs), 
institutional clients, external asset managers, financial institutions  The COVID-19 pandemic negatively affected our business per-
and commodity traders. This business also includes our Swiss  formance in 2020, including higher provision for credit losses, 
investment banking business, serving corporate clients and finan- adverse foreign exchange-related movements and a sharp reduc-
cial institutions in connection with financing transactions in debt  tion in US dollar interest rates. We believe that the pandemic can 
and equity capital markets and advising on M&A transactions. Our  be expected to have continued negative effects on major econo-
business includes 480 relationship managers who serve our clients  mies globally and could keep adversely affecting our business 
out of 58 locations.  performance going forward, including lower interest rates impact-
ing our margins and an adverse impact on credit losses.
Key data – Swiss Universal Bank
Business strategy
        in / end of 
   2020   2019   2018 
Switzerland, our home market, has always been and is expected 
Key data             
to remain a key market for our Group and is core to our over-
Net revenues (CHF million)   5,615   5,905   5,443 
all strategy. Within Swiss Universal Bank, we combine all the 
Income before taxes (CHF million)   2,104   2,573   1,991 
strengths and critical mass of our Swiss retail, wealth manage-
Assets under management (CHF billion)          
ment, corporate, institutional and investment banking activities. 
– Private Clients   208.6   217.6   198.0 
The division is well-positioned to meet the needs of our clients, 
– Corporate & Institutional Clients   462.6   436.4   348.7 
both individual and corporate, with a broad suite of customized 
Number of employees   13,220   12,560   12,150 
products and services. 
Business environment In order to further cement our standing as a leading Swiss bank, 
we focus on our four key priorities:
The Swiss private banking and wealth management industry 
remains very attractive and continues to have positive growth  Bank for Switzerland with Global Expertise
prospects. Switzerland has one of the highest millionaire densities  We are committed to our Swiss home market and to all our clients in 
worldwide and is expected to continue to have one of the highest  Switzerland – we are a universal bank that serves private, corporate 
Divisions 19
   
and institutional client segments. We intend to expand our market  Our comprehensive offering for the various needs and stages in 
share and continue to be a responsible partner in Swiss society. the lives of our clients underpins our ambition to provide holistic 
solutions. In 2020, we played an active role, from the outset, in 
In 2020, we decided to accelerate our innovation and digi- the development of the bridging loan solution for Swiss SMEs in 
tal delivery process and combined our Direct Banking business  response to the COVID-19 pandemic which was sponsored by 
area with our Digitalization & Products business area to create  the Swiss government. The program was very well received in 
an integrated Digital Banking business area. The aim of this new  Switzerland and had a significant impact for Swiss SMEs in miti-
business area is to focus on digital solutions for our high-tech  gating the adverse effects of the pandemic. In total, Credit Suisse 
clients, predominantly our retail/affluent and smaller corporate  was able to process a loan volume of approximately CHF 3 billion 
clients. Furthermore, we decided to adapt our branch network  in 2020 as part of the COVID-19 bridge loan program to help 
in response to changing client behavior. We further announced  support the Swiss economy. As a supplement to this program, in 
the integration of our subsidiary Neue Aargauer Bank into Credit  January 2021 we also made available to our corporate clients an 
Suisse (Schweiz) AG in order to establish a consistent and effi- additional credit facility of CHF 500 million. Through the Credit 
cient offering in the canton of Aargau. We continue to see poten- Suisse Collective Foundation 1e, we provide companies and self-
tial in developing the HNWI and the UHNWI business through  employed persons in Switzerland with the opportunity to structure 
selective relationship manager hiring. Both of these wealth market  their extra-mandatory retirement plans on an attractive, autono-
segments are growing significantly and remain highly attractive. Our  mous basis. In 2020, we were able to significantly grow the num-
holistic offering and the collaboration across the division and across  ber of enrolled companies as well as corresponding assets under 
the bank are the basis for our efforts to capture further growth in  management. In line with increasing demand for sustainable 
both market segments. Furthermore, we continue to create value  investment opportunities, our clients will now also benefit from our 
for our clients by leveraging our expertise in investment banking and  collaboration with the Group’s newly developed SRI function.
asset management. Our efforts and commitment to Switzerland 
remain a priority and we were recognized again as “Switzerland’s  Bank for the Digital Generation
Best Bank” – Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2020 as well as  We are transforming the way we serve and advise our clients 
“Switzerland’s Bank of the Year 2020” – The Banker Award 2020. in an increasingly digital society and economy. We expect new 
technologies and business models to emerge and must adapt our 
Bank for Entrepreneurs efforts to be successful. To this end, we are investing in digital 
Entrepreneurship has always been important for Credit Suisse,  capabilities with a focus on client engagement, self-service capa-
and entrepreneurial thinking is one of our core principles. We have  bilities and frontline productivity. Digitalization, automation and 
grown and will seek to continue to significantly grow our business  data management will be key drivers to continuously improve our 
with entrepreneurs and their companies across all businesses within  cost position and drive our competitiveness with the possibility to 
Swiss Universal Bank, including by leveraging our international con- fundamentally change the way we work.
nectivity in investment banking and asset management. It is our 
ambition to be recognized as the “Bank for Entrepreneurs”. In 2020, we continued the strengthening of digital solutions and 
capabilities for private, corporate and institutional clients as well as 
We strengthened our focus on being recognized as the “Bank for  relationship managers. We developed and launched our new CSX 
Entrepreneurs” by launching joint client coverage for private and  offering, including a mobile-optimized onboarding process, a debit 
corporate clients in 2015. In this context, we increased the num- card and a redesigned mobile banking application targeted at clients 
ber of Entrepreneurs & Executives relationship managers and now  with primarily digital banking needs. The CSX offering suite is being 
cover the Swiss market with 26 locations. We actively contributed  continuously expanded with new features such as the CSX Financial 
to further develop Switzerland as a center for entrepreneurship and  Plan, a comprehensive financial planning solution, and CSX Invest, 
innovation through our private equity vehicle Credit Suisse Entre- a mobile-optimized, simple solution for first time investors. Moreover, 
preneur Capital Ltd. With more than ten investments in new as well  we have rolled out our new relationship manager application tool for 
as existing portfolio companies in 2020, we not only helped young  our business areas covering corporate clients and institutional clients 
entrepreneurs to grow their businesses but also supported them in  to drive productivity of client-facing employees.
successfully navigating a challenging operating environment. Our 
broad range of expertise and capabilities enabled us to execute a  Selected awards and market share momentum 
large number of investment banking transactions in 2020 and we 
were again recognized as “Switzerland’s Best Investment Bank” –  Credit Suisse received a number of key industry awards in 2020, 
Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2020 as well as “Best Private  including: 
Bank for Entrepreneurs” – Global Private Banking Awards 2020 –  p “Global Excellence in Leadership” – Euromoney Awards for 
PWM / The Banker. Excellence 2020
p “Excellence in Leadership in Western Europe” – Euromoney 
Bank for Holistic Solutions Awards for Excellence 2020
We seek to work as partners, understand clients’ complex needs  p “Switzerland’s Best Bank” – Euromoney Awards for Excellence 
and find compelling solutions that solve problems holistically, giv- 2020
ing clients practical experiences, services and products.
20 Divisions
   
p “Switzerland’s Best Investment Bank” – Euromoney Awards for  economic growth outlook. Despite a gradual recovery in financial 
Excellence 2020 markets since the second quarter, client activity and related reve-
p “Switzerland’s Bank of the Year 2020” – The Banker Award  nues remained subdued and credit losses increased during 2020, 
2020 which led many industry participants to activate contingency cost 
p “Best Private Bank for Entrepreneurs” – Global Private Bank- reduction plans to safeguard profitability.
ing Awards 2020 – PWM / The Banker
If the adverse impact of the pandemic on economic growth can 
be mitigated in 2021, the private banking industry is expected to 
benefit from attractive medium to long-term growth prospects in 
International Wealth 
the emerging and Western European markets covered by Interna-
Management  tional Wealth Management. Private banking assets are expected 
to grow by approximately 7% annually through 2024 from their 
2020 base under this scenario. Regionally, private banking assets 
Business profile  are expected to grow by approximately 8% in Russia and Central 
& Eastern Europe, by approximately 9% in the Middle East & 
International Wealth Management is an integrated wealth man- Africa and by approximately 12% in Latin America. This growth 
ager catering to the needs of our private, corporate and institu- expectation is in part based on an anticipated increase in popula-
tional clients by offering expert advice and a broad range of finan- tion, entrepreneurial wealth creation and technological advance-
cial solutions.  ments. Although wealth is expected to grow at a slower pace 
in Western Europe (by approximately 4% annually), this region 
Our Private Banking business provides comprehensive advi- continues to be of crucial importance, holding approximately 20% 
sory services and tailored investment and financing solutions to  of the world’s private banking assets. In addition, demographic 
wealthy private clients and external asset managers in Europe,  developments relating to an aging population, such as funding 
the Middle East, Africa and Latin America. We serve our clients  pressure in the public pension systems and a transfer of wealth to 
through 1,140 relationship managers in 42 cities in 25 countries,  the next generation, are expected to present important opportuni-
utilizing comprehensive access to the broad spectrum of Credit  ties in the European private banking markets.
Suisse’s global resources and capabilities as well as a wide range 
of proprietary and third-party products and services. The asset management industry is also expected to resume its 
growth trend assuming an effective containment of the COVID-
Our Asset Management business offers investment solutions  19 pandemic, with positive support from increasing global wealth. 
and services globally to a broad range of clients, including pen- At the same time, asset managers face a number of challenges, 
sion funds, governments, foundations and endowments, corpora- including regulatory complexities and revenue and margin com-
tions and individuals, along with our private banking businesses.  pression. The continued rise of passive and low-fee products 
Our asset management capabilities span across a diversified  reflects ongoing fee sensitivity from investors. Although fees for 
range of asset classes, with a focus on select traditional and  alternative strategies have been more resilient, market trends 
alternative strategies.  have led to a need for more innovative products and solutions. 
In this environment, managers must demonstrate differentiating 
Key data – International Wealth Management capabilities including not only strong investment performance, but 
also other value-add capabilities such as risk management and 
        in / end of 
   2020   2019   2018  controls, compliance, client reporting and data security.
Key data             
Several trends are expected to shape the wealth management 
Net revenues (CHF million)   4,837   5,816   5,320 
industry and provide opportunities for International Wealth Man-
Income before taxes (CHF million)   1,052   2,065   1,610 
agement in the years to come, such as the need by clients for 
Assets under management (CHF billion)          
increasingly sophisticated financial solutions, the ongoing tran-
– Private Banking   365.4   370.0   357.5 
sition towards sustainable investing and sustainable financing 
– Asset Management   440.3   437.9   388.7 
and the rise in importance of private markets within the financial 
Number of employees   9,850   10,230   9,930 
ecosystem.
Business environment The COVID-19 pandemic negatively affected our business per-
formance in 2020, including higher provision for credit losses, 
The private banking and asset management industries entered  adverse foreign exchange-related movements and a sharp reduc-
2020 following a long-term period of fundamentally supportive  tion in US dollar interest rates. The outlook of our business is 
business and investment conditions driven by a strong economic  uncertain due to the continued pandemic and its related eco-
cycle. With the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, however,  nomic impacts, including lower interest rates and potential credit 
wealth growth and clients’ investment sentiment deteriorated,  losses. Potentially lower average assets under management due 
reflecting increased financial market volatility and a reduced  to the volatility in financial markets, lower performance fees and 
Divisions 21
   
investment-related revenues and a shift towards lower risk asset  of our entrepreneurial clients in mid-market M&A and corpo-
classes may continue to impact results in our Asset Management  rate advisory, in close collaboration with Credit Suisse’s Invest-
business.  ment Bank division.
p Launching a Sustainable Client Solutions business area to 
Business strategy  address the fast-growing client demand for sustainable invest-
ments and sustainable financing.
Our business is among the industry’s leaders by size and reputa- p Consolidating all our lending capabilities into the International 
tion in our target markets and regions. International Wealth Man- Financing Group business area as a single, efficient hub in 
agement continues to contribute significantly to Credit Suisse’s  International Wealth Management for all our lending solutions.
strategic and financial ambitions. We evolved our business strat-
egy in 2020 to better capture our growth potential, aspiring to be 
the preferred banking partner to our clients. The following strate- Cross-divisional collaboration and product innovation, including 
gic priorities guide our decisions: the centralized trading and sales services sourced from our GTS 
joint venture within the Investment Bank, enable us to offer inte-
Focus on clients’ needs grated solutions to institutional and private clients.
We have tailored our organization and client coverage model with 
the aim of systematically serving the specific needs of each cli- Invest in our operating model
ent segment and promoting long-term growth across emerging  We are further investing in our infrastructure, improving processes 
and Western European markets. We serve our clients through five  front-to-back and driving our digital transformation to ensure 
regional coverage areas addressing the geographies of Western  scalability and support our growth plans. In that regard, we are 
Europe, Emerging Europe, Middle East/Turkey/Africa, Bra- simplifying our operating model, making important investments in 
zil and Latin America. We serve our clients through a combina- the redesign and automation of processes, while enhancing and 
tion of offshore centers and local offices to deliver our integrated  harmonizing our onshore platforms. These measures aim at short-
banking services to UHNWI and entrepreneurial HNWI clients.  ening the time-to-market of products and solutions and reducing 
Within these regional coverage areas we have embedded a small  our relationship managers’ administrative tasks. They are also 
number of senior bankers, who we refer to as Strategic Client  expected to help us to systematically embed risk management 
Partners, that provide services dedicated to strategic clients, giv- and compliance oversight into our processes, enhancing our abil-
ing them streamlined access to our firm-wide solutions. In paral- ity to protect our franchise and reputation, thus facilitating sus-
lel, our Private Banking International coverage area serves clients  tainable growth.
with less complex needs. These clients are domiciled across all 
International Wealth Management regions and are served out of  Position Asset Management for long-term growth
Switzerland through an analytics-driven, multi-channel advisory  In our Asset Management business, we seek to grow our recur-
model. ring management fees, especially in our wholly owned operating 
businesses, by scaling-up our existing strong franchises while 
To support this model, we are strengthening and adapting our  focusing product launches on areas adjacent to core strengths, 
footprint with technology investments in our key hubs, while  with an additional emphasis on differentiating alternative invest-
selectively investing in onshore locations and markets with attrac- ment solutions and private market offerings. We aim to do this 
tive growth prospects. We have hired relationship managers, solu- while maintaining a disciplined approach to cost management. 
tion experts, risk management and compliance specialists locally 
as part of our efforts to better identify and address client needs  Furthermore, we are making significant investments into our plat-
and business opportunities.  form and resources to accelerate the integration of ESG criteria 
into our offering, address the growing client demand for sustain-
Expand our capabilities able investments and become a leader for sustainable investment 
We focus on systematically offering solutions and products that  solutions. Finally, we support the growth efforts of our Asset 
are tailored to our clients’ needs, holistically advising them on  Management franchise through strong collaboration and connec-
their assets and liabilities. We believe that broadened collabora- tivity with Credit Suisse’s wealth management businesses glob-
tion and partnership across our firm provides the basis for creat- ally, to better align our offering to client needs and shorten the 
ing a differentiated and needs-based value proposition and for  delivery time for new investment opportunities.
gaining a larger share of our client’s business. We are leveraging 
our investment strategy and research capabilities, including the  Selected awards and market share momentum 
Credit Suisse House View, as part of our approach to further opti-
mize the risk/return profiles of our clients’ investment portfolios.  Credit Suisse received a number of key industry awards in 2020, 
including:
In 2020, we significantly expanded our capabilities to systemati- p “Central and Eastern Europe’s Best Bank for Wealth Manage-
cally address three areas of high client demand by: ment” – Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2020
p Creating a dedicated Investment Banking Advisory business  p “Latin America’s Best Bank for Wealth Management” – Euro-
area in International Wealth Management to address the needs  money Awards for Excellence 2020
22 Divisions
   
p “Excellence in Leadership in Western Europe” – Euromoney  client activity in 2020, particularly across equity underwriting and 
Awards for Excellence 2020 structured products, while corporate M&A advisory activity was 
p “Best Private Bank in Russia” (eighth consecutive year), “Best  lower. There was also significant client deleveraging in the first 
Private Bank in the Middle East” and “Best Private Bank for  half of the year. The US dollar depreciated in the second half of 
Entrepreneurs” – Global Private Banking Awards 2020 – PWM  2020 against a basket of major world currencies, with the US 
/ The Banker Dollar Index declining 13% since its peak in March 2020.
p “Best Private Bank in the Middle East” – Euromoney Private 
Banking and Wealth Management Survey 2020 Our operating environment and results in 2020 were significantly 
influenced by the global impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Reactions of investors and central banks and a sharp reduc-
tion in US dollar interest rates significantly increased volatility in 
Asia Pacific
financial markets and led to higher credit losses. These effects 
could have an impact on our results, including potentially adverse 
Business profile impacts on credit losses and mark-to-market losses in our financ-
ing business.
The Asia Pacific division delivers an integrated wealth manage-
ment offering, spanning private banking, financing, underwriting  Business strategy
and advisory, to our target ultra-high-net-worth, entrepreneur and 
corporate clients. Our comprehensive suite of wealth manage- Our business strategy remains steadfast, despite short-term 
ment capabilities includes investment funds, discretionary man- market cyclicality and pressures, and is centered on the growth 
dates, wealth planning services such as family office and philan- of our franchise in large wealth and financial markets in Asia, 
thropy advisory, lending solutions, debt and equity underwriting of  as well as on our ambition to be “The Bank for Entrepreneurs in 
public offerings and private placements, and advisory related to  Asia Pacific”. Our divisional model and integrated delivery are key 
M&A. Our close collaboration with the other divisions of the bank  differentiators that support our client-centric strategy to provide 
globally supports and enables our wealth management activities  holistic advice, structured solutions and tailored investment and 
in the region by providing global connectivity, innovative products  lending services that cater to our clients’ private and corporate 
and holistic solutions to our Asia Pacific clients. financial needs. Our consistent focus on maintaining a diversified 
regional footprint and leading market positions in private banking 
Key data – Asia Pacific and investment banking has been critical to meeting our clients’ 
needs, attracting strong talent and fostering a partnership culture 
        in / end of 
   2020   2019   2018  that can deliver attractive returns and growth with disciplined risk 
management. 
Key data             
Net revenues (CHF million)   3,155   3,029   2,759 
Our wealth management-focused businesses in Asia Pacific 
Income before taxes (CHF million)   828   922   632 
demonstrated resilient performance in 2020, driven by higher 
Assets under management (CHF billion)   221.3   220.0   199.3 
transaction-based revenues, supported by increased revenues 
Number of employees   6,890   6,530   6,200 
from strong client activity, structured equity origination and equity 
underwriting, and GTS. We established the business unit, Asia 
Business environment Pacific Strategic Products (ASP), comprised of Asia Pacific 
Financing Group (AFG), Asia Pacific Asset Finance and Loan 
Wealth creation in Asia has largely been driven by first and sec- Syndication, to enable our strategy to deliver differentiated capa-
ond generation entrepreneurs. The fundamentals underpinning  bilities across financing, capital solutions and structuring to our 
long-term, entrepreneur-led wealth creation and growth in busi- entrepreneur and corporate client segments across the region. 
ness activities for the Asia Pacific region remained positive and  Our diversified platform across clients, countries and products 
are expected to continue. Asia Pacific continues to be a fast  continues to be essential to effectively and sustainably compete 
growing region, with gross domestic product and the UHNWI  in a region as dynamic and varied as Asia Pacific. A key milestone 
wealth segment estimated to increase significantly in the com- achieved during the year was the increase of our sharehold-
ing years. An increase in wealth held by UHNWI and HNWI  ing in our China securities joint venture, Credit Suisse Founder 
is expected to result in larger capital pools for investment and  Securities Limited (CSFS), from 33.3% to 51%, paving the way 
enhanced opportunities for entrepreneur-led activity, notwith- for Credit Suisse to build out our onshore capabilities in China to 
standing short-term market cyclicality and pressures. capture opportunities for the further growth of our Greater China 
business.
Asia Pacific was the first region to be affected by COVID-19, with 
local governments generally responding early to the pandemic  Looking ahead, our strategic priorities are to leverage our dif-
in the first half of 2020. The pandemic and ongoing geopoliti- ferentiated integrated model to selectively broaden our cover-
cal tensions, particularly between China and the US, have led to  age base of UHNW and entrepreneur clients through strategic 
greater market volatility and also uncertainty. There was higher  hires across the region and deepen tailored product offerings, 
Divisions 23
   
especially in financing and managed solutions. We intend to drive  Business environment 
diversified growth by investing in our leading country franchises, 
continuing our long-term build out of China onshore capabilities  In 2020, operating conditions were impacted by unprecedented 
and growing wealth-linked strategic solutions and distribution in  events, primarily driven by the global COVID-19 pandemic as well 
collaboration with the bank’s businesses globally, including GTS,  as geopolitical and macroeconomic uncertainties related to the 
SRI and Asset Management. We will seek operational excellence  UK’s withdrawal from the EU and the US elections. Uncertainty 
by leveraging digitalization, data management and automation to  due to the spread of COVID-19 led to severe market dislocations 
improve the overall client experience and continue to enhance our  including record levels of volatility, widening credit spreads and a 
risk management and controls. collapse in energy prices. Major central banks and governments 
around the world responded by implementing unprecedented 
Selected 2020 awards and market share  monetary and fiscal policy stimulus measures, which resulted 
momentum  in strong investor demand for yield with record debt and equity 
issuance levels and resulted in significantly higher volumes and 
p “Asia’s Best Bank for Wealth Management” – Euromoney Asia  client activity in our trading businesses, in particular our GTS 
Awards for Excellence 2020 business. However, the economic impact of the pandemic has 
p “Best Private Bank, Asia Pacific” – Asian Private Banker  had a negative impact on our credit exposures and may have an 
Awards for Distinction 2020 adverse impact on client sentiment and risk appetite going for-
p “Asia’s Best Investment Bank” – GlobalCapital Asia Awards  ward, which is likely to impact our results. The industry-wide fee 
2020 pool increased 19% compared to 2019. These events nega-
p “Equity Derivatives House of the Year, Asia ex-Japan” – Asia  tively impacted M&A fee pools with completed fee pools down 
Risk Awards 2020 10% compared to 2019. Despite this slowdown in M&A activity, 
p “Credit Derivatives House of the Year, Asia ex-Japan” – Asia  announced M&A volumes increased in the second half of the 
Risk Awards 2020 year.
p “Best House, Asian Equities” – Structured Retail Products 
Asia Awards 2020 Business strategy
Effective August 1, 2020, we integrated our investment banking 
capabilities across the former Global Markets, Investment Bank-
Investment Bank
ing and Capital Markets and Asia Pacific Markets businesses 
into one division, the Investment Bank. This globally-integrated, 
Business profile client-centric platform consolidates our sales and trading, under-
writing and advisory capabilities, enabling us to achieve critical 
The Investment Bank offers a broad range of financial products  scale, maximize global connectivity and reduce earnings volatility. 
and services focused on client-driven businesses and also sup- As part of our structural initiatives, we created GTS, combining 
ports Credit Suisse’s global wealth management businesses and  our successful ITS and Asia Pacific Solutions franchises to glo-
their clients. Our suite of products and services includes global  balize institutional products for our wealth management clients. 
securities sales, trading and execution, prime brokerage and capital  The methodology applied to allocate GTS results across the four 
raising and advisory services. Our clients include financial institu- divisions reflects the economic contribution from the client base 
tions, corporations, governments, sovereigns, ultra-high-net-worth  that each division provides to GTS, as well as the historical per-
and institutional investors, such as pension funds and hedge funds,  formance of the constituting businesses, and combines a fixed 
financial sponsors and private individuals around the world. We  allocation and an additional split to each division of any GTS out-
deliver our investment banking capabilities globally through regional  performance above the fixed allocation. In addition, we increased 
and local teams based in both major developed and emerging mar- scale in our equities business by integrating our APAC cash and 
ket centers. Our integrated business model enables us to deliver  prime services businesses to better serve our institutional clients. 
high value, customized solutions that leverage the expertise offered  We also simplified our capital markets businesses by combining 
across Credit Suisse and that help our clients unlock capital and  our origination and execution platforms. 
value in order to achieve their strategic goals.
We believe these strategic actions make us well-positioned to 
Key data – Investment Bank grow revenues and deliver sustainable returns while maintain-
ing cost and capital discipline. We remain focused on maintaining 
        in / end of 
   2020   2019   2018  our leading market shares as well as investing in growth areas. 
Specifically, our strategy includes increasing our M&A footprint in 
Key data             
the high growth technology and healthcare sectors, developing 
Net revenues (CHF million)   9,098   8,161   8,004 
tailored products and solutions across ESG and private markets, 
Income before taxes (CHF million)   1,655   1,026   818 
expanding our onshore China footprint and investing in electronic 
Number of employees   17,560   17,050   15,590 
trading. In addition, we expect to further increase collabora-
tion across Credit Suisse, focusing on our International Wealth 
24 Divisions
   
Management clients, particularly with UHNW clients in collabora- cost savings target. We expect to be able to optimize capital 
tion with GTS, and EMEA capital markets and advisory groups.  allocation by investing in our most profitable opportunities, while 
aligning with a Group target of allocating approximately one third 
We expect that the integration will also enable us to generate  of capital to the Investment Bank. We believe these strategic 
efficiencies from consolidating our risk, technology and execution  actions will enable us to achieve a return on regulatory capital of 
platforms. Specifically, we expect to deliver more than USD 100  10-15% in the medium term. 
million in gross cost savings, as part of the Group’s 2022 gross 
Divisions 25
   
Regulation and supervision
Overview 
Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority FINMA (FINMA) 
have focused on and are closely monitoring the evolution of the 
Our operations are regulated by authorities in each of the jurisdic- COVID-19 outbreak and its impact on the financial services sec-
tions in which we have offices, branches and subsidiaries. tor. These regulators have adopted measures to provide tempo-
rary relief to supervised entities in respect of certain regulatory 
Central banks and other bank regulators, financial services agen- requirements. These regulatory initiatives have accompanied a 
cies, securities agencies and exchanges and self-regulatory orga- range of measures by national governments and central banks in 
nizations are among the regulatory authorities that oversee our  a number of jurisdictions to support the economy and, in particu-
businesses. There is coordination among many of our regulators,  lar, incentivize lending to businesses and consumers. Such mea-
in particular among our primary regulators in Switzerland, the US,  sures include interest-rate cuts and introducing or extending asset 
the EU and the UK as well as in the Asia Pacific region. purchase schemes and liquidity and credit facilities for financial 
sector institutions. Authorities will continue to monitor the spread 
The supervisory and regulatory regimes of the countries in which  of COVID-19 closely and are expected to adapt their guidance to 
we operate determine to some degree our ability to expand into  firms as the situation develops.
new markets, the services and products that we are able to offer  > Refer to “COVID-19 pandemic and related regulatory measures” in II – Operat-
in those markets and how we structure specific operations. ing and financial review – Credit Suisse for a discussion of regulatory develop-
ments pertaining to COVID-19.
Governments and regulatory authorities around the world have 
responded to the challenging market conditions beginning in  Interbank Offered Rate Transition
2007 by proposing and enacting numerous reforms of the regula- Credit Suisse has identified a significant number of its liabili-
tory framework for financial services firms such as the Group. In  ties and assets linked to interbank offered rate (IBOR) indices 
particular, a number of reforms have been proposed and enacted  across businesses that require transition to alternative refer-
by regulators, including our primary regulators, which could poten- ence rates and is participating in national working groups and 
tially have a material effect on our business. These regulatory  industry forums that are working to address this transition. In 
developments could result in additional costs or limit or restrict  this regard, on October 23, 2020, the International Swap and 
the way we conduct our business. Although we expect regula- Derivatives Association (ISDA) launched (i) Supplement number 
tory-related costs and capital requirements for all major financial  70 to the 2006 ISDA Definitions (IBOR Supplement) and (ii) the 
services firms (including the Group) to continue to be high, we  ISDA 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol (IBOR Protocol). The IBOR 
cannot predict the likely impact of proposed regulations on our  Supplement is intended to enhance the robustness of deriva-
businesses or results. We believe, however, that overall we are  tives contracts traded on or after January 25, 2021 by address-
well positioned for regulatory reform, as we have reduced risk and  ing the risk that some IBORs are permanently discontinued or, in 
maintained strong capital, funding and liquidity. the case of the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR), cease to 
> Refer to “Risk factors” for further information on risks that may arise relating to  be representative, by applying fallbacks to specified alternative 
regulation. references rates upon such a trigger. The IBOR Protocol permits 
adhering parties to amend in-scope transactions entered into 
prior to January 25, 2021 on similar terms. These documents are 
a critical element to industry efforts to facilitate the derivatives 
Recent regulatory developments 
markets’ transition away from LIBOR and other IBORs. The Bank 
and proposals and certain other subsidiaries adhered to the IBOR Protocol on 
October 22, 2020. 
Some of the most significant regulations proposed or enacted 
during 2020 and early 2021 are discussed below. On October 16, 2020, FINMA published FINMA Guidance 
08/2020 specifically addressing LIBOR replacement under deriv-
Global initiatives ative contracts. According to FINMA, in Switzerland, the largest 
remaining exposure to LIBOR is located in the over-the-counter 
Certain regulatory developments and standards are being coordi- (OTC) derivatives market, and FINMA has therefore advised the 
nated on a global basis and implemented under local law, such as  affected supervised entities to adhere to the IBOR Protocol. 
those discussed below.
On December 4, 2020, FINMA published FINMA Guidance 
COVID-19 outbreak 10/2020, in which FINMA again emphasized the importance 
Since December 2019, COVID-19 has spread rapidly across the  of the implementation of an adequate LIBOR transition strategy 
world, and on March 3, 2020, it was characterized as a pandemic  across all LIBOR based agreements, in view of the operational 
by the World Health Organization. Financial services regulators  risks inherent to the impending LIBOR discontinuation. FINMA 
and authorities around the world, such as the European Cen- namely recommended that by late January 2021, the relevant 
tral Bank (ECB), the UK Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the  financial institutions no longer enter into transactions referencing 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Fed), the  LIBOR that do not include robust fallback clauses governing the 
New York State Department of Financial Services (DFS) and the  replacement of the relevant LIBOR upon LIBOR discontinuation. 
26 Regulation and supervision
   
Further, FINMA recommended that by March 31, 2021, financial  securities to trading on a trading venue in Switzerland. Subject 
institutions define and implement a strategy to reduce LIBOR  to certain exemptions, the publication of approved prospectuses 
exposure by year-end 2021. This strategy should, in FINMA’s  will be mandatory from December 1, 2020 onwards for issuers 
view, also envisage a reach-out to counterparties by late March  of securities, provided a public offer or admission to trading is 
2021. intended in Switzerland. 
On March 5, 2021, ICE Benchmark Administration Limited (IBA),  Regime for providing financial services
the LIBOR Administrator, announced that it would cease the pub- The FinSA also introduced duties for Swiss financial service pro-
lication of representative settings for all CHF, EUR, GBP, JPY  viders or foreign financial service providers providing financial ser-
LIBORs and for the one-week and two-month USD LIBORs  vices to clients in Switzerland, including on a mere cross-border 
immediately following the LIBOR publication on December 31,  basis. The duties include the registration of persons who perform 
2021 and for the remaining USD LIBORs immediately follow- financial services on behalf of a financial service provider or in 
ing the LIBOR publication on June 30, 2023. Concurrently, the  their own capacity as financial service providers (so-called client 
FCA confirmed that all LIBOR settings will either cease to be  advisers). With effect from July 20, 2020 FINMA authorized BX 
provided by any administrator or be available only in synthetic,  Swiss AG as the first registration body for client advisors under 
non-representative form after such dates with respect to such  FinSA. The registration bodies maintain a register of client advis-
LIBOR settings, to be used in certain instances. The extent of  ers as provided for under FinSA. Client advisers of Swiss financial 
the FCA’s power to require publication of synthetic rates is sub- service providers that are not subject to prudential supervision 
ject to the enactment of the Financial Services Bill by the UK  and advisers of foreign financial service providers that provide 
Parliament. Further, ISDA issued a statement noting that the  their services in Switzerland or to clients in Switzerland must reg-
FCA’s announcement constitutes an “index cessation event” for  ister with a registration body (subject to certain exemptions). The 
purposes of the IBOR Supplement and the IBOR Protocol. When  registration bodies are tasked with ensuring that the client advis-
IBA had first announced that it would consult on its intention to  ers have completed the necessary training and further education 
cease the publication of such LIBOR settings on November 30,  measures required under FinSA for the provision of financial advi-
2020, the Fed, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency  sory services in Switzerland. 
(OCC) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) 
released a statement that encouraged banks to cease entering  Resolution regime
into new contracts that use USD LIBOR as a reference rate as  On February 25, 2020, FINMA published a report providing a 
soon as practicable and in any event by December 31, 2021 in  detailed assessment of the recovery and resolution plans of the 
order to facilitate an orderly LIBOR transition. The FCA expressed  systemically important Swiss institutions. FINMA approved the 
support for the statement made by the Fed, OCC and FDIC. recovery plans of all five systemically important Swiss banks. In 
> Refer to “Replacement of interbank offered rates” in II – Operating and finan- addition, FINMA regarded the Swiss emergency plan submitted 
cial review – Credit Suisse – Other information for further information pertain- by Credit Suisse as effective. With respect to the global resolv-
ing to IBOR transition.
ability, FINMA concluded that Credit Suisse has already taken 
important preparatory steps and has thus made considerable 
Switzerland  progress. 
Credit Suisse is subject to the Basel III framework, as imple- Investment services regulation
mented in Switzerland, as well as Swiss legislation and regula- In response to the European Commission’s decision not to extend 
tions for systemically important banks, which include capital,  the recognition of the Swiss legal and supervisory framework for 
liquidity, leverage and large exposure requirements and rules for  trading venues with that of the EU beyond June 30, 2019, the 
emergency plans designed to maintain systemically relevant func- Swiss Federal Department of Finance (FDF) activated certain 
tions in the event of impending insolvency.  protective measures in Switzerland to ensure the functioning of 
> Refer to “Liquidity and funding management” and “Capital management” in III  Swiss trading venues. Since July 1, 2019, trading venues require 
– Treasury, Risk, Balance sheet and Off-balance sheet for information regard- a recognition by FINMA if they offer or facilitate trading in certain 
ing our current regulatory framework and expected changes to this framework 
equity securities of Swiss companies, and the FDF placed the 
affecting capital and liquidity standards.
EU on a list of jurisdictions for which no such recognition would 
be granted. As the UK formally left the EU on January 31, 2020, 
Prospectus regime the FDF subsequently updated its list of jurisdictions with effect 
The Financial Services Act (FinSA) which came into effect on  from February 1, 2020 to include the UK as a separate entity. On 
January 1, 2020 introduced a new prospectus regime for the  January 13, 2021 the UK government enacted legislation, setting 
offering of securities in Switzerland. FINMA granted both BX  out its decision that the Swiss legal and supervisory framework 
Swiss AG and the SIX Exchange Regulation AG a license as  in respect of Swiss trading venues BX Swiss AG and SIX Swiss 
reviewing bodies for prospectuses with effect from June 1, 2020.  Exchange AG meets equivalent outcomes to the UK’s corre-
The reviewing bodies are regulated under the FinSA and are  sponding regime. With effect from February 3, 2021, UK invest-
tasked with reviewing and approving the prospectuses published  ment firms may meet the UK share trading obligation by trading 
in connection with a public offer of securities or the admission of  on these exchanges. As a consequence, Switzerland reciprocated 
Regulation and supervision 27
   
by deactivating the stock exchange protective measure in rela- on controllers, such as managing inventories of processing activi-
tion to the UK and removing the UK from the relevant list. On  ties, notifying data breaches and performing data processing 
February 3, 2021, FINMA also updated its list of recognized trad- impact assessments. Further, the revised FADP will grant more 
ing venues to again include the London Stock Exchange plc and  extensive powers to the Swiss Federal Data Protection and Infor-
other UK trading venues.  mation Commissioner and significantly broaden sanctions affect-
ing individuals for non-compliance with predetermined provisions. 
DLT-Law The public consultation on the ordinance to the revised FADP is 
On September 25, 2020, the Swiss Parliament approved the  expected to start in the second quarter of 2021, and the revised 
Law on Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT-Law). The DLT-Law  FADP is expected to enter into force in the second half of 2022.
introduces a new concept of so-called “DLT-Rights,” allowing for 
the tokenization of rights, claims and financial instruments, such  Responsible Business Initiative / Counterproposal
as bonds, shares or derivatives. In addition, the DLT-Law provides  On November 29, 2020, the popular initiative “The Responsible 
for an introduction of a new licensing category as a DLT-Trading  Business Initiative – Protecting human rights and the environ-
Venue under the Financial Market Infrastructure Act and certain  ment” was rejected by a majority of the Swiss cantons in a public 
clarifications relating to the treatment of cryptocurrencies in Swiss  vote. As a result, the indirect counterproposal of the Swiss Parlia-
insolvency proceedings. The amendments to the Swiss Code  ment will enter into effect. Under the counterproposal, companies 
of Obligations and the Federal Act on Intermediated Securities  of public interest (i.e., listed companies, banks, insurance com-
set-out under the DLT-Law, which enable the creation of ledger  panies and other supervised companies in the financial sector) 
based DLT-Rights, entered into force on February 1, 2021. The  must report annually on certain non-financial matters. The report 
remaining provisions of the DLT-Law will likely enter into force on  must contain information necessary to understand the company’s 
August 1, 2021.  business development, performance and position, as well as the 
impact the company’s activity has on environmental (including 
Corporate Law Reform CO2 targets), social, employee, human rights and anti-corrup-
On June 19, 2020, the Swiss Parliament adopted a number of  tion matters. The counterproposal also lays down additional due 
substantial amendments to the Swiss corporate law set out under  diligence duties with regard to conflict minerals and child labor. 
the Swiss Code of Obligations. The amendments include changes  The counterproposal is yet to be published in the Swiss Federal 
relating to share capital, corporate governance, shareholder  Gazette. As of such publication, the referendum period will begin 
rights, obligations of a company in case of financial distress, a  and if no optional referendum is requested, the new transpar-
transfer of the regulations of the Swiss Ordinance Against Exces- ency and due diligence obligations will enter into effect once the 
sive Compensation with respect to Listed Corporations (Compen- implementing ordinance has been finalized. The reporting and due 
sation Ordinance) into general Swiss corporate law, and “comply  diligence obligations will need to be observed for the first time 
or explain” disclosure obligations regarding gender diversity at the  with respect to the financial year commencing one year after the 
board and executive board level of large Swiss listed companies,  entry into effect of the counterproposal. For financial years that 
including Credit Suisse Group AG. While the general effective  correspond to the calendar year, this would likely be the financial 
date of the new law will be announced at a later point in time,  year 2023.
the Swiss Federal Council resolved in September 2020 to make 
the “comply or explain” disclosure obligations on gender diversity  Tax 
effective as of January 1, 2021. This “comply or explain” rule will  Reform of the Swiss withholding tax system
become applicable five years after the effective date with regard  After publishing a first draft legislation and conducting a consulta-
to the board of directors, and ten years after the effective date  tion procedure in 2020 regarding the reform of the Swiss with-
with regard to the executive management. Therefore, the relevant  holding tax system applicable to interest payments, the Swiss 
companies, including Credit Suisse Group AG, will be required to  Federal Council has decided to pursue the reform with a reduced 
adhere to the respective disclosure obligations as of 2026 and  scope only. In particular, under the current proposal, Swiss with-
2031, respectively. holding tax on interest payments on customer deposits from 
banks to individuals resident in Switzerland would be maintained, 
Data Protection Act while Swiss withholding tax on all other interest payments to all 
On September 25, 2020, the Swiss Parliament approved the  investors alike would be abolished. In addition, the securities 
revision of the Swiss Federal Act on Data Protection (FADP),  turnover stamp duty on Swiss bonds would be abandoned. A first 
which will provide for a number of changes. Thereunder namely,  draft of the amended draft legislation is expected to be submit-
data relating to legal entities will no longer be protected. As under  ted to the Swiss Federal Council in the first half of 2021. For the 
the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), only data relat- moment, the actual implementation parameters and timing of the 
ing to individuals will fall within the scope of the revised FADP.  Swiss withholding tax reform are open.
Similar to the GDPR, the revised FADP will have an extraterrito-
rial effect and foreign data controllers must appoint a representa- Automatic exchange of information in tax matters
tive in Switzerland if they perform specific processing activities on  In June 2020, the Swiss Parliament adopted a reform of the 
data relating to individuals in Switzerland. The revised FADP will  Federal Act on the International Automatic Exchange of Infor-
impose increased governance and documentation requirements  mation in Tax Matters. The aim of the reform was to implement 
28 Regulation and supervision
   
certain recommendations of the Global Forum on Transparency  changes to US foreign policy arising from the transition between 
and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes (Global Forum)  presidential administrations, and the potential effects of related 
after the Global Forum’s review of the Swiss automatic exchange  disruptions may include an adverse impact on our businesses. 
of information (AEI) legal framework. The amendments include 
modifications to a bank’s diligence obligations, including with  Since 2017, the US has imposed sanctions related to Venezuela 
respect to the opening of bank accounts and document retention.  that, among other restrictions, block the assets of and prohibit 
The law entered into effect on January 1, 2021.  transactions with the Government of Venezuela and state-owned 
entities, as well as certain government officials, and prohibit fur-
Tax treatment of financial sanctions ther dealings with them within US jurisdiction. A number of gen-
In June 2020, the Swiss Parliament implemented the current  eral licenses provide exceptions to these prohibitions, most nota-
practice of the Swiss tax authorities and the Swiss Supreme  bly with respect to holdings of and certain dealings in pre-2017 
Court with respect to the tax-deductibility of financial sanctions in  debt of the Government of Venezuela and PdVSA, the state-
the Federal Act on Tax Treatment of Financial Sanctions. Namely,  owned oil company. Additionally, throughout 2019 and 2020 
as far as a financial sanction has a profit-absorbing element that  OFAC designated additional persons and entities, including mari-
can be proven, the relevant part of the sanction may be tax- time shipping companies and trade facilitators outside of Venezu-
deductible, but as far as a sanction has a penal character, such  ela, for assisting the Government of Venezuela. Further sanctions 
amount cannot be deducted for tax purposes. However, the law  related to Venezuela or Venezuelan entities are possible, and the 
further adds the possibility of deducting a foreign penal sanction  potential effects of related disruptions may include an adverse 
if it can be proven that such sanction violates the Swiss public  impact on our businesses.
order or if the company demonstrates that it has taken all reason-
able steps to comply with the law. The law is expected to enter  Political and trade tensions between the US and China led to a 
into effect on January 1, 2022.  series of sanctions and countermeasures in 2020 through the 
end of the Trump administration in early 2021, some of which are 
US particularly relevant to financial institutions. These measures are 
new and not yet well-defined, and their ultimate impact on Chi-
In July 2010, the US enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform  nese financial markets and financial institutions operating in China 
and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), which provides  remains unclear. There are also a range of other sanctions and 
a broad framework for regulatory changes. Although rulemaking  export control developments from both China and the US that 
in respect of many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act has  could affect the integration of Chinese and US markets and have 
taken place by different regulators, including the US Department  an impact on our customers or economic circumstances. Further 
of the Treasury (US Treasury), the Fed, the US Securities and  sanctions and other restrictive measures arising from tensions in 
Exchange Commission (SEC), the OCC, the FDIC, the Commod- China-US relations are also possible. These developments may 
ity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the Financial Stability  give rise to conflicts of law, compliance risks, and market disrup-
Oversight Council (FSOC), those rules are subject to update and  tions that may have an adverse impact on our business. 
revision and uncertainty remains about the ultimate scope of the 
US regulatory framework. Banking regulation and supervision 
On January 30, 2020, the Fed finalized a rule to amend its regu-
Sanctions lations governing when one company will be deemed to control 
As a result of allegations concerning Russian acts related to  another, which define, among other things, the scope of entities 
Ukraine, Syria, cybersecurity and electoral interference, in 2018  deemed to be our affiliates and subsidiaries subject to regula-
and 2019, the US Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control  tion and supervision under US federal banking laws. The new rule 
(OFAC) designated a number of Russian government officials,  went into effect on September 30, 2020. There may be further 
business people and certain related companies as specially des- regulatory interpretation and guidance, but we do not expect the 
ignated nationals (SDNs). Such designation blocks their assets  rule to have a material impact on our operations. 
and prohibits dealings within US jurisdiction by both the newly 
designated SDNs and entities owned 50% or more by one or  On June 25, 2020, the five federal agencies responsible for 
more blocked persons. US law also authorizes the imposition  administration of the so called “Volcker Rule” finalized amend-
of other restrictions against non-US entities that, among other  ments to provide new exclusions from the definition of a covered 
activities, engage in significant transactions with or provide mate- fund and offer certainty, clarity and flexibility for foreign banking 
rial support to such blocked persons. In 2019, the US imposed  organizations to engage in funds-related activities. The revised 
additional sanctions on the Russian Federation prohibiting US  rule became effective October 1, 2020. We have implemented 
financial institutions from participating directly in future primary  policies and procedures designed to address compliance with the 
issues of non-ruble denominated Russian sovereign debt and  Volcker Rule. The Volcker Rule is highly complex and may be sub-
lending non-ruble denominated funds to the Russian Federation  ject to further rulemaking, regulatory interpretation and guidance.
(but not from providing related services such as US dollar clearing 
to third parties). Further sanctions related to Russia or additional  On June 25, 2020, the Fed released the results of its annual 
Russian persons or entities are possible, particularly as a result of  supervisory stress test, as implemented pursuant to the 
Regulation and supervision 29
   
Dodd-Frank Act. Our US intermediate holding company (IHC)  require CS’s US IHC to maintain a minimum level of stable fund-
was projected to maintain capital ratios above minimum regulatory  ing based on the liquidity characteristics of its assets, commit-
requirements under all scenarios in all quarters. On August 10,  ments and derivative exposures over a one-year time horizon. The 
2020, the Fed announced new, individualized risk-based capital  final rules are largely consistent with the Basel III framework pub-
requirements for large banking organizations, including our US  lished by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS). 
IHC, determined by performance in the annual supervisory stress  There may be further regulatory interpretation and guidance, and 
tests. Under the new requirements, our US IHC is now subject to  the full impact of the rule will not be known with certainty for 
risk-based capital requirements inclusive of a 6.9% stress capi- some time. 
tal buffer, designed to absorb losses in periods of financial and 
economic stress. The size of the stress capital buffer requirement  On December 6, 2020, the Fed and the FDIC announced mul-
is subject to update depending on future Comprehensive Capi- tiple resolution planning actions applicable to certain foreign 
tal Analysis and Review (CCAR) results. If our US IHC does not  banks, including Credit Suisse. The Fed and FDIC announced 
maintain this buffer above minimum risk-based capital require- that the weaknesses previously identified in the resolution plans 
ments, it will be limited in its ability to pay dividends and make  of four foreign banks, including our resolution plan, were success-
discretionary bonus payments and other earnings distributions.  fully remediated. In addition, the Fed and FDIC provided the tar-
The stress capital buffer became effective on October 1, 2020.  geted information request for our targeted resolution plan, which 
Finally, the Fed did not object to the capital planning practices at  is now due on December 17, 2021. This request focuses on our 
our US IHC, meaning our US IHC will no longer be subject to a  response to COVID-19 and its impact on our resolution-related 
possible qualitative objection for the 2021 CCAR cycle onwards. capabilities. Finally, the Fed and FDIC finalized guidance appli-
cable to our future resolution plan filings, beginning with the tar-
Also, on June 25, 2020, in addition to the results of its normal  geted plan we must file on December 17, 2021. The guidance is 
stress test, the Fed announced results of a sensitivity analy- similar to current guidance applicable to our resolution plans and 
sis to assess the resiliency of CCAR firms under COVID-19-re- in some instances has reduced expectations, but it does include 
lated downside scenarios. As a result of that analysis, the Fed  new expectations that we will need to address in our 2021 plan.  
announced that it would be requiring all CCAR firms to update 
and resubmit their capital plans based on hypothetical scenarios  On December 18, 2020, the Fed announced that, beginning in 
for a second round of bank stress tests. On December 18, 2020,  2021, the Large Institution Supervision Coordinating Committee 
the Fed released the results of these additional supervisory stress  (LISCC) supervisory portfolio will consist only of US global sys-
tests. Our US IHC was projected to maintain capital ratios above  temically important banks (G-SIBs). This announcement should 
minimum regulatory requirements under all scenarios in all quar- result in the supervisory expectations for CS’s US operations 
ters, and the additional supervisory stress tests did not result  being comparable to the expectations applicable to institutions 
in a modification to the risk-based capital requirements or the  of similar size and complexity for the areas of capital, liquidity, 
stress capital buffer applicable to our US IHC (although the Fed  corporate governance and resolution planning. Although CS has 
has extended the time period in which it may notify a firm that its  been removed from the LISCC supervisory portfolio, this will not 
stress capital buffer requirement will be recalculated to March  result in any changes to the regulatory requirements applicable to 
31, 2021). On December 18, 2020, the Fed also announced the  CS’ combined US operations. The Fed has indicated that in 2021 
extension of capital distribution limitations in place for the third  it will publish criteria for the potential inclusion of a non-US bank’s 
quarter of 2020 through the first quarter of 2021 for 34 large  US operations in the LISCC supervisory portfolio.
banking organizations, including our US IHC. The limitations 
apply to cash dividends on common equity and stock repurchases  On December 22, 2020, Credit Suisse entered into an agree-
based on recent income. ment with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY) and 
the NY Department of Financial Services (DFS) regarding the 
On July 24, 2020, the FDIC and the SEC finalized rules that  Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) pro-
would clarify the application of the Securities Investor Protection  gram of its New York Branch, after the FRBNY’s 2019 examina-
Act (SIPA) in a receivership for a systemically significant broker- tion of Credit Suisse’s New York Branch identified deficiencies 
dealer under the Dodd-Frank Act’s Orderly Liquidation Authority,  in the compliance risk management program framework related 
which could potentially apply to our US broker-dealer. The final  to BSA/AML. The terms of the agreement include no monetary 
rules are substantively identical to the 2016 proposals. The rules  penalty and no restriction to normal business operations. The 
clarify how relevant provisions of SIPA would be incorporated into  agreement does, however establish clear objectives that Credit 
a proceeding under the Orderly Liquidation Authority, that the  Suisse must meet in connection with its New York Branch, 
Securities Investor Protection Corporation would be appointed as  including with respect to improving the BSA/AML compliance 
trustee for the broker-dealer, the claims process and the FDIC’s  framework, revising the customer due diligence program, ensur-
powers as receiver with respect to the transfer of assets of the  ing accurate identification and reporting of known or suspected 
broker-dealer. violations of law or transactions and planning for independent 
testing of compliance with BSA/AML requirements. Credit Suisse 
On October 20, 2020, the Fed published a final rule on the net  expects to comply with the agreement in a timely manner.  
stable funding ratio (NSFR), effective July 1, 2021, that will 
30 Regulation and supervision
   
Broker-dealer regulation and supervision  of rules to swaps entered into by certain foreign subsidiaries of 
On September 16, 2020, the SEC adopted amendments to SEC  US parent companies and US branches of non-US banks. These 
Rule 15c2-11, which sets out a broker-dealer’s information review  new rules will take effect on September 14, 2021. However, the 
obligations concerning the issuer of an over-the-counter security,  new rules leave existing CFTC guidance in place with respect to 
prior to publication or submission of a quotation in that security.  mandatory clearing, mandatory trade execution, real-time public 
The SEC has amended the rule to (a) expand review require- reporting, swap data repository reporting and large trader report-
ments to apply to qualified inter-dealer quotation systems (and  ing requirements. The application of these two different cross-
permit the broker-dealer’s reliance on those systems in certain  border regimes may increase our compliance costs and could 
circumstances); (b) limit certain existing exceptions to the infor- disrupt some of our trading relationships.
mation review requirements; and (c) add additional exceptions for 
certain securities that the SEC has deemed are less susceptible  On September 17, 2020, the CFTC adopted rules that will sub-
to fraud. The amendments to SEC Rule 15c2-11 became effec- stantially revise its real-time public reporting and regulatory 
tive on December 28, 2020, and the SEC has set Septem- reporting requirements for swaps. Among other changes, the new 
ber 28, 2021 as the compliance date for the amended rule. In  rules will significantly increase the block size above which swap 
addition, on December 22, 2020, the SEC proposed a related,  transactions are subject to delayed public reporting, clarify report-
conditional exemption to the information review and recordkeep- ing requirements for certain types of swaps such as prime bro-
ing requirements of SEC Rule 15c2-11 for proprietary quotations  kerage swaps, clarify and expand the data elements required to 
for certain categories of securities, so long as the distribution of  be reported in order to harmonize more closely with international 
those quotations is restricted to a market of only sophisticated  standards, extend the deadline for making regulatory reports and 
or professional investors. The proposal was subject to a 30-day  introduce new data verification and correction requirements. The 
comment period from the publication date in the Federal Register  increase in block sizes could potentially reduce liquidity in the 
and comments were due on February 11, 2021. swaps markets or increase our hedging costs by subjecting more 
of our swap transactions to real-time public reporting. In addition, 
Derivative regulation and supervision  we are likely to incur significant operational and other costs to 
On July 22, 2020, the CFTC adopted capital and financial report- implement the new requirements. The new requirements will take 
ing rules for non-bank swap dealers and major swap participants  effect on May 25, 2022, except that the changes to block sizes 
(Swap Entities) and financial reporting rules for bank Swap Enti- will take effect one year after that date.
ties. The new capital rules will apply to our non-bank deriva-
tives dealer entities, Credit Suisse Capital LLC (CSC) and Credit  Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to the margin rules for 
Suisse Securities Europe Limited (CSSEL). CSC, as an over- uncleared swaps of the CFTC and/or the margin rules for 
the-counter derivatives dealer registered with the SEC, is already  uncleared swaps and security-based swaps of the OCC, the Fed, 
subject to capital and financial reporting rules administered by the  the FDIC, the Farm Credit Administration and the Federal Hous-
SEC, and we do not expect the new CFTC rules to have a mate- ing Finance Agency (together, the Prudential Regulators). Both 
rial impact on CSC because they will for the most part incorporate  the CFTC margin rules and the margin rules of the Prudential 
those SEC rules by reference. CSSEL may, with further approval  Regulators are following a phased implementation schedule. On 
by the CFTC, be able to satisfy the new CFTC rules through  April 3, 2020, the BCBS and the International Organization of 
substituted compliance with comparable UK requirements. If,  Securities Commissions (IOSCO) provided an additional one-
however, CSSEL is unable to rely on substituted compliance, it  year extension to the fifth and sixth phases of the implementa-
will face conflicts between CFTC and UK requirements that could  tion schedule of the rules requiring initial margin for non-centrally 
prevent it from continuing to trade swaps with US persons. In  cleared derivatives, meaning the final implementation date for 
addition, Credit Suisse International (CSI), which is a UK bank  the application of initial margin requirements for market partici-
provisionally registered with the CFTC as a swap dealer, will be  pants with group-wide notional derivatives exposure during the 
subject to new CFTC financial reporting requirements that, absent  preceding March, April and May of at least EUR 8 billion would 
clarification, will diverge from its UK financial reporting obligations  be September 1, 2022 while the implementation date for those 
(for example by requiring it to report under US generally accepted  with group-wide notional derivatives exposure of at least EUR 50 
accounting principles). If the CFTC does not clarify that CSI and  billion would be September 1, 2021. Consistent with the revised 
other non-US bank Swap Entities can instead provide financial  implementation schedule adopted by the BCBS-IOSCO and in 
reports in accordance with home country accounting and other  light of implementation issues posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, 
standards, CSI will bear significant increased cost to comply with  the CFTC and Prudential Regulators adopted interim final rules 
the CFTC’s requirements. These new CFTC rules will take effect  on May 28, 2020 and June 25, 2020, respectively, to delay the 
on October 6, 2021. compliance date until September 1, 2021 for market participants 
with group-wide notional derivatives exposure during the preced-
On July 23, 2020, the CFTC adopted rules that codify several  ing March, April and May exceeding USD 50 billion. On June 25, 
elements of the CFTC’s current policy and no-action letters with  2020 and October 15, 2020, the Prudential Regulators and the 
respect to the cross-border application of certain swaps regula- CFTC, respectively, adopted rules that delay the compliance date 
tions applicable to Swap Entities, but with changes to certain  for initial margin requirements for market participants with group-
definitions to align with the SEC, and that expand the application  wide notional derivatives exposure during the preceding March, 
Regulation and supervision 31
   
April and May of at least USD 8 billion from September 1, 2021  withdrawal, the UK ceased to be a member of the EU on Janu-
until September 1, 2022. These delays were intended to avoid a  ary 31, 2020 but under the terms of the concluded withdrawal 
market disruption in September 2020, but the broad expansion of  agreement, the UK continued to be bound by EU laws, with full 
initial margin requirements on September 1, 2021 and Septem- financial services passporting, for a transitional period ending 
ber 1, 2022 could have a significant adverse impact on our OTC  on December 31, 2020. Following the end of the transitional 
derivatives business because of the large number of affected  period, EU law, including financial services passporting, no lon-
counterparties that might need to enter into new documentation  ger applies in the UK. On December 24, 2020, the UK and the 
and upgrade their systems in order to comply.  EU announced that they had agreed on a Trade and Cooperation 
Agreement (TCA), an Agreement between the UK and the Euro-
The Prudential Regulators’ June 25, 2020 final rule also clarifies  pean Atomic Energy Community for Cooperation on the Safe and 
that certain amendments to uncleared swaps and security-based  Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy and an Agreement concern-
swaps entered into prior to the relevant compliance dates (i.e.,  ing Security Procedures for Exchanging and Protecting Classi-
legacy swaps), including amendments to address the upcoming  fied Information. The UK and the EU have agreed to provisionally 
discontinuation of LIBOR, generally will not trigger margin rules  apply these agreements until April 30, 2021 to allow for comple-
for those swaps. The final rule will therefore facilitate the transi- tion of their respective ratification processes. The TCA generally 
tion to new risk-free rates. Further, the final rule exempts most  did not seek to cover financial services. The EU and the UK have 
non-US swap dealers subject to the Prudential Regulators’ mar- committed to setting out a “non-binding memorandum of under-
gin rules, including CSI, from collecting initial margin on uncleared  standing governing the regulatory dialogue” for regulatory coop-
swaps with affiliates. Thus, our US subsidiaries trading swaps  eration in financial services by March 2021. Although equivalence 
with CSI will be alleviated of the burden of initial margin require- may be one of the topics discussed in the regulatory dialogue, 
ments, thereby increasing the efficient use of their assets. the decision to grant equivalence is unilateral and not subject to 
bilateral negotiation. There can be no assurance that the EU will 
On October 15, 2020, the CFTC adopted final rules expanding  grant equivalence to the UK financial services regime and (even if 
and revising position limits for certain physical commodity deriva- equivalence is granted) any such decision may be revoked at any 
tives. The new rules will expand the CFTC’s position limit regime,  time. 
which currently covers only a subset of agricultural futures con-
tracts, to cover additional specified agricultural, energy and met- The body of EU law, as it stood at the end of the transition period, 
als futures contracts. The new rules will also cover futures con- has largely been retained in UK law in the immediate term, with 
tracts and options on futures contracts that are linked to these  Her Majesty’s Treasury (HM Treasury) exercising certain statu-
specified contracts, as well as economically equivalent swaps.  tory powers to remedy deficiencies in retained EU law relating to 
The new rules further restrict the availability of exemptions  financial services, through statutory instruments. The statutory 
from position limits for certain hedging activity and impose new  instruments are not intended to make policy changes, other than 
requirements on US futures exchanges and swap execution facili- to reflect the UK’s new position outside the EU. HM Treasury has 
ties to administer position limits and related exemptions. Overall,  also delegated powers to the UK’s financial services regulators 
the new rules may restrict the ability of our asset management  to address deficiencies in the regulators’ rulebooks arising as a 
businesses to trade in physical commodity derivatives covered by  result of the exit, and to the EU Binding Technical Standards that 
position limits, restrict the ability of our market making businesses  are part of retained EU law. However, the intended fate of many 
to provide liquidity in these derivatives to certain types of clients,  EU laws that will apply in 2021 or later is not yet known.
and generally increase the compliance costs and burdens of our 
businesses that transact in physical commodity derivatives. The  However, the UK government has begun a broad program of 
new rules initially took effect March 15, 2021, but with delayed  review of the UK’s future regulatory framework. On October 19, 
compliance dates of January 1, 2022 for the expansion of posi- 2020, HM Treasury issued a consultation marking the launch of 
tion limits to cover additional futures contracts and January 1,  the second phase of the review which seeks to examine, among 
2023 for the expansion of position limits to cover swaps. other things, how the regulatory framework for financial services 
needs to adapt to be fit for the future, in particular to reflect the 
EU  UK’s new position outside of the EU. Further, on October 21, 
2020, the UK government introduced the Financial Services Bill 
The EU has also proposed and enacted a wide range of pruden- in the UK Parliament. Among other things, the Financial Services 
tial, securities and governance regulations to address systemic  Bill amends existing UK laws on financial services in relation to 
risk and to further regulate financial institutions, products and  the prudential regimes for banks and investment firms (including 
markets. These proposals are at various stages of the EU pre- the implementation in the UK of Basel III reforms). The UK gov-
legislative, legislative rule-making and implementation processes,  ernment is also undertaking a broader review of the UK’s future 
and their final form and cumulative impact remain uncertain. regulatory framework.
UK-EU relationship On November 16, 2020, in a joint statement, HM Treasury and 
On June 23, 2016, voters in the UK voted to leave the EU. Fol- the UK regulators announced that they would target an imple-
lowing extensive negotiations with the EU on the terms of its  mentation date of January 1, 2022 for implementing those Basel 
32 Regulation and supervision
   
III reforms which make up the UK equivalent to the outstanding  US IHC, to maintain minimum amounts of “internal” TLAC, a 
elements of the amendments to the Capital Requirements Regu- TLAC buffer and long-term debt satisfying certain eligibility cri-
lation (CRR) (made by the amending Regulation CRR II) as well as  teria, commencing January 1, 2019. The entity designated as 
introducing a new prudential regime for investment firms.  Credit Suisse’s US IHC is required to issue all TLAC debt instru-
ments to a foreign parent entity (a non-US entity that controls 
Credit Suisse is working to address the implications of the con- the IHC) or another foreign affiliate that is wholly owned by its 
sequences of these changes and to minimize disruption for our  foreign parent. The final rules also impose limitations on the types 
clients. Adverse changes to any of these arrangements, and even  of financial transactions in which the entity designated as Credit 
uncertainty over potential changes during any period of negotia- Suisse’s US IHC can engage.
tion, could potentially impact our results in the UK or other mar-
kets we serve. In the UK, the Bank of England published its statement of policy 
> Refer to “Withdrawal of the UK from the EU and our legal entity structure” in  on its approach to establishing the requirement under the EU 
Strategy and “Key risk developments” in III – Treasury, Risk, Balance sheet and  Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD) for certain UK 
Off-balance sheet – Risk management for further information.
entities, including CSI and CSSEL, to maintain the minimum 
requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL) as well 
as its approach on setting internal MREL. Similar to the FSB’s 
Regulatory framework
TLAC standard, the MREL requirement obliges firms within the 
scope of the BRRD to maintain a minimum level of own funds and 
The principal regulatory structures that apply to our operations are  liabilities that can be bailed in. The statement of policy provides 
discussed below. that internal MREL requirements for UK material subsidiaries of 
non-UK G-SIBs, such as Credit Suisse would be scaled between 
Global initiatives 75% and 90% of external MREL based on factors including the 
resolution strategy of the group and the home country’s approach 
Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity to internal total loss-absorbing capacity calibration. Interim inter-
On January 1, 2019, the final Financial Stability Board’s (FSB)  nal MREL requirements came into effect beginning January 1, 
Total Loss Absorbing Capacity (TLAC) standard for G-SIBs  2019, and their full implementation will be phased in through 
became effective, subject to a phase-in until January 1, 2022.  January 1, 2022. In addition, the CRR II introduced a require-
The purpose of the standard is to enhance the ability of regula- ment, as of June 27, 2019, for material subsidiaries of non-EU 
tors to recapitalize a G-SIB at the point of non-viability in a man- G-SIBs, which are not resolution entities, to maintain internal 
ner that minimizes systemic disruption, preserves critical functions  MREL scaled at 90% of the external MREL requirement that 
and limits the exposure of public sector funds. TLAC-eligible  would apply if the material subsidiary were a resolution entity. The 
instruments include instruments that count towards satisfying  Bank of England has stated that its statement of policy should be 
minimum regulatory capital requirements, as well as long-term  read in compliance with the new CRR II requirements. The Bank 
unsecured debt instruments that have remaining maturities of no  of England is undertaking a review of the calibration of MREL 
less than one year, are subordinated by statute, corporate struc- requirements. 
ture or contract to certain excluded liabilities, including depos-
its, are held by unaffiliated third parties and meet certain other  ISDA Resolution Stay Protocols
requirements. Excluding any applicable regulatory capital buffers  Credit Suisse voluntarily adhered to the ISDA 2015 Universal 
that are otherwise required, the minimum TLAC requirement was  Resolution Stay Protocol (ISDA 2015 Universal Protocol) at the 
at least 16% of a G-SIB’s risk-weighted assets as of January 1,  time of its launch in November 2015. By adhering to the ISDA 
2019, and will increase to at least 18% as of January 1, 2022. In  2015 Universal Protocol, parties agree to be bound by certain 
addition, the minimum TLAC requirement was at least 6% of the  existing and forthcoming special resolution regimes to ensure 
Basel III leverage ratio denominator as of January 1, 2019, and  that cross-border derivatives and securities financing transac-
must be at least 6.75% as of January 1, 2022. National regula- tions are subject to statutory stays on direct and affiliate-linked 
tors may implement or interpret the requirements more strictly  default rights in the event a bank counterparty enters into resolu-
within their own jurisdictions. tion, regardless of its governing law. These stays are intended to 
facilitate an orderly resolution of a troubled bank. The ISDA 2015 
In Switzerland, the FSB’s TLAC standard was implemented on  Universal Protocol also introduces similar stays and overrides on 
July 1, 2016 under the Capital Adequacy Ordinance. affiliate-linked default rights in the event that an affiliate of an 
> Refer to “Liquidity and funding management” and “Capital management” in III  adhering party becomes subject to proceedings under the US 
– Treasury, Risk, Balance sheet and Off-balance sheet for information regard- Bankruptcy Code, under which no such stays or overrides cur-
ing our current regulatory framework and expected changes to this framework 
rently exist.
affecting capital and liquidity standards.
In the US, the Fed has adopted a final rule that implements  In order to expand the scope of parties and transactions cov-
the FSB’s TLAC standard. The final rule requires, among other  ered by the ISDA 2015 Universal Protocol or similar contractual 
things, the US IHCs of non-US G-SIBs, such as Credit Suisse’s  arrangements, the G20 committed to introducing regulations 
Regulation and supervision 33
   
requiring large banking groups to include ISDA 2015 Universal  Foreign Exchange 
Protocol-like provisions in certain financial contracts when facing  In 2017, public and private sector representatives from the foreign 
counterparties under foreign laws.  exchange committees of 16 international foreign exchange (FX) 
trading centers agreed to form a Global Foreign Exchange Com-
In Switzerland, the Federal Ordinance on Banks and Savings  mittee and publish the FX Global Code, which sets out global 
Institutions (Banking Ordinance) and the Federal Ordinance  principles of good practice, including ethics, governance, execu-
of FINMA on the Insolvency of Banks and Securities Dealers  tion, information sharing, risk management and compliance, and 
(FINMA Banking Insolvency Ordinance) require Swiss banks,  confirmation and settlement processes. Credit Suisse signed the 
including Credit Suisse, to include a clause under which the  FX Global Code’s Statement of Commitment on a global basis on 
counterparty recognizes FINMA’s stay powers under the Fed- May 21, 2018 and supports the adoption of the FX Global Code 
eral Act on Banks and Savings Banks of November 8, 1934, as  by FX market participants.
amended, in certain of their contracts and in certain contracts 
entered into by their subsidiaries or affiliates. The requirement to  Switzerland
include such a clause applies to the financial contracts exhaus-
tively listed under the FINMA Banking Insolvency Ordinance and  Banking regulation and supervision
that are not governed by Swiss law or that provide for jurisdiction  Although Credit Suisse Group is not a bank according to the 
outside of Switzerland.  Bank Law and the Banking Ordinance, the Group is required, 
pursuant to the provisions on consolidated supervision of financial 
In the UK, the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) published  groups and conglomerates of the Bank Law, to comply with cer-
final rules requiring UK entities, including CSI and CSSEL, to  tain requirements for banks. Such requirements include capital 
ensure that their counterparties under a broad range of financial  adequacy, loss-absorbing capacity, solvency and risk concentra-
arrangements are subject to the stays on early termination rights  tion on a consolidated basis, and certain reporting obligations. 
under the UK Banking Act that would be applicable upon their  Our banks in Switzerland are regulated by FINMA on a legal 
resolution.  entity basis and, if applicable, on a consolidated basis.
ISDA has developed another protocol, the ISDA Resolution Stay  Our banks in Switzerland operate under banking licenses granted 
Jurisdictional Modular Protocol, which is intended to be a mecha- by FINMA pursuant to the Bank Law and the Banking Ordinance. 
nism to facilitate market-wide compliance with these requirements  In addition, certain of these banks hold securities dealer licenses 
by both dealers, such as Credit Suisse, and their counterparties. granted by FINMA pursuant to the Swiss Federal Act on Stock 
Exchanges and Securities Trading, which was in effect at the 
In the EU, amendments to BRRD (through amending Direc- time the license was granted. As of January 1, 2020, the applica-
tive BRRD II) (BRRD II) introduced harmonized requirements for  ble ongoing licensing requirements for securities dealers are set 
relevant EU entities to include a contractual term within certain  out under the Financial Institutions Act (FinIA) and the Financial 
financial contracts governed by the laws of a non-EU jurisdic- Institutions Ordinance (FinIO).
tion, recognizing that the contract may be subject to the exercise 
of resolution powers by the resolution authority to suspend the  FINMA is the sole bank supervisory authority in Switzerland and 
entity’s payment or delivery obligations, or to suspend a counter- is independent, including from the Swiss National Bank (SNB). 
party’s termination or security enforcement rights.  Under the Bank Law, FINMA is responsible for the supervision 
of the Swiss banking system. The SNB is responsible for imple-
In the US, the Fed, the FDIC and the OCC each issued final  menting the government’s monetary policy relating to banks and 
rules designed to improve the resolvability of US headquartered  securities dealers and for ensuring the stability of the financial 
G-SIBs and the US operations of non-US G-SIBs, such as our  system. Under the “Too Big to Fail” legislation, the SNB is also 
US operations. These final rules require covered entities to modify  responsible for determining which banks in Switzerland are sys-
certain qualified financial contracts to obtain agreement of coun- temically relevant banks and which functions are systemically rel-
terparties that (1) their qualified financial contracts are subject to  evant in Switzerland. The SNB has identified the Group on a con-
the stays on default rights under the Orderly Liquidation Authority  solidated basis as a systemically relevant bank for the purposes of 
and the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, which is similar to require- Swiss law.
ments introduced in other jurisdictions to which we are already 
subject, and (2) certain affiliate-linked default rights would be lim- Our banks in Switzerland are subject to close and continuous 
ited or overridden if an affiliate of the G-SIB entered proceedings  prudential supervision and direct audits by FINMA. Under the 
under the US Bankruptcy Code or other insolvency or resolution  Bank Law, our banks are subject to inspection and supervision 
regimes. ISDA has developed the ISDA 2018 US Resolution Stay  by an independent regulatory auditing firm recognized by FINMA, 
Protocol (ISDA US Protocol) to facilitate compliance with the final  which is appointed by the bank’s board of directors and required 
rules. All the relevant Credit Suisse’s entities have adhered to the  to assess whether the bank is in compliance with laws and regu-
ISDA US Protocol to amend their qualified financial contracts with  lations, including the Bank Law, the Banking Ordinance and 
adhering counterparties to comply with the final rules.  FINMA regulations.
34 Regulation and supervision
   
Credit Suisse is subject to the Basel III framework, as imple- payments (and the receipt thereof) to Swiss and foreign public 
mented in Switzerland, as well as Swiss legislation and regula- officials as well as persons in the private sector. 
tions for systemically important banks, which include capital, 
liquidity, leverage and large exposure requirements, and rules for  Compensation design and its implementation and disclosure have 
emergency plans designed to maintain systemically relevant func- been required to comply with standards promulgated by FINMA 
tions in the event of impending insolvency. under its Circular on Remuneration Schemes and the Compensa-
tion Ordinance, as updated from time to time.
Our regulatory capital is calculated on the basis of accounting 
principles generally accepted in the US, with certain adjustments  Securities dealer and asset management regulation and 
required by, or agreed with, FINMA. supervision 
> Refer to “Liquidity and funding management” and “Capital management” in  Our securities dealer activities in Switzerland are conducted pri-
III – Treasury, Risk, Balance sheet and Off-balance sheet for further informa- marily through the Bank, under the supervision of FINMA, and 
tion regarding our current regulatory framework and expected changes to this 
are subject to regulation under FinIA and FinIO, which entered 
framework affecting capital and liquidity standards.
into effect on January 1, 2020 and regulate all aspects of the 
Under Swiss banking law, banks and securities dealers are  securities dealer business in Switzerland, including regulatory 
required to manage risk concentration within specific limits.  capital, risk concentration, sales and trading practices, record-
Aggregated credit exposure to any single counterparty or a group  keeping requirements and procedures and periodic reporting 
of related counterparties must bear an adequate relationship  procedures. 
to the bank’s adjusted eligible capital (for systemically relevant 
banks like us, to their core Tier 1 capital) taking into account  Our asset management activities in Switzerland, which include 
counterparty risks and risk mitigation instruments. the establishment and administration of mutual funds registered 
for public distribution, are conducted under the supervision of 
Subject to certain transitional periods, the FinSA and the FinIA  FINMA. Effective January 1, 2020, our activities as asset man-
as well as the implementing ordinances, the Financial Services  ager of collective assets are also governed by FinIA, subject to 
Ordinance (FinSO) and the FinIO entered into effect on Janu- phase-in provisions.
ary 1, 2020. With the enactment of FinSA and FinSO a new 
statutory regime, governing the provision of financial services in  Resolution regime 
Switzerland, including to Swiss clients from abroad on a cross- Following the financial crisis of 2007/2008, the Swiss legislator 
border basis, as well as the offering of financial instruments, and  promulgated special rules for the stabilization and restructuring of 
the admission to trading of financial instruments, was introduced  systemically important financial institutions. Among other aspects, 
in Switzerland. FinIA and FinIO govern the licensing requirements  these rules require plans for recovery and resolution. Each sys-
and provide for a differentiated supervisory regime for securities  temically important bank is required to submit a recovery plan 
dealers, asset managers, trustees, managers of collective assets,  to FINMA once a year, in which it sets out how it would stabilize 
fund management companies and investment firms. itself in a crisis without government intervention, also taking the 
requirements of foreign regulators into account; this plan requires 
Under the Bank Law and FinIA, Swiss banks and securities  FINMA’s approval. In addition, each Swiss systemically important 
dealers are obligated to keep confidential the existence and  bank must submit an emergency plan, in which it details how it 
all aspects of their relationships with customers. These cus- would ensure uninterrupted continuity of its systemically impor-
tomer confidentiality laws do not, however, provide protection  tant functions in Switzerland, particularly access to deposits and 
with respect to criminal offenses such as insider trading, money  payments, in a crisis; FINMA must review this plan and evalu-
laundering, terrorist financing activities, tax fraud or evasion or  ate whether it is ready to be implemented if necessary. Credit 
prevent the disclosure of information to courts and administrative  Suisse was required to submit an effective Swiss emergency plan 
authorities. to FINMA for review by the end of 2019, and on February 25, 
2020, FINMA published a report noting that it regarded the Swiss 
Swiss rules and regulations to combat money laundering and ter- emergency plan submitted by Credit Suisse as effective. A third 
rorist financing are comprehensive and require banks and other  element is the resolution plan, which FINMA produces for sys-
financial intermediaries to thoroughly verify and document cus- temically important banks, indicating how the entire global group 
tomer identity before commencing business. In addition, these  would be recapitalized, restructured and/or liquidated in a crisis; 
rules and regulations, aimed at preventing money laundering,  FINMA assesses the resolvability of an institution on the basis of 
include obligations to maintain appropriate policies for dealings  whether the preparations are sufficient to successfully implement 
with politically exposed persons and procedures and controls to  the plan if necessary. If internationally active Swiss systemically 
detect money laundering and terrorist financing activities, includ- important banks increase their global resolvability, FINMA can 
ing reporting suspicious activities to authorities. grant rebates on the respective institution’s gone concern capital 
requirements.
In addition, the Swiss Criminal Code provides for stringent anti-
corruption and anti-bribery laws prohibiting illegitimate bribery  The FINMA Banking Insolvency Ordinance governs resolution 
(i.e., restructuring or liquidation) proceedings applicable to Swiss 
Regulation and supervision 35
   
banks and securities dealers, such as Credit Suisse AG and  For systemically relevant institutions, such as Credit Suisse AG, 
Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG, and Swiss-domiciled parent com- Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG and Credit Suisse Group AG, credi-
panies of financial groups, such as Credit Suisse Group AG, and  tors have no right to reject the restructuring plan approved by 
certain other unregulated Swiss-domiciled companies belonging  FINMA.
to financial groups. Instead of prescribing a particular resolu-
tion concept, the FINMA Banking Insolvency Ordinance provides  Supervision
FINMA with a significant amount of authority and discretion in  The Federal Act on Financial Market Infrastructure and Market 
the case of resolution, as well as various restructuring tools from  Conduct in Securities and Derivatives Trading (FMIA) governs 
which FINMA may choose. the organization and operation of financial market infrastructures 
and the conduct of financial market participants in securities and 
FINMA may open resolution proceedings if there is an impend- derivatives trading. FMIA, along with the Financial Market Infra-
ing insolvency because there is justified concern that the relevant  structure Ordinance (FMIO) came into effect on January 1, 2016. 
Swiss bank (or Swiss-domiciled parent companies of financial  However, financial market infrastructures and the operators of 
groups and certain other unregulated Swiss-domiciled companies  organized trading facilities were granted different transitional peri-
belonging to financial groups) is over-indebted, has serious liquid- ods to comply with various new duties, including those associated 
ity problems or no longer fulfills capital adequacy requirements.  with the publication of pre- and post-trade transparency informa-
Resolution proceedings may only take the form of restructuring  tion and with high-frequency trading. Under the FMIA, FINMA 
(rather than liquidation) proceedings if (i) the recovery of, or the  was designated to determine the timing of the introduction of a 
continued provision of individual banking services by, the relevant  clearing obligation and to specify the categories of derivatives 
bank appears likely and (ii) the creditors of the relevant bank are  covered. Accordingly, on September 1, 2018, the revised Ordi-
likely better off in restructuring proceedings than in liquidation  nance of the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority on 
proceedings. All realizable assets in the relevant entity’s posses- Financial Market Infrastructures and Market Conduct in Securities 
sion will be subject to such proceedings, regardless of where they  and Derivatives Trading (FMIO-FINMA) entered into force, intro-
are located. ducing a mandatory clearing obligation for standardized interest-
rate and credit derivatives traded OTC and making effective, as 
If FINMA were to open restructuring proceedings with respect to  of such date, the deadlines for the first clearing obligations laid 
Credit Suisse AG, Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG or Credit Suisse  down in the FMIO, i.e., six months, twelve months or eighteen 
Group AG, it would have discretion to take decisive actions,  months, depending on the categories of derivatives and the type 
including (i) transferring the assets of the banks or Credit Suisse  of counterparty.
Group AG, as applicable, or a portion thereof, together with its 
debt and other liabilities, or a portion thereof, and contracts, to  Tax
another entity, (ii) staying (for a maximum of two working days)  Automatic exchange of information and administrative 
the termination of, and the exercise of rights to terminate net- assistance in tax matters
ting rights, rights to enforce or dispose of certain types of col- In Switzerland, the Multilateral Convention on Mutual Administra-
lateral or rights to transfer claims, liabilities or certain collateral,  tive Assistance in Tax Matters (MAC) and the Multilateral Com-
under contracts to which the banks or Credit Suisse Group AG,  petent Authority Agreement (MCAA), together with the Federal 
as applicable, is a party, (iii) converting the debt of the banks or  Act on the International Automatic Exchange of Information in Tax 
Credit Suisse Group AG, as applicable, into equity (debt-to-equity  Matters and its implementing ordinance, form the legal basis for 
swap), and/or (iv) partially or fully writing off the obligations of the  the automatic exchange of information. Based on the MCAA, the 
banks or Credit Suisse Group AG, as applicable (haircut). multilateral agreement with the EU on the international automatic 
exchange of information in tax matters and a number of bilateral 
Prior to any debt-to equity swap or haircut, outstanding equity  AEI agreements, Switzerland collects and exchanges informa-
capital and debt instruments issued by Credit Suisse AG, Credit  tion with more than 100 jurisdictions in respect of financial assets 
Suisse (Schweiz) AG or Credit Suisse Group AG that are part of  held in, and income derived thereon and credited to, accounts or 
its regulatory capital (including outstanding high trigger capital  deposits maintained in Switzerland.
instruments and low trigger capital instruments) must be con-
verted or written off (as applicable) and cancelled. Any debt- Further to the MAC, Switzerland is required to spontaneously 
to-equity swap (but not any haircut) would have to follow the  exchange certain information on advanced tax rulings in accor-
hierarchy of claims to the extent such debt is not excluded from  dance with the OECD and G20 project to combat base erosion 
such conversion by the FINMA Banking Insolvency Ordinance.  and profit shifting (BEPS). Additionally in 2009, Switzerland 
Contingent liabilities of Credit Suisse AG, Credit Suisse (Schweiz)  adopted the OECD standard on administrative assistance in tax 
AG or Credit Suisse Group AG such as guarantees could also  matters in accordance with Art. 26 of the OECD Model Agree-
be subjected to a debt-to-equity swap or a haircut, to the extent  ment which has subsequently been included in 60 Double Tax 
amounts are due and payable thereunder at any time during  Agreements (DTAs), 51 of which are in force and applicable. The 
restructuring proceedings. 2009 protocol (Protocol, ratified in 2019) amending the tax treaty 
36 Regulation and supervision
   
regarding income tax between Switzerland and the US, a mecha- Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing (TRAF)
nism for the exchange of information upon request in tax matters  The main provisions of the Federal Act on Tax Reform and 
between Switzerland and the US is now in place. This mecha- AHV Financing (TRAF) entered into force on January 1, 2020, 
nism allows the US to make group requests under the US Foreign  together with further implementing legislation on federal and can-
Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) concerning non-consent- tonal level. Under the new withholding tax law introduced under 
ing US accounts and non-consenting non-participating foreign  TRAF, effective since January 1, 2020, companies listed on a 
financial institutions. The Protocol further erases the distinction  Swiss stock exchange who are paying a dividend out of legal cap-
between tax evasion and tax fraud in the context of administrative  ital contribution reserves are required to simultaneously pay a divi-
assistance to permit any exchanges of information as may be rel- dend out of taxable reserves of at least the same amount. Also, 
evant to the administration or enforcement of the domestic laws  under these new rules, when a company listed on a Swiss stock 
concerning taxes.  exchange repurchases shares to cancel them, the company must 
charge at least fifty percent of the liquidation amount to capital 
Finally, in accordance with the Multilateral Competent Authority  contribution reserves, the liquidation amount being the amount 
Agreement on the Exchange of Country-by-Country Reports as  equal to the repurchase price less the nominal amount. Prior to 
well as the implementing Swiss federal legislation, multinational  the new law, these companies were not limited in using the one 
groups of companies in Switzerland have to prepare country-by- or other type of reserves. 
country reports since the 2018 tax year with the exchange of the 
reports by Switzerland having started in 2020. Swiss courts’ practice on withholding tax refunds 
The Swiss Federal Tax Authority (FTA) and the Swiss courts con-
Tax exemptions on TLAC and similar instruments tinue to apply a strict beneficial ownership test for the application 
Based on the revised Withholding Tax Act, which entered into  of any double taxation agreement based refund of Swiss with-
force on January 1, 2017, the exemption from withholding tax  holding tax on dividend payments and the like. The focus is on 
of interest paid on contingent convertible bonds and write-down  the beneficial ownership of the securities and/or the dividends at 
bonds of banks or group companies of finance groups which were  the time of payment, which is assessed from a factual and eco-
approved by FINMA and issued between January 1, 2013 and  nomic point of view, without regard to the parties’ intentions or 
December 31, 2016, has been extended to issuances between  motivation, and must be proven by the party requesting a refund 
January 1, 2017 and December 31, 2021. It also exempts inter- in the form of detailed documentation at the request of the FTA. 
est paid on TLAC instruments approved by FINMA for purposes  In the context of derivative transactions, it has become increas-
of meeting regulatory requirements which have been or will be  ingly more difficult to obtain a refund of Swiss withholding tax as 
issued between January 1, 2017 and December 31, 2021, or  in most cases the FTA will not consider the recipient of a payment 
have been issued prior to January 1, 2017 where the foreign  subject to withholding tax under a derivative transaction to be the 
issuer thereof will be substituted for a Swiss issuer between Jan- beneficial owner of that payment for purposes of a refund of such 
uary 1, 2017 and December 31, 2021. It is currently planned to  withholding tax. However, the Swiss Supreme Court has also held 
further extend said exemptions until December 31, 2026. that this strict application of the beneficial ownership test, as well 
as the proof requirements, do not mean that a financial institution 
Furthermore, since 2017, equity securities in banks or group  involved in a derivative transaction is not entitled to a refund; if 
companies of a financial group issued in connection with the con- beneficial ownership can be established, a refund will be granted.
version of TLAC instruments into equity are exempt from the 1% 
issuance stamp tax, in addition to the exemption for equity securi- US
ties in banks issued from conversion capital.
Banking regulation and supervision
Participation Exemption for “Too Big to Fail” Instruments Our banking operations are subject to extensive federal and state 
Current legislation requires systemically relevant banks to issue  regulation and supervision in the US. Our direct US offices are 
contingent convertible bonds, write-off bonds and bail-in bonds  composed of our New York Branch and representative offices in 
through their top holding company, which may then on-lend the  California. Each of these offices is licensed with, and subject to 
funds to direct or indirect subsidiaries. The Federal Act on Calcu- examination and regulation by, the state banking authority in the 
lation of the Participation Deduction for “Too Big to Fail” Instru- state in which it is located.
ments, which became effective as of January 1, 2019, permits 
such top holding companies (Konzernobergesellschaften) of  Our New York Branch is licensed by the New York Superinten-
systemically relevant banks to carve-out interest expenses on  dent of Financial Services (Superintendent), examined by the 
these “Too Big to Fail” instruments for purposes of calculating  DFS, and subject to laws and regulations applicable to a foreign 
their tax-exempt net participation income. To level the effect of  bank operating a New York branch. Under the New York Bank-
the carve-out, the respective assets and liabilities positions are  ing Law, our New York Branch must maintain eligible assets with 
also eliminated in the calculation. This allows for a calculation of  banks in the state of New York. The amount of eligible assets 
the participation exemption with a complete carve-out of “Too  required, which is expressed as a percentage of third-party liabili-
Big to Fail” instruments to the extent the proceeds thereof are  ties, could increase if our New York Branch is no longer desig-
downstreamed. nated well rated by the Superintendent.
Regulation and supervision 37
   
The New York Banking Law authorizes the Superintendent to  the US, including insurance, securities, private equity and other 
seize our New York Branch and all of Credit Suisse AG’s business  financial activities, in each case subject to regulatory require-
and property in New York State (which includes property of our  ments and limitations. Credit Suisse Group is still required to 
New York Branch, wherever it may be located, and all of Credit  obtain the prior approval of the Fed (and potentially other US 
Suisse AG’s property situated in New York State) under circum- banking regulators) before acquiring, directly or indirectly, the 
stances generally including violations of law, unsafe or unsound  ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of voting 
practices or insolvency. In liquidating or dealing with our New York  shares of (or otherwise controlling) any US bank, bank holding 
Branch’s business after taking possession, the Superintendent  company or many other US depositary institutions and their hold-
would only accept for payment the claims of depositors and other  ing companies, and as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, before 
creditors (unaffiliated with us) that arose out of transactions with  making certain acquisitions involving large non-bank companies. 
our New York Branch. After the claims of those creditors were  The New York Branch is also restricted from engaging in cer-
paid out of the business and property of the Bank in New York,  tain tying arrangements involving products and services, and in 
the Superintendent would turn over the remaining assets, if any,  certain transactions with certain of its affiliates. If Credit Suisse 
to us or our liquidator or receiver.  Group or the Bank ceases to be well-capitalized or well-man-
aged under applicable Fed rules, or otherwise fails to meet any 
Under New York Banking Law and US federal banking laws, our  of the requirements for financial holding company status, it may 
New York Branch is generally subject to single borrower lending  be required to discontinue certain financial activities or terminate 
limits expressed as a percentage of the worldwide capital of the  its New York Branch. Credit Suisse Group’s ability to undertake 
Bank. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, lending limits take into account  acquisitions permitted for financial holding companies could also 
credit exposure arising from derivative transactions, securities  be adversely affected.
borrowing and lending transactions and repurchase and reverse 
repurchase agreements with counterparties. As mentioned above, Credit Suisse is also subject to the so-
called “Volcker Rule,” which limits the ability of banking entities to 
Our operations are also subject to reporting and examination  sponsor or invest in certain private equity or hedge funds, broadly 
requirements under US federal banking laws. Our US non- defined, and to engage in certain types of proprietary trading 
banking operations are subject to examination by the Fed in its  for their own account. These restrictions are subject to certain 
capacity as our US umbrella supervisor. The New York Branch is  exclusions and exemptions, including with respect to underwrit-
also subject to examination by the Fed and is subject to federal  ing, market-making, risk-mitigating hedging and certain asset and 
banking law requirements and limitations on the acceptance and  fund management activities, and with respect to certain transac-
maintenance of deposits. The New York Branch is not a member  tions and investments occurring solely outside of the US. The 
of, and its deposits are not insured by, the FDIC, and it does not  Volcker Rule requires banking entities to establish an extensive 
engage in retail deposit taking. array of compliance policies, procedures and quantitative metrics 
reporting designed to ensure and monitor compliance with restric-
US federal banking laws provide that a state-licensed branch  tions under the Volcker Rule. It also requires an annual attesta-
(such as the New York Branch) or agency of a foreign bank may  tion either by the Chief Executive Officer of the top-tier foreign 
not, as a general matter, engage as principal in any type of activ- banking organization (FBO) or the senior management officer in 
ity that is not permissible for a federally licensed branch or agency  the US as to the implementation of a compliance program rea-
of a foreign bank unless the Fed has determined that such activity  sonably designed to achieve compliance with the Volcker Rule. In 
is consistent with sound banking practice. In addition, regulations  April 2017, the Fed granted Credit Suisse an extended transition 
which the Fed may adopt (including at the recommendation of the  period to conform investments in certain illiquid funds under the 
FSOC) could affect the nature of the activities which the Bank  Volcker Rule for an additional five years (i.e., until July 21, 2022). 
(including the New York Branch) may conduct, and may impose  Credit Suisse has implemented a Volcker Rule compliance pro-
restrictions and limitations on the conduct of such activities. gram reasonably designed to satisfy the requirements of the Vol-
cker Rule. The Volcker Rule’s implementing regulations are highly 
The Fed may terminate the activities of a US branch or agency of  complex and may be subject to further rulemaking and regulatory 
a foreign bank if it finds that the foreign bank: (i) is not subject to  interpretation and guidance. 
comprehensive supervision in its home country; (ii) has violated 
the law or engaged in an unsafe or unsound banking practice in  Fed regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act required Credit 
the US; or (iii) for a foreign bank that presents a risk to the stabil- Suisse to create a single US IHC to hold all of its US subsidiar-
ity of the US financial system, the home country of the foreign  ies with limited exceptions. The IHC requirement does not apply 
bank has not adopted, or made demonstrable progress toward  to the New York Branch. Credit Suisse’s US IHC is subject to 
adopting, an appropriate system of financial regulation to mitigate  US risk-based capital and leverage requirements that are largely 
such risk. consistent with the Basel III framework published by the BCBS, 
though they diverge in several important respects due to the 
Credit Suisse Group and the Bank became financial holding com- requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, and is subject to capital 
panies for purposes of US federal banking law in 2000 and, as a  planning and capital stress testing requirements under the Dodd-
result, may engage in a broad range of non-banking activities in  Frank Act and the Fed’s annual CCAR.
38 Regulation and supervision
   
Credit Suisse’s US IHC is also subject to additional requirements  responsible for the regulation of broker-dealers, investment advis-
under the Fed’s final TLAC framework for IHCs, described above.  ers and investment companies. In addition, the US Treasury has 
In addition, both Credit Suisse’s US IHC itself and the combined  the authority to promulgate rules relating to US Treasury and gov-
US operations of Credit Suisse (including Credit Suisse’s US IHC  ernment agency securities, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking 
and the New York Branch) are subject to other prudential require- Board (MSRB) has the authority to promulgate rules relating to 
ments, including with respect to liquidity risk management, liquid- municipal securities, and the MSRB also promulgates regulations 
ity stress testing and separate liquidity buffers for each of Credit  applicable to certain securities credit transactions. In addition, 
Suisse’s US IHC and the New York Branch. Our US IHC is also  broker-dealers are subject to regulation by securities industry 
subject to the Fed’s applicable rules on liquidity coverage ratio  self-regulatory organizations, including the Financial Industry Reg-
(LCR), single counterparty credit limits (SCCL) and, once effec- ulatory Authority (FINRA), and by state securities authorities. 
tive on July 1, 2021, NSFR. The SCCL limits our aggregate net 
credit exposures to any single unaffiliated counterparty based on  Our US broker-dealers are registered with the SEC and our pri-
Tier 1 capital. Our combined US operations (including our US IHC  mary US broker-dealer is registered in all 50 states, the District 
and New York Branch) may qualify for a regime of substituted  of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands. Our US reg-
compliance with comparable home country rules, but our US IHC  istered entities are subject to extensive regulatory requirements 
is ineligible for the substituted compliance regime and remains  that apply to all aspects of their business activity, including, where 
subject to a separate SCCL requirement. Under proposals that  applicable: capital requirements; the use and safekeeping of 
remain under consideration, the combined US operations of  customer funds and securities; the suitability of customer invest-
Credit Suisse may become subject to an early remediation regime  ments and best interest obligations for certain retail customers; 
which could be triggered by risk-based capital, leverage, stress  record-keeping and reporting requirements; employee-related 
tests, liquidity, risk management and market indicators. matters; limitations on extensions of credit in securities transac-
> Refer to “Liquidity and funding management” in III – Treasury, Risk, Balance  tions; prevention and detection of money laundering and terrorist 
sheet and Off-balance sheet for further information on Basel III LCR and  financing; procedures relating to research analyst independence; 
NSFR.
procedures for the clearance and settlement of trades; and com-
A major focus of US policy and regulation relating to financial  munications with the public.
institutions has been to combat money laundering and terrorist 
financing and to enforce compliance with US economic sanc- Our US broker-dealers are also subject to the SEC’s net capital 
tions. These laws and regulations impose obligations to maintain  rule, which requires broker-dealers to maintain a specified level 
appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect and report  of minimum net capital in relatively liquid form. Compliance with 
money laundering and terrorist financing, verify the identity of  the net capital rule could limit operations that require intensive 
customers and comply with economic sanctions. Any failure to  use of capital, such as underwriting and trading activities and the 
maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money  financing of customer account balances and also could restrict 
laundering and terrorist financing, and violations of such economic  our ability to withdraw capital from our broker-dealers. Most of 
sanctions, laws and regulations, could have serious legal and  our US broker-dealers are also subject to additional net capital 
reputational consequences. We take our obligations to prevent  requirements of FINRA and, in some cases, other self-regulatory 
money laundering and terrorist financing in the US and glob- organizations.
ally and to comply with US economic sanctions very seriously, 
while appropriately respecting and protecting the confidential- Our securities and asset management businesses include legal 
ity of clients. We have policies, procedures and training intended  entities registered and regulated as a broker-dealer and invest-
to ensure that our employees comply with “know your customer”  ment adviser by the SEC. The SEC-registered mutual funds that 
regulations and understand when a client relationship or business  we advise are subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940. 
should be evaluated as higher risk for us. We are also subject to  For pension fund customers, we are subject to the Employee 
both the anti-bribery and accounting provisions of the US Foreign  Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and similar state 
Corrupt Practices Act. The anti-bribery provisions prohibit the  statutes. 
bribery of non-US government officials. The accounting provisions 
require us to keep accurate books and records and to maintain a  The Dodd-Frank Act also requires broader regulation of hedge 
system of internal accounting controls. funds and private equity funds, as well as credit rating agencies.
The Dodd-Frank Act requires issuers with listed securities to  Derivative regulation and supervision 
establish a claw-back policy to recoup erroneously awarded com- The CFTC is the federal agency primarily responsible for the reg-
pensation in the event of an accounting restatement but no final  ulation of futures commission merchants, commodity pool opera-
rules have been adopted.  tors, commodity trading advisors and introducing brokers, among 
other regulatory categories. With the effectiveness of the Dodd-
Broker-dealer and asset management regulation and  Frank Act, CFTC oversight was expanded to include persons 
supervision  engaging in a relevant activity with respect to swaps, and regis-
Our US broker-dealers are subject to extensive regulation by US  tration categories were added for swap dealers and major swap 
regulatory authorities. The SEC is the federal agency primarily  participants. For derivatives activities, these CFTC registrants 
Regulation and supervision 39
   
are subject to industry self-regulatory organizations, such as the  subject to the capital, segregation and other requirements of the 
National Futures Association (NFA), which has been designated  CFTC and the NFA.
by the CFTC as a registered futures association.
Each of CSI, CSSEL and CSC is registered with the CFTC as  Our asset management businesses include legal entities regis-
a swap dealer as a result of its applicable swap activities and is  tered and regulated as commodity pool operators and commod-
therefore subject to requirements relating to reporting, record- ity trading advisors by the CFTC and the NFA and therefore are 
keeping, swap confirmation, swap portfolio reconciliation and  subject to disclosure, recordkeeping, reporting and other require-
compression, mandatory clearing, mandatory on-facility trad- ments of the CFTC and the NFA.
ing, swap trading relationship documentation, external business 
conduct, risk management, chief compliance officer duties and  The Dodd-Frank Act mandates that the CFTC establish aggre-
reports and internal controls. However, where permitted by com- gate position limits for certain physical commodity futures con-
parability determinations by the CFTC or in reliance on no-action  tracts and economically equivalent swaps, and as noted above, 
letters issued by the CFTC, non-US swap dealers, including  on October 15, 2020, the CFTC adopted final rules expand-
CSI and CSSEL, can comply with certain requirements through  ing and revising position limits for certain physical commodity 
substituted compliance with EU regulations. The CFTC has also  derivatives. 
granted no-action letters that have applied since the UK’s with-
drawal from the EU, which permit CSI and CSSEL to satisfy such  Additionally, the SEC has finalized rules implementing most of the 
requirements by complying with relevant UK regulations. key derivatives provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, including secu-
rity-based swap dealer registration, capital, margin, segregation, 
As registered swap dealers that are not banks, CSSEL and CSC  internal and external business conduct, recordkeeping and finan-
are also subject to the CFTC’s margin rules for uncleared swaps.  cial reporting, risk mitigation techniques, and transaction report-
As a non-US swap dealer, CSSEL is only subject to these rules  ing rules. These rules are scheduled to take effect on November 
in connection with its uncleared swaps with US persons, non- 1, 2021. Unlike the CFTC, the SEC has not yet finalized rules 
US persons guaranteed by US persons, and certain non-US  relating to mandatory clearing or mandatory on-facility trading. 
swap dealer subsidiaries of US persons. As a registered swap  While the SEC’s rules have largely paralleled many of the CFTC’s 
dealer that is a foreign bank, CSI is subject to the margin rules  rules, significant differences between the final CFTC and SEC 
for uncleared swaps and security-based swaps of the Fed, and  rules could materially increase the compliance costs associated 
CSI likewise is only subject to these rules in connection with its  with, and hinder the efficiency of, our equity and credit derivatives 
uncleared swaps and security-based swaps with US persons,  businesses with US persons. For example, significant differences 
non-US persons guaranteed by US persons, and certain non-US  between the cross-border application of SEC and CFTC rules 
swap dealer subsidiaries of US persons. Both the CFTC’s margin  could have such effects. In particular, SEC rules applying public 
rules and the Fed’s margin rules are following a phased imple- transaction reporting and external business conduct requirements 
mentation schedule. Since March 1, 2017, CSI, CSSEL and CSC  to security-based swaps between non-US persons that are 
have been required to comply with variation margin requirements  arranged, negotiated or executed by US personnel (ANE transac-
with covered entities under these rules, requiring the exchange  tions) could discourage non-US counterparties from entering into 
of daily mark-to-market margin with all such covered entities. Ini- such transactions, unless the SEC permits substituted compli-
tial margin requirements began phasing in annually for different  ance with non-US reporting or business conduct requirements. 
counterparties from September 1, 2016, with remaining phases  While the SEC has issued time-limited relief from its reporting 
relating to the application of initial margin requirements to market  requirements which will last until the earlier of four years fol-
participants with group-wide notional derivatives exposure dur- lowing the first compliance date in each security-based swaps 
ing the preceding March, April and May of at least USD 50 bil- asset class or 12 months after the SEC provides notice that its 
lion or at least USD 8 billion on September 1, 2021 or Septem- no-action position will expire, the portion of the relief related to 
ber 1, 2022, respectively. The broad expansion of initial margin  assignment of reporting duties does not extend to certain ANE 
requirements on September 1, 2021 or September 1, 2022 could  transactions. Our non-bank derivatives dealer entities, CSC and 
have a significant adverse impact on our OTC derivatives busi- CSSEL, are expected to be subject to the SEC’s finalized capital, 
ness because of the large number of affected counterparties that  margin and segregation requirements for security-based swap 
might need to enter into new documentation and upgrade their  dealers. We do not expect a significant impact to CSC because 
systems in order to comply. it is already subject to SEC capital requirements as an over-the-
counter derivatives dealer registered with the SEC, the SEC’s 
As noted above, as non-bank swap dealers, CSSEL and CSC  new margin requirements are aligned in key respects with CFTC 
are subject to the CFTC’s capital and financial reporting rules  margin requirements that already apply to CSC as a CFTC-regis-
that were adopted in July 2020 and will take effect on October 6,  tered swap dealer, and CSC should be eligible for exemption from 
2021.  certain SEC segregation requirements. CSSEL may, with further 
approval by the SEC, be able to satisfy SEC capital and margin 
One of our US broker-dealers, Credit Suisse Securities (USA)  requirements through substituted compliance with comparable 
LLC, is also registered as a futures commission merchant and  UK requirements and may also be eligible for exemption from 
40 Regulation and supervision
   
certain SEC segregation requirements. If, however, CSSEL is  by December 17, 2021. The deadline for our next full plan is July 
unable to rely on substituted compliance in connection with SEC  1, 2024.
capital and margin requirements, it will face conflicts between 
SEC and UK requirements that could prevent it from continuing to  Cybersecurity
trade security-based swaps with US persons. Federal and state regulators, including the DFS, FINRA and 
the SEC, have increasingly focused on cybersecurity risks and 
FATCA  responses for regulated entities. For example, the DFS cyberse-
Pursuant to an agreement with the US Internal Revenue Ser- curity regulation applies to any licensed person, including DFS-
vice (IRS) entered into in compliance with FATCA, Credit Suisse  licensed branches of non-US banks, and requires each company 
is required to identify and provide the IRS with information on  to assess its specific risk profile periodically and design a program 
accounts held by US persons and certain US-owned foreign  that addresses its risks in a robust fashion. Each covered entity 
entities, as well as to withhold tax on payments made to foreign  must monitor its systems and networks and notify the superin-
financial institutions that are not in compliance with FATCA and  tendent of the DFS within 72 hours after it is determined that a 
account holders who fail to provide sufficient information to clas- material cybersecurity event has occurred. Similarly, FINRA has 
sify an account as a US or non-US account. Switzerland and the  identified cybersecurity as a significant risk and will assess firms’ 
US have entered into a “Model 2” intergovernmental agreement  programs to mitigate those risks. In addition, the SEC has issued 
to implement FATCA, which requires Credit Suisse to disclose  expanded interpretative guidance that highlights requirements 
account details directly to the US tax authority with the consent of  under US federal securities laws that public operating companies 
the US clients concerned. Where US clients do not provide Credit  must pay particular attention to with respect to cybersecurity risks 
Suisse consent to disclose to the IRS, the US authorities must  and incidents.
make a group request for this data through normal administrative 
assistance channels. Group requests are effective for information  EU
applying to cases dating from June 30, 2014. 
Financial services regulation and supervision
Resolution regime  Our EU banks, investment firms and fund managers are subject 
The Dodd-Frank Act also established an “Orderly Liquidation  to extensive regulation by EU and national regulatory authorities, 
Authority,” a regime for the orderly liquidation of systemically  whose requirements are increasingly imposed under EU directives 
significant non-bank financial companies, which could poten- and regulations aimed at increasing integration and harmonization 
tially apply to certain of our US entities. The Secretary of the US  in the European market for financial services. While regulations 
Treasury may under certain circumstances appoint the FDIC as  have immediate and direct effect in EU member states, directives 
receiver for a failing financial company in order to prevent risks  must be implemented through national legislation. As a result, 
to US financial stability. The FDIC would then have the author- the terms of implementation of directives are not always consis-
ity to charter a “bridge” company to which it can transfer assets  tent from country to country. In response to the financial crisis 
and liabilities of the financial company, including swaps and other  and in order to strengthen European supervisory arrangements, 
QFCs, in order to preserve the continuity of critical functions of  the EU established the European Systemic Risk Board, which 
the financial company. The FDIC has indicated that it prefers a  has macro-prudential oversight of the financial system. The EU 
single-point-of-entry strategy, although it retains the ability to  has also established three supervisory authorities responsible for 
resolve individual financial companies. As noted above, on July  promoting greater harmonization and consistent application of EU 
24, 2020, the FDIC and SEC finalized rules that would clarify the  legislation by national regulators: EBA, the European Securities 
application of SIPA in a receivership for a systemically significant  and Markets Authority and the European Insurance and Occupa-
broker-dealer under the Dodd-Frank Act’s Orderly Liquidation  tional Pensions Authority. 
Authority. 
The Basel III capital framework is implemented in the EU by 
In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act and related rules promulgated by  the amendments to the Capital Requirements Directive (CRD) 
the Fed and the FDIC require bank holding companies and com- (through the amending directive CRD V) and the CRR II (jointly 
panies treated as bank holding companies with total consolidated  known as the CRD V package). The CRD V package comprises 
assets above specified thresholds, such as us, and certain desig- a single prudential rule book for banks and investment firms. CRR 
nated non-bank financial firms, to submit periodically to the Fed  II contains, among other things, amendments to the previous 
and the FDIC resolution plans describing the strategy for rapid  CRR relating to, among other things, leverage ratio, market risk, 
and orderly resolution under the US Bankruptcy Code or other  counterparty credit risk and large exposures and implementing 
applicable insolvency regimes, though such plans may not rely on  the FSB’s TLAC standard. CRD V includes among other things, 
the Orderly Liquidation Authority. Our combined US operations  corporate governance and remuneration requirements, including 
are required to file a resolution plan every three years, alternating  a cap on variable remuneration. The CRD V amendments also 
between a full resolution plan and a less extensive targeted reso- include a new requirement for non-EU banking groups with two 
lution plan that will focus on certain core elements, responding  or more institutions and at least EUR 40 billion of assets in the 
to the targeted information request described above, and certain  EU to establish an EU intermediate financial holding company that 
changes from the previous full plan. We must file a targeted plan  would be subject to consolidated prudential supervision in the EU. 
Regulation and supervision 41
   
While the majority of the CRR II measures will apply from June  number of European Commission Delegated Regulations supple-
28, 2021, certain requirements, such as the new TLAC require- menting the BMR also entered into force in 2018. The regulations 
ments, applied immediately on entry into force on June 27, 2019.  specify, among other things, the criteria for assessing whether 
EU member states were required to adopt national legislative  certain events would result in significant and adverse impacts 
measures necessary to comply with CRD V by December 28,  on matters including the market integrity and financial stabil-
2020. The requirement for an intermediate holding company will  ity of one or more member states and the conditions to assess 
apply in practice from December 30, 2023. the impact resulting from the cessation of, or change to, existing 
benchmarks.  
Within the eurozone, banks are supervised within the Single 
Supervisory Mechanism. This empowers the ECB to act as a  On January 4, 2017, the European Commission Delegated 
single direct supervisor for significant banks in the 17 eurozone  Regulation supplementing the European Market Infrastructure 
countries and for certain non-eurozone countries which may  Regulation (EMIR) with regard to regulatory technical standards 
choose to participate in the Single Supervisory Mechanism. for risk mitigation techniques for OTC derivatives not cleared by 
a central counterparty (CCP) entered into force. The Delegated 
The revised Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID  Regulation imposes a requirement on financial counterparties and 
II) and the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation (MiFIR)  non-financial counterparties above the clearing threshold to col-
have introduced a number of significant changes to the regulatory  lect initial margin and variation margin in respect of non-centrally 
framework established by the Markets in Financial Instruments  cleared OTC derivative transactions. The requirements relating to 
Directive (MiFID I), and the European Commission has adopted a  initial margin and variation margin have applied since February 4, 
number of delegated and implementing measures, which supple- 2017 in relation to the largest market participants. Other market 
ment their requirements. In particular, MiFID II and MiFIR have  participants have become or in the future will become subject 
introduced enhanced organizational and business conduct stan- to the requirements relating to initial margin through a series of 
dards that apply to investment firms, including a number of Credit  phase-in dates, starting September 1, 2017. Requirements relat-
Suisse EU entities advising clients within the European Economic  ing to variation margin have applied to all financial and non-finan-
Area. These provisions include standards for managing conflicts  cial counterparties above the clearing threshold since March 1, 
of interest, best execution and enhanced investor protection.  2017. On June 17, 2019, a broad range of amendments to EMIR 
MiFID II has also enforced specific safeguards for algorithmic and  (through the “EMIR Refit” Regulation) entered into force, includ-
high-frequency trading and introduced a ban on the receipt of  ing in relation to counterparty classification, clearing, margin and 
investment research by portfolio managers and providers of inde- reporting requirements. In particular, the amendments include an 
pendent investment advice unless paid for by clients. On February  obligation for clearing members and clients which provide clearing 
26, 2021, the EU enacted a series of “quick-fix” amendments  services to provide services under fair, reasonable, non-discrim-
to MiFID II, which aim to alleviate the administrative burdens on  inatory and transparent commercial terms, which will apply from 
investment firms in order to facilitate the EU’s economic recovery  June 18, 2021. Further amendments to EMIR (known as “EMIR 
from the COVID-19 pandemic. The changes include amend- 2.2”) entered into force in January 2020. EMIR 2.2 focuses on 
ments to client information and product governance requirements  the authorization and supervision of CCPs. Amongst other things, 
and the regime for research on small and mid-cap issuers and on  EMIR 2.2 creates new supervisory mechanisms for ensuring 
fixed income instruments. The amendments entered into force on  more coherent and consistent supervision of EU CCPs as well 
February 27, 2021 and will apply from February 28, 2022. EU  as a more robust regime for recognizing non-EU CCPs, including 
member states are required to transpose the amendments into  through the newly established CCP Supervisory Committee and 
national law by November 28, 2021. Furthermore, the European  a tiering system for non-EU CCPs according to their systemic 
Commission is expected to produce a comprehensive MiFID II  importance to the EU or member states. Further, on February 
review proposal in the fourth quarter of 2021 or the first quarter  18, 2021, certain amendments to the EMIR regulatory technical 
of 2022. standards entered into force. Among other things, amendments 
to the regulatory technical standards for risk mitigation techniques 
The Benchmarks Regulation (BMR) introduces new rules aimed  for OTC derivatives not cleared by a CCP extend the deadline for 
at ensuring greater accuracy and integrity of benchmarks in  the implementation of initial margin requirements for firms in the 
financial instruments. The BMR sets out various requirements  final implementation phases, extend the temporary exemption 
which will govern the activities of benchmark administrators and  for single-stock equity options or index options (equity options) 
submitters. Certain requirements have applied to Credit Suisse in  to January 4, 2024 and allow UK counterparties to be replaced 
its capacity as a contributor to several critical benchmarks since  with EU counterparties without triggering the bilateral margin and 
June 30, 2016. The majority of the other provisions of the BMR  clearing obligation requirements under certain conditions until 
have applied since January 1, 2018, although a two-year transi- January 1, 2022.
tion period permitting usage of the EU non-critical benchmark, 
not yet compliant with the BMR, by EU-supervised entities came  Resolution regime 
to an end on December 31, 2019 and “critical” and third country  The BRRD establishes a framework for the recovery and resolu-
benchmark providers, including CSI as a UK benchmark admin- tion of credit institutions and investment firms and applies to all 
istrator, have been given until December 31, 2023 to comply. A  Credit Suisse EU entities, including branches of the Bank. The 
42 Regulation and supervision
   
BRRD introduces requirements for recovery and resolution plans,  subjects’ rights. Furthermore, in accordance with the GDPR, we 
provides for bank resolution tools, including bail-in for failing  have appointed a Data Protection Officer who is responsible for 
banks, and establishes country-specific bank resolution financ- monitoring our compliance with and providing advice in connec-
ing arrangements. In addition, as part of their powers over banks  tion with global data protection laws and regulations. The GDPR 
in resolution, resolution authorities are empowered to replace a  grants broad enforcement powers to data protection authorities, 
bank’s senior management, transfer a bank’s rights, assets and  including the potential to levy significant administrative fines for 
liabilities to another person, take a bank into public ownership,  non-compliance.
and close out and terminate a bank’s financial contracts or deriva-
tives contracts. Banks are required to produce recovery plans,  In addition to the GDPR, other jurisdictions in which we oper-
describing proposed arrangements to permit them to restore their  ate have adopted or are proposing data privacy standards, for 
viability, while resolution authorities are empowered to produce  example the FADP in Switzerland, applicable US data privacy 
resolution plans which describe how a bank may be resolved in an  laws including the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 and 
orderly manner, were it to fail.  the California Privacy Rights Act, the Thailand Personal Data 
Protection Act and the Data Protection Law DIFC No. 5 2020 
Under the BRRD, the resolution authority can increase the capi- in Dubai, some of which are similar to the GDPR or contain their 
tal of a failing or failed bank through bail-in: i.e., the write-down,  own requirements more robust than the GDPR. As additional data 
reduction or cancellation of liabilities held by unsecured creditors,  privacy laws come into effect in the coming years, we continue 
or their conversion to equity or other securities. All of a bank’s  to monitor changes and ensure compliance with our data privacy 
liabilities are subject to bail-in, unless explicitly excluded by the  obligations. 
BRRD because they are, for example, covered deposits, secured 
liabilities, or liabilities arising from holding client assets or client  Anti-money laundering regulation
money.  The Fifth Money Laundering Directive (MLD5) entered into force 
on July 9, 2018 and EU member states were required to comply 
The BRRD also requires banks to hold a certain amount of bail- with the requirements of MLD5 by January 10, 2020. Among 
inable loss-absorbing capacity at both individual and consolidated  other things, MLD5 clarifies the requirements for enhanced due 
levels. This requirement is known as the MREL, and is conceptu- diligence measures and countermeasures relating to high-risk 
ally similar to the TLAC framework.  third countries and introduced a new obligation for EU member 
states to establish centralized mechanisms to identify holders and 
In June 2019, amendments to BRRD (through BRRD II) entered  controllers of bank and payment accounts.
into force. EU member states were required to adopt national leg-
islative measures necessary to comply with BRRD II by Decem- Investment services regulation
ber 28, 2020. BRRD II contains amendments to the existing EU  Since July 1, 2019, following a decision by the European Com-
regime relating to MREL to align it with the TLAC standard and  mission not to extend the recognition of the equivalence of the 
to introduce, among other things, changes to the contractual  Swiss legal and supervisory framework for trading venues with 
recognition of bail-in and a new moratorium power for competent  that of the EU, EU investment firms are, in principle, prohibited 
authorities.  from trading in certain equity securities of companies domiciled 
in Switzerland on Swiss trading venues. Likewise, since July 1, 
The Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation, which came into  2019, under measures taken by the Swiss FDF, trading venues 
force on August 19, 2014, established the Single Resolution  domiciled in the EU are effectively prohibited from offering or 
Board as the resolution authority in charge of Banks in the euro- facilitating trading in certain equity securities of Swiss companies. 
zone. Since January 1, 2016, the Single Resolution Board has 
had full resolution powers, including bail-in.  UK
Data protection regulation Banking regulation and supervision 
The GDPR is now fully applicable and applies to the processing of  The principal statutory regulators of financial services activ-
personal data in the context of our EU establishments as well as  ity in the UK are the PRA, a part of the Bank of England, which 
on an extraterritorial basis. The GDPR also forms the basis of our  is responsible for the micro-prudential regulation of banks and 
Global Data Protection standard ensuring that policies and pro- larger investment firms, and the FCA, which regulates markets, 
cesses of the highest standard apply to all Credit Suisse entities  the conduct of business of all financial firms, and the pruden-
globally, subject to local laws and regulations. The GDPR requires  tial regulation of firms not regulated by the PRA. In addition, the 
us to take various measures to ensure compliance with the regu- Financial Policy Committee of the Bank of England is responsible 
lation, including processing personal data in accordance with the  for macro-prudential regulation. 
data protection principles, maintaining records of data process-
ing, ensuring adequate security for personal data, complying with  The UK was required to implement EU directives into national law 
data breach notification requirements, and giving effect to data  until the end of the transitional period following its exit from the 
Regulation and supervision 43
   
EU in January 2020. Following the end of the transitional period  Broker-dealer and asset management regulation and 
on December 31, 2020, EU laws which were in effect and appli- supervision
cable as at December 31, 2020 were “on-shored” (retained) in  Our London bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries are authorized 
UK law with amendments that remedy, mitigate, or prevent “defi- under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and 
ciencies” in the on-shored EU law arising from the withdrawal of  are subject to regulation by the PRA and FCA. In addition, our 
the UK from the EU but do not otherwise make general policy  asset management companies are authorized under the FSMA 
changes. Accordingly, at present, the regulatory regime for banks  and are subject to regulation by the FCA. In deciding whether to 
operating in the UK largely conforms to required EU standards,  authorize an investment firm in the UK, the PRA and FCA will 
including compliance with capital adequacy standards, customer  consider the threshold conditions, which include suitability and the 
protection requirements, conduct of business rules and anti- general requirement for a firm to be fit and proper. The PRA and 
money laundering rules. These standards, requirements and rules  FCA are responsible for regulating most aspects of an investment 
are similarly implemented, under the same directives, throughout  firm’s business, including its regulatory capital, sales and trading 
the member states of the EU in which we operate.  practices, use and safekeeping of customer funds and securi-
ties, record-keeping, margin practices and procedures, registra-
CSI, Credit Suisse (UK) Limited and Credit Suisse AG, London  tion standards for individuals carrying on certain functions, anti-
Branch are authorized to take deposits. We also have a number  money laundering systems and periodic reporting and settlement 
of entities authorized to conduct investment business and asset  procedures.
management activities. In deciding whether to grant authoriza-
tion, the PRA must first determine whether a firm satisfies the  Resolution regime 
threshold conditions for authorization, which include suitability and  The UK legislation related to the recovery and resolution of credit 
the requirement for the firm to be fit and proper. The PRA is also  institutions such as Credit Suisse consists of the special reso-
responsible for approval of certain models with respect to regula- lution regime (SRR), the PRA recovery and resolution frame-
tory capital requirements of our UK subsidiaries. work and the FCA recovery and resolution requirements, which 
implemented the BRRD in the UK. The UK Banking Act and the 
Our London Branch is required to comply principally with Swiss  related secondary legislation govern the application of the SRR, 
home country regulation. However, as a response to the global  which grants the UK authorities powers to handle systemically 
financial crisis, the PRA made changes to its prudential super- important firms, such as banks, in case of highly likely failure. The 
vision rules in its rulebook, applying a principle of “self-suffi- UK resolution authority is the Bank of England which is empow-
ciency,” such that CSI, CSSEL and Credit Suisse (UK) Limited  ered, among other things, to direct firms and their parent under-
are required to maintain adequate liquidity resources, under the  takings to address or remove barriers to resolvability, to enforce 
day-to-day supervision of the entity’s senior management, held  resolution actions and to carry out resolvability assessments of 
in a custodian account in the name of the entity, unencumbered  credit institutions. Separately, the PRA and the FCA have the 
and attributed to the entity balance sheet. In addition, the PRA  power to require parent undertakings of firms subject to this 
requires CSI, CSSEL and Credit Suisse (UK) Limited to maintain  regime to take actions such as the preparation and submission 
a minimum capital ratio and to monitor and report large exposures  of group recovery plans or the facilitation of the use of resolution 
in accordance with the CRR. powers.
The PRA has implemented the requirements of CRD relating to  Financial crime
staff remuneration and imposed a 1:1 cap on variable remunera- We are also subject, as a result of our operations in the UK, to 
tion which can rise to 1:2 with explicit shareholder approval. UK financial crime legislation including the Bribery Act 2010, the 
Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds 
The UK Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013, enacted  (Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017 and financial sanc-
in December 2013, establishes a more stringent regulatory  tions imposed by the UK government. In addition, as part of the 
regime for senior managers and specified risk takers in a bank or  FCA’s responsibility to ensure the integrity of the UK financial 
PRA authorized investment firm; it also makes reckless miscon- markets, it requires all authorized firms in the UK, including CS 
duct in the management of a bank a criminal offense. These rules  entities, to have systems and controls in place to mitigate the risk 
impact our UK entities, such as CSI and CSSEL. that they might be used to commit financial crime.
44 Regulation and supervision
   
Risk factors
Our businesses are exposed to a variety of risks that could adversely 
affect our results of operations and financial c  ondition, including, among 
others, those described below.
Liquidity risk 
at any time. The major rating agencies remain focused on the 
financial services industry, particularly regarding potential declines 
Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our business,  in profitability, asset quality deterioration, asset price volatility, 
particularly our investment banking businesses. We seek to main- the impact from any potential easing or enhancement of regula-
tain available liquidity to meet our obligations in a stressed liquidity  tory requirements and challenges from increased costs related 
environment. to compliance and litigation. Any downgrades in our ratings could 
> Refer to “Liquidity and funding management” in III – Treasury, Risk, Balance  increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to capital markets, 
sheet and Off-balance sheet for information on our liquidity management. increase our cost of capital and adversely affect the ability of our 
businesses to sell or market their products, engage in business 
Our liquidity could be impaired if we were unable to  transactions – particularly financing and derivatives transactions – 
access the capital markets, sell our assets or if our  and retain our clients.
liquidity costs increase 
Our ability to borrow on a secured or unsecured basis and the 
Market and credit risks
cost of doing so can be affected by increases in interest rates or 
credit spreads, the availability of credit, regulatory requirements 
relating to liquidity or the market perceptions of risk relating to us,  The ongoing global COVID-19 pandemic has adversely 
certain of our counterparties or the banking sector as a whole,  affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our 
including our perceived or actual creditworthiness. An inabil- business, operations and financial performance
ity to obtain financing in the unsecured long-term or short-term  Since December 2019, the COVID-19 pandemic has spread 
debt capital markets, or to access the secured lending markets,  rapidly and globally, with a high concentration of cases in cer-
could have a substantial adverse effect on our liquidity. In chal- tain countries in which we conduct business. The ongoing global 
lenging credit markets our funding costs may increase or we may  COVID-19 pandemic has adversely affected, and may con-
be unable to raise funds to support or expand our businesses,  tinue to adversely affect, our business, operations and financial 
adversely affecting our results of operations. Following the finan- performance.
cial crisis in 2008 and 2009, our costs of liquidity have been 
significant and we expect to incur ongoing costs as a result of  The spread of COVID-19 and resulting tight government con-
regulatory requirements for increased liquidity.  trols and containment measures implemented around the world 
have caused severe disruption to global supply chains and eco-
If we are unable to raise needed funds in the capital markets  nomic activity, and the market has entered a period of signifi-
(including through offerings of equity, regulatory capital securities  cantly increased volatility. The spread of COVID-19 is continuing 
and other debt), we may need to liquidate unencumbered assets  to have an adverse impact on the global economy, the sever-
to meet our liabilities. In a time of reduced liquidity, we may be  ity and duration of which is difficult to predict, and has adversely 
unable to sell some of our assets, or we may need to sell assets  affected our business, operations and financial performance. 
at depressed prices, which in either case could adversely affect  Modeling for current expected credit losses (CECL) has been 
our results of operations and financial condition. made more difficult by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on 
market volatility and macroeconomic factors, and has required 
Our businesses rely significantly on our deposit base for  ongoing monitoring and more frequent testing across the Group, 
funding particularly for credit models. There can be no assurance that, 
Our businesses benefit from short-term funding sources, includ- even after adjustments are made to model outputs, the Group 
ing primarily demand deposits, inter-bank loans, time deposits  will not recognize unexpected losses arising from the model 
and cash bonds. Although deposits have been, over time, a stable  uncertainty that has resulted from the COVID-19 pandemic. The 
source of funding, this may not continue. In that case, our liquidity  COVID-19 pandemic has significantly impacted, and is likely to 
position could be adversely affected and we might be unable to  continue to adversely affect, our credit loss estimates, mark-to-
meet deposit withdrawals on demand or at their contractual matu- market losses, trading revenues, net interest income and potential 
rity, to repay borrowings as they mature or to fund new loans,  goodwill assessments and may also adversely affect our ability 
investments and businesses. to successfully realize our strategic objectives and goals. Should 
current economic conditions persist or deteriorate, the macro-
Changes in our ratings may adversely affect our business  economic environment could have a continued adverse effect 
Ratings are assigned by rating agencies. Rating agencies may  on these outlined and other aspects of our business, operations 
lower, indicate their intention to lower or withdraw their ratings  and financial performance, including decreased client activity or 
Risk factors 45
   
demand for our products, disruptions to our workforce or operat- Our businesses and organization are subject to the risk 
ing systems, possible constraints on capital and liquidity or a pos- of loss from adverse market conditions and unfavorable 
sible downgrade of our credit ratings. Additionally, legislative and  economic, monetary, political, legal, regulatory and other 
regulatory changes in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, such  developments in the countries in which we operate
as consumer and corporate relief measures, could further affect  As a global financial services company, our businesses could 
our business. As such measures are often rapidly introduced and  be materially adversely affected by unfavorable global and local 
varying in their nature, we are also exposed to heightened risks  economic and market conditions, as well as geopolitical events 
as we may be required to implement large-scale changes quickly.  and other developments in Europe, the US, Asia and elsewhere 
Furthermore, once such measures expire, are withdrawn or are  around the world (even in countries in which we do not currently 
no longer supported by governments, economic growth may be  conduct business). Further, numerous countries have experi-
negatively impacted, which in turn may adversely affect our busi- enced severe economic disruptions particular to that country or 
ness, operations and financial performance.  region, including extreme currency fluctuations, high inflation, or 
low or negative growth, among other negative conditions, which 
The extent of the adverse impact of the pandemic on the global  could have an adverse effect on our operations and investments. 
economy and markets will depend, in part, on the duration and  Volatility also increased at the beginning of 2020 and equity 
severity of the measures taken to limit the spread of the virus and  market indices declined amid concerns surrounding the spread 
counter its impact, including further emergence of new strains  of COVID-19, and the economic environment may experience 
of COVID-19 and the safety, efficacy and availability of vaccines  further volatility depending on the longevity and severity of the 
and treatments, and, in part, on the size and effectiveness of the  COVID-19 pandemic. 
compensating measures taken by governments, including addi-
tional stimulus legislation, and how quickly and to what extent  Although the severity of the European sovereign debt crisis 
normal economic and operating conditions can resume. To the  appears to have abated somewhat over recent years, political 
extent the COVID-19 pandemic continues to adversely affect the  uncertainty, including in relation to the UK’s withdrawal from the 
global economy and/or our business, operations or financial per- EU, remains elevated and could cause disruptions in market con-
formance, it may also have the effect of increasing the likelihood  ditions in Europe and around the world and could further have an 
and/or magnitude of other risks described herein, or may give rise  adverse impact on financial institutions, including us. The eco-
to other risks not presently known to us or not currently expected  nomic and political impact of the UK leaving the EU, including on 
to be significant to our business, operations or financial perfor- investments and market confidence in the UK and the remainder 
mance. We are closely monitoring the potential adverse effects  of the EU, may adversely affect our future results of operations 
and impact on our operations, businesses and financial perfor- and financial condition. 
mance, including liquidity and capital usage, though the extent 
of the impact is difficult to fully and accurately predict at this time  Following the UK’s withdrawal from the EU, our legal entities that 
due to the continuing evolution of this uncertain situation. are organized or operate in the UK face limitations on provid-
ing services or otherwise conducting business in the EU, which 
We may incur significant losses on our trading and  require us to implement significant changes to our legal entity 
investment activities due to market fluctuations and  structure. In addition, as part of an overarching global legal entity 
volatility simplification program, the Group has developed a comprehen-
Although we continue to strive to reduce our balance sheet and  sive EU entity strategy and is also defining a strategy to optimize 
have made significant progress in implementing our strategy over  the legal entity structure across other regions, including expedit-
the past few years, we also continue to maintain large trading and  ing the closure of redundant entities and an optimization of the 
investment positions and hedges in the debt, currency and equity  legal entity structure of our asset management businesses within 
markets, and in private equity, hedge funds, real estate and other  International Wealth Management. There are a number of uncer-
assets. These positions could be adversely affected by volatility  tainties that may affect the feasibility, scope and timing of the 
in financial and other markets, that is, the degree to which prices  intended results, including the outcome of the ongoing negotia-
fluctuate over a particular period in a particular market, regard- tions between the EU and the UK for a framework for regula-
less of market levels. To the extent that we own assets, or have  tory cooperation on financial services and the operation of their 
net long positions, in any of those markets, a downturn in those  unilateral and autonomous processes for recognizing each other’s 
markets could result in losses from a decline in the value of our  regulatory framework as equivalent. Finally, future significant legal 
net long positions. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold  and regulatory changes, including possible regulatory divergence 
assets that we do not own, or have net short positions, in any of  between the EU and the UK, affecting us and our operations may 
those markets, an upturn in those markets could expose us to  require us to make further changes to our legal structure. The 
potentially significant losses as we attempt to cover our net short  implementation of these changes has required, and may further 
positions by acquiring assets in a rising market. Market fluctua- require, the investment of significant time and resources and has 
tions, downturns and volatility can adversely affect the fair value  increased, and may potentially further increase, operational, regu-
of our positions and our results of operations. Adverse market or  latory, compliance, capital, funding and tax costs as well as our 
economic conditions or trends have caused, and in the future may  counterparties’ credit risk. 
cause, a significant decline in our net revenues and profitability.
46 Risk factors
   
> Refer to  “Withdrawal of the UK from the EU and our legal entity structure”  These negative factors could be reflected, for example, in lower 
in Strategy, “UK-EU relationship” in Regulation and supervision – Recent  commissions and fees from our client-flow sales and trading and 
regulatory developments and proposals – EU, “Key risk developments” in III – 
asset management activities, including commissions and fees that 
Treasury, Risk, Balance sheet and Off-balance sheet – Risk management and 
“Corporate Governance framework” in IV – Corporate Governance for further  are based on the value of our clients’ portfolios. 
information.
Our response to adverse market or economic conditions may dif-
The environment of political uncertainty in countries and regions  fer from that of our competitors and an investment performance 
in which we conduct business may also affect our business. The  that is below that of competitors or asset management bench-
increased popularity of nationalist and protectionist sentiments,  marks could also result in a decline in assets under management 
including implementation of trade barriers and restrictions on  and related fees, making it harder to attract new clients. There 
market access, may result in significant shifts in national policy  could be a shift in client demand away from more complex prod-
and a decelerated path to further European integration. Similar  ucts, which may result in significant client deleveraging, and our 
uncertainties exist regarding the impact of recent and proposed  results of operations related to private banking and asset man-
changes in US policies on trade, immigration and foreign rela- agement activities could be adversely affected. Adverse market or 
tions. Growing global trade tensions, including between key trad- economic conditions, including as a result of the COVID-19 pan-
ing partners such as China, the US and the EU and the continu- demic, could exacerbate such effects.
ing COVID-19 pandemic may be disruptive to global economic 
growth and may also negatively affect our business.  In addition, several of our businesses engage in transactions with, 
or trade in obligations of, governmental entities, including supra-
In the past, the low interest rate environment has adversely  national, national, state, provincial, municipal and local authori-
affected our net interest income and the value of our trading  ties. These activities can expose us to enhanced sovereign, 
and non-trading fixed income portfolios, and resulted in a loss of  credit-related, operational and reputational risks, which may also 
customer deposits as well as an increase in the liabilities relat- increase as a result of adverse market or economic conditions. 
ing to our existing pension plans. Furthermore, interest rates  Risks related to these transactions include the risks that a gov-
are expected to remain low for a longer period of time. Future  ernmental entity may default on or restructure its obligations or 
changes in interest rates, including increasing interest rates or  may claim that actions taken by government officials were beyond 
changes in the current negative short-term interest rates in our  the legal authority of those officials, which could adversely affect 
home market, could adversely affect our businesses and results.  our financial condition and results of operations.
Interest rate cuts by national governments and central banks in 
response to the COVID-19 outbreak, including in the US, could  Adverse market or economic conditions could also affect our pri-
also adversely impact our net interest income, including in our  vate equity investments. If a private equity investment substan-
International Wealth Management and Asia Pacific divisions due  tially declines in value, we may not receive any increased share of 
to their larger share of US dollar-denominated deposits. In addi- the income and gains from such investment (to which we are enti-
tion, movements in equity markets have affected the value of  tled in certain cases when the return on such investment exceeds 
our trading and non-trading equity portfolios, while the historical  certain threshold returns), may be obligated to return to inves-
strength of the Swiss franc has adversely affected our revenues  tors previously received excess carried interest payments and 
and net income and exposed us to currency exchange rate risk.  may lose our pro rata share of the capital invested. In addition, it 
Further, diverging monetary policies among the major economies  could become more difficult to dispose of the investment, as even 
in which we operate, in particular among the Fed, ECB and SNB,  investments that are performing well may prove difficult to exit.
may adversely affect our results.
In addition to the macroeconomic factors discussed above, other 
Such adverse market or economic conditions may negatively  political, social and environmental developments beyond our con-
impact our investment banking and wealth management busi- trol, including terrorist attacks, cyber attacks, military conflicts, 
nesses and adversely affect net revenues we receive from com- economic or political sanctions, disease pandemics, political or 
missions and spreads. These conditions may result in lower  civil unrest and widespread demonstrations, natural disasters, or 
investment banking client activity, adversely impacting our finan- infrastructure issues, such as transportation or power failures, 
cial advisory and underwriting fees. Such conditions may also  could have a material adverse effect on economic and market 
adversely affect the types and volumes of securities trades that  conditions, market volatility and financial activity, with a potential 
we execute for customers. Cautious investor behavior in response  related effect on our businesses and results. In addition, as geo-
to adverse conditions could result in generally decreased cli- political tensions rise, compliance with legal or regulatory obliga-
ent demand for our products, which could negatively impact our  tions in one jurisdiction may be seen as supporting the law or pol-
results of operations and opportunities for growth. Unfavorable  icy objectives of that jurisdiction over another jurisdiction, creating 
market and economic conditions have affected our businesses  additional risks for our business.
in the past, including the low interest rate environment, contin- > Refer to “Non-financial risk” in III – Treasury, Risk, Balance sheet and Off-bal-
ued cautious investor behavior and changes in market structure.  ance sheet – Risk management – Risk coverage and management for further 
information.
Risk factors 47
   
Uncertainties regarding the expected discontinuation  payment obligations. The transition to alternative reference rates 
of benchmark rates may adversely affect our business,  also raises concerns of liquidity risk, which may arise due to slow 
financial condition and results of operations and are  acceptance, take-up and development of liquidity in products that 
requiring adjustments to our agreements with clients and  use alternative reference rates, leading to market dislocation or 
other market participants, as well as to our systems and  fragmentation. It is also possible that such products will perform 
processes differently to IBOR products during times of economic stress, 
In July 2017, the FCA, which regulates LIBOR, announced that  adverse or volatile market conditions and across the credit and 
it will no longer compel banks to submit rates for the calcula- economic cycle, which may impact the value, return on and profit-
tion of the LIBOR benchmark after year-end 2021. Other IBORs  ability of our alternative reference rates-based assets. The tran-
may also be permanently discontinued or cease to be represen- sition to alternative reference rates will also require a change in 
tative. In March 2021, the FCA announced that, consistent with  contractual terms of existing products currently linked to IBORs. 
its prior announcement, all CHF, EUR, GBP, JPY LIBOR set-
tings and the one-week and two-month USD LIBOR settings will  Further, the replacement of IBORs with an alternative reference 
permanently cease to be provided by any administrator or will no  rate in existing securities and other contracts, or in internal dis-
longer be representative immediately after December 31, 2021.  counting models, could negatively impact the value of and return 
The remaining USD LIBOR settings will permanently cease to  on such existing securities, credit instruments and other contracts 
be provided by any administrator or will no longer be representa- and result in mispricing and additional legal, financial, tax, opera-
tive immediately after June 30, 2023, providing additional time  tional, market, compliance, reputational, competitive or other risks 
to address the legacy contracts that reference such USD LIBOR  to us, our clients and other market participants. For example, 
settings. However, there is no certainty that the extended period  we may face a risk of litigation, disputes or other actions from 
of time to transition to alternative reference rates is sufficient  clients, counterparties, customers, investors or others regarding 
given how widely USD LIBOR is referenced. Further, a number of  the interpretation or enforcement of related contractual provi-
initiatives have been developed to support the transition, such as  sions or if we fail to appropriately communicate the effect that the 
the publication by ISDA of Supplement number 70 to the 2006  transition to alternative reference rates will have on existing and 
ISDA Definitions (IBOR Supplement) and the accompanying  future products. Further, litigation, disputes or other action may 
IBOR Protocol. Although these measures may help facilitate the  occur as a result of the interpretation or application of legislation, 
derivatives markets’ transition away from IBORs, our clients and  in particular, if there is an overlap between legislation introduced 
other market participants may not adhere to the IBOR Protocol or  in different jurisdictions. In addition, the transition to alternative 
may not be otherwise willing to apply the provisions of the IBOR  reference rates requires changes to our documentation, method-
Supplement to relevant documentation. Furthermore, no similar  ologies, processes, controls, systems and operations, which has 
multilateral mechanism exists to amend legacy loans or bonds,  resulted and may continue to result in increased effort and cost. 
many of which must instead be amended individually, which may  There may also be related risks that arise in connection with the 
require the consent of multiple lenders or bondholders. As a con- transition. For example, our hedging strategy may be negatively 
sequence, there can be no assurance that market participants,  impacted or market risk may increase in the event of different 
including Credit Suisse, will be able to successfully modify all out- alternative reference rates applying to our assets compared to 
standing IBOR referencing contracts or otherwise be sufficiently  our liabilities. In particular, our swaps and similar instruments that 
prepared for the uncertainties resulting from cessation, potentially  reference an IBOR and that are used to manage long-term inter-
leading to disputes. Although legislation to address so-called  est rate risk related to our credit instruments could adopt different 
“tough legacy” contracts has been proposed in multiple jurisdic- alternative reference rates than the related credit instruments, 
tions, it is uncertain whether, when and how such legislation will  resulting in potential basis risk and potentially making hedging our 
be enacted. In addition, the terms and scope of the proposed leg- credit instruments more costly or less effective.
islative solutions are inconsistent and potentially overlapping. > Refer to “Replacement of interbank offered rates” in II – Operating and finan-
cial review – Credit Suisse – Other information for further information.
Credit Suisse has identified a significant number of its liabilities 
and assets, including credit instruments such as credit agree- We may incur significant losses in the real estate sector
ments, loans and bonds, linked to IBORs across its businesses  We finance and acquire principal positions in a number of real 
that require transition to alternative reference rates. The discon- estate and real estate-related products, primarily for clients, and 
tinuation of IBORs or future changes in the administration of  originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. 
benchmarks could result in adverse consequences to the return  As of December 31, 2020, our real estate loans as reported to 
on, value of and market for securities, credit instruments and  the SNB totaled approximately CHF 149 billion. We also securi-
other instruments whose returns or contractual mechanics are  tize and trade in commercial and residential real estate and real 
linked to any such benchmark, including those issued and traded  estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and 
by the Group. For example, alternative reference rate-linked prod- commercial assets and products, including CMBS and RMBS. 
ucts may not provide a term structure and may calculate inter- Our real estate-related businesses and risk exposures could 
est payments differently than benchmark-linked products, which  be adversely affected by any downturn in real estate markets, 
could lead to greater uncertainty with respect to corresponding  other sectors and the economy as a whole. In particular, we have 
48 Risk factors
   
exposure to commercial real estate, which has been impacted by  Market risk may increase the other risks that we face
the COVID-19 pandemic and resulting tight government controls  In addition to the potentially adverse effects on our businesses 
and containment measures. Should these conditions persist or  described above, market risk could exacerbate the other risks 
deteriorate, they could create additional risk for our commercial  that we face. For example, if we were to incur substantial trading 
real estate-related businesses. In addition, the risk of poten- losses, our need for liquidity could rise sharply while our access 
tial price corrections in the real estate market in certain areas  to liquidity could be impaired. In conjunction with another mar-
of Switzerland could have a material adverse effect on our real  ket downturn, our customers and counterparties could also incur 
estate-related businesses. substantial losses of their own, thereby weakening their financial 
condition and increasing our credit and counterparty risk exposure 
Holding large and concentrated positions may expose us  to them.
to large losses
Concentrations of risk could increase losses, given that we have  We may suffer significant losses from our credit exposures
provided or may in the future provide sizeable loans to, conduct  Our businesses are subject to the fundamental risk that bor-
sizeable transactions with, and own securities holdings in, certain  rowers and other counterparties will be unable to perform their 
customers, clients, counterparties, industries, countries or any  obligations. Our credit exposures exist across a wide range of 
pool of exposures with a common risk characteristic. Decreas- transactions that we engage in with a large number of clients 
ing economic growth in any sector in which we make significant  and counterparties, including lending relationships, commitments 
commitments, for example, through underwriting, lending or  and letters of credit, as well as derivative, currency exchange and 
advisory services, could also negatively affect our net revenues.  other transactions. Our exposure to credit risk can be exacer-
In addition, a significant deterioration in the credit quality of one  bated by adverse economic or market trends, as well as increased 
of our borrowers or counterparties could lead to concerns about  volatility in relevant markets or instruments. For example, adverse 
the creditworthiness of other borrowers or counterparties in simi- economic effects arising from the COVID-19 outbreak, such as 
lar, related or dependent industries. This type of interrelationship  disruptions to economic activity and global supply chains, will 
could exacerbate our credit, liquidity and market risk exposure  likely continue to negatively impact the creditworthiness of certain 
and potentially cause us to incur losses. counterparties and result in increased credit losses for our busi-
nesses. In addition, disruptions in the liquidity or transparency of 
We have significant risk concentration in the financial services  the financial markets may result in our inability to sell, syndicate 
industry as a result of the large volume of transactions we rou- or realize the value of our positions, thereby leading to increased 
tinely conduct with broker-dealers, banks, funds and other finan- concentrations. Any inability to reduce these positions may not 
cial institutions, and in the ordinary conduct of our business, we  only increase the market and credit risks associated with such 
may be subject to risk concentration with a particular counter- positions, but also increase the level of risk-weighted assets on 
party. In addition, we, and other financial institutions, may pose  our balance sheet, thereby increasing our capital requirements, all 
systemic risk in a financial or credit crisis, and may be vulnerable  of which could adversely affect our businesses.
to market sentiment and confidence, particularly during periods of  > Refer to “Credit risk” in III – Treasury, Risk, Balance sheet and Off-balance 
severe economic stress. We, like other financial institutions, con- sheet – Risk management – Risk coverage and management for information on 
management of credit risk.
tinue to adapt our practices and operations in consultation with 
our regulators to better address an evolving understanding of our  Our regular review of the creditworthiness of clients and counter-
exposure to, and management of, systemic risk and risk concen- parties for credit losses does not depend on the accounting treat-
tration to financial institutions. Regulators continue to focus on  ment of the asset or commitment. Changes in creditworthiness of 
these risks, and there are numerous new regulations and govern- loans and loan commitments that are fair valued are reflected in 
ment proposals, and significant ongoing regulatory uncertainty,  trading revenues.
about how best to address them. There can be no assurance that 
the changes in our industry, operations, practices and regulation  Management’s determination of the provision for credit losses 
will be effective in managing these risks. is subject to significant judgment. Our banking businesses may 
> Refer to “Regulation and supervision” for further information. need to increase their provisions for credit losses or may record 
losses in excess of the previously determined provisions if our 
Risk concentration may cause us to suffer losses even when eco- original estimates of loss prove inadequate, which could have a 
nomic and market conditions are generally favorable for others in  material adverse effect on our results of operations. Credit Suisse 
our industry.  adopted the “Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instru-
ments” (ASU 2016-13) accounting standard and its subsequent 
Our hedging strategies may not prevent losses amendments on January 1, 2020 and incorporates forward-
If any of the variety of instruments and strategies we use to  looking information and macroeconomic factors into its credit 
hedge our exposure to various types of risk in our businesses is  loss estimates applying the modified retrospective approach. 
not effective, we may incur losses. We may be unable to pur- The new accounting standard generally requires management to 
chase hedges or be only partially hedged, or our hedging strate- estimate lifetime CECL on Credit Suisse’s credit exposure held 
gies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all  at amortized cost; under the previous standard, such estimates 
market environments or against all types of risk. were made under the incurred loss model. Such adoption of 
Risk factors 49
   
Strategy risk
ASU 2016-13 and its subsequent amendments could result in 
greater volatility in earnings and capital levels due to economic 
developments or occurrence of an extreme and statistically rare  We may not achieve all of the expected benefits of our 
event that cannot be adequately reflected in the CECL model.  strategic initiatives 
For example, the effects surrounding the outbreak of COVID-19  On July 30, 2020, we announced certain changes to the struc-
could continue to have an adverse effect on the Group’s credit  ture and organization of the Group and a new restructuring pro-
loss estimates and goodwill assessments in the future, which  gram, which is expected to be completed within a year from the 
could have a significant impact on our results of operations and  announcement. This program is intended to continue our efforts 
regulatory capital. In addition, model overlays may become nec- to achieve our strategic objectives, which are based on a number 
essary in these circumstances as the CECL model outputs are  of key assumptions regarding the future economic environment, 
overly sensitive to the effect of economic inputs that lie signifi- the economic growth of certain geographic regions, the regula-
cantly outside of their historical range. We may suffer unexpected  tory landscape, our ability to meet certain financial goals, antici-
losses if the models and assumptions that are used to estimate  pated interest rates and central bank action, among other things. 
our allowance for credit losses are not sufficient to address our  If any of these assumptions (including but not limited to our ability 
credit losses.  to meet certain financial goals) prove inaccurate in whole or in 
> Refer to “Accounting developments” in II – Operating and financial review –  part, our ability to achieve some or all of the expected benefits 
Credit Suisse – Other information, “Credit risk” in III – Treasury, Risk, Balance  of our strategy could be limited, including our ability to retain key 
sheet and Off-balance sheet – Risk management – Risk coverage and man-
employees, distribute capital to shareholders through dividends 
agement and “Note 1 – Summary of significant accounting policies”, “Note 
9 – Provision for credit losses”, “Note 19 – Loans” and “Note 20 – Financial  and share buyback programs or achieve our other goals, such 
instruments measured at amortized cost and credit losses” in VI – Consolidated  as those in relation to return on tangible equity. In addition, the 
financial statements – Credit Suisse Group for further information.
Group depends on dividends, distributions and other payments 
Under certain circumstances, we may assume long-term credit  from its subsidiaries to fund external dividend payments and share 
risk, extend credit against illiquid collateral and price derivative  buybacks. Factors beyond our control, including but not limited to 
instruments aggressively based on the credit risks that we take.  market and economic conditions, changes in laws, rules or regu-
As a result of these risks, our capital and liquidity requirements  lations, execution risk related to the implementation of our strat-
may continue to increase. egy and other challenges and risk factors discussed in this report, 
could limit our ability to achieve some or all of the expected ben-
Defaults by one or more large financial institutions could  efits of this strategy. Capital payments from subsidiaries might be 
adversely affect financial markets generally and us  restricted as a result of regulatory, tax or other constraints. If we 
specifically are unable to implement our strategy successfully in whole or in 
Concerns, rumors about or an actual default by one institution  part or should the components of the strategy that are imple-
could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults  mented fail to produce the expected benefits, our financial results 
by other institutions because the commercial soundness of  and our share price may be materially and adversely affected.
many financial institutions may be closely related as a result of  > Refer to “Strategy” for further information on our strategic direction.
credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between institu-
tions. This risk is typically referred to as systemic risk. Concerns  Additionally, part of our strategy has involved a change in focus 
about defaults by and failures of many financial institutions could  within certain areas of our business, which may have unantici-
lead to losses or defaults by financial institutions and financial  pated negative effects in other areas of the business and may 
intermediaries with which we interact on a daily basis, such as  result in an adverse effect on our business as a whole.
clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and 
exchanges. Our credit risk exposure will also increase if the collat- The implementation of our strategy may increase our exposure 
eral we hold cannot be realized or can only be liquidated at prices  to certain risks, including but not limited to credit risks, mar-
insufficient to cover the full amount of the exposure. ket risks, operational risks and regulatory risks. We also seek to 
achieve certain financial goals, for example in relation to return on 
The information that we use to manage our credit risk may  tangible equity, which may or may not be successful. There is no 
be inaccurate or incomplete guarantee that we will be able to achieve these goals in the form 
Although we regularly review our credit exposure to specific cli- described or at all. Finally, changes to the organizational structure 
ents and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and  of our business, as well as changes in personnel and manage-
regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default  ment, may lead to temporary instability of our operations.
risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to 
foresee or detect, such as fraud. We may also lack correct and  In addition, acquisitions and other similar transactions we under-
complete information with respect to the credit or trading risks of  take subject us to certain risks. Even though we review the 
a counterparty or risk associated with specific industries, coun- records of companies we plan to acquire, it is generally not fea-
tries and regions or misinterpret such information that is received  sible for us to review all such records in detail. Even an in-depth 
or otherwise incorrectly assess a given risk situation. Additionally,  review of records may not reveal existing or potential problems 
there can be no assurance that measures instituted to manage  or permit us to become familiar enough with a business to fully 
such risk will be effective in all instances. assess its capabilities and deficiencies. As a result, we may 
50 Risk factors
   
assume unanticipated liabilities (including legal and compli- on our businesses and increased volatility in financial markets 
ance issues), or an acquired business may not perform as well  generally.
as expected. We also face the risk that we will not be able to 
integrate acquisitions into our existing operations effectively as  Currency fluctuations may adversely affect our results of 
a result of, among other things, differing procedures, business  operations
practices and technology systems, as well as difficulties in adapt- We are exposed to risk from fluctuations in exchange rates for 
ing an acquired company into our organizational structure. We  currencies, particularly the US dollar. In particular, a substantial 
face the risk that the returns on acquisitions will not support the  portion of our assets and liabilities are denominated in curren-
expenditures or indebtedness incurred to acquire such businesses  cies other than the Swiss franc, which is the primary currency of 
or the capital expenditures needed to develop such businesses.  our financial reporting. Our capital is also stated in Swiss francs, 
We also face the risk that unsuccessful acquisitions will ultimately  and we do not fully hedge our capital position against changes in 
result in us being required to write down or write off any goodwill  currency exchange rates. The Swiss franc was strong against the 
associated with such transactions. We continue to have a signifi- US dollar and the euro in 2020.
cant amount of goodwill relating to our acquisition of Donaldson, 
Lufkin & Jenrette Inc. and other transactions recorded on our  As we incur a significant part of our expenses in Swiss francs 
balance sheet that could result in additional goodwill impairment  while we generate a large proportion of our revenues in other cur-
charges. rencies, our earnings are sensitive to changes in the exchange 
rates between the Swiss franc and other major currencies. 
We may also seek to engage in new joint ventures (within the  Although we have implemented a number of measures designed 
Group and with external parties) and strategic alliances. Although  to offset the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on our results 
we endeavor to identify appropriate partners, our joint venture  of operations, the appreciation of the Swiss franc in particular and 
efforts may prove unsuccessful or may not justify our investment  exchange rate volatility in general have had an adverse impact on 
and other commitments. our results of operations and capital position in recent years and 
may continue to have an adverse effect in the future.
Country and currency exchange 
Operational, risk management 
risk 
and estimation risks
Country risks may increase market and credit risks we face
Country, regional and political risks are components of market  We are exposed to a wide variety of operational risks, 
and credit risk. Financial markets and economic conditions gen- including cybersecurity and other information technology risks
erally have been and may in the future be materially affected by  Operational risk is the risk of financial loss arising from inad-
such risks. Economic or political pressures in a country or region,  equate or failed internal processes, people or systems or from 
including those arising from local market disruptions, currency cri- external events. In general, although we have business conti-
ses, monetary controls or other factors, may adversely affect the  nuity plans, our businesses face a wide variety of operational 
ability of clients or counterparties located in that country or region  risks, including technology risk that stems from dependencies on 
to obtain foreign currency or credit and, therefore, to perform  information technology, third-party suppliers and the telecom-
their obligations to us, which in turn may have an adverse impact  munications infrastructure as well as from the interconnectivity of 
on our results of operations. multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and 
clearing houses. As a global financial services company, we rely 
We may face significant losses in emerging markets heavily on our financial, accounting and other data processing 
An element of our strategy is to increase our private banking busi- systems, which are varied and complex, and we may face addi-
nesses in emerging market countries. Our implementation of this  tional technology risks due to the global nature of our operations. 
strategy will increase our existing exposure to economic instability  Our business depends on our ability to process a large volume 
in those countries. We monitor these risks, seek diversity in the  of diverse and complex transactions within a short space of time, 
sectors in which we invest and emphasize client-driven business.  including derivatives transactions, which have increased in volume 
Our efforts at limiting emerging market risk, however, may not  and complexity. We may rely on automation, robotic processing, 
always succeed. In addition, various emerging market coun- machine learning and artificial intelligence for certain operations, 
tries have experienced and may continue to experience severe  and this reliance may increase in the future with corresponding 
economic, financial and political disruptions or slower economic  advancements in technology, which could expose us to additional 
growth than in previous years, including significant devaluations of  cybersecurity risks. We are exposed to operational risk arising 
their currencies, defaults or threatened defaults on sovereign debt  from errors made in the execution, confirmation or settlement 
and capital and currency exchange controls. In addition, sanctions  of transactions or from transactions not being properly recorded 
have been imposed on certain individuals and companies in these  or accounted for. Cybersecurity and other information technol-
markets that prohibit or restrict dealings with them and certain  ogy risks for financial institutions have significantly increased in 
related entities and further sanctions are possible. The possible  recent years and we may face an increased risk of cyber attacks 
effects of any such disruptions may include an adverse impact  or heightened risks associated with a lesser degree of data and 
Risk factors 51
   
intellectual property protection in certain foreign jurisdictions in  our own information systems. Additionally, it is more challenging 
which we operate. Regulatory requirements in these areas have  to ensure the comprehensive roll-out of system security updates 
increased and are expected to increase further. and we also have less visibility over the physical security of our 
devices and systems. Our customers have also increasingly relied 
Information security, data confidentiality and integrity are of criti- on remote (digital) banking services during the COVID-19 pan-
cal importance to our businesses, and there has been recent  demic. This has resulted in a greater demand for our information 
regulatory scrutiny on the ability of companies to safeguard per- technology infrastructure and increases the potential significance 
sonal information of individuals in accordance with data protection  of any outage or cybersecurity incident that may occur. Due to 
regulation, including the European General Data Protection Regu- the evolving nature of cybersecurity risks and our reduced vis-
lation and the Swiss Federal Act on Data Protection. Governmen- ibility and control in light of remote working in the context of the 
tal authorities, employees, individual customers or business part- global COVID-19 pandemic, our efforts to provide appropriate 
ners may initiate proceedings against us as a result of security  policies and security measures may prove insufficient to mitigate 
breaches affecting the confidentiality or integrity of personal data,  all cybersecurity and data protection threats. The rise in remote 
as well as the failure, or perceived failure, to comply with data  access, by both our employees and customers, has increased the 
protection regulations. The adequate monitoring of operational  burden on our information technology systems and may cause our 
risks and adherence to data protection regulations have also  systems (and our ability to deliver our services) to become slow or 
come under increased regulatory scrutiny. Any failure of Credit  fail entirely. Any slowdown in our service delivery or any system 
Suisse to adequately ensure the security of data and to address  outage due to overutilization will have a negative impact on our 
the increased technology-related operational risks could also lead  business and reputation.
to regulatory sanctions or investigations and a loss of trust in our 
systems, which may adversely affect our reputation, business and  We and other financial institutions have been subject to cyber 
operations. attacks, information or security breaches and other forms of 
> Refer to “Recent regulatory developments and proposals – Switzerland – Data  attacks. We expect to continue to be the target of such attacks 
Protection Act” and “Regulatory Framework – EU – Data protection regulation”  in the future. In the event of a cyber attack, information or secu-
in Regulation and supervision for further information. 
rity breach or technology failure, we may experience operational 
Threats to our cybersecurity and data protection systems require  issues, the infiltration of payment systems or the unauthorized 
us to dedicate significant financial and human resources to pro- release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of 
tect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems and  confidential, proprietary and other information relating to Credit 
information. Despite our wide range of security measures, it is not  Suisse, our clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties or 
always possible to anticipate the evolving threat landscape and  other third parties. Given our global footprint and the high volume 
mitigate all risks to our systems and information. These threats  of transactions we process, the large number of clients, partners 
may derive from human error, fraud or malice, or may result from  and counterparties with which we do business, our growing use 
accidental technological failure. There may also be attempts  of digital, mobile and internet-based services, and the increasing 
to fraudulently induce employees, clients, third parties or other  frequency, sophistication and evolving nature of cyber attacks, a 
users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order  cyber attack, information or security breach or technology fail-
to gain access to our data or that of our clients. We could also  ure may occur without detection for an extended period of time. 
be affected by risks to the systems and information of clients,  In addition, we expect that any investigation of a cyber attack, 
vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third par- information or security breach or technology failure will be inher-
ties. Security breaches may involve substantial remediation costs,  ently unpredictable and it may take time before any investigation 
affect our ability to carry out our businesses or impair the trust of  is complete. During such time, we may not know the extent of 
our clients or potential clients, any of which could have a material  the harm or how best to remediate it and certain errors or actions 
adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition,  may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and 
we may introduce new products or services or change processes,  rectified, all or any of which would further increase the costs and 
resulting in new operational risks that we may not fully appreciate  consequences of a cyber attack, information or security breach or 
or identify. technology failure.
The ongoing global COVID-19 pandemic has led to a wide-scale  If any of our systems do not operate properly or are compromised 
and prolonged shift to remote working for our employees, which  as a result of cyber attacks, information or security breaches, 
increases the vulnerability of our information technology systems  technology failures, unauthorized access, loss or destruction of 
and the likelihood of damage as a result of a cybersecurity inci- data, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other events 
dent. For example, the use of remote devices to access the firm’s  that could have an adverse security impact, we could be subject 
networks could impact our ability to quickly detect and mitigate  to litigation or suffer financial loss not covered by insurance, a 
security threats and human errors as they arise. Remote work- disruption of our businesses, liability to our clients, damage to 
ing may also require our employees to use third party technology,  relationships with our vendors, regulatory intervention or reputa-
which may not provide the same level of information security as  tional damage. Any such event could also require us to expend 
52 Risk factors
   
significant additional resources to modify our protective measures  Our accounting treatment of off-balance sheet entities 
or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures.  may change
We may also be required to expend resources to comply with new  We enter into transactions with special purpose entities (SPEs) 
and increasingly expansive regulatory requirements related to  in our normal course of business, and certain SPEs with which 
cybersecurity. we transact and conduct business are not consolidated and their 
assets and liabilities are off-balance sheet. We may have to 
We may suffer losses due to employee misconduct exercise significant management judgment in applying relevant 
Our businesses are exposed to risk from potential non-compli- accounting consolidation standards, either initially or after the 
ance with policies or regulations, employee misconduct or negli- occurrence of certain events that may require us to reassess 
gence and fraud, which could result in civil, regulatory or criminal  whether consolidation is required. Accounting standards relating 
investigations and charges, regulatory sanctions and serious  to consolidation, and their interpretation, have changed and may 
reputational or financial harm. In recent years, a number of multi- continue to change. If we are required to consolidate an SPE, its 
national financial institutions have suffered material losses due to,  assets and liabilities would be recorded on our consolidated bal-
for example, the actions of traders executing unauthorized trades  ance sheets and we would recognize related gains and losses in 
or other employee misconduct. It is not always possible to deter or  our consolidated statements of operations, and this could have an 
fully prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take  adverse impact on our results of operations and capital and lever-
to prevent and detect this activity may not always be effective. age ratios.
> 
Refer to “Off-balance sheet” in III – Treasury, Risk, Balance sheet and Off-
Our risk management procedures and policies may not  balance sheet – Balance sheet and off-balance sheet for information on our 
transactions with and commitments to SPEs. 
always be effective
We have risk management procedures and policies designed to 
manage our risk. These techniques and policies, however, may  We are exposed to climate change risks, which could 
not always be effective, particularly in highly volatile markets. We  adversely affect our reputation, business operations, 
continue to adapt our risk management techniques, in particu- clients and customers, as well as the creditworthiness of 
lar value-at-risk and economic capital, which rely on historical  our counterparties
data, to reflect changes in the financial and credit markets. No  We operate in many regions, countries and communities around 
risk management procedures can anticipate every market devel- the world where our businesses, and the activities of our clients, 
opment or event, and our risk management procedures and hedg- could be impacted by climate change. Climate change could 
ing strategies, and the judgments behind them, may not fully miti- expose us to financial risk either through its physical (e.g., climate 
gate our risk exposure in all markets or against all types of risk. or weather-related events) or transitional (e.g., changes in climate 
> Refer to “Risk management” in III – Treasury, Risk, Balance sheet and Off- policy or in the regulation of financial institutions with respect to 
balance sheet for information on our risk management. climate change risks) effects. Transition risks could be further 
accelerated by the occurrence of changes in the physical climate.
Our actual results may differ from our estimates and 
valuations Physical and transition climate risks could have a financial impact 
We make estimates and valuations that affect our reported  on us either directly, through our physical assets, costs and 
results, including determining the fair value of certain assets and  operations, or indirectly, through our financial relationships with 
liabilities, establishing provisions for contingencies and losses  our clients. These risks are varied and include, but are not limited 
for loans, litigation and regulatory proceedings, accounting for  to, the risk of declines in asset values, including in connection 
goodwill and intangible asset impairments, evaluating our ability  with our real estate investments, credit risk associated with loans 
to realize deferred tax assets, valuing equity-based compensa- and other credit exposures to our clients, business risk, including 
tion awards, modeling our risk exposure and calculating expenses  loss of revenues associated with reducing exposure to traditional 
and liabilities associated with our pension plans. These estimates  business with clients that do not have a credible transition plan, 
are based on judgment and available information, and our actual  decrease in assets under management if such clients decide to 
results may differ materially from these estimates. move assets away and increased defaults and reallocation of 
> Refer to “Critical accounting estimates” in II – Operating and financial review  capital as a result of changes in global policies, and regulatory 
and “Note 1 – Summary of significant accounting policies” in VI – Consolidated  risk, including ongoing legislative and regulatory uncertainties and 
financial statements – Credit Suisse Group for information on these estimates 
changes regarding climate risk management and best practices. 
and valuations.
Additionally, the risk of reduced availability of insurance, opera-
Our estimates and valuations rely on models and processes to  tional risk related to Credit Suisse-owned buildings and infra-
predict economic conditions and market or other events that  structure, the risk of significant interruptions to business opera-
might affect the ability of counterparties to perform their obliga- tions, as well as the need to make changes in response to those 
tions to us or impact the value of assets. To the extent our models  consequences are further examples of climate-related risks. Our 
and processes become less predictive due to unforeseen market  reputation and client relationships may be damaged by our or 
conditions, illiquidity or volatility, our ability to make accurate esti- our clients’ involvement in certain business activities associated 
mates and valuations could be adversely affected. with climate change or as a result of negative public sentiment, 
Risk factors 53
   
regulatory scrutiny or reduced investor and stakeholder confi- to compliance, systems and operations, and to negatively affect 
dence due to our response to climate change and our climate  our ability to conduct certain types of business. These increased 
change strategy. If we fail to appropriately measure and manage  costs and negative impacts on our business could adversely 
the various risks we face as a result of climate change, or fail to  affect our profitability and competitive position. These regulations 
adapt our strategy and business model to the changing regula- often serve to limit our activities, including through the application 
tory requirements and market expectations, our business, results  of increased or enhanced capital, leverage and liquidity require-
of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely  ments, the implementation of additional capital surcharges for 
affected. risks related to operational, litigation, regulatory and similar mat-
> Refer to “Climate-related risks” in III – Treasury, Risk, Balance sheet and Off- ters, customer protection and market conduct regulations and 
balance sheet – Risk management for further information on our risk manage- direct or indirect restrictions on the businesses in which we may 
ment procedures relating to climate change.
operate or invest. Such limitations can have a negative effect on 
our business and our ability to implement strategic initiatives. To 
the extent we are required to divest certain businesses, we could 
Legal, regulatory and  
incur losses, as we may be forced to sell such businesses at a 
reputational risks  discount, which in certain instances could be substantial, as a 
result of both the constrained timing of such sales and the pos-
Our exposure to legal liability is significant sibility that other financial institutions are liquidating similar invest-
We face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume  ments at the same time.
and amount of damages claimed in litigation, regulatory proceed-
ings and other adversarial proceedings against financial services  Since 2008, regulators and governments have focused on the 
firms continue to increase in many of the principal markets in  reform of the financial services industry, including enhanced capi-
which we operate. tal, leverage and liquidity requirements, changes in compensation 
practices (including tax levies) and measures to address systemic 
We and our subsidiaries are subject to a number of material  risk, including ring-fencing certain activities and operations within 
legal proceedings, regulatory actions and investigations, and an  specific legal entities. These regulations and requirements could 
adverse result in one or more of these proceedings could have a  require us to reduce assets held in certain subsidiaries or inject 
material adverse effect on our operating results for any particular  capital or other funds into or otherwise change our operations or 
period, depending, in part, on our results for such period. the structure of our subsidiaries and the Group. Differences in 
> Refer to “Note 40 – Litigation” in VI – Consolidated financial statements –  the details and implementation of such regulations may further 
Credit Suisse Group for information relating to these and other legal and regu- negatively affect us, as certain requirements are currently not 
latory proceedings involving our investment banking and other businesses.
expected to apply equally to all of our competitors or to be imple-
It is inherently difficult to predict the outcome of many of the  mented uniformly across jurisdictions.
legal, regulatory and other adversarial proceedings involving our 
businesses, particularly those cases in which the matters are  Moreover, as a number of these requirements are currently being 
brought on behalf of various classes of claimants, seek damages  finalized and implemented, their regulatory impact may further 
of unspecified or indeterminate amounts or involve novel legal  increase in the future and their ultimate impact cannot be pre-
claims. Management is required to establish, increase or release  dicted at this time. For example, the Basel III reforms are still 
reserves for losses that are probable and reasonably estimable in  being finalized and implemented and/or phased in, as applicable. 
connection with these matters, all of which requires the applica- The additional requirements related to minimum regulatory capi-
tion of significant judgment and discretion. tal, leverage ratios and liquidity measures imposed by Basel III, as 
> Refer to “Critical accounting estimates” in II – Operating and financial review  implemented in Switzerland, together with more stringent require-
and “Note 1 – Summary of significant accounting policies” in VI – Consolidated  ments imposed by the Swiss legislation and their application by 
financial statements – Credit Suisse Group for further information.
FINMA, and the related implementing ordinances and actions by 
our regulators, have contributed to our decision to reduce risk-
Regulatory changes may adversely affect our business and  weighted assets and the size of our balance sheet, and could 
ability to execute our strategic plans potentially impact our access to capital markets and increase 
In many areas of our business, we are subject to extensive regu- our funding costs. In addition, various reforms in the US, includ-
lation by governmental agencies, supervisory authorities and  ing the “Volcker Rule” and derivatives regulation, have imposed, 
self-regulatory organizations in Switzerland, the EU, the UK, the  and will continue to impose, new regulatory duties on certain of 
US and other jurisdictions in which we operate. We expect to  our operations. These requirements have contributed to our deci-
face increasingly extensive and complex regulation and regula- sion to exit certain businesses (including a number of our private 
tory scrutiny and possible enforcement actions. In recent years,  equity businesses) and may lead us to exit other businesses. 
costs related to our compliance with these requirements and the  Recent CFTC, SEC and Fed rules and proposals have materially 
penalties and fines sought and imposed on the financial services  increased, or could in the future materially increase, the operat-
industry by regulatory authorities have increased significantly. We  ing costs, including margin requirements, compliance, informa-
expect such increased regulation and enforcement to continue  tion technology and related costs, associated with our deriva-
to increase our costs, including, but not limited to, costs related  tives businesses with US persons, while at the same time making 
54 Risk factors
   
it more difficult for us to operate a derivatives business outside  following the UK’s withdrawal from the EU and the results of 
the US. Further, in 2014, the Fed adopted a final rule under the  European national elections. Changes in laws, rules or regula-
Dodd-Frank Act that introduced a new framework for regulation  tions, or in their interpretation or enforcement, or the implemen-
of the US operations of foreign banking organizations such as  tation of new laws, rules or regulations, may adversely affect our 
ours. Implementation is expected to continue to result in us incur- results of operations.
ring additional costs and to affect the way we conduct our busi-
ness in the US, including through our US IHC. Further, current  Despite our best efforts to comply with applicable regulations, 
and possible future cross-border tax regulation with extraterritorial  a number of risks remain, particularly in areas where applicable 
effect, such as FATCA, and other bilateral or multilateral tax trea- regulations may be unclear or inconsistent across jurisdictions or 
ties and agreements on the automatic exchange of information in  where regulators or international bodies, organizations or unions 
tax matters, impose detailed reporting obligations and increased  revise their previous guidance or courts overturn previous rul-
compliance and systems-related costs on our businesses. In  ings. Additionally, authorities in many jurisdictions have the power 
addition, the US tax reform enacted on December 22, 2017  to bring administrative or judicial proceedings against us, which 
introduced substantial changes to the US tax system, including  could result in, among other things, suspension or revocation 
the lowering of the corporate tax rate and the introduction of the  of our licenses, cease and desist orders, fines, civil penalties, 
US base erosion and anti-abuse tax. Additionally, implementa- criminal penalties or other disciplinary action that could materially 
tion of regulations such as the Capital Requirements Directive  adversely affect our results of operations and seriously harm our 
V (CRD V) in the EU, FinSA in Switzerland, and other reforms  reputation.
may negatively affect our business activities. Whether or not  > Refer to “Regulation and supervision” for a description of our regulatory regime 
the FinSA, together with supporting or implementing ordinances  and a summary of some of the significant regulatory and government reform 
proposals affecting the financial services industry as well as to “Liquidity and 
and regulations, will be deemed equivalent to MiFID II, currently 
funding management” and “Capital management” in III – Treasury, Risk, Bal-
remains uncertain. Swiss banks, including us, may accordingly  ance sheet and Off-balance sheet for information regarding our current regula-
be limited from participating in certain businesses regulated by  tory framework and expected changes to this framework affecting capital and 
liquidity standards.
MiFID II. Finally, we expect that TLAC requirements, which took 
effect on January 1, 2019 in Switzerland, the US and in the UK,  Damage to our reputation could significantly harm our 
as well as in the EU with respect to EU G-SIBs from June 27,  businesses, including our competitive position and 
2019 and are being finalized in many other jurisdictions, as well  business prospects
as new requirements and rules with respect to the internal total  Our ability to attract and retain customers, clients, investors and 
loss-absorbing capacity (iTLAC) of G-SIBs and their operating  employees, and conduct business transactions with our counter-
entities, may increase our cost of funding and restrict our ability  parties, could be adversely affected to the extent our reputa-
to deploy capital and liquidity on a global basis as needed once  tion is damaged. Harm to our reputation can arise from various 
the TLAC and iTLAC requirements are implemented across all  sources, including if our comprehensive procedures and controls 
relevant jurisdictions. fail, or appear to fail, to prevent employee misconduct, negligence 
and fraud, to address conflicts of interest and breach of fiduciary 
We are subject to economic sanctions laws and regulatory  obligations, to produce materially accurate and complete financial 
requirements of various countries. These laws and regulatory  and other information, to identify credit, liquidity, operational and 
requirements generally prohibit or restrict transactions involving  market risks inherent in our business or to prevent adverse legal 
certain countries/territories and parties. Our costs of monitoring  or regulatory actions or investigations. Additionally, our reputation 
and complying with frequent and complex changes to applica- may be harmed by compliance failures, privacy and data security 
ble economic sanctions laws and regulatory requirements have  intrusions, cyber incidents, technology failures, challenges to the 
increased and there is an increased risk that we may not identify  suitability or reasonableness of our particular trading or invest-
and stop prohibited activities before they occur or that we may  ment recommendations or strategies and the activities of our 
otherwise fail to comply with economic sanctions laws and regu- customers, clients, counterparties and third parties. Actions by 
latory requirements. Any violation of a sanctions program could  the financial services industry generally or by certain members or 
subject us to significant civil and potentially criminal penalties. individuals in the industry also can adversely affect our reputa-
> Refer to “Sanctions” in Regulation and supervision – Recent regulatory devel- tion. In addition, our reputation may be negatively impacted by our 
opments and proposals – US for further information. Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practices and dis-
closures, including those related to climate change and how we 
We expect the financial services industry and its members,  address ESG concerns in our business activities, or by our clients’ 
including us, to continue to be affected by the significant uncer- involvement in certain business activities associated with climate 
tainty over the scope and content of regulatory reform in 2021  change. Adverse publicity or negative information in the media, 
and beyond, in particular, uncertainty in relation to the future US  posted on social media by employees, or otherwise, whether or 
regulatory agenda of the new presidential administration, which  not factually correct, may also adversely impact our business 
includes a variety of proposals to change existing regulations  prospects or financial results, which risk can be magnified by the 
or the approach to regulation of the financial industry as well  speed and pervasiveness with which information is disseminated 
as potential new tax policy, and potential changes in regulation  through those channels.
Risk factors 55
   
A reputation for financial strength and integrity is critical to our  specified triggering events, including our common equity tier 1 
performance in the highly competitive environment arising from  ratio falling below prescribed thresholds (7% in the case of high-
globalization and convergence in the financial services indus- trigger instruments), or a determination by FINMA that conversion 
try, and our failure to address, or the appearance of our failing to  is necessary, or that we require extraordinary public sector sup-
address, these and other issues gives rise to reputational risk that  port, to prevent us from becoming insolvent. As of December 31, 
could harm our business, results of operations and financial con- 2020, we had 2,406.1 million common shares outstanding and 
dition. Failure to appropriately address any of these issues could  we had issued in the aggregate an equivalent of CHF 1.3 billion 
also give rise to additional regulatory restrictions and legal risks,  in principal amount of such contingent convertible capital instru-
which may further lead to reputational harm. ments, and we may issue more such contingent convertible capi-
> Refer to “Reputational risk” in III – Treasury, Risk, Balance sheet and Off-bal- tal instruments in the future. The conversion of some or all of our 
ance sheet – Risk management – Risk coverage and management for further  contingent convertible capital instruments due to the occurrence 
information.
of any of such triggering events would result in the dilution of 
Swiss resolution proceedings and resolution planning  the ownership interests of our then existing shareholders, which 
requirements may affect our shareholders and creditors dilution could be substantial. Additionally, any conversion, or the 
Pursuant to Swiss banking laws, FINMA has broad powers and  anticipation of the possibility of a conversion, could negatively 
discretion in the case of resolution proceedings with respect to a  impact the market price of our ordinary shares.
Swiss bank, such as Credit Suisse AG or Credit Suisse (Schweiz)  > Refer to “Contingent convertible capital instruments” in III – Treasury, Risk, 
AG, and to a Swiss parent company of a financial group, such as  Balance sheet and Off-balance sheet – Capital management – Capital instru-
ments for further information on the triggering events related to our contingent 
Credit Suisse Group AG. These broad powers include the power 
convertible capital instruments.
to initiate restructuring proceedings with respect to Credit Suisse 
AG, Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG or Credit Suisse Group AG and, 
in connection therewith, cancel the outstanding equity of the  Changes in monetary policy are beyond our control and 
entity subject to such proceedings, convert such entity’s debt  difficult to predict
instruments and other liabilities into equity and/or cancel such  We are affected by the monetary policies adopted by the cen-
debt instruments and other liabilities, in each case, in whole or in  tral banks and regulatory authorities of Switzerland, the US and 
part, and stay (for a maximum of two business days) certain ter- other countries. The actions of the SNB and other central bank-
mination and netting rights under contracts to which such entity is  ing authorities directly impact our cost of funds for lending, capi-
a party, as well as the power to order protective measures, includ- tal raising and investment activities and may impact the value of 
ing the deferment of payments, and institute liquidation proceed- financial instruments we hold and the competitive and operat-
ings with respect to Credit Suisse AG, Credit Suisse (Schweiz)  ing environment for the financial services industry. Many central 
AG or Credit Suisse Group AG. The scope of such powers and  banks, including the Fed, have implemented significant changes 
discretion and the legal mechanisms that would be applied are  to their monetary policy or have experienced significant changes 
subject to development and interpretation. in their management and may implement or experience further 
changes. We cannot predict whether these changes will have 
We are currently subject to resolution planning requirements in  a material adverse effect on us or our operations. In addition, 
Switzerland, the US and the UK and may face similar require- changes in monetary policy may affect the credit quality of our 
ments in other jurisdictions. If a resolution plan is determined by  customers. Any changes in monetary policy are beyond our con-
the relevant authority to be inadequate, relevant regulations may  trol and difficult to predict.
allow the authority to place limitations on the scope or size of our 
business in that jurisdiction, require us to hold higher amounts of  Legal restrictions on our clients may reduce the demand 
capital or liquidity, require us to divest assets or subsidiaries or  for our services
to change our legal structure or business to remove the relevant  We may be materially affected not only by regulations applicable 
impediments to resolution. to us as a financial services company, but also by regulations and 
> Refer to “Recent regulatory developments and proposals – Switzerland” and  changes in enforcement practices applicable to our clients. Our 
“Regulatory framework – Switzerland – Resolution regime” in Regulation and  business could be affected by, among other things, existing and 
supervision for a description of the current resolution regime under Swiss 
proposed tax legislation, antitrust and competition policies, cor-
banking laws as it applies to Credit Suisse AG, Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG and 
Credit Suisse Group AG. porate governance initiatives and other governmental regulations 
and policies, and changes in the interpretation or enforcement 
Any conversion of our convertible capital instruments would  of existing laws and rules that affect business and the financial 
dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders markets. For example, focus on tax compliance and changes in 
Under Swiss regulatory capital rules, we are required to issue a  enforcement practices could lead to further asset outflows from 
significant amount of contingent capital instruments, certain of  our private banking businesses.
which would convert into common equity upon the occurrence of 
56 Risk factors
   
Competition 
We must recruit and retain highly skilled employees
Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts 
We face intense competition of highly skilled individuals. Competition for qualified employees 
We face intense competition in all sectors of the financial services  is intense. We have devoted considerable resources to recruit-
markets and for the products and services we offer. Consolida- ing, training and compensating employees. Our continued ability 
tion through mergers, acquisitions, alliances and cooperation,  to compete effectively in our businesses depends on our ability 
including as a result of financial distress, has increased competi- to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our exist-
tive pressures. Competition is based on many factors, including  ing employees. The continued public focus on compensation 
the products and services offered, pricing, distribution systems,  practices in the financial services industry, and related regula-
customer service, brand recognition, perceived financial strength  tory changes, may have an adverse impact on our ability to attract 
and the willingness to use capital to serve client needs. Consoli- and retain highly skilled employees. In particular, limits on the 
dation has created a number of firms that, like us, have the ability  amount and form of executive compensation imposed by regula-
to offer a wide range of products and services, from loans and  tory initiatives, including the Swiss Compensation Ordinance, or 
deposit taking to brokerage, investment banking and asset man- any successor legislation thereof in Switzerland and the Capital 
agement services. Some of these firms may be able to offer a  Requirements Directive IV (as amended by CRD V) in the EU and 
broader range of products than we do, or offer such products at  the UK, could potentially have an adverse impact on our ability to 
more competitive prices. Current market conditions have resulted  retain certain of our most highly skilled employees and hire new 
in significant changes in the competitive landscape in our indus- qualified employees in certain businesses.
try as many institutions have merged, altered the scope of their 
business, declared bankruptcy, received government assistance  We face competition from new trading technologies
or changed their regulatory status, which will affect how they  Our businesses face competitive challenges from new trading 
conduct their business. In addition, current market conditions  technologies, including trends towards direct access to automated 
have had a fundamental impact on client demand for products  and electronic markets with low or no fees and commissions, and 
and services. Some new competitors in the financial technol- the move to more automated trading platforms. Such technolo-
ogy sector have sought to target existing segments of our busi- gies and trends may adversely affect our commission and trading 
nesses that could be susceptible to disruption by innovative or  revenues, exclude our businesses from certain transaction flows, 
less regulated business models. Emerging technology may also  reduce our participation in the trading markets and the associ-
result in further competition in the markets in which we operate,  ated access to market information and lead to the establishment 
for example, by allowing e-commerce firms or other companies to  of new and stronger competitors. We have made, and may con-
provide products and services similar to ours at a lower price or  tinue to be required to make, significant additional expenditures to 
in a more competitive manner in terms of customer convenience.  develop and support new trading systems or otherwise invest in 
We can give no assurance that our results of operations will not  technology to maintain our competitive position.
be adversely affected.
Risk factors 57
   
[this page intentionally left blank]
58 Risk factors
   
  II – Operating and  
financial review
Operating environment   60
Credit Suisse  63
Swiss Universal Bank   76
International Wealth Management   83
Asia Pacific  91
Investment Bank  95
Corporate Center  99
Assets under management  103
Critical accounting estimates  106
59
   
Operating environment 
Although global economic activity contracted sharply in 2020, global 
equity markets ended the year higher. Major government bond yields 
remained low, and the US dollar was generally weaker against major 
currencies in 2020.
COVID-19 pandemic
in December and the inception of mass inoculation programs 
increased the prospect of social and economic activity return-
The rapid spread of the COVID-19 pandemic across the world in  ing to normal from the second quarter of 2021. However, the 
early 2020 led to the introduction of tight government controls  situation remains challenging given the need to limit COVID-19 
and travel bans, as well as the implementation of other measures  infection rates in the near term to contain the emergence of new 
which quickly closed down activity and increased economic dis- COVID-19 strains where current vaccines may be less effective.
ruption globally. World markets were severely impacted, with mul-
tiple industries, including commercial real estate, retail, aviation, 
Economic environment 
tourism and hospitality and energy, significantly affected. The 
containment measures introduced to address the outbreak of the 
pandemic sent the global economy into a deep recession in the  Global economic output contracted sharply in 2020 as the 
first half of 2020. However, major central banks and governments  COVID-19 pandemic caused economic activity to decline. The 
around the world responded by implementing unprecedented  weakest quarter was the second quarter of 2020, which saw a 
monetary and fiscal policy stimulus measures. Although world  sharp contraction in global GDP and a spike in unemployment in 
markets and the global economy significantly recovered from May  major economies. Significant monetary and fiscal stimulus pro-
through August as lockdowns and social distancing restrictions  grams were implemented in many countries to support private 
due to the pandemic eased in Europe, the US and Asia, high  sector cash flows. Economic activity recovered sharply in the 
unemployment and the rise in corporate debt brought a levelling  second half of the year but continued to stand below pre-pan-
off in the scale of recovery in the final months of 2020 and dur- demic levels. Restrictive government policies to mitigate the viral 
ing the first months of 2021. In addition, the surge in COVID- contagion weighed on the services sector more heavily than the 
19 infections in Europe, in the US and in some countries in Asia  goods sector. The US, eurozone, Japan and a range of emerging 
that began in September 2020 led to the introduction of new  economies registered negative GDP growth. The Chinese econ-
localized and in some cases national restrictions on economic  omy outperformed other major economies, experiencing limited 
activity which were extended far into the first quarter of 2021.  impacts of COVID-19 after the initial outbreak.
The approval by the authorities of COVID-19 vaccines starting 
Yield curves
Government bond yields generally decreased in all major currencies and across all maturities in 2020.
USD EUR CHF
% % %
3 3 3
2 2 2
1 1 1
0 0 0
(1) (1) (1)
Years 0 5 10 15 20 25 Years 0 5 10 15 20 25 Years 0 5 10 15 20 25
p p
 December 31, 2019     December 31, 2020
Source: Bloomberg, Credit Suisse
60 Operating environment 
   
Equity markets
Global equity markets ended the year higher after a significant drop in the first quarter of 2020. World bank stocks underperformed.
Performance by region Performance world banks Volatility
Index (December 31, 2019 = 100) Index (December 31, 2019 = 100) %
140 140 100
120 120 80
100 100 60
80 80 40
60 60 20
40 40 0
2020 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 2020 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 2020 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q
p p p p p  
 Emerging markets Asia   Europe   MSCI World banks   MSCI European banks   VDAX
p p p p
 Emerging markets Latin America   North America   MSCI World     VIX Index
Source: Datastream, MSCI, Credit Suisse  Source: Bloomberg, MSCI, Credit Suisse  Source: Bloomberg, Credit Suisse
Credit spreads  Global equities moved higher in 2020, despite the sharp drop 
After a strong widening in the first quarter of 2020, credit  in economic activity caused by the global COVID-19 pandemic. 
spreads tightened again towards the end of the year. Global equities appreciated more than 14%, driven by measures 
introduced by governments and central banks globally to address 
bp
the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, including 
160
accommodative monetary policy conditions and substantial asset 
purchase programs. US and emerging market equities outper-
140
formed global equities, while European and Japanese markets 
120 underperformed. Among industry sectors, information technol-
ogy was the top performer with a 42.7% increase, followed by 
100
consumer discretionary and communication services. The energy 
80 sector was the worst performer, followed by real estate, financials 
and utilities. Equity market volatility, as measured by the Chicago 
60
Board Options Exchange Market Volatility Index (VIX), spiked in 
March 2020 during the market selloff, before returning to more 
40
normalized, yet still elevated, levels towards the end of the year. 
2020 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q
The Credit Suisse Hedge Fund Index increased 6.4% in 2020. 
p p World bank stocks underperformed against global equity mar-
 European CDS (iTraxx)     North American CDS (CDX)   bp: basis points
kets in 2020. European bank stocks underperformed world bank 
Source: Bloomberg, Credit Suisse
stocks in 2020, particularly in the third quarter of 2020. At the 
end of 2020, world bank stocks traded 14% lower compared to 
2019 (refer to the charts under “Equity markets”).
Global monetary policy eased significantly in 2020. The US Fed-
eral Reserve lowered the target range for its federal funds rate  In fixed income, bonds delivered strong returns reflecting accom-
sharply to 0-0.25%, restarted asset purchases, implemented a  modative central bank policies in both developed and emerg-
range of measures to encourage bank lending and announced a  ing markets following the COVID-19 pandemic outbreak. In US 
shift to average inflation targeting. The European Central Bank  dollar rates, the spread between the 10-year and 2-year US 
increased asset purchase commitments and eased the terms  treasury yields steepened gradually in the second half of 2020. 
of long-term lending operations, while leaving the deposit rate  In contrast, the yield curve remained flat across all maturities in 
at negative 0.5%. The Swiss National Bank kept policy rates  Europe and Switzerland, similar to 2019 year-end (refer to the 
unchanged. Elsewhere in developed markets, the Bank of Can- charts under “Yield curves”). In credit, both global developed and 
ada, the Bank of England and the Bank of Japan expanded asset  emerging market corporate bonds showed positive returns, as 
purchases and finished the year with policy rates close to zero.  did emerging market sovereign bonds. Credit spreads decreased 
In emerging markets, a range of central banks lowered interest  significantly after peaking in March of 2020 (refer to the chart 
rates.  “Credit spreads”).
Operating environment  61
   
After a modest appreciation in the first quarter of the year, the US  After a sharp decline at the beginning of the year, the Credit 
dollar trended lower against most other major currencies for the  Suisse Commodity Benchmark rebounded, but ended the year 
remainder of 2020. The euro advanced, in particular after Euro- 9% lower compared to 2019. The energy market was the worst 
pean Union member states managed to agree on the EU Recov- underperformer and declined more than 31%. Industrial metals 
ery Fund. The Swiss franc also appreciated against the US dollar.  increased 14%, driven by strong Chinese demand. Precious met-
After initial losses in the first quarter of 2020, most emerging  als benefitted from the extraordinary monetary and fiscal policies 
market currencies gained against the US dollar. The Chinese ren- seen in 2020. Growing Chinese import demand also contributed 
minbi was the best performing major emerging market currency,  to an increase in the price of agricultural commodities in addi-
while the Argentine peso and the Brazilian real were the worst  tion to weather-related supply downgrades in key crop growing 
performers against the US dollar. countries. 
62 Operating environment 
   
Credit Suisse
In 2020, we recorded net income attributable to shareholders of 
CHF 2,669 million. Return on equity and return on tangible equity were 
5.9% and 6.6%, respectively. As of the end of 2020, our CET1 ratio was 
12.9%.
Results
        in / end of      % change 
   2020   2019   2018   20 / 19   19 / 18 
S     tatements of operations (CHF million)         
Net interest income   5,948   7,017   7,009   (15)   0 
Commissions and fees   11,853   11,158   11,890  6    (6) 
Trading revenues 1  3,295   1,739   624   89   179 
Other revenues   1,293   2,570   1,397   (50)   84 
Net revenues   22,389   22,484   20,920   0   7 
Provision for credit losses   1,096   324   245   238   32 
Compensation and benefits   9,890   10,036   9,620   (1)   4 
General and administrative expenses   6,523   6,128   5,798   6   6 
Commission expenses   1,256   1,276   1,259   (2)   1 
Restructuring expenses   157   –   626   –   – 
Total other operating expenses   7,936   7,404   7,683   7   (4) 
Total operating expenses   17,826   17,440   17,303   2   1 
Income before taxes   3,467   4,720   3,372   (27)   40 
Income tax expense   801   1,295   1,361   (38)   (5) 
Net income/(loss)   2,666   3,425   2,011   (22)   70 
Net income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests   (3)   6   (13)   –   – 
Net income attributable to shareholders   2,669   3,419   2,024   (22)   69 
S     tatement of operations metrics (%)         
Return on regulatory capital   8.9   10.9   8.0   –   – 
Cost/income ratio   79.6   77.6   82.7   –   – 
Effective tax rate   23.1   27.4   40.4   –   – 
E     arnings per share (CHF)         
Basic earnings/(loss) per share   1.09   1.35   0.79   (19)   71 
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share   1.06   1.32   0.77   (20)   71 
R     eturn on equity (%)         
Return on equity   5.9   7.7   4.7   –   – 
Return on tangible equity 2  6.6   8.7   5.4   –   – 
B     ook value per share (CHF)         
Book value per share   17.74   17.91   17.22   (1)   4 
Tangible book value per share 2  15.80   15.88   15.27   (1)   4 
B     alance sheet statistics (CHF million)         
Total assets   805,822   787,295   768,916   2   2 
Risk-weighted assets   275,084   290,463   284,582   (5)   2 
Leverage exposure   799,853   909,994   881,386   (12)   3 
N     umber of employees (full-time equivalents)         
Number of employees   48,770   47,860   45,680   2   5 
1 Represent revenues on a product basis which are not representative of business results within our business segments as segment results utilize financial instruments across various  
product types.
2 Based on tangible shareholders’ equity, a non-GAAP financial measure, which is calculated by deducting goodwill and other intangible assets from total shareholders’ equity as pre-
sented in our balance sheet. Management believes that these metrics are meaningful as they are measures used and relied upon by industry analysts and investors to assess valuations 
and capital adequacy.
Credit Suisse 63
   
Credit Suisse reporting structure 
Credit Suisse includes the results of the four reporting segments and the Corporate Center.
Credit Suisse
Swiss   International  Asia   Investment   Corporate  
Universal   Wealth  Pacific Bank Center 
Bank Management
Private   Private  
Clients Banking
Corporate &   Asset 
Institutional Clients Management
Organizational structure and 
Results in 2020 were impacted by the weakening of the average 
restatement rate of the US dollar against the Swiss franc, which adversely 
impacted revenues, but favorably impacted expenses.
Effective August 1, 2020, we created a single, globally-integrated 
Investment Bank division through the combination of our former  The 2020 results included a gain of CHF 268 million relat-
Global Markets, Investment Banking & Capital Markets and Asia  ing to the completed transfer of the Credit Suisse InvestLab AG 
Pacific – Markets businesses to achieve critical scale. We also  (InvestLab) fund platform to Allfunds Group, which was recog-
launched a new Sustainability, Research & Investment Solutions  nized in the divisional results of Swiss Universal Bank, Interna-
function at the Executive Board level, underlining the sharpened  tional Wealth Management and Asia Pacific (as described below). 
focus on sustainability. We also combined our former Risk Man- In 2020, we revalued our equity investment in the SIX Swiss 
agement and Compliance functions into a single integrated Chief  Exchange (SIX) Group AG, resulting in a gain before taxes of 
Risk and Compliance Officer function to unlock potential global  CHF 158 million, which was recognized in the divisional results 
synergies. We also revised our allocations for corporate functions  of Swiss Universal Bank and International Wealth Management, 
and funding costs to align to the new organizational structure. we revalued our equity investment in Pfandbriefbank, resulting in 
a gain of CHF 134 million, which was recognized in the divisional 
Reflecting these updates, our financial reporting is now presented  results of Swiss Universal Bank, and we revalued our equity 
as four reporting segments plus the Corporate Center. Prior peri- investment in Allfunds Group, resulting in a gain before taxes of 
ods have been restated to conform to the current presentation.  CHF 127 million, which was recognized in the divisional results 
These restatements had no impact on the net income/(loss) or  of Swiss Universal Bank, International Wealth Management and 
the total shareholders’ equity of the Group. Asia Pacific. Results also included an impairment of CHF 414 
> Refer to “Strategy” in I – Information on the company for further information. million relating to York Capital Management (York), which was 
recognized in International Wealth Management (as described 
below).
Results summary
The COVID-19 pandemic and the consequences for markets and 
2020 results the global economy affected the Group’s financial performance 
In 2020, Credit Suisse reported net income attributable to share- in 2020, including significant impacts on our provision for credit 
holders of CHF 2,669 million compared to CHF 3,419 million in  losses and trading revenues as well as on net interest income 
2019. Income before taxes was CHF 3,467 million, compared  as a result of foreign exchange movements and a sharp reduc-
to CHF 4,720 million in 2019. The 2020 results reflected stable  tion in US dollar interest rates. We continue to closely monitor 
net revenues and a 2% increase in total operating expenses.  the COVID-19 pandemic and its effects on our operations and 
Provision for credit losses was CHF 1,096 million compared to  businesses. Should current economic conditions persist or con-
CHF 324 million in 2019, driven by negative developments in  tinue to deteriorate, the macroeconomic environment could have 
our corporate lending portfolio and the application of the cur- an adverse effect on these and other aspects of our business, 
rent expected credit loss (CECL) methodology. Total operating  operations and financial performance, including decreased client 
expenses in 2020 included net litigation provisions of CHF 1,227  activity or demand for our products.
million, mainly in connection with mortgage-related matters, 
and restructuring expenses of CHF 157 million. Total operating  2019 results
expenses in 2019 included net litigation provisions of CHF 623  In 2019, Credit Suisse reported net income attributable to share-
million, mainly in connection with mortgage-related matters.  holders of CHF 3,419 million compared to CHF 2,024 million 
64 Credit Suisse
   
in 2018. In 2019, Credit Suisse reported income before taxes  Total operating expenses
of CHF 4,720 million compared to CHF 3,372 million in 2018.  We reported total operating expenses of CHF 17,826 million in 
The 2019 results reflected a 7% increase in net revenues and  2020, a 2% increase compared to 2019. General and admin-
stable total operating expenses. Total operating expenses in  istrative expenses increased 6%, primarily driven by higher net 
2019 included net litigation provisions of CHF 623 million, mainly  litigation provisions of CHF 1,227 million, mainly in connection 
in connection with mortgage-related matters. The 2018 results  with mortgage-related matters, partially offset by lower travel 
reflected CHF 626 million of restructuring expenses. and entertainment expenses and lower professional services 
fees. Total operating expenses in 2020 included restructuring 
The 2019 results included a gain of CHF 327 million relating  expenses of CHF 157 million.
to the completed first closing of the transfer of the InvestLab 
fund platform, which was recognized in the divisional results of  Income tax expense
Swiss Universal Bank, International Wealth Management and  In 2020, we recorded income tax expense of CHF 801 mil-
Asia Pacific. In 2019, we elected fair value accounting of our  lion compared to CHF 1,295 million in 2019. The Credit Suisse 
investment in SIX Group AG, resulting in a gain before taxes of  effective tax rate was 23.1% in 2020, compared to 27.4% in 
CHF 498 million, which was recognized in the divisional results of  2019. The effective tax rate for 2020 mainly reflected the impact 
Swiss Universal Bank and International Wealth Management. of the geographical mix of results, non-deductible funding costs 
and other tax adjustments of a recurring nature. Additionally, the 
effective tax rate was positively impacted by the re-assessment 
2020 results details
of the US base erosion and anti-abuse tax (BEAT) provision for 
2019 of CHF 180 million, the impact of previously unrecognized 
Net revenues tax benefits of CHF 157 million relating to the resolution of inter-
Compared to 2019, net revenues of CHF 22,389 million were  est cost deductibility with and between international tax authori-
stable, primarily reflecting higher net revenues in the Investment  ties and the impact of a change in US tax rules, which resulted 
Bank, offset by lower net revenues in International Wealth Man- in a benefit of CHF 141 million. The impact of these benefits was 
agement. The increase in net revenues in the Investment Bank  partially offset by the annual reassessment of deferred taxes 
was driven by broad-based growth across all businesses. The  of CHF 252 million. Overall, net deferred tax assets decreased 
decrease in net revenues in International Wealth Management  CHF 739 million to CHF 3,137 million during 2020, mainly 
was primarily driven by the impairment loss from York, reflected in  driven by foreign exchange impacts, the annual re-assessment of 
other revenues, lower transaction-based and performance-based  deferred taxes and earnings.
revenue and lower net interest income.
The US tax reform enacted in December 2017 introduced the 
Provision for credit losses BEAT tax regime, effective as of January 1, 2018, for which final 
In 2020, we recorded provision for credit losses of CHF 1,096 mil- regulations were issued by the US Department of Treasury on 
lion, primarily reflecting provisions of CHF 471 million in the Invest- December 2, 2019. Following the publication of the 2019 finan-
ment Bank, CHF 270 million in Swiss Universal Bank, CHF 236  cial statements, Credit Suisse continued its analysis of the final 
million in Asia Pacific and CHF 110 million in International Wealth  regulations, resulting in a revision to the technical application of 
Management. Provision for credit losses reflected CHF 685 mil- the prior BEAT estimate. This new information was not available 
lion of specific provisions and CHF 411 million related to the appli- or reasonably knowable at the time of the publication of the 2019 
cation of the CECL methodology. financial statements and resulted in a change of accounting esti-
mate reflected in 2020.
> 
Refer to “Note 29 – Tax” in VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit 
Suisse Group for further information.
Credit Suisse 65
   
Results overview              
   Swiss  International            Strategic    
   Universal   Wealth   Asia   Investment   Corporate   Resolution   Credit 
in / end of   Bank  Management   Pacific   Bank   Center 1   Unit 1   Suisse 
2      020 (CHF million)           
Net revenues   5,615   4,837   3,155   9,098   (316)   –   22,389 
Provision for credit losses   270   110   236   471   9   –   1,096 
Compensation and benefits   1,975   2,310   1,319   3,934   352   –   9,890 
Total other operating expenses   1,266   1,365   772   3,038   1,495   –   7,936 
   of which general and administrative expenses   1,013   1,080   614   2,409   1,407   –   6,523 
   of which restructuring expenses   44   55   4   47   7   –   157 
Total operating expenses   3,241   3,675   2,091   6,972   1,847   –   17,826 
Income/(loss) before taxes   2,104   1,052   828   1,655   (2,172)   –   3,467 
Return on regulatory capital   17.1   19.6   22.0   12.2   –   –   8.9 
Cost/income ratio   57.7   76.0   66.3   76.6   –   –   79.6 
Total assets   261,465   95,206   67,356   270,488   111,307   –   805,822 
Goodwill   575   1,352   1,021   1,478   0   –   4,426 
Risk-weighted assets   81,288   43,000   26,589   77,872   46,335   –   275,084 
Leverage exposure   295,507   104,014   74,307   319,339   6,686   –   799,853 
2      019 (CHF million)           
Net revenues   5,905   5,816   3,029   8,161   (427)   –   22,484 
Provision for credit losses   109   49   55   104   7   –   324 
Compensation and benefits   1,945   2,377   1,285   3,940   489   –   10,036 
Total other operating expenses   1,278   1,325   767   3,091   943   –   7,404 
   of which general and administrative expenses   1,060   1,103   620   2,470   875   –   6,128 
Total operating expenses   3,223   3,702   2,052   7,031   1,432   –   17,440 
Income/(loss) before taxes   2,573   2,065   922   1,026   (1,866)   –   4,720 
Return on regulatory capital   20.2   37.3   21.3   7.1   –   –   10.9 
Cost/income ratio   54.6   63.7   67.7   86.2   –   –   77.6 
Total assets   249,829   91,277   73,719   266,257   106,213   –   787,295 
Goodwill   607   1,494   995   1,567   0   –   4,663 
Risk-weighted assets   80,489   43,529   31,857   82,218   52,370   –   290,463 
Leverage exposure   284,798   99,085   81,090   332,019   113,002   –   909,994 
2      018 (CHF million)           
Net revenues   5,443   5,320   2,759   8,004   102   (708)   20,920 
Provision for credit losses   127   37   28   51  1   1    245 
Compensation and benefits   1,903   2,311   1,244   3,761   147   254   9,620 
Total other operating expenses   1,422   1,362   855   3,374   252   418   7,683 
   of which general and administrative expenses   1,091   1,020   670   2,430   202   385   5,798 
   of which restructuring expenses   101   115   37   353   (1)   21   626 
Total operating expenses   3,325   3,673   2,099   7,135   399   672   17,303 
Income/(loss) before taxes   1,991   1,610   632   818   (298)   (1,381)   3,372 
Return on regulatory capital   16.3   30.4   16.4   5.9   –   –   8.0 
Cost/income ratio   61.1   69.0   76.1   89.1   –   –   82.7 
Total assets   241,366   90,354   69,643   257,998   93,369   20,874   768,916 
Goodwill   615   1,544   1,018   1,589   0   0   4,766 
Risk-weighted assets   79,133   40,359   31,585   84,862   30,239   17,926   284,582 
Leverage exposure   275,229   97,099   77,417   312,655   94,094   29,579   881,386 
1 Beginning in 2019, the Strategic Resolution Unit ceased to exist as a separate division of the Group. The residual portfolio remaining as of December 31, 2018 is now managed in an 
Asset Resolution Unit and is separately disclosed within the Corporate Center.
66 Credit Suisse
   
2019 results details
estate disposals. These increases were offset by restructuring 
expenses of CHF 626 million incurred in 2018.
Net revenues
Compared to 2018, net revenues of CHF 22,484 million  Income tax expense
increased 7%, primarily reflecting higher net revenues in Inter- In 2019, we recorded income tax expense of CHF 1,295 million 
national Wealth Management, Swiss Universal Bank and Asia  compared to CHF 1,361 million in 2018. The Credit Suisse effec-
Pacific. The increase in net revenues in International Wealth  tive tax rate was 27.4% in 2019, compared to 40.4% in 2018. 
Management was mainly driven by higher other revenues includ- The effective tax rate for 2019 mainly reflected the impact of the 
ing the SIX equity investment revaluation gain, the gain related to  geographical mix of results, non-deductible funding costs, the 
the transfer of the InvestLab fund platform and gains on the sale  BEAT impact and the annual re-assessment of deferred taxes, 
of real estate. The increase in net revenues in Swiss Universal  partially offset by lower taxed income. Overall, net deferred tax 
Bank was mainly due to a significant increase in other revenues,  assets decreased CHF 629 million to CHF 3,876 million during 
primarily reflecting the SIX equity investment revaluation gain,  2019, mainly driven by earnings and the annual re-assessment of 
gains on the sale of real estate and the gain related to the trans- deferred taxes.
fer of the InvestLab fund platform. The increase in net revenues 
in Asia Pacific was mainly driven by higher net interest income  The US tax reform enacted in December 2017 introduced the 
and the gain related to the transfer of the InvestLab fund platform  BEAT tax regime, effective as of January 1, 2018. Based on the 
reflected in other revenues. 2019 included negative net revenues  current analysis of the BEAT tax regime, after the issuance of 
of CHF 427 million in the Corporate Center, which beginning in  the final regulations issued by the US Department of Treasury 
2019 included the impact of the Asset Resolution Unit. on December 2, 2019, Credit Suisse considered it as more likely 
than not that the Group would remain subject to this regime for 
Provision for credit losses 2019, though certain interpretive uncertainties remained. On the 
In 2019, we recorded provision for credit losses of CHF 324  basis of the final regulations, the BEAT provision recorded for the 
million, primarily reflecting provisions of CHF 109 million in  tax year 2019 amounted to CHF 165 million. Therefore, BEAT 
Swiss Universal Bank, CHF 104 million in the Investment Bank,  had an impact on the 2019 effective tax rate for the Group of 
CHF 55 million in Asia Pacific and CHF 49 million in International  approximately 3.5 percentage points. The BEAT provision for the 
Wealth Management. tax year 2018 remained unchanged.
Total operating expenses In addition, the US tax reform introduced interest expense limita-
We reported total operating expenses of CHF 17,440 million in  tion provisions, which resulted in the deferral of interest expense 
2019, stable compared to 2018. Compensation and benefits  deductions. As of December 31, 2019, a deferred tax valuation 
increased 4%, mainly due to higher salaries and variable compen- allowance of CHF 61 million had been recorded with regard to the 
sation, and general and administrative expenses increased 6%,  deferral of interest expense, since Credit Suisse concluded that 
primarily due to increased net litigation provisions of CHF 623  it was more likely than not that this deferred asset would not be 
million, mainly in connection with mortgage-related matters  utilized.
recorded in the Corporate Center, increases in IT, machinery  > Refer to “Note 29 – Tax” in VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit 
and equipment expenses and increased expenses related to real  Suisse Group for further information.
Net revenues by region
      in   % change 
   2020   2019   20 / 19 
Net revenues (CHF million)    
Switzerland   6,502   6,774   (4)
EMEA   4,803   5,149   (7)
Americas   7,116   7,276   (2)
Asia Pacific   4,284   3,712   15
Corporate Center   (316)   (427)   (26)
Net revenues   22,389   22,484   0
A significant portion of our business requires inter-regional coordination in order to facilitate the needs of our clients. The methodology for allocating our results by region is dependent on 
management judgment. For the wealth management business, results are allocated based on the management reporting structure of our relationship manager organization. For the invest-
ment banking business, trading results are allocated based on where the risk is primarily managed, while also reflecting certain revenue transfers to regions where the relevant sales teams 
and clients are domiciled.
Credit Suisse 67
   
Regulatory capital
containment measures introduced to address the outbreak of the 
pandemic sent the global economy into a deep recession in the 
As of the end of 2020, our Bank for International Settlements  first half of 2020. However, major central banks and governments 
(BIS) common equity tier 1 (CET1) ratio was 12.9% and our risk- around the world responded by implementing unprecedented 
weighted assets (RWA) were CHF 275.1 billion. monetary and fiscal policy stimulus measures. Although world 
> Refer to “Capital management” in III – Treasury, Risk, Balance sheet and Off- markets and the global economy significantly recovered from May 
balance sheet for further information. through August as lockdowns and social distancing restrictions 
due to the pandemic eased in Europe, the US and Asia, high 
unemployment and the rise in corporate debt brought a levelling 
Employees and other headcount
off in the scale of recovery in the final months of 2020 and dur-
ing the first months of 2021. In addition, the surge in COVID-
In the first quarter of 2020, as part of a review of headcount allo- 19 infections in Europe, in the US and in some countries in Asia 
cation keys, we recalibrated the divisional allocations for corpo- that began in September 2020 led to the introduction of new 
rate function services, mainly relating to changes in the utilization  localized and in some cases national restrictions on economic 
of corporate function services by the divisions. Prior period head- activity, which were extended far into the first quarter of 2021. 
count allocations have not been restated. The approval by the authorities of COVID-19 vaccines start-
ing in December and the inception of mass inoculation programs 
As of December 31, 2020, we had 48,770 employees worldwide,  increased the prospect of social and economic activity return-
of which 16,040 were in Switzerland and 32,730 were abroad. ing to normal from the second quarter of 2021. However, the 
situation remains challenging given the need to limit COVID-19 
The number of employees increased by 910 compared to the  infection rates in the near term to contain the emergence of new 
end of 2019. The increase reflected increases in Swiss Universal  COVID-19 strains where current vaccines may be less effective.
Bank, the Investment Bank and Asia Pacific, offset by decreases 
in International Wealth Management and the Corporate Center.  The pandemic and the consequences for markets and the global 
The number of outsourced roles, contractors and consultants  economy affected the Group’s financial performance in 2020, 
decreased by 110 compared to the end of 2019. including significant impacts on credit loss estimates, as well as 
on trading revenues, net interest income and goodwill assess-
Employees and other headcount ments. We continue to closely monitor the COVID-19 pandemic 
end of   2020   2019  and its effects on our operations and businesses, including 
through the re-assessment of financial plans and the develop-
Employees         
ment of several stress scenarios to take into account potential 
Swiss Universal Bank   13,220   12,560 
additional negative impacts.
International Wealth Management   9,850   10,230 
Asia Pacific   6,890   6,530 
The Swiss government, the Swiss National Bank and the Swiss 
Investment Bank   17,560   17,050 
Financial Market Supervisory Authority FINMA (FINMA) have 
Corporate Center   1,250   1,490 
taken various measures to mitigate the consequences for the 
Total employees   48,770   47,860 
economy and the financial system. Governments and regulators in 
   of which Switzerland   16,040   16,140 
other jurisdictions where we have operations have taken and con-
   of which all other regions   32,730   31,720 
tinue to take a number of emergency and temporary measures 
Other headcount          to address the financial and economic pressures arising from the 
Outsourced roles, contractors and consultants 1  13,210   13,320  COVID-19 pandemic.
Total employees and other headcount   61,980   61,180 
In March 2020, the Swiss Federal Council enacted an emer-
Based on full-time equivalents.
1 Excludes the headcount of certain managed service resources which are related to fixed  gency ordinance on the granting of loans with joint and several 
fee projects. guarantees provided by the Swiss Confederation. Thereunder, 
Swiss companies affected by the COVID-19 pandemic could 
apply to their banks for bridge credit facilities amounting to a 
COVID-19 pandemic and related 
maximum of 10% of their annual revenues and up to a maxi-
regulatory measures mum of CHF 20 million. Loans granted under this ordinance of 
up to CHF 500,000 are fully secured by the Swiss Confedera-
The rapid spread of the COVID-19 pandemic across the world in  tion and no interest will be due on these loans. Loans that exceed 
early 2020 led to the introduction of tight government controls  CHF 500,000 are secured by the Swiss Confederation up to 
and travel bans, as well as the implementation of other measures,  85% of the aggregate amount of the loan with the lending bank 
which quickly closed down activity and increased economic dis- remaining subject to the credit risk on the remaining 15%. The 
ruption globally. World markets were severely impacted, with mul- interest rate on loans exceeding CHF 500,000 is currently 0.5% 
tiple industries, including commercial real estate, retail, aviation,  on the portion of the loan secured by the Swiss Confederation. 
tourism and hospitality and energy, significantly affected. The  Swiss companies with revenues of more than CHF 500 million 
68 Credit Suisse
   
are not covered by this program. For loans granted to companies  In April 2020, FINMA allowed a temporary freeze on backtest-
under this program the Swiss National Bank has implemented  ing exceptions impacting the capital multiplier, expiring on July 1, 
refinancing facilities. Credit Suisse was significantly involved in  2020. In June 2020, FINMA confirmed that (i) all recent excep-
this program from its inception. On December 18, 2020, effec- tions that are proven by the institution as not attributable to a lack 
tive as of December 19, 2020, the emergency ordinance, with  of precision of the risk aggregation model can be disregarded; 
certain clarifications, was transferred into ordinary legislation by  and (ii) the exemption will be fundamentally incorporated into 
the COVID-19 Joint and Several Guarantee Act. future supervisory practice. As a result, we had one backtesting 
exception in our regulatory value-at-risk (VaR) model in the rolling 
In March 2020, FINMA announced the temporary exclusion of  12-month period through the end of 2020, which is considered 
central bank reserves from leverage ratio calculations. This tem- for the calculation of the capital multiplier.
porary measure took immediate effect and was originally applied 
until July 1, 2020. In May 2020, FINMA announced the exten- Effective January 1, 2020, certain Basel III revisions to the capi-
sion of the temporary exclusion until January 1, 2021. The exclu- tal requirements for credit risk became effective. The revisions 
sion applied to deposits with all central banks globally, and thus  relate to a new standardized approach for counterparty credit risk 
not only to deposits held with the Swiss National Bank. For banks  (SA-CCR) for derivatives, equity investments in funds and cen-
whose shareholders approved dividends or other similar distribu- tral counterparty default fund contributions. In response to the 
tions relating to 2019 after March 25, 2020, or who had planned  COVID-19 pandemic, FINMA advised us that we could phase in 
to seek such shareholder approval, the capital relief relating to the  CHF 12 billion of risk-weighted-assets inflation that arose from 
leverage ratio was reduced. Accordingly, the capital relief appli- these new capital requirements equally throughout 2020 rather 
cable to Credit Suisse in 2020 was adjusted to account for the  than immediately in the first quarter of 2020.
dividend paid in 2020.
Other information
In March 2020, the Swiss Federal Council approved the proposal 
of the Swiss National Bank to deactivate the Swiss countercycli-
cal capital buffer. The Swiss Federal Council to date has never  Supply chain finance funds
activated the BIS countercyclical buffer, but instead required  On March 1, 2021, the boards of the supply chain finance funds 
banks to hold CET1 capital equal to 2% of RWA pertaining to  managed by certain Group subsidiaries decided to suspend 
mortgage loans that finance residential property in Switzerland.  redemptions and subscriptions of those funds to protect the 
This Swiss countercyclical capital buffer has served to strengthen  interests of the funds’ investors. On March 4, 2021, the boards 
banking sector resilience in the event of over-heating in the  decided to terminate those funds and proceed to their liquidation. 
domestic mortgage and real estate markets. Given the circum- Those decisions were based on concerns that a substantial part 
stances, in an effort to provide banks with greater flexibility to  of the funds’ assets was subject to considerable valuation uncer-
provide loans designed to address the economic impact of the  tainty. Credit Suisse Asset Management (Schweiz) AG (CSAM) 
COVID-19 pandemic, the Federal Council decided to deacti- acts as the portfolio manager of these supply chain finance 
vate the Swiss countercyclical capital buffer requirement as of  funds. Redemptions and subscriptions of certain other funds 
March 27, 2020 until further notice. managed by CSAM or CSAM subsidiaries that invest in part in 
these supply chain finance funds have also been suspended.
In March 2020, the Group of Central Bank Governors and Heads 
of Supervision announced changes to the implementation timeline  The assets held by the supply chain finance funds, largely con-
of the outstanding Basel III standards. The implementation date  sisting of notes backed by existing and future receivables, were 
of the Basel III standards finalized in December 2017 has been  originated and structured by Greensill Capital (UK) Limited or 
deferred by one year to January 2023. The accompanying transi- one of its affiliates (Greensill Capital). The last published net 
tional arrangements for the output floor have also been extended  asset value of the supply chain finance funds in late February was 
by one year to January 2028. The implementation date of the  approximately USD 10 billion in the aggregate. Initial redemp-
revised market risk framework finalized in January 2019 has been  tion payments totaling USD 3.1 billion across the supply chain 
deferred by one year to January 2023. These measures have  finance funds were made to their investors beginning on March 
been taken to provide additional management capacity for banks  8, 2021. The portfolio manager continues to work to liquidate the 
and supervisors to respond to the COVID-19 outbreak. remaining assets in the four funds as the receivables comprising 
the funds’ assets mature. Greensill Capital filed for insolvency in 
As a result of the abrupt increase in market volatility due to the  the UK on March 8, 2021, and the portfolio manager is working 
COVID-19 pandemic, financial institutions that apply the model  closely with the administrators of Greensill Capital, Grant Thorn-
approach to market risk began recording an increased number of  ton, and with other parties to facilitate this process. However, 
backtesting exceptions in March and April 2020. Such an excep- there remains considerable uncertainty regarding the valuation of 
tion occurs if the loss incurred on a single day is greater than the  a significant part of the remaining assets, including the fact that 
loss indicated by the model. Backtesting exceptions exceeding a  the portfolio manager has been informed that certain of the notes 
certain number in a rolling 12-month period lead to an immedi- underlying the funds will not be repaid when they fall due, and the 
ate increase of the minimum capital requirements for market risk. 
Credit Suisse 69
   
amounts that ultimately will be distributed to investors in respect  the transfer of related distribution agreements to Allfunds Group. 
of the funds. Upon completion of this final step, Credit Suisse became an 18% 
shareholder in the combined business and is represented on the 
Group subsidiaries also have collateralized bridge lending and  board of directors. Net revenues in 2020 included CHF 268 mil-
other direct and indirect exposures to Greensill Capital, including  lion from this second closing, reflected in the International Wealth 
exposures relating to certain fund-linked products. With regard  Management, Swiss Universal Bank and Asia Pacific divisions. 
to the outstanding collateralized bridge loan of USD 140 mil- Credit Suisse’s shareholding in Allfunds Group has subsequently 
lion, USD 50 million was recently repaid by the administrators of  decreased to 14%.
Greensill Capital, reducing the outstanding amount of the loan to 
USD 90 million. Credit Suisse Founder Securities Limited
In 2020, we received approval from the China Securities Regula-
We continue to analyze these matters, including with the assis- tory Commission and increased our shareholding in the securities 
tance of external counsel and other experts. The Board of Direc- joint venture, Credit Suisse Founder Securities Limited, to 51% 
tors has also initiated an investigation of these matters. from the previous 33.3% by way of a capital injection and related 
procedures.
It has been decided that as of March 10, 2021, three senior 
CSAM employees will not be performing their roles for the time  York Capital Management
being. The payout and vesting of variable compensation of a  In the fourth quarter of 2020, York informed its investors of a 
number of senior employees involved in these matters, up to and  significant change in strategy. As a result, York will focus on 
including Executive Board members, has been suspended as a  longer duration assets such as private equity, private debt and 
measure to ensure that we can reconsider the variable com- collateralized loan obligations, while winding down its European 
pensation for 2020 and are able to apply malus or clawback, if  hedge funds business and primarily managing internal capital in 
appropriate. its multi-strategy fund. York’s Asia Pacific business is expected to 
be spun off as a new and separate hedge fund in 2021, in which 
A number of regulatory investigations and actions have been  the Group intends to have a continuing interest. As a result of this 
initiated or are being considered in respect of these matters,  announcement, the Group recorded an impairment of CHF 414 
including by FINMA, one of which is the agreement to a Pillar 2  million (USD 458 million) to the valuation of its non-controlling 
buffer with Credit Suisse. Furthermore, certain investors have  interest that it has owned since 2010.
already threatened litigation and, as this matter develops, we may 
become subject to litigation, disputes or other actions. The prior- Dividends
ity for Credit Suisse remains the recovery of funds for CSAM’s  In light of the COVID-19 pandemic and in response to a request 
investors, and the portfolio manager is working closely with the  by FINMA, on April 9, 2020, the Board of Directors made a 
administrators to facilitate this process. We would note that it is  revised dividend proposal to our shareholders for approval at the 
reasonably possible that Credit Suisse will incur a loss in respect  2020 Annual General Meeting (AGM). Instead of a total divi-
of these matters, albeit that given the early stage of this process,  dend of CHF 0.2776 per share for the financial year 2019, the 
it is not yet possible to estimate the size of such a reasonably  Board of Directors proposed a cash distribution of CHF 0.1388 
possible loss. However, the ultimate cost to the Group of resolv- per share. At the 2020 AGM on April 30, 2020, our sharehold-
ing these matters may be material to its operating results. We  ers approved the proposal. In order to distribute the full dividend 
might also suffer reputational harm associated with these mat- amount of CHF 0.2776 as originally proposed to shareholders, 
ters that might cause client departures or loss of assets under  the Board of Directors proposed a second dividend distribution 
management. equal to the first distribution of CHF 0.1388 gross per share, 
which was approved by shareholders at an Extraordinary General 
New Asset Management division Meeting held on November 27, 2020. For each distribution, 50% 
On March 17, 2021, and subsequent to the recent reports and  of the distribution was paid out of capital contribution reserves, 
announcements regarding the CSAM managed supply chain  free of Swiss withholding tax and not subject to income tax for 
finance funds, the Board of Directors of the Group decided to  Swiss resident individuals holding the shares as a private invest-
appoint Ulrich Körner as CEO of Asset Management and a mem- ment, and 50% percent was paid out of retained earnings, net of 
ber of the Group Executive Board, effective April 1, 2021. From  35% Swiss withholding tax.
that date, the Asset Management business will be separated from 
the International Wealth Management division and managed as a  Our Board of Directors will propose to the shareholders at the 
new separate division of the Group. AGM on April 30, 2021 a cash distribution of CHF 0.2926 per 
share for the financial year 2020. 50% of the distribution will be 
Credit Suisse InvestLab AG transfer to Allfunds Group paid out of capital contribution reserves, free of Swiss withhold-
Following the completion of the first step of the combination of  ing tax and will not be subject to income tax for Swiss resident 
our open architecture investment fund platform InvestLab and  individuals holding the shares as a private investment, and 50% 
Allfunds Group in September 2019, we successfully completed  will be paid out of retained earnings, net of 35% Swiss withhold-
the second and final step of the combination in March 2020 with  ing tax.
70 Credit Suisse
   
Replacement of interbank offered rates large number of bilateral derivatives in a cost-effective manner. 
A major structural change in global financial markets is in prog- In our Swiss home market, we successfully launched a Swiss 
ress with respect to the replacement of interbank offered rate  Average Rate Overnight (SARON)-based mortgage product, 
(IBOR) benchmarks. There is significant international and regula- and in our main markets, we remained active as an issuer of 
tory pressure to replace certain IBOR benchmarks with alterna- ARR-based debt and continued to actively trade derivatives.
tive reference rates (ARRs). There are significant risks associated  p Risk management and mitigation: to manage transition risk, we 
with the transition, including financial, legal, tax, operational and  implemented a group-wide policy to limit new IBOR-referenc-
conduct risks and the risk of an untimely transition due to a lack  ing business and control the wind-down of legacy exposures 
of client or market readiness. However, we believe certain oppor- in advance of the cessation dates. Accordingly, divisional plans 
tunities related to the transition also exist in the areas of product  are being developed to ensure timely compliance with the 
innovation and development, business growth and strategy and  policy and limits therein. Our modelling and risk management 
client communication and engagement. systems have mostly been revised to accommodate the transi-
tion and were successfully tested when the central clearing 
Although the transition has progressed significantly, certain  houses conducted their transition to alternative USD and EUR 
aspects of the transition remain uncertain, including widely  discounting models in 2020. The majority of our pricing mod-
accepted conventions for new products based on ARRs, the  els have been reviewed and where needed updated, preparing 
engagement of end users, certain aspects of regulatory relief for  to meet the demand for new ARR-products. As our clients 
remediation amendments and the form of legislative support avail- continue to sign up to the ISDA IBOR Protocol, over 80% of 
able for contracts that cannot be moved away from IBOR rates  the legacy portfolio effectively has robust, integrated fallbacks, 
by the end of 2021 or 2023, as applicable. In March 2021, the  significantly reducing the transition risk in our derivatives 
Financial Conduct Authority announced that all CHF, EUR, GBP,  portfolio.
JPY LIBOR settings and the one-week and two-month USD  p Strategic Transition Planning and Communication: aligned with 
LIBOR settings will permanently cease to be provided by any  regulatory guidance on the transition, our businesses have 
administrator or will no longer be representative immediately after  developed and ratified their own transition plans. While certain 
December 31, 2021, but that the remaining USD LIBOR settings  product details and conventions remain to be agreed upon 
will permanently cease to be provided by any administrator or will  across the markets, we believe that these plans position us 
no longer be representative immediately after June 30, 2023.  to be prepared and to optimally service our clients during and 
While the depth of ARR-markets differs significantly across cur- after the transition. Over forty thousand of our employees have 
rencies, regulatory guidance urges for the cessation of new busi- been trained for taking our counterparts on this journey and 
ness referencing IBOR rates in 2021 in some markets or curren- we have informed and initiated an early discussion with many 
cies sooner than in others. of our clients.
Credit Suisse has a significant level of liabilities and assets linked  Coordinating the Group’s transition activities across its divi-
to IBOR indices across businesses that require transition to  sions and businesses, the IBOR Transition Program remains fully 
ARRs. Despite the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic  engaged in overseeing the efforts under the leadership of mem-
on the global economy and the financial sector, building on the  bers of the Group Executive Board, business leaders and func-
foundation laid in 2019, the Group continued to execute its IBOR  tional leaders across the entire Group.
transition strategy. Our work remained focused on the five key 
areas identified in 2019: Format of presentation
p Operational readiness and resiliency: by the end of 2020, the  In managing our business, revenues are evaluated in the aggre-
bank was operationally ready to support new products in most  gate, including an assessment of trading gains and losses and the 
markets in which it was active. We engaged with our third  related interest income and expense from financing and hedging 
party vendors and/or developed in-house solutions to prepare  positions. For this reason, specific individual revenue categories in 
for the demand from our clients. isolation may not be indicative of performance. Certain reclassifi-
p Legal contract assessment and repapering: we increased our  cations have been made to prior periods to conform to the current 
capacity to review contracts on a large scale throughout the  presentation.
Group and have conducted an initial assessment of a signifi-
cant portion of our legacy portfolio. While client interest in  Accounting developments
active remediation of legacy contracts remains at low levels,  The Group adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board 
we are well prepared to increase this activity and continue with  Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-13, “Measurement 
legacy contract remediation in 2021. of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments” (ASU 2016-13) and 
p Product development and industry engagement: we have con- its subsequent amendments on January 1, 2020, incorporating 
tinued to participate in national working groups in all of our  forward-looking information and macro-economic factors into its 
main markets and actively support the initiatives developed in  credit loss estimates. The modified retrospective approach was 
these forums. We supported and were among the initial sig- applied in adopting ASU 2016-13, which resulted in a decrease in 
natories of the International Swap and Derivatives Association  retained earnings of CHF 132 million, net of tax, with no signifi-
(ISDA) IBOR Protocol, a solution developed to address the  cant impact on regulatory capital.
Credit Suisse 71
   
> Refer to “Note 2 – Recently issued accounting standards” in VI – Consolidated  Our shareholders’ equity reflects the effect of share-based com-
financial statements – Credit Suisse Group for further information. pensation. Share-based compensation expense (which is generally 
based on fair value at the time of grant) reduces equity; however, 
Return on regulatory capital the recognition of the obligation to deliver the shares increases 
Credit Suisse measures firm-wide returns against total share- equity by a corresponding amount. Equity is generally unaffected by 
holders’ equity and tangible shareholders’ equity, a non-GAAP  the granting and vesting of share-based awards and by the settle-
financial measure also known as tangible book value. In addition,  ment of these awards through the issuance of shares from approved 
it also measures the efficiency of the firm and its divisions with  conditional capital. The Group may issue shares from conditional 
regard to the usage of capital as determined by the minimum  capital to meet its obligations to deliver share-based compensation 
requirements set by regulators. Prior to the third quarter of 2020,  awards. If Credit Suisse purchases shares from the market to meet 
regulatory capital was calculated as the worst of 10% of RWA and  its obligation to employees, these purchased treasury shares reduce 
3.5% of leverage exposure and return on regulatory capital, a non- equity by the amount of the purchase price.
GAAP financial measure, was calculated using income/(loss) after  > Refer to “Group compensation” in V – Compensation for further information.
tax and assumed a tax rate of 30%. In the third quarter of 2020,  > Refer to “Consolidated statements of changes in equity” and “Note 30 – 
we updated our calculation approach, following which regulatory  Employee deferred compensation” in VI – Consolidated financial statements – 
Credit Suisse Group for further information.
capital is calculated as the average of 10% of RWA and 3.5% of 
leverage exposure and return on regulatory capital is calculated  > Refer to “Tax benefits associated with share-based compensation” in Note 
using income/(loss) after tax and assumes a tax rate of 30% for  29 – Tax in VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group for 
further information.
periods prior to 2020 and 25% from 2020 onward. These percent-
ages of RWA and leverage exposure are used in the calculation 
in order to reflect the Swiss regulatory minimum requirements for  Allocations and funding
Basel III CET1 capital and leverage ratio. The change to an aver- Revenue sharing
age of RWA and leverage exposure was in line with the increased  Responsibility for each product is allocated to a specific segment, 
alignment of RWA and leverage exposure toward a 35% risk density  which records all related revenues and expenses. Revenue-sharing 
in line with the calibration of the “Too Big to Fail” regulatory frame- and service level agreements govern the compensation received by 
work. For periods in 2020, for purposes of calculating Group  one segment for generating revenue or providing services on behalf 
return on regulatory capital, leverage exposure excludes cash held  of another. These agreements are negotiated periodically by the rel-
at central banks, after adjusting for the dividend paid in 2020. For  evant segments on a product-by-product basis. The aim of revenue-
the Investment Bank, return on regulatory capital is based on US  sharing and service level agreements is to reflect the pricing struc-
dollar denominated numbers. Adjusted return on regulatory capital  ture of unrelated third-party transactions.
is calculated using adjusted results, applying the same methodol-
ogy used to calculate return on regulatory capital. Cost allocation
Corporate services and business support, including in finance, oper-
End of / in 2020 (CHF billion) ations, human resources, legal, risk management, compliance and 
IT, are provided by corporate functions, and the related costs are 
Shareholders’ equity        42.7
allocated to the segments and the Corporate Center based on their 
Return on equity  5.9%
respective requirements and other relevant measures.
Tangible shareholders’ equity      38.0 4.7
Return on tangible equity  6.6%
Funding
Regulatory capital    27.8 10.2
We centrally manage our funding activities. We primarily focus our 
Return on regulatory capital   8.9%
issuance strategy on offering long-term debt securities at the Group 
level for funding and capital purposes.
 Compensation and benefits > Refer to “Note 4 – Segment information” in VI – Consolidated financial state-
Compensation and benefits for a given year reflect the strength  ments – Credit Suisse Group for further information.
and breadth of the business results and staffing levels and include 
fixed components, such as salaries, benefits and the amortization  As part of the process of implementing the Group’s new divisional 
of share-based and other deferred compensation from prior-year  structure announced on July 30, 2020, the Group recalibrated 
awards, and a discretionary variable component. The variable  its methodology for allocating funding costs across the Group to 
component reflects the performance-based variable compensa- incorporate net stable funding ratio requirements, certain increased 
tion for the current year. The portion of the performance-based  high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) requirements, as well as funding 
compensation for the current year deferred through share-based  maturity profile developments.
and other awards is expensed in future periods and is subject to 
vesting and other conditions.
72 Credit Suisse
   
Fair valuations Models were used to value financial instruments for which no 
Fair value can be a relevant measurement for financial instru- prices are available and which have little or no observable inputs 
ments when it aligns the accounting for these instruments with  (level 3). Models are developed internally and are reviewed by 
how we manage our business. The levels of the fair value hier- functions independent of the front office to ensure they are 
archy as defined by the relevant accounting guidance are not a  appropriate for current market conditions. The models require 
measurement of economic risk, but rather an indication of the  subjective assessment and varying degrees of judgment depend-
observability of prices or valuation inputs. ing on liquidity, concentration, pricing assumptions and risks 
> Refer to “Note 1 – Summary of significant accounting policies” and “Note 36  affecting the specific instrument. The models consider observable 
– Financial instruments” in VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit  and unobservable parameters in calculating the value of these 
Suisse Group for further information.
products, including certain indices relating to these products. 
Consideration of these indices is more significant in periods of 
The fair value of the majority of the Group’s financial instruments  lower market activity.
is based on quoted prices in active markets (level 1) or observ-
able inputs (level 2). These instruments include government and  As of the end of 2020, 36% and 27% of our total assets and 
agency securities, certain short-term borrowings, most invest- total liabilities, respectively, were measured at fair value.
ment grade corporate debt, certain high yield debt securities, 
exchange-traded and certain over-the-counter (OTC) derivative  The majority of our level 3 assets are recorded in our investment 
instruments and most listed equity securities. banking businesses. Total assets at fair value recorded as level 3 
instruments increased CHF 0.1 billion to CHF 16.4 billion as of 
In addition, the Group holds financial instruments for which no  the end of 2020, primarily reflecting net realized/unrealized gains, 
prices are available and for which have few or no observable  mainly in trading assets, and net transfers in, mainly in loans and 
inputs (level 3). For these instruments, the determination of fair  loans held-for-sale. These increases were mostly offset by net 
value requires subjective assessment and judgment depending on  settlements, mainly in trading assets and loans held-for-sale.
liquidity, pricing assumptions, the current economic and competi-
tive environment and the risks affecting the specific instrument.  As of the end of 2020, our level 3 assets comprised 2% of total 
In such circumstances, valuation is determined based on man- assets and 6% of total assets measured at fair value, compared 
agement’s own judgments about the assumptions that market  to 2% and 5%, respectively, as of the end of 2019.
participants would use in pricing the asset or liability (including 
assumptions about risk). These instruments include certain OTC  We believe that the range of any valuation uncertainty, in the 
derivatives, including interest rate, foreign exchange, equity and  aggregate, would not be material to our financial condition; how-
credit derivatives, certain corporate equity-linked securities, mort- ever, it may be material to our operating results for any particular 
gage-related securities, private equity investments, certain loans  period, depending, in part, upon the operating results for such 
and credit products, including leveraged finance, certain syndi- period.
cated loans and certain high yield bonds.
Credit Suisse 73
   
Reconciliation of adjusted results
Adjusted results referred to in this document are non-GAAP financial measures that exclude certain items included in our reported 
results. Management believes that adjusted results provide a useful presentation of our operating results for purposes of a ssessing 
our Group and divisional performance consistently over time, on a basis that excludes items that management does not consider rep-
resentative of our underlying performance. Provided below is a reconciliation of our adjusted results to the most directly  comparable 
US GAAP measures. The Group announced a new restructuring plan beginning in the third quarter of 2020 and the related restructur-
ing charges are excluded for purposes of adjusted results.
   Swiss  International            Strategic    
   Universal   Wealth   Asia    Investment   Corporate    Resolution   Credit 
in   Bank  Management   Pacific   Bank   Center 1   Unit 1   Suisse 
2      020 (CHF million)           
Net revenues   5,615   4,837   3,155   9,098   (316)   –   22,389 
   Real estate (gains)/losses   (15)   0   0   0   0   –   (15) 
Adjusted net revenues   5,600   4,837   3,155   9,098   (316)   –   22,374 
Provision for credit losses   270   110   236   471   9   –   1,096 
Total operating expenses   3,241   3,675   2,091   6,972   1,847   –   17,826 
   Restructuring expenses   (44)   (55)   (4)   (47)   (7)   –   (157) 
   Major litigation provisions   (45)   11   0   (24)   (930)   –   (988) 
   Expenses related to real estate disposals 2  (3)   (7)   0   (41)   0   –   (51) 
Adjusted total operating expenses   3,149   3,624   2,087   6,860   910   –   16,630 
Income/(loss) before taxes   2,104   1,052   828   1,655   (2,172)   –   3,467 
   Total adjustments   77   51   4   112   937   –   1,181 
Adjusted income/(loss) before taxes   2,181   1,103   832   1,767   (1,235)   –   4,648 
Adjusted return on regulatory capital (%)   17.7   20.6   22.1   13.1   –   –   11.9 
2      019 (CHF million)           
Net revenues   5,905   5,816   3,029   8,161   (427)   –   22,484 
   Real estate (gains)/losses   (223)   (45)   0   (7)   24   –   (251) 
   (Gains)/losses on business sales   0   0   0   0   2   –   2 
Adjusted net revenues   5,682   5,771   3,029   8,154   (401)   –   22,235 
Provision for credit losses   109   49   55   104   7   –   324 
Total operating expenses   3,223   3,702   2,052   7,031   1,432   –   17,440 
   Major litigation provisions   (3)   30   0   0   (416)   –   (389) 
   Expenses related to real estate disposals 2  (12)   (21)   0   (76)   1   –   (108) 
Adjusted total operating expenses   3,208   3,711   2,052   6,955   1,017   –   16,943 
Income/(loss) before taxes   2,573   2,065   922   1,026   (1,866)   –   4,720 
   Total adjustments   (208)   (54)   0   69   441   –   248 
Adjusted income/(loss) before taxes   2,365   2,011   922   1,095   (1,425)   –   4,968 
Adjusted return on regulatory capital (%)   18.6   36.3   21.3   7.6   –   –   11.4 
2      018 (CHF million)           
Net revenues   5,443   5,320   2,759   8,004   102   (708)   20,920 
   Real estate (gains)/losses   (21)   (2)   0   0   (4)   (1)   (28) 
   (Gains)/losses on business sales   (37)   (55)   0   0   21   0   (71) 
Adjusted net revenues   5,385   5,263   2,759   8,004   119   (709)   20,821 
Provision for credit losses   127   37   28   51  1   1    245 
Total operating expenses   3,325   3,673   2,099   7,135   399   672   17,303 
   Restructuring expenses   (101)   (115)   (37)   (353)   1   (21)   (626) 
   Major litigation provisions   (37)   0   (79)   (10)   (1)   (117)   (244) 
   Expenses related to business sales   –   (47)   –   –   –   (4)   (51) 
Adjusted total operating expenses   3,187   3,511   1,983   6,772   399   530   16,382 
Income/(loss) before taxes   1,991   1,610   632   818   (298)   (1,381)   3,372 
   Total adjustments   80   105   116   363   17   141   822 
Adjusted income/(loss) before taxes   2,071   1,715   748   1,181   (281)   (1,240)   4,194 
Adjusted return on regulatory capital (%)   17.0   32.4   19.4   8.5   –   –   9.9 
1 Beginning in 2019, the Strategic Resolution Unit ceased to exist as a separate division of the Group. The residual portfolio remaining as of December 31, 2018 is now managed in an 
Asset Resolution Unit and is separately disclosed within the Corporate Center.
2 Relates to the termination of real estate contracts initiated before the completion of the previous three-year restructuring program at the end of 2018.
74 Credit Suisse
   
Group and Bank differences
are not applicable to the Bank. Certain other assets, liabilities and 
results of operations, primarily relating to Credit Suisse Services 
The business of the Bank is substantially the same as the business  AG, our Swiss service company, with branches in the UK, Singa-
of Credit Suisse Group, and substantially all of the Bank’s opera- pore and India, and its subsidiary in Poland, are managed as part 
tions are conducted through the Swiss Universal Bank, Interna- of the activities of the Group’s segments. However, they are legally 
tional Wealth Management, Asia Pacific and the Investment Bank  owned by the Group and are not part of the Bank’s consolidated 
segments. Certain Corporate Center activities of the Group, such  financial statements.
as hedging activities relating to share-based compensation awards,  > Refer to “Note 42 – Subsidiary guarantee information” in VI – Consolidated 
financial statements – Credit Suisse Group for further information on the Bank.
Comparison of consolidated statements of operations
        Group        Bank 
in   2020   2019   2018   2020   2019   2018 
S     tatements of operations (CHF million)           
Net revenues   22,389   22,484   20,920   22,503   22,686   20,820 
Provision for credit losses   1,096   324   245   1,092   324   245 
Total operating expenses   17,826   17,440   17,303   18,200   17,969   17,719 
Income before taxes   3,467   4,720   3,372   3,211   4,393   2,856 
Income tax expense   801   1,295   1,361   697   1,298   1,134 
Net income   2,666   3,425   2,011   2,514   3,095   1,722 
Net income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests   (3)  6    (13)   3   14   (7) 
Net income attributable to shareholders   2,669   3,419   2,024   2,511   3,081   1,729 
Comparison of consolidated balance sheets Dividends from the Bank to the Group
      Group     Bank  for the financial year   2020   2019   2018   2017   2016 
end of   2020   2019   2020   2019  D  ividends ( CHF million )             
B  alance sh eet statisti cs (CHF million)           Dividends   10 1   10   10   10   10 
Total assets   805,822   787,295   809,688   790,459 
1 The Bank’s total share capital is fully paid and consisted of 4,399,680,200 registered 
Total liabilities   762,881   743,581   762,629   743,696  shares as of December 31, 2020. Dividends are determined in accordance with Swiss 
law and the Bank’s articles of incorporation. Proposal of the Board of Directors to the 
annual general meeting of the Bank.
Capitalization and indebtedness BIS capital metrics
      Group     Bank        Group     Bank 
end of   2020   2019   2020   2019  end of   2020   2019   2020   2019 
C  apitalizati on and ind ebtedness  (CHF million)         C  apital and  risk-weigh ted assets  (CHF million)        
Due to banks   16,423   16,744   16,420   16,742  CET1 capital   35,361   36,774   40,701   41,933 
Customer deposits   390,921   383,783   392,039   384,950  Tier 1 capital   51,202   49,791   55,659   54,024 
Central bank funds purchased,               Total eligible capital   52,163 1   52,725 1   56,620 2   56,958 2 
securities sold under repurchase              
Risk-weighted assets   275,084   290,463   275,676   290,843 
agreements and securities              
lending transactions   23,851   27,533   23,944   27,641 
C  apital ratios (%)              
Long-term debt   161,087   152,005   160,279   151,000 
CET1 ratio   12.9   12.7   14.8   14.4 
Other liabilities   170,599   163,516   169,947   163,363 
Tier 1 ratio   18.6   17.1   20.2   18.6 
Total liabilities   762,881   743,581   762,629   743,696 
Total capital ratio   19.0 1   18.2 1   20.5 2   19.6 2 
Total equity   42,941   43,714   47,059   46,763 
1 Amounts are shown on a look-through basis. Certain tier 2 instruments are subject to 
Total capitalization and              
indebtedness   805,822   787,295   809,688   790,459  phase out through 2022. As of 2020 and 2019, total eligible capital was CHF 52,437 
million and CHF 53,038 million, including CHF 273 million and CHF 313 million of such 
instruments and the total capital ratio was 19.1% and 18.3%, respectively.
2 Amounts are shown on a look-through basis. Certain tier 2 instruments are subject to 
phase out through 2022. As of 2020 and 2019, total eligible capital was CHF 56,893 
million and CHF 57,271 million, including CHF 273 million and CHF 314 million of such 
instruments and the total capital ratio was 20.6% and 19.7%, respectively.
Credit Suisse 75
   
Swiss Universal Bank 
In 2020, we reported income before taxes of CHF 2,104 million and net 
revenues of CHF 5,615 million. Income before taxes decreased 18% 
compared to 2019, mainly reflecting lower net revenues and higher 
provision for credit losses. 
Results summary
fees. Net interest income was stable, with lower deposit margins 
on slightly lower average deposit volumes and lower treasury 
2020 results revenues, partially offset by lower loan margins on slightly higher 
In 2020, income before taxes of CHF 2,104 million decreased  average loan volumes. Transaction-based revenues increased 
18% compared to 2019. Net revenues of CHF 5,615 million  8%, mainly driven by higher brokerage and product issuing fees, 
decreased 5% compared to 2019, mainly due to lower other rev- higher revenues from Global Trading Solutions (GTS) and higher 
enues. Other revenues in 2020 included a Pfandbriefbank equity  revenues from our Swiss investment banking business, partially 
investment revaluation gain of CHF 134 million in Private Clients  offset by lower equity participations income, which included a 
in the second quarter of 2020, a SIX equity investment revalu- lower dividend from our ownership interest in SIX Group. Provi-
ation gain of CHF 97 million in Private Clients and Corporate &  sion for credit losses was CHF 270 million in 2020 on a net loan 
Institutional Clients in the fourth quarter of 2020, a gain related  portfolio of CHF 176.3 billion, compared to CHF 109 million pro-
to the completed transfer of the InvestLab fund platform to All- vision for credit losses on a net loan portfolio of CHF 170.8 bil-
funds Group of CHF 25 million in the first quarter of 2020 and  lion in 2019. Provision for credit losses in 2020 mainly reflected 
an Allfunds Group equity investment revaluation gain of CHF 38  the impact on our commodity trade finance and Swiss corporate 
million in the fourth quarter of 2020, both in Corporate & Insti- portfolios from the expected deterioration of macroeconomic fac-
tutional Clients, and gains on the sale of real estate of CHF 15  tors under the CECL methodology, primarily in the first quar-
million in Private Clients. Other revenues in 2019 included a SIX  ter of 2020, and a single case in our commodity trade finance 
equity investment revaluation gain of CHF 306 million in Private  portfolio in the third quarter of 2020. Total operating expenses 
Clients and Corporate & Institutional Clients, gains on the sale of  of CHF 3,241 million were stable, with litigation provisions of 
real estate of CHF 223 million, mainly reflected in Private Clients,  CHF 45 million as well as restructuring expenses mainly in con-
and the gain related to the transfer of the InvestLab fund platform  nection with the integration of Neue Aargauer Bank of CHF 44 
in Corporate & Institutional Clients of CHF 98 million. Recurring  million in 2020, offset by lower allocated corporate function 
commissions and fees decreased 3%, driven by lower revenues  costs, lower professional services fees and lower occupancy 
from our investment in Swisscard and lower banking services  expenses. 
Divisional results
        in / end of      % change 
   2020   2019   2018   20 / 19   19 / 18 
S     tatements of operations (CHF million)         
Net revenues   5,615   5,905   5,443   (5)   8 
Provision for credit losses   270   109   127   148   (14) 
Compensation and benefits   1,975   1,945   1,903   2   2 
General and administrative expenses   1,013   1,060   1,091   (4)   (3) 
Commission expenses   209   218   230   (4)   (5) 
Restructuring expenses   44   –   101   –   – 
Total other operating expenses   1,266   1,278   1,422   (1)   (10) 
Total operating expenses   3,241   3,223   3,325   1   (3) 
Income before taxes   2,104   2,573   1,991   (18)   29 
S     tatement of operations metrics (%)         
Return on regulatory capital   17.1   20.2   16.3   –   – 
Cost/income ratio   57.7   54.6   61.1   –   – 
N     umber of employees and relationship managers         
Number of employees (full-time equivalents)   13,220   12,560   12,150   5   3 
Number of relationship managers   1,770   1,790   1,780   (1)   1 
76 Swiss Universal Bank 
   
Divisional results (continued)
        in / end of      % change 
   2020   2019   2018   20 / 19   19 / 18 
N     et revenues (CHF million)         
Private Clients   3,055   3,186   2,903   (4)   10 
Corporate & Institutional Clients   2,560   2,719   2,540   (6)   7 
Net revenues   5,615   5,905   5,443   (5)   8 
N     et revenue detail (CHF million)         
Net interest income   2,683   2,705   2,770   (1)   (2) 
Recurring commissions and fees   1,440   1,489   1,515   (3)   (2) 
Transaction-based revenues   1,235   1,144   1,151   8   (1) 
Other revenues   257   567   7   (55)   – 
Net revenues   5,615   5,905   5,443   (5)   8 
B     alance sheet statistics (CHF million)         
Total assets   261,465   249,829   241,366   5   4 
Net loans   176,332   170,772   168,393   3   1 
   of which Private Clients   118,223   116,158   113,403   2   2 
Risk-weighted assets   81,288   80,489   79,133   1   2 
Leverage exposure   295,507   284,798   275,229   4   3 
Net interest income includes a term spread credit on stable deposit funding and a term spread charge on loans. Recurring commissions and fees includes investment product management, 
discretionary mandate and other asset management-related fees, fees for general banking products and services and revenues from wealth structuring solutions. Transaction-based reve-
nues arise primarily from brokerage fees, fees from foreign exchange client transactions, trading and sales income, equity participations income and other transaction-based income. Other 
revenues include fair value gains/(losses) on synthetic securitized loan portfolios and other gains and losses.
The COVID-19 pandemic negatively affected our business per- services fees, lower security account and custody services fees 
formance in 2020, including higher provision for credit losses,  and lower fees from lending activities. Transaction-based rev-
adverse foreign exchange-related movements and a sharp reduc- enues were stable, with lower fees from foreign exchange client 
tion in US dollar interest rates. We believe that the pandemic can  business and lower revenues from our Swiss investment banking 
be expected to have continued negative effects on major econo- business, offset by higher equity participations income and higher 
mies globally and could keep adversely affecting our business  revenues from GTS. Provision for credit losses was CHF 109 
performance going forward, including lower interest rates impact- million in 2019 on a net loan portfolio of CHF 170.8 billion. Total 
ing our margins and an adverse impact on credit losses. operating expenses of CHF 3,223 million decreased 3%, primar-
> Refer to “COVID-19 pandemic and related regulatory measures” in Credit  ily driven by restructuring expenses incurred in 2018 and 3% 
Suisse for further information. lower general and administrative expenses mainly reflecting lower 
litigation provisions, partially offset by 2% higher compensation 
2019 results and benefits mainly reflecting higher pension expenses.
In 2019, income before taxes of CHF 2,573 million increased 
29% compared to 2018. Net revenues of CHF 5,905 mil- Capital and leverage metrics
lion increased 8% compared to 2018, mainly due to a signifi- As of the end of 2020, we reported risk-weighted assets of 
cant increase in other revenues. Higher other revenues primarily  CHF 81.3 billion, an increase of CHF 0.8 billion compared to 
reflected a SIX equity investment revaluation gain of CHF 306  the end of 2019, primarily driven by internal model and param-
million, gains on the sale of real estate of CHF 223 million,  eter updates, mainly reflecting a regular data update pertaining to 
mainly reflected in Private Clients, and a gain of CHF 98 million  the advanced credit valuation adjustment (CVA), primarily due to 
related to the transfer of the InvestLab fund platform in Corporate  increased market volatility, and methodology and policy changes, 
& Institutional Clients. 2018 included a gain on the sale of our  reflecting the phase-in of certain Basel III revisions for credit 
investment in Euroclear of CHF 37 million and gains on the sale  risk, primarily related to the standardized approach for counter-
of real estate of CHF 21 million. Net interest income decreased  party credit risk (SA-CCR). These increases were partially offset 
2%, reflecting lower treasury revenues and lower deposit margins  by a negative foreign exchange impact. Leverage exposure of 
on stable average deposit volumes, partially offset by stable loan  CHF 295.5 billion was CHF 10.7 billion higher compared to the 
margins on slightly higher average loan volumes. Recurring com- end of 2019, mainly driven by business growth.
missions and fees decreased 2%, mainly driven by lower banking 
Swiss Universal Bank  77
   
Reconciliation of adjusted results
        Private Clients        Corporate & Institutional Clients       Swiss Universal Bank 
in   2020   2019   2018   2020   2019   2018   2020   2019   2018 
A         djusted results (CHF million)             
Net revenues   3,055   3,186   2,903   2,560   2,719   2,540   5,615   5,905   5,443 
   Real estate (gains)/losses   (15)   (221)   (21)   0   (2)   0   (15)   (223)   (21) 
   (Gains)/losses on business sales   0   0   (19)   0   0   (18)   0   0   (37) 
Adjusted net revenues   3,040   2,965   2,863   2,560   2,717   2,522   5,600   5,682   5,385 
Provision for credit losses   62   46   30   208   63   97   270   109   127 
Total operating expenses   1,913   1,858   1,906   1,328   1,365   1,419   3,241   3,223   3,325 
   Restructuring expenses   (35)   –   (66)   (9)   –   (35)   (44)   –   (101) 
   Major litigation provisions   0   0   0   (45)   (3)   (37)   (45)   (3)   (37) 
   Expenses related to real estate disposals   (3)   (8)   –   0   (4)   –   (3)   (12)   – 
Adjusted total operating expenses   1,875   1,850   1,840   1,274   1,358   1,347   3,149   3,208   3,187 
Income before taxes   1,080   1,282   967   1,024   1,291   1,024   2,104   2,573   1,991 
   Total adjustments   23   (213)   26   54   5   54   77   (208)   80 
Adjusted income before taxes   1,103   1,069   993   1,078   1,296   1,078   2,181   2,365   2,071 
Adjusted return on regulatory capital (%)   –   –   –   –   –   –   17.7   18.6   17.0 
Adjusted results are non-GAAP financial measures. Refer to “Reconciliation of adjusted results” in Credit Suisse for further information.
Private Clients
2020 results details
In 2020, Private Clients recorded provision for credit losses of 
CHF 62 million compared to CHF 46 million in 2019. The pro-
Income before taxes of CHF 1,080 million decreased 16% com- vision was primarily related to our consumer finance business 
pared to 2019, mainly driven by lower net revenues and higher  including the application of the CECL methodology.
total operating expenses. 
Total operating expenses
Net revenues Compared to 2019, total operating expenses of CHF 1,913 mil-
In 2020, net revenues of CHF 3,055 million decreased 4%,  lion increased 3%, mainly reflecting higher compensation and 
mainly reflecting lower other revenues. Other revenues in 2020  benefits and restructuring expenses of CHF 35 million in 2020, 
included the Pfandbriefbank equity investment revaluation gain  partially offset by lower general and administrative expenses. 
of CHF 134 million, the SIX equity investment revaluation gain of  Compensation and benefits of CHF 1,166 million increased 6%, 
CHF 47 million and gains on the sale of real estate of CHF 15  primarily driven by higher allocated corporate function costs, 
million. Other revenues in 2019 included gains on the sale of real  higher pension expenses and increased salary expenses, partially 
estate of CHF 221 million and the SIX equity investment revalu- offset by lower discretionary compensation expenses. General 
ation gain of CHF 149 million. Recurring commissions and fees  and administrative expenses of CHF 617 million decreased 6%, 
of CHF 775 million decreased 6%, primarily reflecting lower  primarily reflecting lower allocated corporate function costs. 
revenues from our investment in Swisscard. Transaction-based 
revenues of CHF 480 million increased 17%, primarily driven  Margins
by higher client activity and higher revenues from GTS, partially  Our gross margin was 149 basis points in 2020, one basis point 
offset by lower equity participations income, which included the  lower compared to 2019, mainly reflecting lower other revenues 
lower dividend from our ownership interest in SIX Group. Net  and lower recurring commissions and fees, partially offset by 
interest income of CHF 1,614 million increased 2%, with lower  a 3.7% decrease in average assets under management, higher 
loan margins on slightly higher average loan volumes, partially off- transaction-based revenues and higher net interest income. 
set by lower deposit margins on stable average deposit volumes  > Refer to “Assets under management” for further information.
and lower treasury revenues.
Our net margin was 53 basis points in 2020, seven basis points 
Provision for credit losses lower compared to 2019, mainly reflecting lower net revenues and 
The Private Clients loan portfolio is substantially comprised of  higher total operating expenses, partially offset by the lower aver-
residential mortgages in Switzerland and loans collateralized by  age assets under management. 
securities and, to a lesser extent, consumer finance loans.
78 Swiss Universal Bank 
   
Results – Private Clients
        in / end of      % change 
   2020   2019   2018   20 / 19   19 / 18 
S     tatements of operations (CHF million)         
Net revenues   3,055   3,186   2,903   (4)   10 
Provision for credit losses   62   46   30   35   53 
Compensation and benefits   1,166   1,099   1,077   6   2 
General and administrative expenses   617   656   659   (6)   0 
Commission expenses   95   103   104   (8)   (1) 
Restructuring expenses   35   –   66   –   – 
Total other operating expenses   747   759   829   (2)   (8) 
Total operating expenses   1,913   1,858   1,906   3   (3) 
Income before taxes   1,080   1,282   967   (16)   33 
S     tatement of operations metrics (%)         
Cost/income ratio   62.6   58.3   65.7   –   – 
N     et revenue detail (CHF million)         
Net interest income   1,614   1,580   1,615   2   (2) 
Recurring commissions and fees   775   826   835   (6)   (1) 
Transaction-based revenues   480   412   413   17   0 
Other revenues   186   368   40   (49)   – 
Net revenues   3,055   3,186   2,903   (4)   10 
M     argins on assets under management (bp)         
Gross margin 1  149   150   140   –   – 
Net margin 2  53   60   47   –   – 
N     umber of relationship managers         
Number of relationship managers   1,290   1,280   1,260   1   2 
1 Net revenues divided by average assets under management.
2 Income before taxes divided by average assets under management.
2019 results details
Provision for credit losses
The Private Clients loan portfolio is substantially comprised of 
Income before taxes of CHF 1,282 million increased 33% com- residential mortgages in Switzerland and loans collateralized by 
pared to 2018, driven by higher net revenues and 3% lower total  securities and, to a lesser extent, consumer finance loans.
operating expenses.
In 2019, Private Clients recorded provision for credit losses of 
Net revenues CHF 46 million compared to CHF 30 million in 2018. The provi-
In 2019, net revenues of CHF 3,186 million increased 10%,  sion was primarily related to our consumer finance business.
mainly reflecting higher other revenues due to gains on the sale 
of real estate of CHF 221 million and the SIX equity invest- Total operating expenses
ment revaluation gain of CHF 149 million. Net interest income of  Compared to 2018, total operating expenses of CHF 1,858 mil-
CHF 1,580 million decreased 2%, with lower treasury revenues  lion decreased 3%, mainly reflecting restructuring expenses 
and lower deposit margins on slightly higher average deposit vol- incurred in 2018, partially offset by 2% higher compensation and 
umes, partially offset by slightly higher loan margins on slightly  benefits. General and administrative expenses of CHF 656 million 
higher average loan volumes. Recurring commissions and fees  were stable, primarily reflecting lower professional services fees, 
of CHF 826 million were stable, with lower revenues from our  offset by higher occupancy expenses. Compensation and benefits 
investment in Swisscard and lower security account and custody  of CHF 1,099 million increased 2%, primarily driven by higher 
services fees, offset by higher investment product management  pension expenses.
fees, higher investment advisory fees and higher fees from lend-
ing activities. Transaction-based revenues of CHF 412 million 
were stable, mainly reflecting lower fees from foreign exchange 
client business offset by higher equity participations income.
Swiss Universal Bank  79
   
Assets under management
As of the end of 2019, assets under management of CHF 217.6 
billion were CHF 19.6 billion higher compared to the end of 2018, 
As of the end of 2020, assets under management of CHF 208.6  mainly due to favorable market movements and net new assets. 
billion were CHF 9.0 billion lower compared to the end of  Net new assets of CHF 3.4 billion reflected positive contributions 
2019, mainly due to net asset outflows and unfavorable foreign  from all businesses.
exchange-related movements, partially offset by favorable mar-
ket movements. Net asset outflows of CHF 5.9 billion mainly 
reflected outflows in the UHNW client segment, driven by a single 
outflow in the first quarter of 2020. 
Assets under management – Private Clients
        in / end of      % change 
   2020   2019   2018   20 / 19   19 / 18 
A     ssets under management (CHF billion)         
Assets under management   208.6   217.6   198.0   (4.1)   9.9 
Average assets under management   205.0   212.8   207.7   (3.7)   2.5 
A     ssets under management by currency (CHF billion)         
USD   34.8   36.0   28.9   (3.3)   24.6 
EUR   19.3   20.2   20.1   (4.5)   0.5 
CHF   145.7   151.9   140.0   (4.1)   8.5 
Other   8.8   9.5   9.0   (7.4)   5.6 
Assets under management   208.6   217.6   198.0   (4.1)   9.9 
G     rowth in assets under management (CHF billion)         
Net new assets   (5.9)   3.4   3.0   –   – 
Other effects   (3.1)   16.2   (13.3)   –   – 
   of which market movements   1.9   18.7   (10.6)   –   – 
   of which foreign exchange   (3.8)   (1.5)   (0.8)   –   – 
   of which other   (1.2)   (1.0)   (1.9)   –   – 
Growth in assets under management   (9.0)   19.6   (10.3)   –   – 
G     rowth in assets under management (%)         
Net new assets   (2.7)   1.7   1.4   –   – 
Other effects   (1.4)   8.2   (6.3)   –   – 
Growth in assets under management   (4.1)   9.9   (4.9)   –   – 
80 Swiss Universal Bank 
   
Corporate & Institutional Clients
2020 results details
by lower banking services fees. Transaction-based revenues of 
CHF 755 million increased 3%, mainly reflecting higher revenues 
Income before taxes of CHF 1,024 million decreased 21% com- from GTS, higher revenues from our Swiss investment banking 
pared to 2019, reflecting lower net revenues and higher provi- business and increased brokerage and product issuing fees, par-
sion for credit losses, partially offset by lower total operating  tially offset by lower fees from foreign exchange client business 
expenses.  and lower equity participations income, which included the lower 
dividend from our ownership interest in SIX Group. 
Net revenues
Compared to 2019, net revenues of CHF 2,560 million  Provision for credit losses
decreased 6%, mainly driven by lower other revenues. Other  The Corporate & Institutional Clients loan portfolio has relatively 
revenues in 2020 included the SIX equity investment revaluation  low concentrations and is mainly secured by real estate, securi-
gain of CHF 50 million, the gain related to the completed transfer  ties and other financial collateral.
of the InvestLab fund platform of CHF 25 million and the Allfunds 
Group equity investment revaluation gain of CHF 38 million.  In 2020, Corporate & Institutional Clients recorded provision for 
Other revenues in 2019 included the SIX equity investment reval- credit losses of CHF 208 million compared to CHF 63 million in 
uation gain of CHF 157 million and the gain of CHF 98 million  2019. The provision for credit losses in 2020 reflected the impact 
related to the transfer of the InvestLab fund platform. Net interest  on our commodity trade finance and Swiss corporate portfolios 
income of CHF 1,069 million decreased 5%, with lower deposit  from the expected deterioration of macroeconomic factors under 
margins on lower average deposit volumes and lower loan mar- the CECL methodology, primarily in the first quarter of 2020, and 
gins on stable average loan volumes. Recurring commissions and  a single case in our commodity trade finance portfolio in the third 
fees of CHF 665 million were stable, with higher fund and invest- quarter of 2020.
ment advisory fees and higher fees from lending activities, offset 
Results – Corporate & Institutional Clients
        in / end of      % change 
   2020   2019   2018   20 / 19   19 / 18 
S     tatements of operations (CHF million)         
Net revenues   2,560   2,719   2,540   (6)   7 
Provision for credit losses   208   63   97   230   (35) 
Compensation and benefits   809   846   826   (4)   2 
General and administrative expenses   396   404   432   (2)   (6) 
Commission expenses   114   115   126   (1)   (9) 
Restructuring expenses   9   –   35   –   – 
Total other operating expenses   519   519   593   0   (12) 
Total operating expenses   1,328   1,365   1,419   (3)   (4) 
Income before taxes   1,024   1,291   1,024   (21)   26 
S     tatement of operations metrics (%)         
Cost/income ratio   51.9   50.2   55.9   –   – 
N     et revenue detail (CHF million)         
Net interest income   1,069   1,125   1,155   (5)   (3) 
Recurring commissions and fees   665   663   680   0   (3) 
Transaction-based revenues   755   732   738   3   (1) 
Other revenues   71   199   (33)   (64)   – 
Net revenues   2,560   2,719   2,540   (6)   7 
N     umber of relationship managers         
Number of relationship managers   480   510   520   (6)   (2) 
Swiss Universal Bank  81
   
Total operating expenses Provision for credit losses
Compared to 2019, total operating expenses of CHF 1,328  The Corporate & Institutional Clients loan portfolio has relatively 
million decreased 3%, primarily reflecting lower compensation  low concentrations and is mainly secured by real estate, securi-
and benefits. Compensation and benefits of CHF 809 million  ties and other financial collateral.
decreased 4%, driven by lower allocated corporate function costs 
and lower salary expenses. General and administrative expenses  In 2019, Corporate & Institutional Clients recorded provision for 
of CHF 396 million decreased 2%, primarily reflecting lower  credit losses of CHF 63 million compared to CHF 97 million in 
allocated corporate function costs, lower occupancy expenses,  2018. The decrease reflected lower new provisions and higher 
decreased professional services fees and lower travel and enter- releases of provision for credit losses.
tainment expenses, partially offset by higher litigation provisions. 
Total operating expenses
Compared to 2018, total operating expenses of CHF 1,365 mil-
2019 results details
lion decreased 4%, primarily reflecting restructuring expenses 
incurred in 2018 and lower general and administrative expenses, 
Income before taxes of CHF 1,291 million increased 26% com- partially offset by 2% higher compensation and benefits. General 
pared to 2018, reflecting higher net revenues, lower total operat- and administrative expenses of CHF 404 million decreased 6%, 
ing expenses and lower provision for credit losses. primarily reflecting lower litigation provisions. Compensation and 
benefits of CHF 846 million increased 2%, driven by higher pen-
Net revenues sion expenses and higher deferred compensation expenses from 
Compared to 2018, net revenues of CHF 2,719 million increased  prior-year awards.
7%, driven by the SIX equity investment revaluation gain of 
CHF 157 million and the gain of CHF 98 million related to the 
Assets under management
transfer of the InvestLab fund platform, both reflected in other 
revenues. Net interest income of CHF 1,125 million decreased 
3%, reflecting lower loan margins on slightly higher average loan  As of the end of 2020, assets under management of CHF 462.6 
volumes, partially offset by higher deposit margins on stable  billion were CHF 26.2 billion higher compared to the end of 
average deposit volumes. Recurring commissions and fees of  2019, mainly driven by favorable market movements and net new 
CHF 663 million decreased 3%, mainly driven by lower fees  assets, partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange-related 
banking services fees. Transaction-based revenues of CHF 732  movements. Net new assets of CHF 13.7 billion mainly reflected 
million were stable, mainly reflecting lower client activity and lower  inflows from our pension business.
revenues from our Swiss investment banking business, offset 
by higher revenues from GTS and higher equity participations  As of the end of 2019, assets under management of CHF 436.4 
income. billion were CHF 87.7 billion higher compared to the end of 2018, 
mainly driven by net new assets and favorable market move-
ments. Net new assets of CHF 45.3 billion reflected strong 
inflows from our pension business.
82 Swiss Universal Bank 
   
International Wealth Management 
In 2020, we reported income before taxes of CHF 1,052 million and net 
revenues of CHF 4,837 million. Income before taxes decreased 49% 
compared to 2019, primarily reflecting lower net revenues. 
Results summary
million on a net loan portfolio of CHF 52.2 billion, compared to 
CHF 49 million provision for credit losses on a net loan portfolio 
2020 results of CHF 53.8 billion in 2019. Provision for credit losses in 2020 
In 2020, income before taxes of CHF 1,052 million decreased  was mainly related to ship finance. Total operating expenses of 
49% compared to 2019. Net revenues of CHF 4,837 million  CHF 3,675 million were stable compared to 2019, with lower 
decreased 17% compared to 2019, driven by an impairment loss  compensation and benefits and lower general and administrative 
of CHF 414 million from York in Asset Management, reflected  expenses offset by restructuring expenses of CHF 55 million in 
in other revenues. Other revenues in 2020 also included a gain  2020. 
of CHF 218 million related to the completed transfer of the 
InvestLab fund platform in the first quarter of 2020, reflected in  Results in 2020 were impacted by the weakening of the average 
Asset Management and Private Banking, as well as a SIX equity  rate of the US dollar against the Swiss franc, which adversely 
investment revaluation gain of CHF 61 million and an Allfunds  impacted revenues, but favorably impacted expenses.
Group equity investment revaluation gain of CHF 51 million in the 
fourth quarter of 2020, both reflected in Private Banking. Other  The COVID-19 pandemic negatively affected our business per-
revenues in 2019 included a SIX equity investment revaluation  formance in 2020, including higher provision for credit losses, 
gain of CHF 192 million, a gain of CHF 131 million related to the  adverse foreign exchange-related movements and a sharp reduc-
transfer of the InvestLab fund platform and gains on the sale of  tion in US dollar interest rates. The outlook of our business is 
real estate of CHF 45 million, all reflected in Private Banking.  uncertain due to the continued pandemic and its related eco-
Transaction- and performance-based revenues decreased 11%,  nomic impacts, including lower interest rates and potential credit 
mainly driven by the gains on the sale of our remaining eco- losses. Potentially lower average assets under management due 
nomic interest in a third-party manager relating to a private equity  to the volatility in financial markets, lower performance fees and 
investment in Asset Management in 2019. Net interest income  investment-related revenues and a shift towards lower risk asset 
decreased 11%, driven by lower deposit margins on higher aver- classes may continue to impact results in our Asset Management 
age deposit volumes, lower loan margins on lower average loan  business.
volumes and lower treasury revenues. Recurring commissions  > Refer to “COVID-19 pandemic and related regulatory measures” in Credit 
and fees decreased 4%. Provision for credit losses was CHF 110  Suisse for further information.
Divisional results
        in / end of      % change 
   2020   2019   2018   20 / 19   19 / 18 
S     tatements of operations (CHF million)         
Net revenues   4,837   5,816   5,320   (17)   9 
Provision for credit losses   110   49   37   124   32 
Compensation and benefits   2,310   2,377   2,311   (3)   3 
General and administrative expenses   1,080   1,103   1,020   (2)   8 
Commission expenses   230   222   227   4   (2) 
Restructuring expenses   55   –   115   –   – 
Total other operating expenses   1,365   1,325   1,362   3   (3) 
Total operating expenses   3,675   3,702   3,673   (1)   1 
Income before taxes   1,052   2,065   1,610   (49)   28 
S     tatement of operations metrics (%)         
Return on regulatory capital   19.6   37.3   30.4   –   – 
Cost/income ratio   76.0   63.7   69.0   –   – 
N     umber of employees (full-time equivalents)         
Number of employees   9,850   10,230   9,930   (4)   3 
International Wealth Management  83
   
Divisional results (continued)
        in / end of      % change 
   2020   2019   2018   20 / 19   19 / 18 
N     et revenues (CHF million)         
Private Banking   3,747   4,181   3,782   (10)   11 
Asset Management   1,090   1,635   1,538   (33)   6 
Net revenues   4,837   5,816   5,320   (17)   9 
N     et revenue detail (CHF million)         
Net interest income   1,265   1,419   1,481   (11)   (4) 
Recurring commissions and fees   2,139   2,231   2,230   (4)   0 
Transaction- and performance-based revenues   1,598   1,801   1,613   (11)   12 
Other revenues   (165)   365   (4)   –   – 
Net revenues   4,837   5,816   5,320   (17)   9 
B     alance sheet statistics (CHF million)         
Total assets   95,206   91,277   90,354   4   1 
Net loans   52,189   53,794   51,695   (3)   4 
   of which Private Banking   52,175   53,771   51,684   (3)   4 
Risk-weighted assets   43,000   43,529   40,359   (1)   8 
Leverage exposure   104,014   99,085   97,099   5   2 
2019 results Capital and leverage metrics
In 2019, income before taxes of CHF 2,065 million increased  As of the end of 2020, we reported risk-weighted assets of 
28% compared to 2018. Net revenues of CHF 5,816 million  CHF 43.0 billion, a decrease of CHF 0.5 billion compared to the 
increased 9% compared to 2018, mainly driven by higher other  end of 2019, driven by movements in risk levels, primarily driven 
revenues including a SIX equity investment revaluation gain of  by the impairment loss from York Capital Management and a 
CHF 192 million, a gain of CHF 131 million related to the trans- decreased advanced CVA due to a reduction in derivative expo-
fer of the InvestLab fund platform and gains on the sale of real  sures, and a negative foreign exchange impact. These decreases 
estate of CHF 45 million. 2018 included a gain on the sale of  were partially offset by methodology and policy changes, reflect-
our investment in Euroclear of CHF 37 million in Private Bank- ing the phase-in of certain Basel III revisions for credit risk, 
ing. Higher transaction- and performance-based revenues were  primarily related to the standardized approach for counterparty 
partially offset by lower net interest income. Higher transaction-  credit risk (SA-CCR), and internal model and parameter updates 
and performance-based revenues mainly reflected the gains on  in credit risk as well as market risk. Internal model and parameter 
the sale of our remaining economic interest in a third-party man- updates in credit risk reflected a regular data update pertaining 
ager relating to a private equity investment in Asset Management  to the advanced CVA model, primarily due to increased market 
and higher client activity, higher revenues from GTS and higher  volatility, and internal model and parameter updates in market risk 
performance fees in Private Banking. Lower net interest income  were driven by the market data update for regulatory VaR as a 
mainly reflected lower treasury revenues. Recurring commissions  result of the significant market volatility in the first half of 2020. 
and fees were stable, with higher asset management fees off- Leverage exposure of CHF 104.0 billion was CHF 4.9 billion 
set by lower discretionary mandate management fees. Provision  higher compared to the end of 2019, driven by business growth 
for credit losses was CHF 49 million on a net loan portfolio of  and an increase in high-quality liquid assets.
CHF 53.8 billion. Total operating expenses of CHF 3,702 million 
were stable compared to 2018, with higher general and adminis-
trative expenses and higher compensation and benefits offset by 
restructuring expenses incurred in 2018.
84 International Wealth Management 
   
Reconciliation of adjusted results
        Private Banking        Asset Management       International Wealth Management 
in   2020   2019   2018   2020   2019   2018   2020   2019   2018 
A         djusted results (CHF million)             
Net revenues   3,747   4,181   3,782   1,090   1,635   1,538   4,837   5,816   5,320 
   Real estate (gains)/losses   0   (45)   (2)   0   0   0   0   (45)   (2) 
   (Gains)/losses on business sales   0   0   (37)   0   0   (18)   0   0   (55) 
Adjusted net revenues   3,747   4,136   3,743   1,090   1,635   1,520   4,837   5,771   5,263 
Provision for credit losses   110   48   37   0   1   0   110   49   37 
Total operating expenses   2,546   2,547   2,511   1,129   1,155   1,162   3,675   3,702   3,673 
   Restructuring expenses   (37)   –   (89)   (18)   –   (26)   (55)   –   (115) 
   Major litigation provisions   11   30   0   0   0   0   11   30   0 
   Expenses related to real estate disposals   (5)   (17)   –   (2)   (4)   –   (7)   (21)   – 
   Expenses related to business sales   0   0   0   0   0   (47)   0   0   (47) 
Adjusted total operating expenses   2,515   2,560   2,422   1,109   1,151   1,089   3,624   3,711   3,511 
Income/(loss) before taxes   1,091   1,586   1,234   (39)   479   376   1,052   2,065   1,610 
   Total adjustments   31   (58)   50   20   4   55   51   (54)   105 
Adjusted income/(loss) before taxes   1,122   1,528   1,284   (19)   483   431   1,103   2,011   1,715 
Adjusted return on regulatory capital (%)   –   –   –   –   –   –   20.6   36.3   32.4 
Adjusted results are non-GAAP financial measures. Refer to “Reconciliation of adjusted results” in Credit Suisse for further information.
Private Banking
2020 results details
Provision for credit losses
The Private Banking loan portfolio primarily comprises lombard 
Income before taxes of CHF 1,091 million decreased 31% com- loans, mainly backed by listed securities, ship finance and real 
pared to 2019, primarily reflecting lower net revenues.  estate mortgages.
Net revenues In 2020, Private Banking recorded provision for credit losses of 
Compared to 2019, net revenues of CHF 3,747 million were 10%  CHF 110 million, compared to CHF 48 million in 2019. Provision 
lower, driven by significantly lower other revenues, lower net inter- for credit losses in 2020 was mainly related to ship finance.
est income and lower recurring commissions and fees, partially 
offset by higher transaction- and performance-based revenues.  Total operating expenses
Other revenues in 2020 included the SIX equity investment  Compared to 2019, total operating expenses of CHF 2,546 mil-
revaluation gain of CHF 61 million, the Allfunds Group equity  lion were stable, with lower compensation and benefits, offset 
investment revaluation gain of CHF 51 million and the gain of  by restructuring expenses of CHF 37 million in 2020. Compen-
CHF 15 million related to the completed transfer of the Invest- sation and benefits of CHF 1,658 million decreased 2%, mainly 
Lab fund platform. Other revenues in 2019 included the SIX  reflecting lower discretionary compensation expenses, partially 
equity investment revaluation gain of CHF 192 million, the gain of  offset by higher deferred compensation expenses from prior-year 
CHF 131 million related to the transfer of the InvestLab fund plat- awards. General and administrative expenses of CHF 707 million 
form and the gains on the sale of real estate of CHF 45 million.  were stable, primarily reflecting lower allocated corporate func-
Net interest income of CHF 1,265 million decreased 11%, with  tion costs and lower travel and entertainment expenses, offset by 
lower deposit margins on higher average deposit volumes, lower  higher professional services fees and higher litigation provisions.
loan margins on lower average loan volumes and lower treasury 
revenues. Recurring commissions and fees of CHF 1,136 mil-
lion decreased 6%, mainly driven by lower investment product 
management fees and lower discretionary mandate manage-
ment fees. Transaction- and performance-based revenues of 
CHF 1,221 million increased 3%, mainly reflecting higher rev-
enues from GTS and higher client activity, partially offset by lower 
equity participations income, which included a lower dividend from 
our ownership interest in SIX Group, lower performance fees and 
lower corporate advisory fees from integrated solutions.
International Wealth Management  85
   
Results – Private Banking
        in / end of      % change 
   2020   2019   2018   20 / 19   19 / 18 
S     tatements of operations (CHF million)         
Net revenues   3,747   4,181   3,782   (10)   11 
Provision for credit losses   110   48   37   129   30 
Compensation and benefits   1,658   1,688   1,601   (2)   5 
General and administrative expenses   707   710   667   0   6 
Commission expenses   144   149   154   (3)   (3) 
Restructuring expenses   37   –   89   –   – 
Total other operating expenses   888   859   910   3   (6) 
Total operating expenses   2,546   2,547   2,511   0   1 
Income before taxes   1,091   1,586   1,234   (31)   29 
S     tatement of operations metrics (%)         
Cost/income ratio   67.9   60.9   66.4   –   – 
N     et revenue detail (CHF million)         
Net interest income   1,265   1,419   1,481   (11)   (4) 
Recurring commissions and fees   1,136   1,205   1,224   (6)   (2) 
Transaction- and performance-based revenues   1,221   1,186   1,036   3   14 
Other revenues   125   371   41   (66)   – 
Net revenues   3,747   4,181   3,782   (10)   11 
M     argins on assets under management (bp)         
Gross margin 1  107   115   103   –   – 
Net margin 2  31   44   34   –   – 
N     umber of relationship managers         
Number of relationship managers   1,140   1,150   1,110   (1)   4 
Net interest income includes a term spread credit on stable deposit funding and a term spread charge on loans. Recurring commissions and fees includes investment product management, 
discretionary mandate and other asset management-related fees, fees for general banking products and services and revenues from wealth structuring solutions. Transaction- and perfor-
mance-based revenues arise primarily from brokerage and product issuing fees, fees from foreign exchange client transactions, trading and sales income, equity participations income and 
other transaction- and performance-based income.
1 Net revenues divided by average assets under management.
2 Income before taxes divided by average assets under management.
Margins Net revenues
Our gross margin was 107 basis points in 2020, eight basis  Compared to 2018, net revenues of CHF 4,181 million were 11% 
points lower compared to 2019, driven by lower other revenues  higher, mainly driven by higher other revenues. Other revenues 
and lower net interest income, partially offset by a 4.0% decrease  included the SIX equity investment revaluation gain of CHF 192 
in average assets under management.  million, the gain of CHF 131 million related to the transfer of the 
> Refer to “Assets under management” for further information. InvestLab fund platform and the gains on the sale of real estate 
of CHF 45 million. 2018 included the gain on the sale of our 
Our net margin was 31 basis points in 2020, 13 basis points  investment in Euroclear of CHF 37 million. Transaction- and per-
lower compared to 2019, mainly reflecting lower net revenues,  formance-based revenues of CHF 1,186 million increased 14%, 
partially offset by the lower average assets under management.  mainly reflecting higher client activity, higher revenues from GTS, 
increased performance fees and higher corporate advisory fees 
related to integrated solutions. Net interest income of CHF 1,419 
2019 results details
million decreased 4%, mainly reflecting lower treasury revenues. 
Recurring commissions and fees of CHF 1,205 million decreased 
Income before taxes of CHF 1,586 million increased 29% com- 2%, mainly reflecting lower discretionary mandate management 
pared to 2018, primarily reflecting higher net revenues. fees and lower investment product management fees, partially 
offset by higher fees from lending activities.
Provision for credit losses
In 2019, Private Banking recorded provision for credit losses of 
CHF 48 million, compared to CHF 37 million in 2018, driven by 
various individual cases.
86 International Wealth Management 
   
Assets under management
Total operating expenses
Compared to 2018, total operating expenses of CHF 2,547 mil-
lion were stable, with higher compensation and benefits and  As of the end of 2020, assets under management of CHF 365.4 
higher general and administrative expenses, offset by restruc- billion were CHF 4.6 billion lower compared to the end of 2019, 
turing expenses incurred in 2018. Compensation and benefits  driven by unfavorable foreign exchange-related movements, par-
of CHF 1,688 million increased 5%, mainly reflecting higher  tially offset by net new assets and favorable market movements. 
deferred compensation expenses from prior-year awards,  Net new assets of CHF 16.7 billion mainly reflected inflows from 
higher salary expenses and higher social security and pension  both emerging markets and Western Europe.
expenses. General and administrative expenses of CHF 710 mil-
lion increased 6%, primarily reflecting higher allocated corporate  As of the end of 2019, assets under management of CHF 370.0 
function costs. billion were CHF 12.5 billion higher compared to the end of 2018, 
driven by favorable market movements and net new assets, 
partially offset by structural effects and unfavorable foreign 
exchange-related movements. Net new assets of CHF 11.0 billion 
mainly reflected inflows from emerging markets.
Assets under management – Private Banking
        in / end of      % change 
   2020   2019   2018   20 / 19   19 / 18 
A     ssets under management (CHF billion)         
Assets under management   365.4   370.0   357.5   (1.2)   3.5 
Average assets under management   349.8   364.5   368.1   (4.0)   (1.0) 
A     ssets under management by currency (CHF billion)         
USD   180.5   179.2   170.3   0.7   5.2 
EUR   110.4   101.4   106.7   8.9   (5.0) 
CHF   17.9   18.7   17.5   (4.3)   6.9 
Other   56.6   70.7   63.0   (19.9)   12.2 
Assets under management   365.4   370.0   357.5   (1.2)   3.5 
G     rowth in assets under management (CHF billion)         
Net new assets   16.7   11.0   14.2   –   – 
Other effects   (21.3)   1.5   (23.6)   –   – 
   of which market movements   11.6   31.1   (12.0)   –   – 
   of which foreign exchange   (28.8)   (8.2)   (7.8)   –   – 
   of which other   (4.1)   (21.4)   (3.8)   –   – 
Growth in assets under management   (4.6)   12.5   (9.4)   –   – 
G     rowth in assets under management (%)         
Net new assets   4.5   3.1   3.9   –   – 
Other effects   (5.7)   0.4   (6.5)   –   – 
Growth in assets under management   (1.2)   3.5   (2.6)   –   – 
International Wealth Management  87
   
Asset Management
2020 results details
mainly reflecting investment-related losses in 2020 compared to 
gains in 2019 and lower placement fees. Management fees of 
In 2020, we reported a loss before taxes of CHF 39 million com- CHF 1,050 million decreased 6%, primarily reflecting lower real 
pared to income before taxes of CHF 479 million in 2019. The  estate-related transaction fees. 
decrease mainly reflected lower net revenues due to the impair-
ment loss from York.  Total operating expenses
Compared to 2019, total operating expenses of CHF 1,129 mil-
Net revenues lion decreased 2%, reflecting lower compensation and benefits 
Compared to 2019, net revenues of CHF 1,090 million  and lower general and administrative expenses, partially offset by 
decreased 33%, mainly driven by the CHF 414 million impair- restructuring expenses of CHF 18 million in 2020. Compensation 
ment loss from York reflected in investment and partnership  and benefits of CHF 652 million decreased 5%, primarily reflect-
income. Investment and partnership income in 2020 also included  ing lower discretionary compensation expenses, partially offset by 
the gain of CHF 203 million related to the completed transfer  higher allocated corporate function costs. General and admin-
of the InvestLab fund platform, while 2019 included the gains  istrative expenses of CHF 373 million decreased 5%, primarily 
on the sale of our remaining economic interest in a third-party  reflecting lower travel and entertainment expenses and lower allo-
manager relating to a private equity investment. Performance  cated corporate function costs. 
and placement revenues of CHF 170 million decreased 30%, 
Results – Asset Management
        in      % change 
   2020   2019   2018   20 / 19   19 / 18 
S     tatements of operations (CHF million)         
Net revenues   1,090   1,635   1,538   (33)   6 
Provision for credit losses   0   1   0   (100)   – 
Compensation and benefits   652   689   710   (5)   (3) 
General and administrative expenses   373   393   353   (5)   11 
Commission expenses   86   73   73   18   – 
Restructuring expenses   18   –   26   –   – 
Total other operating expenses   477   466   452   2   3 
Total operating expenses   1,129   1,155   1,162   (2)   (1) 
Income/(loss) before taxes   (39)   479   376   –   27 
S     tatement of operations metrics (%)         
Cost/income ratio   103.6   70.6   75.6   –   – 
N     et revenue detail (CHF million)         
Management fees   1,050   1,112   1,076   (6)   3 
Performance and placement revenues   170   244   139   (30)   76 
Investment and partnership income   (130)   279   323   –   (14) 
Net revenues   1,090   1,635   1,538   (33)  6  
   of which recurring commissions and fees   1,003   1,026   1,006   (2)   2 
   of which transaction- and performance-based revenues   377   615   577   (39)   7 
   of which other revenues   (290)   (6)   (45)   –   (87) 
Management fees include fees on assets under management, asset administration revenues and transaction fees related to the acquisition and disposal of investments in the funds being 
managed. Performance revenues relate to the performance or return of the funds being managed and includes investment-related gains and losses from proprietary funds. Placement rev-
enues arise from our third-party private equity fundraising activities and secondary private equity market advisory services. Investment and partnership income includes equity participation 
income from seed capital returns and from minority investments in third-party asset managers, income from strategic partnerships and distribution agreements, and other revenues.
88 International Wealth Management 
   
2019 results details
Total operating expenses
Compared to 2018, total operating expenses of CHF 1,155 mil-
Income before taxes of CHF 479 million increased 27% com- lion were stable, reflecting restructuring expenses incurred in 
pared to 2018, primarily reflecting higher net revenues.  2018 and lower compensation and benefits, offset by higher gen-
eral and administrative expenses. Compensation and benefits of 
In the fourth quarter of 2018, we completed a business disposal  CHF 689 million decreased 3%, primarily reflecting lower salary 
involving a spin-off relating to our securitized products fund, while  expenses and deferred compensation expenses from prior-year 
retaining an economic interest in the new management company  awards, mainly related to the 2018 business disposal. General 
and the fund. Beginning in the first quarter of 2019, revenues  and administrative expenses of CHF 393 million increased 11%, 
from this interest are recognized as investment and partner- primarily reflecting higher professional services fees and higher 
ship income rather than management fees and performance and  allocated corporate function costs.
placement revenues as previously reported. Prior periods have 
been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
Assets under management
Net revenues
Compared to 2018, net revenues of CHF 1,635 million increased  As of the end of 2020, assets under management of CHF 440.3 
6%, reflecting higher performance and placement revenues and  billion were CHF 2.4 billion higher compared to the end of 2019, 
higher management fees, partially offset by lower investment and  mainly reflecting favorable market movements and net new 
partnership income. Performance and placement revenues of  assets, partially offset by structural effects and unfavorable for-
CHF 244 million increased significantly, reflecting higher place- eign exchange-related movements. Net new assets of CHF 15.5 
ment fees, higher performance fees including the sale of a private  billion mainly reflected inflows from traditional investments. Struc-
equity investment of a fund and investment-related gains in 2019  tural effects included CHF 14.8 billion relating to the sale of Win-
compared to losses in 2018. Management fees of CHF 1,112 mil- casa AG in 2012 following the conclusion in 2020 of a transition 
lion increased 3%, mainly reflecting higher average assets under  period regarding the related assets under management.
management. Investment and partnership income of CHF 279 
million decreased 14% mainly as 2018 included revenues from  As of the end of 2019, assets under management of CHF 437.9 
a business disposal and due to lower revenues from a single  billion were CHF 49.2 billion higher compared to the end of 
manager hedge fund, partially offset by gains on the sale of our  2018, mainly reflecting favorable market movements and net 
remaining economic interest in a third-party manager relating to  new assets. Net new assets of CHF 21.5 billion mainly reflected 
a private equity investment and higher revenues from our system- inflows from traditional and alternative investments.
atic market making business. 
International Wealth Management  89
   
Assets under management – Asset Management
        in / end of      % change 
   2020   2019   2018   20 / 19   19 / 18 
A     ssets under management (CHF billion)         
Traditional investments   285.8   262.8   218.9   8.8   20.1 
Alternative investments   109.5   130.6   124.6   (16.2)   4.8 
Investments and partnerships   45.0   44.5   45.2   1.1   (1.5) 
Assets under management   440.3   437.9   388.7   0.5   12.7 
Average assets under management   428.7   416.3   397.8   3.0   4.7 
A     ssets under management by currency (CHF billion)         
USD   120.8   119.8   107.2   0.8   11.8 
EUR   57.5   54.8   49.0   4.9   11.8 
CHF   213.5   215.3   184.9   (0.8)   16.4 
Other   48.5   48.0   47.6   1.0   0.8 
Assets under management   440.3   437.9   388.7   0.5   12.7 
G     rowth in assets under management (CHF billion)         
Net new assets 1  15.5   21.5   22.2   –   – 
Other effects   (13.1)   27.7   (19.1)   –   – 
   of which market movements   18.4   33.7   (9.1)   –   – 
   of which foreign exchange   (14.2)   (5.3)   (3.4)   –   – 
   of which other   (17.3) 2   (0.7)   (6.6)   –   – 
Growth in assets under management   2.4   49.2   3.1   –   – 
G     rowth in assets under management (%)         
Net new assets   3.5   5.5   5.8   –   – 
Other effects   (3.0)   7.2   (5.0)   –   – 
Growth in assets under management   0.5   12.7   0.8   –   – 
1 Includes outflows for private equity assets reflecting realizations at cost and unfunded commitments on which a fee is no longer earned.
2 Includes CHF 14.8 billion relating to the sale of Wincasa AG in 2012 following the conclusion in 2020 of a transition period regarding the related assets under management.
90 International Wealth Management 
   
Asia Pacific
In 2020, we reported income before taxes of CHF 828 million and net 
revenues of CHF 3,155 million. Income before taxes decreased 10% 
compared to 2019, primarily reflecting higher provision for credit losses, 
partially offset by higher net revenues.
Results summary
relating to airline, catering and food and beverage companies. 
Compared to 2019, total operating expenses of CHF 2,091 mil-
2020 results  lion increased 2%, primarily reflecting higher compensation and 
In 2020, income before taxes of CHF 828 million decreased  benefits.
10% compared to 2019, mainly due to higher provision for credit 
losses, partially offset by higher net revenues. Net revenues of  Results in 2020 were impacted by the weakening of the average 
CHF 3,155 million increased 4%, driven by higher transaction- rate of the US dollar against the Swiss franc, which adversely 
based revenues, partially offset by lower net interest income,  impacted revenues, but favorably impacted expenses.
lower other revenues and lower recurring commissions and fees. 
Other revenues in 2020 included a gain of CHF 25 million related  Our operating environment and results in 2020 were significantly 
to the completed transfer of the InvestLab fund platform to All- influenced by the global impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
funds Group and an Allfunds Group equity investment revaluation  Reactions of investors and central banks and a sharp reduc-
gain of CHF 38 million. Other revenues in 2019 included a gain  tion in US dollar interest rates significantly increased volatility in 
of CHF 98 million related to the transfer of the InvestLab fund  financial markets and led to higher credit losses. These effects 
platform. Provision for credit losses was CHF 236 million on a  could have an impact on our results, including potentially adverse 
net loan portfolio of CHF 38.6 billion compared to CHF 55 million  impacts on credit losses and mark-to-market losses in our financ-
of provision for credit losses on a net loan portfolio of CHF 46.0  ing business.
billion in 2019. Provision for credit losses in 2020 was driven  > Refer to “COVID-19 pandemic and related regulatory measures” in Credit 
by several individual cases across various industries, including  Suisse for further information.
Divisional results
        in / end of      % change 
   2020   2019   2018   20 / 19   19 / 18 
S     tatements of operations (CHF million)         
Net revenues   3,155   3,029   2,759   4   10 
Provision for credit losses   236   55   28   329   96 
Compensation and benefits   1,319   1,285   1,244   3   3 
General and administrative expenses   614   620   670   (1)   (7) 
Commission expenses   154   147   148   5   (1) 
Restructuring expenses   4   –   37   –   – 
Total other operating expenses   772   767   855   1   (10) 
Total operating expenses   2,091   2,052   2,099   2   (2) 
Income before taxes   828   922   632   (10)   46 
S     tatement of operations metrics (%)         
Return on regulatory capital   22.0   21.3   16.4   –   – 
Cost/income ratio   66.3   67.7   76.1   –   – 
B     alance sheet statistics (CHF million)         
Total assets   67,356   73,719   69,643   (9)  6  
Net loans   38,625   45,969   42,852   (16)   7 
Risk-weighted assets   26,589   31,857   31,585   (17)   1 
Leverage exposure   74,307   81,090   77,417   (8)   5 
N     umber of employees (full-time equivalents)         
Number of employees   6,890   6,530   6,200  6    5 
Asia Pacific 91
   
Divisional results (continued)
        in / end of      % change 
   2020   2019   2018   20 / 19   19 / 18 
N     et revenue detail (CHF million)         
Net interest income   1,071   1,118   964   (4)   16 
Recurring commissions and fees   348   378   378   (8)   0 
Transaction-based revenues   1,670   1,433   1,416   17   1 
Other revenues   66   100   1   (34)   – 
Net revenues   3,155   3,029   2,759   4   10 
M     argins on assets under management (annualized) (bp)         
Gross margin 1  147   141   137   –   – 
Net margin 2  39   43   31   –   – 
N     umber of relationship managers         
Number of relationship managers   600   600   580   0   3 
Net interest income includes a term spread credit on stable deposit funding and a term spread charge on loans. Recurring commissions and fees includes investment product management, 
discretionary mandate and other asset management-related fees, fees for general banking products and services and revenues from wealth structuring solutions. Transaction-based rev-
enues arise primarily from brokerage and product issuing fees, fees from foreign exchange client transactions, trading and sales income including revenues from GTS, financing, underwrit-
ing and advisory fees, equity participations income and other transaction-based income. Financing revenues include unrealized mark-to-market movements on our fair valued portfolio.
1 Net revenues divided by average assets under management.
2 Income before taxes divided by average assets under management.
Reconciliation of adjusted results
        Asia Pacific 
in   2020   2019   2018 
A   djusted results (CHF million)       
Net revenues   3,155   3,029   2,759 
Provision for credit losses   236   55   28 
Total operating expenses   2,091   2,052   2,099 
   Restructuring expenses   (4)   –   (37) 
   Major litigation provisions   0   0   (79) 
Adjusted total operating expenses   2,087   2,052   1,983 
Income before taxes   828   922   632 
   Total adjustments   4   0   116 
Adjusted income before taxes   832   922   748 
Adjusted return on regulatory capital (%)   22.1   21.3   19.4 
Adjusted results are non-GAAP financial measures. Refer to “Reconciliation of adjusted results” in Credit Suisse for further information.
2019 results Capital and leverage metrics 
In 2019, income before taxes of CHF 922 million increased 46%  As of the end of 2020, we reported risk-weighted assets of 
compared to 2018, mainly due to higher net revenues and lower  CHF 26.6 billion, a decrease of CHF 5.3 billion compared to the 
total operating expenses. Net revenues of CHF 3,029 million  end of 2019, primarily reflecting a negative foreign exchange 
increased 10%, mainly driven by higher net interest income and  impact and lower business usage. Leverage exposure was 
a gain of CHF 98 million related to the transfer of the InvestLab  CHF 74.3 billion, a decrease of CHF 6.8 billion compared to 
fund platform to Allfunds Group reflected in other revenues. Pro- the end of 2019, mainly driven by a negative foreign exchange 
vision for credit losses was CHF 55 million on a net loan portfolio  impact.
of CHF 46.0 billion. Compared to 2018, total operating expenses 
of CHF 2,052 million decreased 2%, mainly reflecting lower gen-
2020 results details
eral and administrative expenses, partially offset by higher com-
pensation and benefits. 2018 included litigation provisions related 
to the US Department of Justice (DoJ) and US Securities and  Income before taxes of CHF 828 million decreased 10% com-
Exchange Commission (SEC) investigations regarding our hir- pared to 2019, reflecting higher provision for credit losses and 
ing practices in the Asia Pacific region between 2007 and 2013,  higher total operating expenses, partially offset by higher net 
which were resolved, as well as restructuring expenses of CHF  revenues.
37 million.
92 Asia Pacific
   
Net revenues Our net margin was 39 basis points in 2020, four basis points 
Net revenues of CHF 3,155 million increased 4% compared to  lower compared to 2019, mainly reflecting higher provision for 
2019, reflecting higher transaction-based revenues, partially off- credit losses, partially offset by higher net revenues.
set by lower net interest income, lower other revenues and lower 
recurring commissions and fees. Transaction-based revenues 
2019 results details
increased 17% to CHF 1,670 million, primarily reflecting higher 
revenues from GTS, higher client activity, higher structured equity 
origination and equity underwriting revenues, partially offset  Income before taxes of CHF 922 million increased 46% com-
by lower financing revenues and lower fees from mergers and  pared to 2018 reflecting higher net revenues and lower total 
acquisitions (M&A) transactions. Financing revenues reflected  operating expenses, partially offset by higher provision for credit 
unrealized mark-to-market losses on our fair valued portfolio.  losses. 
Net interest income decreased 4% to CHF 1,071 million, mainly 
reflecting significantly lower deposit margins on lower average  Net revenues
deposit volumes and lower average loan volumes despite higher  Net revenues of CHF 3,029 million increased 10% compared to 
loan margins, partially offset by higher treasury revenues. Other  2018, mainly reflecting higher net interest income and the gain 
revenues in 2020 included a gain of CHF 25 million related to  of CHF 98 million related to the transfer of the InvestLab fund 
the completed transfer of the InvestLab fund platform to Allfunds  platform to Allfunds Group reflected in other revenues. Net inter-
Group and the Allfunds Group equity investment revaluation gain  est income increased 16% to CHF 1,118 million, mainly reflect-
of CHF 38 million compared to a gain of CHF 98 million related  ing higher treasury revenues and higher average loan volumes 
to the transfer of the InvestLab fund platform in 2019. Recurring  despite slightly lower loan margins. Transaction-based revenues 
commissions and fees of CHF 348 million decreased 8%, mainly  of CHF 1,433 million were stable, primarily reflecting higher reve-
reflecting lower investment product management fees, security  nues from GTS, higher client activity and higher debt underwriting 
account and custody services fees and fees from lending activi- revenues, offset by lower fees from M&A transactions and lower 
ties, partially offset by higher discretionary mandate management  equity underwriting revenues. Recurring commissions and fees 
fees.  of CHF 378 million were stable, mainly reflecting lower fees from 
lending activities, offset by higher investment product manage-
Provision for credit losses ment fees, discretionary mandate management fees and invest-
The loan portfolio primarily comprises lombard loans, which  ment advisory fees.
are mainly backed by listed securities, share-backed loans and 
secured and unsecured loans to corporates. Provision for credit losses
The loan portfolio primarily comprises lombard loans, which 
In 2020, we recorded provision for credit losses of CHF 236 mil- are mainly backed by listed securities, share-backed loans and 
lion compared to provision for credit losses of CHF 55 million in  secured and unsecured loans to corporates.
2019. Provision for credit losses in 2020 was driven by several 
individual cases across various industries, including relating to air- In 2019, we recorded provision for credit losses of CHF 55 million 
line, catering and food and beverage companies. relating to several individual cases, including provisions relating to 
an Indian infrastructure development company and an Indonesian 
Total operating expenses healthcare company, compared to provision for credit losses of 
Total operating expenses of CHF 2,091 million increased 2%  CHF 28 million in 2018.
compared to 2019, mainly reflecting higher compensation and 
benefits. Compensation and benefits increased 3% to CHF 1,319  Total operating expenses
million, mainly reflecting higher discretionary compensation  Total operating expenses of CHF 2,052 million decreased 2% 
expenses and higher deferred compensation expenses from prior- compared to 2018, mainly reflecting lower general and admin-
year awards, largely offset by lower salary expenses. General and  istrative expenses, partially offset by higher compensation and 
administrative expenses of CHF 614 million were stable, mainly  benefits. 2018 included litigation provisions related to the DoJ 
due to lower travel and entertainment expenses and lower allo- and SEC investigations regarding our hiring practices in the Asia 
cated corporate function costs, offset by higher IT machinery and  Pacific region between 2007 and 2013, which were resolved, 
equipment costs and higher professional services fees. as well as restructuring expenses of CHF 37 million. General 
and administrative expenses decreased 7% to CHF 620 million, 
Margins mainly due to the litigation provisions incurred in 2018, par-
Our gross margin was 147 basis points in 2020, six basis points  tially offset by higher allocated corporate function costs in 2019. 
higher compared to 2019, mainly reflecting higher transaction- Compensation and benefits increased 3% to CHF 1,285 million, 
based revenues, partially offset by lower net interest income and  primarily reflecting higher allocated corporate function costs and 
lower other revenues. higher deferred compensation expenses from prior-year awards, 
> Refer to “Assets under management” for further information. largely offset by lower salary expenses and lower discretionary 
compensation expenses.
Asia Pacific 93
   
Assets under management
As of the end of 2019, assets under management of CHF 220.0 
billion were CHF 20.7 billion higher compared to the end of 
As of the end of 2020, assets under management of CHF 221.3  2018, mainly reflecting favorable market movements and net new 
billion were CHF 1.3 billion higher compared to the end of 2019,  assets, partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange-related 
mainly reflecting favorable market movements and net new  movements. Net new assets of CHF 8.7 billion mainly reflected 
assets, largely offset by unfavorable foreign exchange-related  inflows from Greater China, Southeast Asia and Japan.
movements. Net new assets of CHF 8.6 billion mainly reflected 
inflows from Southeast Asia, Australia, Japan and Greater China.
Assets under management
        in / end of      % change 
   2020   2019   2018   20 / 19   19 / 18 
A     ssets under management (CHF billion)         
Assets under management   221.3   220.0   199.3   0.6   10.4 
Average assets under management   214.9   215.2   201.5   (0.1)   6.8 
A     ssets under management by currency (CHF billion)         
USD   122.5   122.7   104.0   (0.2)   18.0 
EUR   6.0   7.0   5.8   (14.3)   20.7 
CHF   1.7   1.8   1.8   (5.6)   – 
Other   91.1   88.5   87.7   2.9   0.9 
Assets under management   221.3   220.0   199.3   0.6   10.4 
G     rowth in assets under management (CHF billion)         
Net new assets   8.6   8.7   14.4   –   – 
Other effects   (7.3)   12.0   (11.9)   –   – 
   of which market movements   10.3   17.0   (12.7)   –   – 
   of which foreign exchange   (17.2)   (3.2)   (0.5)   –   – 
   of which other   (0.4)   (1.8)   1.3   –   – 
Growth in assets under management   1.3   20.7   2.5   –   – 
G     rowth in assets under management (%)         
Net new assets   3.9   4.4   7.3   –   – 
Other effects   (3.3)   6.0   (6.0)   –   – 
Growth in assets under management   0.6   10.4   1.3   –   – 
94 Asia Pacific
   
Investment Bank
In 2020, we reported income before taxes of CHF 1,655 million and net 
revenues of CHF 9,098 million, reflecting revenue growth and significantly 
improved profitability.
Results summary
and volatility. Capital markets revenues increased 27%, reflecting 
significantly higher equity capital markets revenues and increased 
2020 results share of wallet. Advisory and other fees increased 1%, reflect-
In 2020, we reported income before taxes of CHF 1,655 mil- ing higher revenues from completed M&A transactions despite 
lion and net revenues of CHF 9,098 million. Market condi- a decline in industry-wide issuance activity. Provision for credit 
tions were impacted by the global COVID-19 pandemic as well  losses was CHF 471 million in 2020 compared to CHF 104 mil-
as geopolitical and macroeconomic uncertainties related to the  lion in 2019, driven by the application of the CECL methodology, 
UK’s withdrawal from the EU and the US elections, resulting in  as well as negative developments in our corporate lending port-
record levels of volatility. Results in 2020 were impacted by the  folio across various industries. Negative other revenues in 2020 
weakening of the average rate of the US dollar against the Swiss  mainly reflected higher funding costs related to COVID-19 and a 
franc, which adversely impacted revenues, but favorably impacted  loss from a single name counterparty. Total operating expenses of 
expenses. Net revenues increased 11%, driven by broad-based  CHF 6,972 million were stable in Swiss francs, but increased 6% 
growth across all businesses. Fixed income sales and trading rev- in US dollars, reflecting increased compensation and benefits and 
enues increased 20%, reflecting strong macro, credit and emerg- higher general and administrative and restructuring expenses. In 
ing markets trading activity. Equity sales and trading revenues  2020, we incurred restructuring expenses of CHF 47 million. 
increased 6%, reflecting higher equity derivatives and cash equi-
ties trading activity due to significantly increased trading volumes 
Divisional results
        in / end of      % change 
   2020   2019   2018   20 / 19   19 / 18 
S     tatements of operations (CHF million)         
Net revenues   9,098   8,161   8,004   11   2 
Provision for credit losses   471   104   51   353   104 
Compensation and benefits   3,934   3,940   3,761   –   5 
General and administrative expenses   2,409   2,470   2,430   (2)   2 
Commission expenses   582   621   591   (6)   5 
Restructuring expenses   47   –   353   –   – 
Total other operating expenses   3,038   3,091   3,374   (2)   (8) 
Total operating expenses   6,972   7,031   7,135   (1)   (1) 
Income before taxes   1,655   1,026   818   61   25 
S     tatement of operations metrics (%)         
Return on regulatory capital   12.2   7.1   5.9   –   – 
Cost/income ratio   76.6   86.2   89.1   –   – 
B     alance sheet statistics (CHF million)         
Total assets   270,488   266,257   257,998   2   3 
Net loans   23,359   24,657   22,909   (5)   8 
Risk-weighted assets   77,872   82,218   84,862   (5)   (3) 
Risk-weighted assets (USD)   88,423   84,842   86,041   4   (1) 
Leverage exposure   319,339   332,019   312,655   (4)   6 
Leverage exposure (USD)   362,607   342,614   316,998   6   8 
N     umber of employees (full-time equivalents)         
Number of employees   17,560   17,050   15,590   3   9 
Investment Bank 95
   
Divisional results (continued)
        in      % change 
   2020   2019   2018   20 / 19   19 / 18 
N     et revenue detail (CHF million)         
Fixed income sales and trading   4,016   3,352   2,626   20   28 
Equity sales and trading   2,410   2,278   2,141   6   6 
Capital markets   2,353   1,860   2,244   27   (17) 
Advisory and other fees   603   596   937   1   (36) 
Other revenues 1  (284)   75   56   –   34 
Net revenues   9,098   8,161   8,004   11   2 
1 Other revenues include treasury funding costs and changes in the carrying value of certain investments.
Reconciliation of adjusted results
        Investment Bank 
in   2020   2019   2018 
A   djusted results (CHF million)       
Net revenues   9,098   8,161   8,004 
   Real estate (gains)/losses   0   (7)   0 
Adjusted net revenues   9,098   8,154   8,004 
Provision for credit losses   471   104   51 
Total operating expenses   6,972   7,031   7,135 
   Restructuring expenses   (47)   –   (353) 
   Major litigation provisions   (24)   0   (10) 
   Expenses related to real estate disposals   (41)   (76)   – 
Adjusted total operating expenses   6,860   6,955   6,772 
Income before taxes   1,655   1,026   818 
   Total adjustments   112   69   363 
Adjusted income before taxes   1,767   1,095   1,181 
Adjusted return on regulatory capital (%)   13.1   7.6   8.5 
Adjusted results are non-GAAP financial measures. Refer to “Reconciliation of adjusted results” in Credit Suisse for further information.
In 2020, operating conditions were impacted by unprecedented  2019 results
events, primarily driven by the global COVID-19 pandemic as well  In 2019, we reported income before taxes of CHF 1,026 mil-
as geopolitical and macroeconomic uncertainties related to the  lion and net revenues of CHF 8,161 million. Revenue increased 
UK’s withdrawal from the EU and the US elections. Uncertainty  2%, reflecting higher trading revenues, with particular strength 
due to the spread of COVID-19 led to severe market dislocations  in our GTS franchise, as we continued to focus on our institu-
including record levels of volatility, widening credit spreads and a  tional and wealth management clients, partially offset by lower 
collapse in energy prices. Major central banks and governments  revenues from capital markets and advisory and other fees. Fixed 
around the world responded by implementing unprecedented  income sales and trading revenues increased 28%, driven by 
monetary and fiscal policy stimulus measures, which resulted in  broad-based growth across all businesses, reflecting improved 
strong investor demand for yield with record debt and equity issu- operating conditions. Equity sales and trading revenues increased 
ance levels and resulted in significantly higher volumes and client  6%, reflecting higher prime services and stable equity derivatives 
activity in our trading businesses, in particular our GTS business.  revenues, partially offset by lower cash equities revenues due to 
However, the economic impact of the pandemic has had a nega- lower trading volumes across regions. Capital markets revenues 
tive impact on our credit exposures and may have an adverse  decreased 17%, reflecting a slowdown in leveraged finance activ-
impact on client sentiment and risk appetite going forward, which  ity across the market due to increased market volatility. Advi-
is likely to impact our results. sory revenues decreased 36%, mainly reflecting lower revenues 
> Refer to “COVID-19 pandemic and related regulatory measures” in Credit  from completed M&A transactions. Total operating expenses 
Suisse for further information. of CHF 7,031 million were stable compared to 2018, as higher 
compensation and benefits in 2019 were offset by restructuring 
expenses incurred in 2018.
96 Investment Bank
   
Capital and leverage metrics  Provision for credit losses
As of the end of 2020, risk-weighted assets were USD 88.4 bil- The Investment Bank recorded provision for credit losses of 
lion, an increase of USD 3.6 billion compared to 2019. The increase  CHF 471 million in 2020 compared to CHF 104 million in 2019, 
was driven by methodology and policy changes, reflecting the  driven by the application of the CECL methodology, primarily 
phase-in of certain Basel III revisions in credit risk and movements  due to sectors highly vulnerable to the COVID-19 pandemic, as 
in risk levels primarily in market and credit risk. Leverage exposure  well as negative developments in our corporate lending portfolio 
was USD 363 billion, an increase of USD 20.0 billion compared  across various industries, mainly in the mining, real estate and oil 
to 2019, reflecting increases in COVID-19 related buffers and  and gas sectors.
HQLA.
Total operating expenses
Compared to 2019, total operating expenses of CHF 6,972 mil-
2020 results details 
lion were stable in Swiss francs, but increased 6% in US dollars, 
reflecting increased compensation and benefits and higher gen-
Fixed income sales and trading eral and administrative and restructuring expenses. General and 
Fixed income sales and trading revenues of CHF 4,016 million  administrative expenses of CHF 2,409 million decreased 2%, 
increased 20% compared to 2019, reflecting higher revenues  mainly reflecting reduced travel and entertainment costs, lower 
across most businesses, driven by increased trading volumes and  allocated corporate function costs, and lower expenses related to 
client activity. Macro products revenues increased, due to signifi- real estate disposals, partially offset by increased revenue-related 
cantly improved performance in our rates and foreign exchange  costs from capital markets transactions and higher UK bank levy 
businesses. Global credit products revenues increased signifi- expenses. Compensation and benefits of CHF 3,934 million were 
cantly, driven by higher investment grade and leveraged finance  stable, as increased discretionary compensation expenses were 
trading activity across regions. In addition, emerging markets  offset by reduced salary expenses. In 2020, we incurred restruc-
revenues increased, reflecting higher structured credit and trad- turing expenses of CHF 47 million.
ing client activity, particularly in Asia. In Swiss francs, securitized 
products revenues decreased slightly, while revenues in US dol-
lars increased, reflecting higher agency trading revenues partially 
2019 results details
offset by lower non-agency trading activity.
Equity sales and trading
Equity sales and trading revenues of CHF 2,410 million increased  Fixed income sales and trading
6% compared to 2019, reflecting higher equity derivatives and  Fixed income sales and trading revenues of CHF 3,352 million 
cash equities revenues. Equity derivatives revenues increased,  increased 28% compared to 2018, reflecting higher revenue 
driven by higher client activity in corporate and flow equity deriva- growth across all businesses due to improved operating condi-
tives. Cash equities revenues increased due to higher trading  tions. Securitized products revenues increased, despite a signifi-
and client activity across regions. In Swiss francs, prime services  cant gain in 2018 from the sale of an investment acquired in the 
revenues decreased, while revenues in US dollars were stable, as  normal course of business. Securitized products results reflected 
higher client financing activity across regions was offset by lower  higher client activity across agency trading and our asset finance 
commissions in listed derivatives.  business, partially offset by reduced non-agency trading rev-
enues. Global credit products revenues increased significantly, 
Capital markets driven by higher investment grade trading activity, due to our 
Capital markets revenues of CHF 2,353 million increased 27%  investments in the franchise, and higher leveraged finance trading 
compared to 2019, reflecting strong client activity across equity  activity across regions. Emerging markets revenues increased, 
and debt capital markets, driven by increased issuance activity.  reflecting higher financing and trading activity across regions. In 
Equity capital markets revenues increased significantly, driven by  addition, macro products revenues increased, reflecting improved 
higher initial public offering (IPO) issuances and follow-on activ- rates trading activity, partially offset by lower foreign exchange 
ity. In addition, debt capital markets revenues increased, driven  revenues.
by higher investment grade issuance activity reflecting favorable 
market conditions including a continued low interest rate environ- Equity sales and trading
ment partially offset by lower leveraged finance activity. Equity sales and trading revenues of CHF 2,278 million increased 
6% compared to 2018, reflecting higher prime services and 
Advisory and other fees higher equity derivatives revenues, partially offset by lower cash 
Revenues from advisory and other fees of CHF 603 million were  equities revenues. Prime services revenues increased, reflecting 
stable compared to 2019, while revenues in US dollars increased  higher client financing activity and improved commissions in listed 
7%, driven by higher revenues from completed M&A transactions. derivatives across regions. Equity derivatives revenues increased, 
reflecting higher client activity in structured equity derivatives, 
partially offset by reduced flow derivatives revenues. These 
Investment Bank 97
   
increases were partially offset by lower cash equities revenues  Provision for credit losses
due to lower trading volumes across regions. The Investment Bank recorded provision for credit losses of 
CHF 104 million in 2019 compared to CHF 51 million in 2018. 
Capital markets The increase in provision for credit losses was mainly driven by 
Capital markets revenues of CHF 1,860 million decreased 17%  adverse developments on a single lending counterparty and a loss 
compared to 2018, reflecting lower debt issuance activity due  on the sale of non-core loans in our corporate lending portfolio. 
to higher market volatility and stable equity capital markets rev-
enues. Debt capital markets revenues decreased, primarily driven  Total operating expenses
by lower leveraged finance and derivatives financing revenues.  Compared to 2018, total operating expenses of CHF 7,031 mil-
Equity capital markets revenues were stable, as higher revenues  lion were stable, as higher compensation and benefits in 2019 
from convertible transactions were offset by lower IPO issuances  were offset by restructuring expenses incurred in 2018. Com-
and follow-on activity. pensation and benefits increased 5%, reflecting higher salary 
expenses and higher deferred compensation expenses from 
Advisory and other fees prior-year awards. General and administrative expenses increased 
Revenues from advisory and other fees of CHF 596 million  slightly, reflecting CHF 76 million of expenses related to real 
decreased 36% compared to 2018, primarily driven by lower rev- estate disposals and increased professional services fees, par-
enues from completed M&A transactions. tially offset by lower allocated corporate function costs.
Global capital markets and advisory fees
        in      % change 
   2020   2019   2018   20 / 19   19 / 18 
G     lobal capital markets and advisory fees (USD million)         
Debt capital markets   1,356   1,203   1,448   13   (17) 
Equity capital markets   1,192   570   690   109   (17) 
Total capital markets   2,548   1,773   2,138   44   (17) 
Advisory and other fees   800   752   1,099  6    (32) 
Global capital markets and advisory fees   3,348   2,525   3,237   33   (22) 
The Group’s global capital markets and advisory business operates across the Investment Bank, Asia Pacific and Swiss Universal Bank. In order to reflect the global performance and 
capabilities of this business and for enhanced comparability versus its peers, the table above aggregates total capital markets and advisory fees for the Group into a single metric in US dol-
lar terms.
98 Investment Bank
   
Corporate Center
In 2020, we reported a loss before taxes of CHF 2,172 million compared 
to a loss of CHF 1,866 million in 2019.
Corporate Center composition
not linked to the underlying portfolio, such as legacy funding 
costs, legacy litigation provisions, a specific client compliance 
Corporate Center includes parent company operations such as  function and noncontrolling interests without significant economic 
Group financing, expenses for projects sponsored by the Group,  interest, which were previously part of the Strategic Resolution 
including costs associated with the evolution of our legal entity  Unit, are recorded in the Corporate Center and are not reflected 
structure to meet developing and future regulatory requirements,  in the Asset Resolution Unit. Prior periods have not been 
and certain other expenses and revenues that have not been  restated. Information about the Strategic Resolution Unit can be 
allocated to the segments. Corporate Center further includes  found in our previous Annual Reports.
consolidation and elimination adjustments required to eliminate  > Refer to credit-suisse.com/annualreporting for prior year annual reports.
intercompany revenues and expenses.
Other revenues primarily include required elimination adjust-
Treasury results include the impact of volatility in the valuations  ments associated with trading in own shares, treasury commis-
of certain central funding transactions such as structured notes  sions charged to divisions, the cost of certain hedging transac-
issuances and swap transactions. Treasury results also include  tions executed in connection with the Group’s RWA and valuation 
additional interest charges from transfer pricing to align funding  hedging impacts from long-dated legacy deferred compensation 
costs to assets held in the Corporate Center and legacy funding  and retirement programs mainly relating to former employees.
costs.
Compensation and benefits include fair value adjustments on cer-
The Asset Resolution Unit includes the residual portfolio of the  tain deferred compensation plans not allocated to the segments 
Strategic Resolution Unit, which ceased to exist as a separate  and fair value adjustments on certain other long-dated legacy 
division of the Group at the beginning of 2019. The Asset Resolu- deferred compensation and retirement programs mainly relating to 
tion Unit is separately presented within our Corporate Center dis- former employees.
closures, including related asset funding costs. Certain activities 
Corporate Center results
        in / end of      % change 
   2020   2019   2018   20 / 19   19 / 18 
S     tatements of operations (CHF million)         
Treasury results   (356)   (501)   25   (29)   – 
Asset Resolution Unit   (178)   (144)   –   24   – 
Other   218   218   77   0   183 
Net revenues   (316)   (427)   102   (26)   – 
Provision for credit losses   9   7   1   29   – 
Compensation and benefits   352   489   147   (28)   233 
General and administrative expenses   1,407   875   202   61   333 
Commission expenses   81   68   51   19   33 
Restructuring expenses   7   –   (1)   –   – 
Total other operating expenses   1,495   943   252   59   274 
Total operating expenses   1,847   1,432   399   29   259 
Income/(loss) before taxes   (2,172)   (1,866)   (298)   16   – 
   of which Asset Resolution Unit   (337)   (383)   –   (12)   – 
B     alance sheet statistics (CHF million)         
Total assets   111,307   106,213   93,369   5   14 
Risk-weighted assets   46,335   52,370   30,239   (12)   73 
Leverage exposure   6,686 1   113,002   94,094   (94)   20 
The Asset Resolution Unit includes the residual portfolio of the Strategic Resolution Unit, which ceased to exist as a separate division of the Group at the beginning of 2019. The Asset 
Resolution Unit is separately presented within our Corporate Center disclosures, including related asset funding costs.
1 As of the end of 2020 leverage exposure excludes CHF 110,677 million of central bank reserves, after adjusting for the dividend paid in 2020.
Corporate Center 99
   
Reconciliation of adjusted results
        Corporate Center 
in   2020   2019   2018 
A   djusted results (CHF million)       
Net revenues   (316)   (427)   102 
   Real estate (gains)/losses   0   24   (4) 
   (Gains)/losses on business sales   0   2   21 
Adjusted net revenues   (316)   (401)   119 
Provision for credit losses   9   7   1 
Total operating expenses   1,847   1,432   399 
   Restructuring expenses   (7)   –   1 
   Major litigation provisions   (930)   (416)   (1) 
   Expenses related to real estate disposals   0   1   – 
Adjusted total operating expenses   910   1,017   399 
Loss before taxes   (2,172)   (1,866)   (298) 
   Total adjustments   937   441   17 
Adjusted income/(loss) before taxes   (1,235)   (1,425)   (281) 
Adjusted results are non-GAAP financial measures. Refer to “Reconciliation of adjusted results” in Credit Suisse for further information.
Results summary
decrease of CHF 106.3 billion compared to the end of 2019, pri-
marily reflecting the temporary exclusion of central bank reserves 
2020 results  from the leverage exposure in 2020, as permitted by FINMA.
In 2020, we reported a loss before taxes of CHF 2,172 million  > Refer to “COVID-19 pandemic and related regulatory measures” in Credit 
compared to a loss of CHF 1,866 million in 2019. We reported  Suisse for further information on the temporary exclusion in 2020.
negative net revenues of CHF 316 million in 2020, primarily driven 
by negative treasury results and the Asset Resolution Unit. Total 
2020 Results details
operating expenses of CHF 1,847 million increased 29% com-
pared to 2019, mainly reflecting higher general and administrative 
expenses, primarily driven by increased legacy litigation provisions  Net revenues
of CHF 996 million in 2020, mainly in connection with mort- In 2020, we reported negative net revenues of CHF 316 million 
gage-related matters, partially offset by lower compensation and  compared to CHF 427 million in 2019.
benefits.
Negative treasury results of CHF 356 million in 2020 reflected 
2019 results  losses of CHF 234 million with respect to structured notes volatil-
In 2019, we reported a loss before taxes of CHF 1,866 million  ity, negative revenues of CHF 147 million relating to funding activi-
compared to a loss of CHF 298 million in 2018. We reported nega- ties, excluding Asset Resolution Unit-related asset funding costs, 
tive net revenues of CHF 427 million in 2019, driven by negative  losses of CHF 50 million relating to hedging volatility and losses 
treasury results and negative net revenues related to the Asset  of CHF 34 million on fair-valued money market instruments. 
Resolution Unit, partially offset by other revenues. Total operat- Negative revenues and losses were partially offset by gains of 
ing expenses of CHF 1,432 million increased 259% compared  CHF 107 million relating to fair value option volatility on own debt.
to 2018, primarily reflecting higher general and administra-
tive expenses, driven by increased legacy litigation provisions of  In the Asset Resolution Unit, we reported negative net revenues of 
CHF 465 million in 2019, mainly in connection with mortgage- CHF 178 million in 2020 compared to CHF 144 million in 2019. 
related matters, partially offset by lower compensation and  The movement was primarily driven by lower revenues from portfo-
benefits. lio assets.
Capital and leverage metrics Other revenues of CHF 218 million were stable compared to 2019, 
As of the end of 2020, we reported RWA of CHF 46.3 billion, a  as the elimination of losses from trading in own shares compared 
decrease of CHF 6.0 billion compared to the end of 2019, pri- to the elimination of gains in 2019 and a loss in 2019 related to a 
marily driven by movements in risk levels, mainly in credit risk,  real estate sale were offset by the negative valuation impact from 
primarily due to decreased advanced CVA and decreased deriva- long-dated legacy deferred compensation and retirement pro-
tives exposures, and a negative foreign exchange impact. This  grams and the valuation adjustment on a legacy exposure.
was partially offset by internal model and parameter updates 
in credit risk, driven by a regular data update pertaining to the  Provision for credit losses 
advanced CVA model, primarily due to increased market volatility.  In 2020, we recorded provision for credit losses of CHF 9 million 
Leverage exposure was CHF 6.7 billion as of the end of 2019, a  compared to provision for credit losses of CHF 7 million in 2019.
100 Corporate Center
   
Total operating expenses Other revenues of CHF 218 million increased CHF 141 million 
Total operating expenses of CHF 1,847 million increased 29%  compared to 2018, mainly reflecting a positive valuation impact 
compared to 2019, primarily reflecting higher general and admin- from long-dated legacy deferred compensation and retirement 
istrative expenses, partially offset by lower compensation and  programs, the impact from the gross recognition of sublease 
benefits. General and administrative expenses of CHF 1,407 mil- rental income under the new accounting standard for leases and 
lion increased 61%, primarily reflecting increased legacy litigation  a positive impact from a specific client compliance function. 
provisions of CHF 996 million, mainly in connection with mort-
gage-related matters. Compensation and benefits of CHF 352  Provision for credit losses
million decreased 28%, mainly reflecting decreases in deferred  In 2019, we recorded provision for credit losses of CHF 7 million 
compensation expenses from prior-year awards, discretionary  compared to CHF 1 million in 2018. Provision for credit losses in 
compensation expenses and compensation and benefits related  2019 was primarily related to the Asset Resolution Unit.
to the Asset Resolution Unit.
Total operating expenses
Total operating expenses of CHF 1,432 million increased 259% 
2019 Results details 
compared to 2018, primarily reflecting increases in general and 
administrative expenses and compensation and benefits. General 
Net revenues and administrative expenses of CHF 875 million increased 333%, 
In 2019, we reported negative net revenues of CHF 427 million  primarily reflecting increased litigation provisions of CHF 465 
compared to net revenues of CHF 102 million in 2018.  million, mainly in connection with mortgage-related matters pre-
viously recorded in the Strategic Resolution Unit, general and 
Negative treasury results of CHF 501 million in 2019 reflected  administrative expenses related to the Asset Resolution Unit and 
losses of CHF 460 million with respect to structured notes vola- the impact from the gross recognition of sublease rental income 
tility, primarily related to interest rate movements, and negative  under the new accounting standard for leases. Compensation and 
revenues of CHF 258 million relating to funding activities, excluding  benefits of CHF 489 million increased 233%, primarily reflecting 
Asset Resolution Unit-related asset funding costs. Negative rev- compensation and benefits related to the Asset Resolution Unit, 
enues and losses were partially offset by gains of CHF 109 mil- higher deferred compensation expenses from prior-year awards 
lion relating to fair value option volatility on own debt and gains of  and higher expenses for long-dated legacy deferred compensa-
CHF 100 million relating to hedging volatility. tion and retirement programs.
In the Asset Resolution Unit, we reported negative net revenues of 
CHF 144 million in 2019.
Expense allocation to divisions
        in     % change 
   2020   2019   2018   20 / 19   19 / 18 
E     xpense allocation to divisions (CHF million)         
Compensation and benefits   3,359   3,454   3,162   (3)   9 
General and administrative expenses   3,193   2,879   2,283   11   26 
Commission expenses   81   68   51   19   33 
Restructuring expenses   37   –   374   –   – 
Total other operating expenses   3,311   2,947   2,708   12   9 
Total operating expenses before allocations to divisions   6,670   6,401   5,870   4   9 
Net allocation to divisions   4,823   4,969   5,471   (3)   (9) 
   of which Swiss Universal Bank   1,032   1,063   1,091   (3)   (3) 
   of which International Wealth Management   972   976   999   0   (2) 
   of which Asia Pacific   664   669   661   (1)   1 
   of which Investment Bank   2,155   2,261   2,459   (5)   (8) 
   of which Strategic Resolution Unit 1  –   –   261   –   – 
Total operating expenses   1,847   1,432   399   29   259 
Corporate services and business support, including in finance, operations, human resources, legal, compliance, risk management and IT, are provided by corporate functions, and the 
related costs are allocated to the segments and the Corporate Center based on their requirements and other relevant measures.
1 Beginning in 2019, the Strategic Resolution Unit ceased to exist as a separate division of the Group.
Corporate Center 101
   
Asset Resolution Unit
      in / end of   % change 
   2020   2019   20 / 19 
Statements of operations (CHF million)      
Revenues from portfolio assets   39   84   (54) 
Asset funding costs   (217)   (228)   (5) 
Net revenues   (178)   (144)   24 
Provision for credit losses   (4)   5   – 
Compensation and benefits   90   131   (31) 
General and administrative expenses   68   95   (28) 
Commission expenses   5   8   (38) 
Total other operating expenses   73   103   (29) 
Total operating expenses   163   234   (30) 
Income/(loss) before taxes   (337)   (383)   (12) 
Balance sheet statistics (CHF million)      
Total assets   12,560   12,668   (1) 
Risk-weighted assets (USD) 1  9,930   10,750   (8) 
Leverage exposure (USD)   20,532   20,719   (1) 
1 Risk-weighted assets excluding operational risk were USD 8,963 million and USD 9,043 million as of the end of 2020 and 2019, respectively.
102 Corporate Center
   
Assets under management
As of the end of 2020, assets under management were CHF 1,511.9 
billion, stable compared to the end of 2019, with net new assets of 
CHF 42.0 billion.
Assets under management
of International Wealth Management for other businesses are 
reported in each applicable business and eliminated at the Group 
Assets under management comprise assets that are placed with  level. Advisory assets include assets placed with us where the cli-
us for investment purposes and include discretionary and advi- ent is provided access to investment advice but retains discretion 
sory counterparty assets. Discretionary assets are assets for  over investment decisions.
which the client fully transfers the discretionary power to a Credit 
Suisse entity with a management mandate. Discretionary assets  Assets under management and net new assets include assets 
are reported in the business in which the advice is provided as  managed by consolidated entities, joint ventures and strategic 
well as in the business in which the investment decisions take  participations. Assets from joint ventures and participations are 
place. Assets managed by the Asset Management business  counted in proportion to our share in the respective entity.
Assets under management and client assets
        end of      % change 
   2020   2019   2018   20 / 19   19 / 18 
A     ssets under management (CHF billion)         
Swiss Universal Bank – Private Clients   208.6   217.6   198.0   (4.1)   9.9 
Swiss Universal Bank – Corporate & Institutional Clients   462.6   436.4   348.7   6.0   25.2 
International Wealth Management – Private Banking   365.4   370.0   357.5   (1.2)   3.5 
International Wealth Management – Asset Management   440.3   437.9   388.7   0.5   12.7 
Asia Pacific   221.3   220.0   199.3   0.6   10.4 
Strategic Resolution Unit 1  –   –   0.5   –   – 
Assets managed across businesses 2  (186.3)   (174.7)   (147.8)   6.6   18.2 
Assets under management   1,511.9   1,507.2   1,344.9   0.3   12.1 
   of which discretionary assets   483.0   489.7   442.9   (1.4)   10.6 
   of which advisory assets   1,028.9   1,017.5   902.0   1.1   12.8 
C     lient assets (CHF billion) 3        
Swiss Universal Bank – Private Clients   262.5   260.4   231.2   0.8   12.6 
Swiss Universal Bank – Corporate & Institutional Clients   562.2   534.4   454.5   5.2   17.6 
International Wealth Management – Private Banking   465.5   474.0   430.5   (1.8)   10.1 
International Wealth Management – Asset Management   440.3   437.9   388.7   0.5   12.7 
Asia Pacific   315.4   275.0   243.0   14.7   13.2 
Strategic Resolution Unit 1  –   –   2.4   –   – 
Assets managed across businesses 2  (186.3)   (174.7)   (147.7)   6.6   18.3 
Client assets   1,859.6   1,807.0   1,602.6   2.9   12.8 
1 Beginning in 2019, the Strategic Resolution Unit ceased to exist as a separate division of the Group. The residual assets under management were either transferred to other divisions or 
no longer qualify as assets under management.
2 Represents assets managed by Asset Management within International Wealth Management for the other businesses.
3 Client assets is a broader measure than assets under management as it includes transactional accounts and assets under custody (assets held solely for transaction-related or safekeep-
ing/custody purposes) and assets of corporate clients and public institutions used primarily for cash management or transaction-related purposes.
Assets under management 103
   
Net new assets
Management mainly reflected inflows from both emerging mar-
kets and Western Europe. Net new assets of CHF 15.5 billion in 
Net new assets include individual cash payments, delivery  the Asset Management business of International Wealth Manage-
of securities and cash flows resulting from loan increases or  ment mainly reflected inflows from traditional investments. Net 
repayments. new assets of CHF 13.7 billion in the Corporate & Institutional 
Clients business of Swiss Universal Bank mainly reflected inflows 
Interest and dividend income credited to clients and commis- from the pension business. Net new assets of CHF 8.6 billion in 
sions, interest and fees charged for banking services as well  Asia Pacific mainly reflected inflows from Southeast Asia, Austra-
as changes in assets under management due to currency and  lia, Japan and Greater China. These inflows were partially offset 
market volatility are not taken into account when calculating net  by net asset outflows of CHF 5.9 billion in the Private Clients 
new assets. Any such changes are not directly related to the  business of Swiss Universal Bank, mainly reflecting outflows in 
Group’s success in acquiring assets under management. Similarly  the UHNW client segment, driven by a single outflow in the first 
structural effects mainly relate to asset inflows and outflows due  quarter of 2020.
to acquisition or divestiture, exit from businesses or markets or 
exits due to new regulatory requirements and are not taken into  2019 results
account when calculating net new assets. The Group reviews rel- As of the end of 2019, assets under management were 
evant policies regarding client assets on a regular basis.  CHF 1,507.2 billion, an increase of CHF 162.3 billion compared 
to the end of 2018. The increase was driven by favorable market 
movements and net new assets of CHF 79.3 billion, partially off-
Results summary
set by structural effects and unfavorable foreign exchange-related 
movements.
2020 results 
As of the end of 2020, assets under management were  Net new assets of CHF 79.3 billion mainly reflected inflows 
CHF 1,511.9 billion, an increase of CHF 4.7 billion compared to  across the following businesses. Net new assets of CHF 45.3 
the end of 2019. The increase was driven by favorable mar- billion in the Corporate & Institutional Clients business of Swiss 
ket movements and net new assets of CHF 42.0 billion, partially  Universal Bank reflected strong inflows from the pension busi-
offset by unfavorable foreign exchange-related movements and  ness. Net new assets of CHF 21.5 billion in the Asset Man-
structural effects. Structural effects included CHF 14.8 billion in  agement business of International Wealth Management mainly 
the Asset Management business of International Wealth Manage- reflected inflows from traditional and alternative investments. Net 
ment relating to the sale of Wincasa AG in 2012 following the  new assets of CHF 11.0 billion in the Private Banking business of 
conclusion in 2020 of a transition period regarding the related  International Wealth Management mainly reflected inflows from 
assets under management. emerging markets. Net new assets of CHF 8.7 billion in Asia 
Pacific reflected inflows across most of the markets in this region.
Net new assets of CHF 42.0 billion mainly reflected inflows  > Refer to “Swiss Universal Bank”, “International Wealth Management” and “Asia 
across the following businesses. Net new assets of CHF 16.7  Pacific” and “Note 39 – Assets under management” in VI – Consolidated finan-
cial statements – Credit Suisse Group for further information.
billion in the Private Banking business of International Wealth 
104 Assets under management
   
Growth in assets under management
in   2020   2019   2018 
G   rowth in assets under management (CHF billion)       
Net new assets   42.0   79.3   53.7 
   of which Swiss Universal Bank – Private Clients   (5.9)   3.4   3.0 
   of which Swiss Universal Bank – Corporate & Institutional Clients   13.7   45.3   8.6 
   of which International Wealth Management – Private Banking   16.7   11.0   14.2 
   of which International Wealth Management – Asset Management 1  15.5   21.5   22.2 
   of which Asia Pacific   8.6   8.7   14.4 
   of which Strategic Resolution Unit 2  –   –   (0.3) 
   of which assets managed across businesses 3  (6.6)   (10.6)   (8.4) 
Other effects   (37.3)   83.0   (84.9) 
   of which Swiss Universal Bank – Private Clients   (3.1)   16.2   (13.3) 
   of which Swiss Universal Bank – Corporate & Institutional Clients   12.5   42.4   (14.6) 
   of which International Wealth Management – Private Banking   (21.3)   1.5   (23.6) 
   of which International Wealth Management – Asset Management   (13.1) 4   27.7   (19.1) 
   of which Asia Pacific   (7.3)   12.0   (11.9) 
   of which Strategic Resolution Unit 2  –   (0.5)   (4.2) 
   of which assets managed across businesses 3  (5.0)   (16.3)   1.8 
Growth in assets under management   4.7   162.3   (31.2) 
   of which Swiss Universal Bank – Private Clients   (9.0)   19.6   (10.3) 
   of which Swiss Universal Bank – Corporate & Institutional Clients   26.2   87.7   (6.0) 
   of which International Wealth Management – Private Banking   (4.6)   12.5   (9.4) 
   of which International Wealth Management – Asset Management 1  2.4   49.2   3.1 
   of which Asia Pacific   1.3   20.7   2.5 
   of which Strategic Resolution Unit 2  –   (0.5)   (4.5) 
   of which assets managed across businesses 3  (11.6)   (26.9)   (6.6) 
 G  rowth in assets under management (%)       
Net new assets   2.8   5.9   3.9 
   of which Swiss Universal Bank – Private Clients   (2.7)   1.7   1.4 
   of which Swiss Universal Bank – Corporate & Institutional Clients   3.1   13.0   2.4 
   of which International Wealth Management – Private Banking   4.5   3.1   3.9 
   of which International Wealth Management – Asset Management 1  3.5   5.5   5.8 
   of which Asia Pacific   3.9   4.4   7.3 
   of which Strategic Resolution Unit 2  –   –   (6.0) 
   of which assets managed across businesses 3  3.8   7.2   5.9 
Other effects   (2.5)   6.2   (6.2) 
   of which Swiss Universal Bank – Private Clients   (1.4)   8.2   (6.3) 
   of which Swiss Universal Bank – Corporate & Institutional Clients   2.9   12.2   (4.1) 
   of which International Wealth Management – Private Banking   (5.7)   0.4   (6.5) 
   of which International Wealth Management – Asset Management   (3.0)   7.2   (5.0) 
   of which Asia Pacific   (3.3)   6.0   (6.0) 
   of which Strategic Resolution Unit 2  –   (100.0)   (84.0) 
   of which assets managed across businesses 3  2.8   11.0   (1.2) 
Growth in assets under management   0.3   12.1   (2.3) 
   of which Swiss Universal Bank – Private Clients   (4.1)   9.9   (4.9) 
   of which Swiss Universal Bank – Corporate & Institutional Clients   6.0   25.2   (1.7) 
   of which International Wealth Management – Private Banking   (1.2)   3.5   (2.6) 
   of which International Wealth Management – Asset Management 1  0.5   12.7   0.8 
   of which Asia Pacific   0.6   10.4   1.3 
   of which Strategic Resolution Unit 2  –   (100.0)   (90.0) 
   of which assets managed across businesses 3  6.6   18.2   4.7 
1 Includes outflows for private equity assets reflecting realizations at cost and unfunded commitments on which a fee is no longer earned.
2 Beginning in 2019, the Strategic Resolution Unit ceased to exist as a separate division of the Group. The residual assets under management were either transferred to other divisions or 
no longer qualify as assets under management.
3 Represents assets managed by Asset Management within International Wealth Management for the other businesses.
4 Includes CHF 14.8 billion relating to the sale of Wincasa AG in 2012 following the conclusion in 2020 of a transition period regarding the related assets under management.
Assets under management 105
   
Critical accounting estimates
In order to prepare the consolidated financial statements in accor- be assessed for consolidation, compelling the primary beneficiary 
dance with US GAAP, management is required to make certain  to consolidate the VIE. The primary beneficiary is the party that 
accounting estimates to ascertain the value of assets and liabili- has the power to direct the activities that most significantly affect 
ties. These estimates are based upon judgment and the informa- the economics of the VIE and has the right to receive benefits or 
tion available at the time, and actual results may differ materially  the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could be poten-
from these estimates. Management believes that the estimates  tially significant to the VIE. We consolidate all VIEs for which 
and assumptions used in the preparation of the consolidated  we are the primary beneficiary. Application of the requirements 
financial statements are reasonable and consistently applied. for consolidation of VIEs may require the exercise of significant 
judgment.
We believe that the critical accounting estimates discussed below  > Refer to “Note 1 – Summary of significant accounting policies” and “Note 35 – 
involve the most complex judgments and assessments. Transfers of financial assets and variable interest entities” in VI – Consolidated 
>  financial statements – Credit Suisse Group for further information on VIEs.
Refer to “Note 1 – Summary of significant accounting policies” and “Note 2 
– Recently issued accounting standards” in VI – Consolidated financial state-
ments – Credit Suisse Group for further information on significant accounting 
policies and new accounting pronouncements. For financial information relat- Contingencies and loss 
ing to the Bank, refer to the corresponding notes in the consolidated financial 
statements of the Bank. provisions
A contingency is an existing condition that involves a degree of 
Fair value
uncertainty that will ultimately be resolved upon the occurrence or 
non-occurrence of future events.
A significant portion of our financial instruments is carried at fair 
value. The fair value of the majority of these financial instruments  Litigation contingencies
is based on quoted prices in active markets or observable inputs. We are involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and arbitra-
tion proceedings concerning matters arising in connection with 
In addition, we hold financial instruments for which no prices are  the conduct of our businesses. Some of these proceedings have 
available and which have few or no observable inputs. For these  been brought on behalf of various classes of claimants and seek 
instruments, the determination of fair value requires subjec- damages of material and/or indeterminate amounts. We accrue 
tive assessment and judgment, depending on liquidity, pricing  loss contingency litigation provisions and take a charge to income 
assumptions, the current economic and competitive environment  in connection with certain proceedings when losses, additional 
and the risks affecting the specific instrument. In such circum- losses or ranges of loss are probable and reasonably estimable. 
stances, valuation is determined based on management’s own  We also accrue litigation provisions for the estimated fees and 
judgments about the assumptions that market participants would  expenses of external lawyers and other service providers in rela-
use in pricing the asset or liability, including assumptions about  tion to such proceedings, including in cases for which we have 
risk. These instruments include certain OTC derivatives includ- not accrued a loss contingency provision. We accrue these fee 
ing interest rate, foreign exchange, equity and credit derivatives,  and expense litigation provisions and take a charge to income in 
certain corporate equity-linked securities, mortgage-related  connection therewith when such fees and expenses are probable 
securities, private equity investments and certain loans and credit  and reasonably estimable. We review our legal proceedings each 
products, including leveraged finance, certain syndicated loans,  quarter to determine the adequacy of our litigation provisions and 
certain high yield bonds and life finance instruments. may increase or release provisions based on management’s judg-
ment and the advice of counsel. The establishment of additional 
Control processes are applied to ensure that the fair values of the  provisions or releases of litigation provisions may be necessary in 
financial instruments reported in the consolidated financial state- the future as developments in such proceedings warrant.
ments, including those derived from pricing models, are appropri-
ate and determined on a reasonable basis.  It is inherently difficult to determine whether a loss is probable or 
> Refer to “Note 36 – Financial instruments” in VI – Consolidated financial state- even reasonably possible or to estimate the amount of any loss or 
ments – Credit Suisse Group for further information. loss range for many of our legal proceedings. Estimates, by their 
nature, are based on judgment and currently available informa-
tion and involve a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, 
Variable interest entities
the type and nature of the proceeding, the progress of the matter, 
the advice of counsel, our defenses and our experience in similar 
As a normal part of our business, we engage in various transac- matters, as well as our assessment of matters, including settle-
tions, which include entities that are considered variable interest  ments, involving other defendants in similar or related cases or 
entities (VIEs). VIEs are special purpose entities that typically  proceedings. Factual and legal determinations, many of which are 
either lack sufficient equity to finance their activities without addi- complex, must be made before a loss, additional losses or ranges 
tional subordinated financial support or are structured such that  of loss can be reasonably estimated for any proceeding. We do 
the holders of the voting rights do not substantively participate in  not believe that we can estimate an aggregate range of reason-
the gains and losses of the entity. Such entities are required to  ably possible losses for certain of our proceedings because of 
106 Critical accounting estimates
   
their complexity, the novelty of some of the claims, the early  macroeconomic factors such as regional gross domestic product, 
stage of the proceedings, the limited amount of discovery that  unemployment rates and interest rates.
has occurred and/or other factors. Most matters pending against 
us seek damages of an indeterminate amount. While certain mat- For credit-impaired financial assets, the expected credit losses 
ters specify the damages claimed, such claimed amount may not  are measured using the present value of estimated future cash 
represent our reasonably possible losses. flows (unless a practical expedient for collateral-dependent finan-
> Refer to “Note 40 – Litigation” in VI – Consolidated financial statements –  cial assets is applied), and the impaired credit exposures and 
Credit Suisse Group for further information on legal proceedings. related allowances are revalued to reflect the passage of time.
Allowance and provision for credit losses Expected credit losses for individually impaired credit exposures 
On January 1, 2020, the Group adopted the new account- are measured by performing an in-depth review and analysis, 
ing standard ASU 2016-13 “Measurement of Credit Losses on  considering factors such as recovery and exit options as well as 
Financial Instruments” and its subsequent amendments, applying  collateral and the risk profile of the borrower. The individual mea-
a modified retrospective approach, which replaced the incurred  surement of expected credit losses for impaired financial assets 
credit loss model for recognizing credit losses. The new standard  also considers reasonable and supportable forward-looking infor-
requires the measurement of CECL for financial assets held at  mation that is relevant to the individual counterparty (idiosyncratic 
amortized cost as of the reporting date over the remaining con- information) and reflective of the macroeconomic environment 
tractual life (considering the effect of prepayments) based on  that the borrower is exposed to, apart from any historical loss 
historical experience, current conditions and reasonable and sup- information and current conditions. If there are different scenarios 
portable forward-looking information, including macroeconomic  relevant for the individual expected credit loss measurement, they 
scenarios. To address circumstances where in management’s  are considered on a probability-weighted basis.
judgment the CECL model outputs are overly sensitive to the 
effect of economic inputs that lie significantly outside of their his- The COVID-19 pandemic has had a significant impact on the 
torical range, model overlays are applied. global economy and has affected the Group’s business perfor-
> Refer to “Note 1 – Summary of significant accounting policies” and “Note  mance and credit loss estimates for the year 2020. We continue 
20 – Financial instruments measured at amortized cost and credit losses”  to closely monitor the COVID-19 pandemic and its effects on our 
in VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group for further 
operations and businesses.
information.
> 
Refer to “Risk Management” in III – Treasury, Risk, Balance sheet and Off-
Current expected credit loss balance sheet and “Note 20 – Financial instruments measured at amortized 
cost and credit losses” in VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit 
The measurement of expected credit losses across all catego-
Suisse Group for loan portfolio disclosures, valuation adjustment disclosures 
ries of financial assets held at amortized cost requires judgment,  and certain other information relevant to the evaluation of credit risk and credit 
the estimation of the amount, timing of future cash flows and  risk management.
collateral values when determining credit losses. The Group’s 
CECL calculations are outputs of complex statistical mod-
Goodwill impairment
els and expert judgment overlays with a number of underlying 
assumptions regarding the choice of variable inputs and their 
interdependencies. Under US GAAP, goodwill is not amortized, but is reviewed for 
potential impairment on an annual basis as of December 31 and 
For performing credit exposures, the model parameters are based  at any other time that events or circumstances indicate that the 
on internally and externally compiled data comprising both quanti- carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable.
tative and qualitative factors and are tailored to various categories 
and exposures. The CECL measurement has three main inputs:  For the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment, each reporting 
probability of default, loss given default and exposure at default.  unit is assessed individually. A reporting unit is an operating seg-
The estimation of these parameters include the expected macro- ment or one level below an operating segment, also referred to as 
economic environment, the contractual maturities of exposures,  a component. A component of an operating segment is deemed 
historical data considering portfolio-specific factors, differences in  to be a reporting unit if the component constitutes a business for 
product structure, collateral types, seniority of the claim, counter- which discrete financial information is available and management 
party industry and recovery costs of any collateral that is integral  regularly reviews the operating results of that component.
to the financial asset.
On July 30, 2020, the Group announced an updated strategy 
There is significant judgment involved in the estimation and appli- and related organizational changes, which included the intro-
cation of forward-looking information, including macroeconomic  duction of a new segment structure with an effective date of 
scenarios. The Group’s estimation of expected credit losses is  August 1, 2020. Under the prior structure, the reporting units 
based on a discounted estimate that considers future macro- were Swiss Universal Bank – Private Clients, Swiss Universal 
economic scenarios that are probability-weighted according to  Bank – Corporate & Institutional Banking, International Wealth 
the best estimate of their relative likelihood. This estimate is  Management – Private Banking, International Wealth Manage-
based on historical frequency, current trends and conditions and  ment – Asset Management, Asia Pacific – Wealth Management 
Critical accounting estimates 107
   
& Connected, Asia Pacific – Markets, Global Markets and Invest- (v) results of testing for recoverability of a significant asset group 
ment Banking & Capital Markets. As a result of the organiza- within a reporting unit; (vi) recognition of a goodwill impairment in 
tional changes, the Asia Pacific – Markets, Global Markets and  the financial statements of a subsidiary that is a component of a 
Investment Banking & Capital Markets reporting units were com- reporting unit; and (vii) a sustained decrease in share price (con-
bined into one new reporting unit named the Investment Bank.  sidered in both absolute terms and relative to peers).
The announcement of the strategy and organizational changes 
represented a triggering event for goodwill impairment testing  The carrying value of each reporting unit for the purpose of the 
purposes. goodwill impairment test is determined by considering the report-
ing units’ risk-weighted assets usage, leverage ratio exposure, 
The Group’s reporting units under the new structure are defined  deferred tax assets, goodwill, intangible assets and other CET1 
as follows: Swiss Universal Bank – Private Clients, Swiss Univer- capital relevant adjustments. The residual value between the total 
sal Bank – Corporate & Institutional Clients, International Wealth  of these elements and the Group’s shareholders’ equity is allo-
Management – Private Banking, International Wealth Manage- cated to the reporting units on a pro-rata basis. As of Decem-
ment – Asset Management, Asia Pacific and the Investment  ber 31, 2020, this residual value was a credit of CHF 6,279 
Bank. million.
In accordance with US GAAP, the Group continually assesses  In estimating the fair value of its reporting units, the Group 
whether or not there has been a triggering event requiring a  applied a combination of the market approach and the income 
review of goodwill. approach. Under the market approach, consideration was given 
to price to projected earnings multiples or price to book value 
Under ASU 2011-08, “Testing Goodwill for Impairment”, a quali- multiples for similarly traded companies and prices paid in recent 
tative assessment is permitted to evaluate whether a report- transactions that have occurred in its industry or in related indus-
ing unit’s fair value is less than its carrying value. If on the basis  tries. Under the income approach, a discount rate was applied 
of the qualitative assessment it is more likely than not that the  that reflects the risk and uncertainty related to the reporting unit’s 
reporting unit’s fair value is higher than its carrying value, no  projected cash flows, which were determined from the Group’s 
quantitative goodwill impairment test is required. If on the basis  financial plan.
of the qualitative assessment it is more likely than not that the 
reporting unit’s fair value is lower than its carrying value, a quanti- In determining the estimated fair value, the Group relied upon its 
tative goodwill impairment test must be performed, by calculat- latest five-year financial plan, which included significant manage-
ing the fair value of the reporting unit and comparing that amount  ment assumptions and estimates based on its view of current and 
to its carrying value. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds  future economic conditions and regulatory changes.
its carrying value, there is no goodwill impairment. If the carrying 
value exceeds the fair value, there is a goodwill impairment. The  Estimates of the Group’s future earnings potential, and that of the 
goodwill impairment is calculated as the difference between the  reporting units, involve considerable judgment, including manage-
carrying value and the fair value of the reporting unit up to a max- ment’s view on future changes in market cycles, the regulatory 
imum of the goodwill amount recorded in that reporting unit. environment and the anti cipated result of the implementation of 
business strategies, competitive factors and assumptions con-
The qualitative assessment is intended to be a simplification of  cerning the retention of key employees. Adverse changes in the 
the annual impairment test and can be bypassed for any reporting  estimates and assumptions used to determine the fair value of the 
unit and any period to proceed directly to performing the quan- Group’s reporting units may result in a goodwill impairment in the 
titative goodwill impairment test. When bypassing the qualitative  future.
assessment in any period in accordance with the current practice 
of the Group, the preparation of a qualitative assessment can be  A goodwill impairment is defined as the amount by which a report-
resumed in any subsequent period. ing unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value. An impairment loss 
shall be recognized in an amount equal to the excess, limited to the 
Circumstances that could trigger an initial qualitative assessment  total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit.
of the goodwill impairment test include, but are not limited to: (i) 
macroeconomic conditions such as a deterioration in general eco- The Group determined in the first quarter of 2020 that a good-
nomic conditions or other developments in equity and credit mar- will triggering event occurred for its former Investment Banking & 
kets; (ii) industry and market considerations such as a deteriora- Capital Markets reporting unit. Based on its goodwill impairment 
tion in the environment in which the entity operates, an increased  analyses performed as of March 31, 2020, the Group concluded 
competitive environment, a decline in market-dependent multiples  that the estimated fair value for all of the reporting units with good-
or metrics (considered in both absolute terms and relative to  will exceeded their related carrying values and no impairments were 
peers), and regulatory or political developments; (iii) other rel- necessary as of March 31, 2020.
evant entity-specific events such as changes in management, 
key personnel or strategy; (iv) a more-likely-than-not expecta- The Group also determined in the second quarter of 2020 that 
tion of selling or disposing of all, or a portion, of a reporting unit;  a goodwill triggering event occurred for its former Asia Pacific 
108 Critical accounting estimates
   
– Markets, Global Markets and Investment Banking & Capital  Further judgment is required to determine the amount of benefit 
Markets reporting units. Goodwill has to be tested for impairment  eligible for recognition in the consolidated financial statements. 
before and immediately after a reorganization of reporting units.  > Refer to “Note 29 – Tax” in VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit 
Based on this goodwill impairment analysis, the Group concluded  Suisse Group for further information on income tax positions.
that there would be no impairment necessary for its Global Mar-
kets, Investment Banking & Capital Markets and Asia Pacific –  Deferred tax valuation allowances
Markets reporting units under the prior reporting structure as the  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the esti-
estimated fair value of these reporting units exceeded their related  mated future tax effects of net operating loss (NOL) carry-for-
carrying values by 11%, 13% and 6%, respectively. The good- wards and temporary differences between the carrying values of 
will allocated to these reporting units became more sensitive to an  existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases at the 
impairment because of higher implied costs of equity due to the  dates of the consolidated balance sheets.
greater economic uncertainty resulting from the COVID-19 pan-
demic. The Group concluded that no impairment was necessary for  The realization of deferred tax assets on temporary differences 
its new Investment Bank reporting unit as the estimated fair value  is dependent upon the generation of taxable income during the 
significantly exceeded its carrying value. periods in which those temporary differences become deduct-
ible. The realization of deferred tax assets on NOLs is dependent 
Based on its goodwill impairment analysis performed as of  upon the generation of taxable income during the periods prior 
December 31, 2020, the Group concluded that there was no  to their expiration, if applicable. Management regularly evalu-
impairment necessary for any of its reporting units as the esti- ates whether deferred tax assets will be realized. If management 
mated fair value of the reporting units significantly exceeded their  considers it more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred 
carrying values. tax asset will not be realized, a corresponding valuation allowance 
is established. In evaluating whether deferred tax assets will be 
The Group engaged the services of an independent valuation  realized, management considers both positive and negative evi-
specialist to assist in the valuation of the International Wealth  dence, including projected future taxable income, the reversal of 
Management – Asset Management, Asia Pacific and the Invest- deferred tax liabilities, which can be scheduled, and tax planning 
ment Bank reporting units as of December 31, 2020. The valua- strategies.
tions were performed using a combination of the market approach 
and income approach. This evaluation requires significant management judgment, pri-
marily with respect to projected taxable income. Future taxable 
The results of the impairment evaluation of each reporting unit’s  income can never be predicted with certainty. It is derived from 
goodwill would be significantly impacted by adverse changes in  budgets and strategic business plans but is dependent on numer-
the underlying parameters used in the valuation process. If actual  ous factors, some of which are beyond management’s control. 
outcomes or the future outlook adversely differ from manage- Substantial variance of actual results from estimated future tax-
ment’s best estimates of the key economic assumptions and  able profits, or changes in our estimate of future taxable profits 
associated cash flows applied in the valuation of the reporting  and potential restructurings, could lead to changes in deferred 
unit, we could potentially incur material impairment charges in the  tax assets being realizable, or considered realizable, and would 
future. require a corresponding adjustment to the valuation allowance.
The COVID-19 pandemic is still having a significant impact on  As part of its normal practice, management has conducted a 
the global economy and is likely to continue to affect the Group’s  detailed evaluation of its expected future results and has also 
business performance, including goodwill assessments, going  considered stress scenarios, the impact of the COVID-19 pan-
forward. demic and the withdrawal of the UK from the EU. This evalua-
> Refer to “Note 21 – Goodwill” in VI – Consolidated financial statements –  tion has indicated the expected future results that are likely to 
Credit Suisse Group for further information on goodwill. be earned in jurisdictions where the Group has significant gross 
deferred tax assets, such as Switzerland, the UK and the US. 
Management then compared those expected future results with 
Taxes
the applicable law governing utilization of deferred tax assets. 
Based on the expected future results in the Bank parent com-
Uncertainty of income tax positions pany and given that the Swiss tax law allows for a seven-year 
We follow the income tax guidance under US GAAP, which sets  carry-forward period for NOLs, a valuation allowance was 
out a consistent framework to determine the appropriate level of  recorded on the deferred tax assets of this entity. UK tax law 
tax reserves to maintain for uncertain income tax positions. allows for an unlimited carry-forward period for NOLs, and even 
though there are restrictions on the use of tax losses carried for-
Significant judgment is required in determining whether it is more  ward, these are not expected to have a material impact on the 
likely than not that an income tax position will be sustained upon  recoverability of the net deferred tax assets. US tax law allows 
examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litiga- for a 20-year carry-forward period for NOLs arising prior to 2017, 
tion processes, based on the technical merits of the position.  federal NOLs generated in the tax years 2018, 2019 or 2020 
Critical accounting estimates 109
   
can be carried back for five years and with no expiry limitations  We are required to estimate the expected long-term rate of return 
for NOLs arising in 2018 and subsequent years. on plan assets, which is then used to compute benefit costs 
> Refer to “Note 29 – Tax” in VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit  recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. Estimating 
Suisse Group for further information on deferred tax assets. future returns on plan assets is particularly subjective, as the esti-
mate requires an assessment of possible future market returns 
based on the plan asset mix. In calculating pension expense and 
Pension plans
in determining the expected long-term rate of return, we use the 
market-related value of assets. The assumptions used to deter-
The Group mine the benefit obligation as of the measurement date are also 
The Group covers pension requirements, in both Swiss and non- used to calculate the net periodic benefit costs for the 12-month 
Swiss locations, through various defined benefit pension plans  period following this date.
and defined contribution pension plans.
The expected weighted-average long-term rate of return used to 
Our funding policy with respect to these pension plans is consis- determine the expected return on plan assets as a component of 
tent with local government and tax requirements. the net periodic benefit costs in 2020 and 2019 was 2.10% and 
2.40%, respectively, for the Swiss plan and 2.37% and 3.00%, 
The Group accounts for the Group plan as a single-employer  respectively, for the international plans. In 2020, if the expected 
defined benefit pension plan and uses the projected unit credit  long-term rate of return had been increased/decreased one per-
actuarial method to determine the net periodic benefit costs,  centage point, net pension expense for the Swiss plan would have 
projected benefit obligation (PBO), accumulated benefit obliga- decreased/increased CHF 168 million and net pension expense 
tion (ABO) and the related amounts recognized in the consoli- for the international plans would have decreased/increased 
dated balance sheets. The calculation of the expense and liability  CHF 35 million.
associated with the defined benefit pension plans requires an 
extensive use of assumptions, which include the discount rate,  The discount rates used in determining the benefit obligation and 
expected return on plan assets and rate of future compensation  the pension expense are based on yield curves, constructed from 
increases. Management determines these assumptions based  high-quality corporate bonds currently available and observable 
upon currently available market and industry data and historical  in the market and are expected to be available during the period 
experience of the plans. Management also consults with an inde- to maturity of the pension benefits. In countries where there is 
pendent actuarial firm to assist in selecting appropriate assump- no deep market in high-quality corporate bonds with longer dura-
tions and valuing its related liabilities. Management regularly  tions, the best available market information, including government 
reviews the actuarial assumptions used to value and measure the  bond yields and risk premiums, is used to construct the yield 
defined benefit obligation on a periodic basis as required by US  curve. Credit Suisse uses the spot rate approach for determining 
GAAP. The actuarial assumptions that we use may differ materi- the benefit obligation and for service and interest cost compo-
ally from actual results due to changing market and economic  nents of the pension expense for future years. Under the spot 
conditions and specific experience of the plans (such as invest- rate approach, individual spot rates along the yield curve are 
ment management over or underperformance, higher or lower  applied to each expected future benefit payment, whereas under 
withdrawal rates and longer or shorter life spans of the partici- the previous methodology a single weighted-average discount 
pants). Any such differences could have a significant impact on  rate derived from the yield curve was applied.
the amount of pension expense recorded in future years.
For the Swiss plan, the weighted average discount rate for the 
The funded status of our defined benefit pension and other post- PBO decreased 0.05 percentage points, from 0.45% as of 
retirement defined benefit plans is recorded in the consolidated  December 31, 2019 to 0.40% as of December 31, 2020, mainly 
balance sheets. The impacts from re-measuring the funded  due to a decrease in Swiss bond market rates. The average 
status (reflected in actuarial gains or losses) and from amending  discount rate for the PBO for the international plans decreased 
the plan (reflected in prior service cost or credits) are recognized  0.71 percentage points, from 2.38% as of December 31, 2019 
in equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive  to 1.67% as of December 31, 2020, mainly due to a decrease 
income/(loss) (AOCI). in bond market rates. For the year ended December 31, 2020, a 
one percentage point decline in the discount rates for the Swiss 
The PBO of our total defined benefit pension plans included  plan would have resulted in an increase in the PBO of CHF 2,499 
CHF 498 million and CHF 551 million related to our assump- million and an increase in pension expense of CHF 81 million, 
tion for future salary increases as of December 31, 2020 and  and a one percentage point increase in discount rates would have 
2019. The ABO is defined as the PBO less the amount related  resulted in a decrease in the PBO of CHF 1,976 million and a 
to estimated future salary increases. The difference between  decrease in the pension expense of CHF 46 million. A one per-
the fair value of plan assets and the ABO was an overfunding of  centage point decline in discount rates for the international plans 
CHF 3,126 million for 2020, compared to CHF 3,148 million for  as of December 31, 2020 would have resulted in an increase in 
2019. the PBO of CHF 755 million and a decrease in pension expense 
of CHF 4 million, and a one percentage point increase in discount 
110 Critical accounting estimates
   
rates would have resulted in a decrease in the PBO of CHF 575  balance sheets. The actuarial gains and losses and prior service 
million and an increase in the pension expense of CHF 6 million. costs or credits are recognized in equity as a component of AOCI.
The interest rate on savings balances assumption for the Swiss  The Bank accounts for the Group plan on a defined contribution 
pension plan has been updated. In prior years, the interest rate  basis whereby it only recognizes the amounts required to be con-
on savings balances was set to follow the discount rate. Due to  tributed to the Group plan during the period as net periodic pen-
the higher actual interest rate on savings balances payments  sion expense and only recognizes a liability for any contributions 
over prior years, the interest rate on savings balances increased  due and unpaid. No other expense or balance sheet amounts 
0.80 percentage points, from 0.45% as of December 31, 2019  related to the Group plan are recognized by the Bank.
to 1.25% as of December 31, 2020. This resulted in an increase 
to the PBO of approximately CHF 450 million. For the year  The Bank covers pension requirements for its employees in inter-
ended December 31, 2020, a one percentage point decline in  national locations through participation in various pension plans, 
the interest rate on savings balances for the Swiss plan would  which are accounted for as single-employer defined benefit pen-
have resulted in a decrease in the PBO of CHF 482 million and  sion plans or defined contribution pension plans.
a one percentage point increase in interest rate on savings bal-
ances would have resulted in an increase in the PBO of CHF 535  In 2020 and 2019, the weighted-average expected long-term 
million. rate of return used to calculate the expected return on plan 
assets as a component of the net periodic benefit costs for the 
Actuarial gains and losses recognized in AOCI are amortized  international single-employer defined benefit pension plans was 
over the average remaining service period of active employees  2.37% and 3.00%, respectively. In 2020, if the expected long-
expected to receive benefits under the plan, which, as of Decem- term rate of return had been increased/decreased one percent-
ber 31, 2020, was approximately 10 years for the Swiss plan  age point, net pension expense would have decreased/increased 
and 3 to 20 years for the international plans. For plans where  CHF 35 million.
there are very few active members, actuarial gains and losses 
are amortized over the average remaining life expectancy of the  The discount rate used in determining the benefit obligation is 
inactive participants. Prior service cost recognized in AOCI are  based either on high-quality corporate bond rates or government 
amortized over the remaining service period of the employees  bond rates plus a premium in order to approximate high-quality 
affected by the plan amendment. The pre-tax expense associated  corporate bond rates. The average discount rate for the PBO for 
with the amortization of net actuarial losses and prior service cost  the international plans decreased 0.72 percentage points, from 
for defined benefit pension plans for the years ended Decem- 2.38% as of December 31, 2019 to 1.66% as of December 31, 
ber 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was CHF 181 million, CHF 158  2020. A one percentage point decline in the discount rate for the 
million and CHF 227 million, respectively. The impact from devia- international single-employer plans as of December 31, 2020 
tions between our actuarial assumptions and the actual develop- would have resulted in an increase in PBO of CHF 754 million 
ments of such parameters observed for our pension plans further  and a decrease in pension expense of CHF 4 million, and a one 
impacts the amount of net actuarial losses or gains recognized  percentage point increase in discount rates would have resulted 
in equity, resulting in a higher or lower amount of amortization  in a decrease in PBO of CHF 574 million and an increase in pen-
expense in periods after 2021. sion expense of CHF 6 million.
> 
Refer to “Note 32 – Pension and other post-retirement benefits” in VI – Con-
solidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group for further information. Actuarial gains and losses recognized in AOCI are amortized 
over the average remaining service period of active employees 
The Bank expected to receive benefits under the plan. For plans where 
The Bank covers pension requirements for its employees in Swit- there are very few active members, actuarial gains and losses 
zerland through participation in a defined benefit pension plan  are amortized over the average remaining life expectancy of the 
sponsored by the Group (Group plan). Various legal entities within  inactive participants. Prior service cost recognized in AOCI are 
the Group participate in the Group plan, which is set up as an  amortized over the remaining service period of the employees 
independent trust domiciled in Zurich. The Group accounts for  affected by the plan amendment. The pre-tax expense associated 
the Group plan as a single-employer defined benefit pension plan  with the amortization of recognized net actuarial losses and prior 
and uses the projected unit credit actuarial method to determine  service cost for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 
the net periodic pension expense, PBO, ABO and the related  2018 was CHF 14 million, CHF 20 million and CHF 47 million, 
amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets. The  respectively.
funded status of the Group plan is recorded in the consolidated 
Critical accounting estimates 111
   
[this page intentionally left blank]
112 Critical accounting estimates
   
  III – Treasury, Risk, 
Balance sheet and 
Off-balance sheet
Liquidity and funding management  114
Capital management  122
Risk management  139
Balance sheet and off-balance sheet  179
113
   
Liquidity and funding management
During 2020, we maintained a strong liquidity and funding position. The 
majority of our unsecured funding was generated from core customer 
deposits and long-term debt.
Liquidity management
Regulatory framework 
In response to regulatory reform, since 2015 we have primarily  BIS liquidity framework
focused our issuance strategy on offering long-term debt securi- The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) estab-
ties at the Group level for funding and capital purposes. Prior to  lished the Basel III international framework for liquidity risk mea-
that, securities for funding and capital purposes were primarily  surement, standards and monitoring. The Basel III framework 
issued by the Bank, our principal operating subsidiary and a US  includes a liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) and a net stable funding 
registrant, and recently we have begun to issue short duration  ratio (NSFR). Credit Suisse is subject to the Basel III frame-
securities at the Bank level for funding diversification. Our primary  work, as implemented in Switzerland, as well as Swiss legisla-
source of liquidity is funding through consolidated entities. Pro- tion and regulations for systemically important banks (Swiss 
ceeds from issuances are lent to operating subsidiaries and affili- Requirements).
ates on both a senior and subordinated basis, as needed; the lat-
ter typically to meet going and gone concern capital requirements  The LCR addresses liquidity risk over a 30-day period. The LCR 
and the former as desired by management to support business  aims to ensure that banks have unencumbered HQLA available 
initiatives and liquidity needs.  to meet short-term liquidity needs under a severe stress scenario. 
The LCR is comprised of two components, the value of HQLA 
Our liquidity and funding strategy is approved by the Capital Allo- in stressed conditions and the total net cash outflows calculated 
cation & Risk Management Committee (CARMC) and overseen  according to specified scenario parameters. Under the BCBS 
by the Board of Directors (Board). The implementation and exe- framework, the minimum required ratio of liquid assets over net 
cution of the liquidity and funding strategy is managed within the  cash outflows is 100%. 
division of the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) by Treasury and our 
global liquidity group. The global liquidity group was established  The NSFR establishes criteria for a minimum amount of stable 
in 2018 to centralize control of liability and collateral management  funding based on the liquidity of a bank’s on- and off-balance 
with the aim of optimizing our liquidity sourcing, funding costs and  sheet activities over a one-year horizon. The NSFR is a comple-
high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) portfolio on behalf of Treasury.  mentary measure to the LCR and is structured to ensure that 
Treasury ensures adherence to our funding policy and the global  illiquid assets are funded with an appropriate amount of stable 
liquidity group is focused on the efficient coordination of the  long-term funds. The NSFR is defined as the ratio of available 
short-term unsecured and secured funding desks. This approach  stable funding over the amount of required stable funding and, 
enhances our ability to manage potential liquidity and funding  once implemented by national regulators, should always be at 
risks and to promptly adjust our liquidity and funding levels to  least 100%.
meet stress situations. Our liquidity and funding profile is regularly 
reported to CARMC and the Board, who define our risk tolerance,  Swiss liquidity requirements
including liquidity risk, and set parameters for the balance sheet  The Swiss Federal Council adopted a liquidity ordinance (Liquid-
and funding usage of our businesses. The Board is responsible  ity Ordinance) that implements Basel III liquidity requirements 
for defining our overall risk tolerance in the form of a risk appetite  into Swiss law. Under the Liquidity Ordinance, systemically rel-
statement. evant banks like Credit Suisse are subject to a minimum LCR 
requirement of 100% at all times and the associated disclosure 
Our liquidity and funding profile reflects our strategy and risk  requirements. 
appetite and is driven by business activity levels and the overall  > Refer to credit-suisse.com/regulatorydisclosures for additional information.
operating environment. We have adapted our liquidity and fund-
ing profile to reflect lessons learned from the financial crisis, the  FINMA requires us to report the NSFR to FINMA on a monthly 
subsequent changes in our business strategy and regulatory  basis during an observation period that began in 2012. The 
developments. We have been an active participant in regulatory  reporting instructions are generally aligned with the final BCBS 
and industry forums to promote best practice standards on quan- NSFR requirements. Although originally planned for January 1, 
titative and qualitative liquidity management. Our internal liquidity  2018, the Federal Council had decided to postpone the introduc-
risk management framework is subject to review and monitor- tion of the NSFR as a minimum standard in Switzerland. On Sep-
ing by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority FINMA  tember 11, 2020, the Federal Council adopted an amendment 
(FINMA), other regulators and rating agencies. to the Liquidity Ordinance, implementing NSFR as a minimum 
114 Liquidity and funding management
   
standard beginning July 1, 2021, including the associated disclo- In the second quarter of 2014, we began allocating the major-
sure requirements. On November 12, 2020, FINMA published a  ity of the balance sheet usage related to our Treasury-managed 
partially revised “Liquidity risks – banks” Circular, which sets out  HQLA portfolio to the business divisions to allow for a more 
FINMA’s technical requirements and will also come into force on  efficient management of their business activities from an over-
July 1, 2021. all Group perspective with respect to LCR and Swiss leverage 
requirements.
Our liquidity principles and our liquidity risk management frame-
work as agreed with FINMA are in line with the Basel III liquidity  Our overall liquidity management framework allows us to run 
framework. stress analyses on our balance sheet and off-balance sheet posi-
tions, which include, but are not limited to, the following:
Liquidity risk management  p A multiple-notch downgrade in the Bank’s long-term debt 
credit ratings, which would require additional funding as a 
Our approach to liquidity risk management  result of certain contingent off-balance sheet obligations;
Our liquidity and funding policy is designed to ensure that fund- p Significant withdrawals from private banking client deposits;
ing is available to meet all obligations in times of stress, whether  p Potential cash outflows associated with the prime brokerage 
caused by market events or issues specific to Credit Suisse. We  business;
achieve this through a conservative asset/liability management  p Over-collateralization of available secured funding;
strategy aimed at maintaining long-term funding, including stable  p Limited availability of capital markets, certificates of deposit 
deposits, in excess of illiquid assets. To address short-term liquid- and commercial paper; 
ity stress, we maintain a liquidity pool, as described below, that  p Other money market access will be significantly reduced;
covers unexpected outflows in the event of severe market and  p A reduction in funding value of unencumbered assets;
idiosyncratic stress. Our liquidity risk parameters reflect various  p The inaccessibility of assets held by subsidiaries due to regula-
liquidity stress assumptions that we believe are conservative. We  tory, operational and other constraints;
manage our liquidity profile at a sufficient level such that, in the  p The possibility of providing non-contractual liquidity support in 
event we are unable to access unsecured funding, we expect to  times of market stress, including purchasing our unsecured debt;
have sufficient liquidity to sustain operations for a period of time  p Monitoring the concentration in sources of wholesale funding 
in excess of our minimum limit. This includes potential currency  and thus encourage funding diversification;
mismatches, which are not deemed to be a major risk but are  p Monitoring the composition and analysis of the unencumbered 
monitored and subject to limits, particularly in the significant cur- assets;
rencies of euro, Japanese yen, pound sterling, Swiss franc and  p Restricted availability of foreign currency swap markets; and
US dollar. p Other scenarios as deemed necessary from time to time.
Although compliance with a minimum NSFR is not yet required, 
we began using the NSFR in 2012 as one of our primary tools, in  Governance 
parallel with the internal liquidity barometer, and in 2014 the LCR,  Funding, liquidity, capital and our foreign exchange exposures are 
to monitor our structural liquidity position and plan funding.  managed centrally by Treasury. Oversight of these activities is 
provided by CARMC, a committee that includes the chief execu-
We use our internal liquidity barometer to manage liquidity to  tive officers (CEOs) of the Group and the divisions, the CFO, the 
internal targets and as a basis to model both Credit Suisse-spe- Chief Risk and Compliance Officer (CRCO) and the Treasurer. 
cific and market-wide stress scenarios and their impact on liquid-
ity and funding. Our internal barometer framework supports the  It is CARMC’s responsibility to review the capital position, balance 
management of our funding structure. It allows us to manage the  sheet development, current and prospective funding, interest rate 
time horizon over which the stressed market value of unencum- risk and foreign exchange exposure and to define and monitor 
bered assets (including cash) exceeds the aggregate value of  adherence to internal risk limits. CARMC regularly reviews the 
contractual outflows of unsecured liabilities plus a conservative  methodology and assumptions of our liquidity risk management 
forecast of anticipated contingent commitments. This internal  framework and determines the liquidity horizon to be maintained.
barometer framework enables us to manage liquidity to a desired 
profile under a Credit Suisse-specific or market-wide stress that  All liquidity stress tests are coordinated and overseen by the 
permits us to continue business activities for a period of time (also  CRCO to ensure a consistent and coordinated approach across all 
known as a liquidity horizon) without changing business plans.  risk disciplines.
Under this framework, we also have short-term targets based 
on additional stress scenarios to ensure uninterrupted liquidity  Contingency funding planning
for short time frames. At the beginning of 2017, we introduced  In the event of a liquidity crisis, our Contingency Funding Plan 
a new version of our internal liquidity barometer, which includes  provides for specific actions to be taken depending on the nature 
enhanced functionalities to manage entity-specific liquidity under  of the crisis. Our plan is designed to address ever-increasing 
newly defined and more conservative stress scenarios for rede- liquidity and funding stresses and has pre-defined escalation lev-
fined short and long-term time horizons. els aimed at maximizing the likelihood that we can take certain 
Liquidity and funding management 115
   
measures to address liquidity or funding shortfalls. In order to  We centrally manage this liquidity pool and hold it at our main 
identify a deteriorating liquidity situation, we monitor a set of  operating entities. Holding securities in these entities ensures 
regulatory and economic liquidity metrics while also seeking the  that we can make liquidity and funding available to local entities in 
views of our subject matter experts as well as Group and entity  need without delay.
senior management, who retain at all times the authority to take 
remedial actions promptly. In all cases, the plan’s primary objec- As of December 31, 2020, our liquidity pool managed by Trea-
tives are to strengthen liquidity (immediate), reduce funding needs  sury and the global liquidity group had an average HQLA value of 
(medium term) and assess recovery options (longer term). CHF 201.3 billion. The liquidity pool consisted of CHF 114.4 bil-
lion of cash held at major central banks, primarily the SNB, the 
Liquidity metrics ECB and the Fed, and CHF 86.9 billion market value of securities 
issued by governments and government agencies, primarily from 
Liquidity pool  the US and the UK. 
Treasury manages a sizeable portfolio of HQLA comprised of 
cash held at central banks and securities. A portion of the liquid- In addition to the above-mentioned liquidity pool, there is also a 
ity pool is generated through reverse repurchase agreements with  portfolio of unencumbered liquid assets managed by the busi-
top-rated counterparties. We are mindful of potential credit risk  nesses, primarily in the Investment Bank division, in coopera-
and therefore focus our liquidity holdings strategy on cash held at  tion with the global liquidity group. These assets generally include 
central banks and highly rated government bonds and on short- high-grade bonds and highly liquid equity securities that form 
term reverse repurchase agreements. These government bonds  part of major indices. In coordination with the businesses and the 
are eligible as collateral for liquidity facilities with various central  global liquidity group, Treasury can access these assets to gener-
banks including the Swiss National Bank (SNB), the US Fed- ate liquidity if required. As of December 31, 2020, this portfolio 
eral Reserve (Fed), the European Central Bank (ECB) and the  of liquid assets had a market value of CHF 25.9 billion, consisting 
Bank of England. Our direct exposure on these bonds is limited  of CHF 10.6 billion of high-grade bonds and CHF 15.3 billion of 
to highly liquid, top-rated sovereign entities or fully guaranteed  highly liquid equity securities. Under our internal model, an aver-
agencies of sovereign entities. The liquidity pool may be used  age stress-level haircut of 13% is applied to these assets. The 
to meet the liquidity requirements of our operating companies.  haircuts applied to this portfolio reflect our assessment of overall 
All securities, including those obtained from reverse repurchase  market risk at the time of measurement, potential monetization 
agreements, are subject to a stress level haircut in our barometer  capacity taking into account increased haircuts, market volatility 
to reflect the risk that emergency funding may not be available at  and the quality of the relevant securities. 
market value in a stress scenario. 
Liquidity pool – Group
               2020   2019 
   Swiss    US       Other        
end of   franc   dollar   Euro   currencies   Total   Total 
L     iquid assets (CHF million)          
Cash held at central banks   77,061   11,800   23,016   2,552   114,429   82,209 
Securities   13,083   48,781   7,037   17,966   86,867   82,641 
Liquid assets 1  90,144   60,581   30,053   20,518   201,296   164,850 
1 Reflects a pre-cancellation view.
Liquidity Coverage Ratio  Our HQLA measurement methodology excludes potentially 
Our calculation methodology for the LCR is prescribed by FINMA  eligible HQLA available for use by entities of the Group in cer-
and uses a three-month average that is measured using daily  tain jurisdictions that may not be readily accessible for use by 
calculations during the quarter. The FINMA calculation of HQLA  the Group as a whole. These HQLA eligible amounts may be 
takes into account a cancellation mechanism (post-cancellation  restricted for reasons such as local regulatory requirements, 
view) and is therefore not directly comparable to the assets pre- including large exposure requirements, or other binding con-
sented in the financial statements that could potentially be mon- straints that could limit the transferability to other Group entities in 
etized under a severe stress scenario. The cancellation mecha- other jurisdictions.
nism effectively excludes the impact of certain secured financing 
transactions from available HQLA and simultaneously adjusts the  On this basis, the level of our LCR was 190% as of the end of 
level of net cash outflows calculated. Application of the cancella- 2020, a decrease from 198% as of the end of 2019, represent-
tion mechanism adjusts both the numerator and denominator of  ing an average HQLA of CHF 204 billion and average net cash 
the LCR calculation, meaning that the impact is mostly neutral on  outflows of CHF 107 billion. The ratio reflects a conservative 
the LCR itself.  liquidity position, including ensuring that the Group’s branches 
and subsidiaries meet applicable local liquidity requirements and 
116 Liquidity and funding management
   
taking a prudent approach to liquidity management during the  as higher cash outflows from additional requirements primarily 
COVID-19 pandemic. related to derivative exposures and other collateral requirements. 
These increases in net cash outflows were partially offset by 
The decrease in the LCR compared to 2019 reflected an increase  lower cash outflows from unsecured wholesale funding, primarily 
in net cash outflows, which was partially offset by a higher level  driven by decreases in unsecured debt. The higher level of HQLA 
of average HQLA. The increase in net cash outflows primar- reflected an increase in the amount of cash held with central 
ily resulted from a decrease in net cash inflows associated with  banks, as well as an increase in the amount of securities held 
secured wholesale funding and secured lending activities, a  during the period. 
decrease in cash inflows from fully performing exposures, as well 
Liquidity coverage ratio – Group
      2020   2019 
   Unweighted   Weighted   Weighted 
end of   value 1   value 2   value 2 
H    igh-quality liquid assets (CHF million)     
High-quality liquid assets 3  –   203,536   164,503 
C    ash outflows     
Retail deposits and deposits from small business customers   161,262   19,825   20,519 
Unsecured wholesale funding   235,302   89,758   92,801 
Secured wholesale funding  –    44,979   49,456 
Additional requirements   175,292   35,989   33,761 
Other contractual funding obligations   56,751   56,751   58,909 
Other contingent funding obligations   214,181   5,574   5,792 
Total cash outflows   –   252,876   261,238 
C    ash inflows     
Secured lending   124,593   59,090   84,353 
Inflows from fully performing exposures   62,541   28,081   32,567 
Other cash inflows   58,329   58,329   61,063 
Total cash inflows   245,463   145,500   177,983 
L   iquidity coverage ratio     
High-quality liquid assets (CHF million)  –    203,536   164,503 
Net cash outflows (CHF million)  –    107,376   83,255 
Liquidity coverage ratio (%)   –   190   198 
Calculated using a three-month average, which is calculated on a daily basis.
1 Calculated as outstanding balances maturing or callable within 30 days.
2 Calculated after the application of haircuts for high-quality liquid assets or inflow and outflow rates.
3 Consists of cash and eligible securities as prescribed by FINMA and reflects a post-cancellation view.
Funding management
Interest expense on long-term debt is monitored and managed 
relative to certain indices, which historically included interbank 
Treasury is responsible for the development, execution and regu- offered rate (IBOR) benchmarks, but is now transitioning to alter-
lar updating of our funding plan. The plan reflects projected busi- native reference rates (ARRs) in place of IBORs. This follows 
ness growth, development of the balance sheet, future funding  from our own internal IBOR transition program to coordinate tran-
needs and maturity profiles as well as the effects of changing  sition readiness on a firm-wide basis and is aligned with interna-
market and regulatory conditions. tional and regulatory expectations. This approach to term funding 
best reflects the sensitivity of both our liabilities and our assets to 
changes in interest rates.
Liquidity and funding management 117
   
We continually manage the impact of funding spreads through 
careful management of our liability mix and opportunistic issu- Balance sheet funding structure
ance of debt. The effect of funding spreads on interest expense  as of December 31, 2020 (CHF billion)
depends on many factors, including market conditions, product 
type and the absolute level of the indices on which our funding is 
Reverse repurchase  
Repurchase  
based. agreements  59
75  agreements
Match  
Encumbered trading assets  44
We diversify our long-term funding sources by issuing structured  funded 28  Short positions
notes, which are debt securities on which the return is linked to  Funding-neutral   Funding-neutral  
assets1  64 64  liabilities1
commodities, stocks, indices or currencies or other assets. We 
generally hedge structured notes with positions in the underlying  7  Other short-term liabilities2
assets or derivatives. 
51  Due to banks
Cash & due from banks  140 21  Short-term borrowings
We also use other collateralized financings, including repurchase 
agreements and securities lending agreements. The level of our 
time  79
repurchase agreements fluctuates, reflecting market opportuni-
ties, client needs for highly liquid collateral, such as US treasuries  Unencumbered 
liquid assets3  105
and agency securities, and the impact of balance sheet and risk-
weighted asset limits. In addition, matched book trades, under 
which securities are purchased under agreements to resell and  356 Deposits5 demand  178
are simultaneously sold under agreements to repurchase with 
122%  
comparable maturities, earn spreads, are relatively risk free and  coverage
are generally related to client activity.
savings  72
Loans4  291
Funding sources fiduciary  27
We fund our balance sheet primarily through core customer 
deposits, long-term debt, including structured notes, and share-
holders’ equity. We monitor the funding sources, including their 
161  Long-term debt
concentrations against certain limits, according to their counter-
party, currency, tenor, geography and maturity, and whether they 
are secured or unsecured. A substantial portion of our balance  Other illiquid assets  103
sheet is match funded and requires no unsecured funding. Match  43  Total equity
funded balance sheet items consist of assets and liabilities with 
Assets  806 806  Liabilities and Equity
close to equal liquidity durations and values so that the liquidity 
1 Primarily includes brokerage receivables/payables, positive/negative replacement  values 
and funding generated or required by the positions are substan-
and cash collateral.
tially equivalent.  2 Primarily includes excess of funding neutral liabilities ( brokerage payables) over cor-
responding assets.
3 Primarily includes unencumbered trading assets, unencumbered investment securities 
Cash and due from banks and reverse repurchase agreements 
and excess reverse repurchase agreements, after haircuts.
are highly liquid. A significant part of our assets, principally unen- 4 Excludes loans with banks.
cumbered trading assets that support the securities business, is  5 Excludes due to banks and  certificates of deposit.
comprised of securities inventories and collateralized receivables 
that fluctuate and are generally liquid. These liquid assets are 
available to settle short-term liabilities. Our core customer deposits totaled CHF 356 billion as of the 
end of 2020, an increase compared to CHF 324 billion as of the 
Loans, which comprise the largest component of our illiquid  end of 2019, reflecting an increase in the customer deposit base 
assets, are funded by our core customer deposits, with an excess  in the private banking and corporate & institutional banking busi-
coverage of 22% as of the end of 2020, compared to 9% as  nesses in 2020. Core customer deposits are from clients with 
of the end of 2019, reflecting a small decrease in loans and an  whom we have a broad and long-standing relationship. Core cus-
increase in deposits. We fund other illiquid assets, including real  tomer deposits exclude deposits from banks and certificates of 
estate, private equity and other long-term investments as well  deposit. We place a priority on maintaining and growing customer 
as the haircut for the illiquid portion of securities, with long-term  deposits, as they have proven to be a stable and resilient source 
debt and equity, in which we try to maintain a substantial funding  of funding even in difficult market conditions. Our core customer 
buffer. deposit funding is supplemented by the issuance of long-term 
debt.
> 
Refer to the chart “Balance sheet funding structure” and “Balance sheet” in 
Balance sheet and off-balance sheet for further information.
118 Liquidity and funding management
   
Funds transfer pricing  Contractual maturity of assets and liabilities
We maintain an internal funds transfer pricing system based on  The following table provides contractual maturities of the assets 
market rates. Our funds transfer pricing system is designed to  and liabilities specified as of the end of 2020. The contractual 
allocate to our businesses all funding costs in a way that incen- maturities are an important source of information for liquidity risk 
tivizes their efficient use of funding. Our funds transfer pricing  management. However, liquidity risk is also managed based on 
system is an essential tool that allocates to the businesses the  an expected maturity that considers counterparty behavior and in 
short-term and long-term costs of funding their balance sheet  addition takes into account certain off-balance sheet items such 
usages and off-balance sheet contingencies. The funds trans- as derivatives. Liquidity risk management performs extensive anal-
fer pricing framework ensures full funding costs allocation under  yses of counterparty behavioral assumptions under various stress 
normal business conditions, but it is of even greater importance  scenarios. 
in a stressed capital markets environment where raising funds  > Refer to “Contractual obligations and other commercial commitments” in Bal-
is more challenging and expensive. Under this framework, our  ance sheet and off-balance sheet and “Note 34 – Guarantees and commit-
ments” in VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group for 
businesses are also credited to the extent they provide long-term 
further information on contractual maturities of guarantees and commitments.
stable funding.
Contractual maturity of assets and liabilities
         Between   Between   Between   Greater    
      Less than   1 to 3   3 to 12   1 to 5   than    
end of 2020   On demand   1 month   months   months   years   5 years   Total 
A       ssets (CHF million)           
Cash and due from banks   134,720   617   621   141   0   3,013   139,112 
Interest-bearing deposits with banks   0   219   384   633   22   40   1,298 
Central bank funds sold, securities purchased under                      
resale agreements and securities borrowing transactions   20,495   28,234   10,552   17,567   2,239   46   79,133 
Securities received as collateral, at fair value   50,170   268   292   43   0   0   50,773 
Trading assets, at fair value   157,338   0   0   0   0   0   157,338 
Investment securities   0   0   1   148   2   456   607 
Other investments   0   13  3    0   0   5,396   5,412 
Net loans   8,109   53,717   25,881   55,827   97,361   51,013   291,908 
Goodwill   0   0   0   0   0   4,426   4,426 
Other intangible assets   0   0   0   0   0   237   237 
Brokerage receivables   35,941   0   0   0   0   0   35,941 
Other assets   13,350   1,733   5,457   1,682   4,062   13,353   39,637 
Total assets   420,123   84,801   43,191   76,041   103,686   77,980   805,822 
L      iabilities           
Due to banks   6,321   1,984   6,011   2,097   10   0   16,423 
Customer deposits   266,725   29,231   45,687   47,763   972   543   390,921 
Central bank funds purchased, securities sold under                      
repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions   9,833   5,807   5,763   901   1,547   0   23,851 
Obligation to return securities received as collateral, at fair value   50,170   268   292   43   0   0   50,773 
Trading liabilities, at fair value   45,871   0   0   0   0   0   45,871 
Short-term borrowings   0   2,168   6,721   11,979   0   0   20,868 
Long-term debt   0   2,226   2,069   20,688   79,450   56,654   161,087 
Brokerage payables   21,653   0   0   0   0   0   21,653 
Other liabilities   19,817   6,640   135   845   2,101   1,896   31,434 
Total liabilities   420,390   48,324   66,678   84,316   84,080   59,093   762,881 
Liquidity and funding management 119
   
Interest rate management  As of the end of 2020, we had outstanding long-term debt of 
Interest rate risk inherent in banking book activities, such as lend- CHF 161.1 billion, which included senior and subordinated instru-
ing and deposit-taking, is managed through the use of replication  ments. We had CHF 47.0 billion and CHF 17.1 billion of struc-
portfolios. The Risk function develops and maintains the models  tured notes and covered bonds outstanding, respectively, as of 
needed to determine the interest rate risks of products that do not  the end of 2020 compared to CHF 49.4 billion and CHF 15.1 bil-
have a contractual maturity date, such as demand and savings  lion, respectively, as of the end of 2019. 
accounts. For this purpose, a replicating methodology is applied 
in close coordination with Treasury to maximize the stability and  Short-term borrowings decreased 26% to CHF 20.9 billion as of 
sustainability of spread revenues at the divisions. Furthermore,  the end of 2020 compared to CHF 28.4 billion in 2019, mainly 
we manage the interest exposure of the Group’s equity to limits  related to the redemption of commercial paper (CP) and struc-
agreed with senior management. tured notes. 
> 
Refer to “Issuances and redemptions” in Capital management for further infor-
Debt issuances and redemptions  mation on capital issuances, including low-trigger and high-trigger capital 
instruments.
Our long-term debt includes senior, senior bail-in and subordi-
nated debt issued in US-registered offerings and medium-term 
note programs, euro medium-term note programs, stand-alone  Credit ratings 
offerings, structured note programs, covered bond programs,  Our access to the debt capital markets and our borrowing costs 
Australian dollar domestic medium-term note programs and a  depend significantly on our credit ratings. Rating agencies take 
Samurai shelf registration statement in Japan. As a global bank,  many factors into consideration in determining a company’s rat-
we have access to multiple markets worldwide and our major  ing, including, among others, earnings performance, business 
funding centers are New York, London, Zurich and Tokyo. mix, market position, ownership, financial strategy, level of capi-
tal, risk management policies and practices, management team 
We use a wide range of products and currencies to ensure that  and the broader outlook for the financial services industry more 
our funding is efficient and well diversified across markets and  generally. The rating agencies may raise, lower or withdraw their 
investor types. Substantially all of our unsecured senior debt is  ratings, or publicly announce an intention to raise or lower their 
issued without financial covenants, such as adverse changes in  ratings, at any time.
our credit ratings, cash flows, results of operations or financial 
ratios, which could trigger an increase in our cost of financing  Although retail and private bank deposits are generally less sensi-
or accelerate the maturity of the debt. Our covered bond fund- tive to changes in a bank’s credit ratings, the cost and availabil-
ing is in the form of mortgage-backed loans funded by domestic  ity of other sources of unsecured external funding is generally a 
covered bonds issued through Pfandbriefbank Schweizerischer  function of credit ratings. Credit ratings are especially important 
Hypothekarinstitute, one of two institutions established by a 1930  to us when competing in certain markets and when seeking to 
act of the Swiss Parliament to centralize the issuance of covered  engage in longer-term transactions, including over-the-counter 
bonds, or from our own Swiss covered bond program established  (OTC) derivative instruments.
in June 2019. Historically, issuances of covered bonds were also 
made through our own international covered bond program. A downgrade in credit ratings could reduce our access to capital 
markets, increase our borrowing costs, require us to post addi-
The following table provides information on long-term debt issu- tional collateral or allow counterparties to terminate transac-
ances, maturities and redemptions in 2020, excluding structured  tions under certain of our trading and collateralized financing and 
notes. derivative contracts. This, in turn, could reduce our liquidity and 
negatively impact our operating results and financial position. Our 
Debt issuances and redemptions internal liquidity barometer takes into consideration contingent 
      Senior   Sub-   Long-term  events associated with a two-notch downgrade in our credit rat-
in 2020   Senior   bail-in   ordinated   debt  ings. The maximum impact of a simultaneous one, two or three-
L ong-term  debt (CHF  billion, noti onal value)         notch downgrade by all three major rating agencies in the Bank’s 
Issuances   14.1   8.6   3.8   26.5  long-term debt ratings would result in additional collateral require-
   of which unsecured   11.1   8.6   3.8   23.5  ments or assumed termination payments under certain derivative 
   of which secured   3.0   0.0   0.0   3.0  instruments of CHF 3 million, CHF 16 million and CHF 669 mil-
Maturities / Redemptions   5.6   3.6   3.0   12.2  lion, respectively, as of December 31, 2020, and would not be 
   of which unsecured   4.6   3.6   3.0   11.2  material to our liquidity and funding planning. If the downgrade 
   of which secured   1.0   0.0   0.0   1.0  does not involve all three rating agencies, the impact may be 
smaller. 
Excludes structured notes.
120 Liquidity and funding management
   
Potential cash outflows on these derivative contracts associated  For the year ended December 31, 2020, net cash used in oper-
with a downgrade of our long-term debt credit ratings, such as  ating activities of continuing operations was CHF 6.5 billion, 
the requirement to post additional collateral to the counterparty,  primarily reflecting an increase in other assets and an increase in 
the loss of re-hypothecation rights on any collateral received and  valuation adjustments relating to long-term debt, partially offset 
impacts arising from additional termination events, are monitored  by a decrease in net trading assets and liabilities. Our operat-
and taken into account in the calculation of our liquidity require- ing assets and liabilities vary significantly in the normal course of 
ments. There are additional derivative related risks that do not  business due to the amount and timing of cash flows. Manage-
relate to the downgrade of our long-term debt credit ratings and  ment believes cash flows from operations, available cash bal-
which may impact our liquidity position, including risks relating to  ances and short-term and long-term borrowings will be sufficient 
holdings of derivatives collateral or potential movements in the  to fund our operating liquidity needs.
valuation of derivatives positions. The potential outflows resulting 
across all derivative product types are monitored as part of the  Our investing activities primarily include originating loans to 
LCR scenario parameters and the internal liquidity reporting.  be held to maturity, other receivables and the investment secu-
> Refer to “Investor information” in the Appendix for further information on Group  rities portfolio. For the year ended December 31, 2020, net 
and Bank credit ratings. cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was 
CHF 16.7 billion, primarily due to a decrease in central bank 
Cash flows from operating, investing and financing  funds sold, securities purchased under resale agreements and 
activities  securities borrowing transactions and by the proceeds from sales 
As a global financial institution, our cash flows are complex and  of loans, partially offset by an increase in loans.
interrelated and bear little relation to our net earnings and net 
assets. Consequently, we believe that traditional cash flow analy- Our financing activities primarily include the issuance of debt 
sis is less meaningful in evaluating our liquidity position than the  and receipt of customer deposits. We pay annual dividends on 
liquidity and funding policies described above. Cash flow analysis  our common shares. In 2020, net cash provided by financing 
may, however, be helpful in highlighting certain macro trends in  activities of continuing operations was CHF 29.7 billion, mainly 
our business. reflecting the issuance of long-term debt, the increase in due to 
banks and customer deposits, the sale of treasury shares, par-
tially offset by the repayment of long-term debt, the repurchase of 
treasury shares, the decrease in short-term borrowings and the 
decrease in central bank funds purchased, securities sold under 
repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions.
Liquidity and funding management 121
   
Capital management
As of the end of 2020, our BIS CET1 ratio was 12.9% and our BIS tier 1 
leverage ratio was 6.4%.
Capital strategy
BIS Requirements
Credit Suisse considers a strong and efficient capital posi- The BCBS, the standard setting committee within the Bank for 
tion to be a priority. Through our capital strategy, our goal is to  International Settlements (BIS), issued the Basel III framework, 
strengthen our capital position and optimize the use of risk- with higher minimum capital requirements and conservation and 
weighted assets (RWA), particularly in light of emerging regula- countercyclical buffers, revised risk-based capital measures, 
tory capital requirements. a leverage ratio and liquidity standards. The framework was 
designed to strengthen the resilience of the banking sector and 
The overall capital needs of Credit Suisse reflect management’s  requires banks to hold more capital, mainly in the form of com-
regulatory and credit rating objectives as well as our underly- mon equity. The new capital standards became fully effective on 
ing risks. Our framework considers the capital needed to absorb  January 1, 2019 for those countries that have adopted Basel III.
losses, both realized and unrealized, while remaining a strongly 
capitalized institution. Multi-year projections and capital plans are  Under Basel III, the minimum common equity tier 1 (CET1) 
prepared for the Group and its major subsidiaries and reviewed  requirement is 4.5% of RWA. In addition, a 2.5% CET1 capital 
throughout the year with their regulators. These plans are subject  conservation buffer is required to absorb losses in periods of 
to various stress tests, reflecting both macroeconomic and spe- financial and economic stress.
cific risk scenarios. Capital contingency plans are developed in 
connection with these stress tests to ensure that possible mitigat- A progressive buffer between 1% and 2.5% (with a possible 
ing actions are consistent with both the amount of capital at risk  additional 1% surcharge) of CET1, depending on a bank’s sys-
and the market conditions for accessing additional capital. temic importance, is an additional capital requirement for global 
systemically important banks (G-SIBs). The Financial Stability 
Board (FSB) identified Credit Suisse as a G-SIB. A progressive 
Regulatory framework
buffer of 1% was applied to Credit Suisse in 2020 and will remain 
unchanged for 2021.
Credit Suisse is subject to the Basel III framework, as imple-
mented in Switzerland, as well as Swiss legislation and regula- CET1 capital is subject to certain regulatory deductions and 
tions for systemically important banks (Swiss Requirements),  other adjustments to common equity, including the deduction 
which include capital, liquidity, leverage and large exposure  of deferred tax assets for tax-loss carry-forwards, goodwill and 
requirements and rules for emergency plans designed to main- other intangible assets.
tain systemically relevant functions in the event of threatened 
insolvency. In addition to the CET1 requirements, there is also a require-
ment for 1.5% of additional tier 1 capital and 2% of tier 2 capital. 
The Basel framework describes a range of options for determin- These requirements may also be met with CET1 capital. To qual-
ing capital requirements in order to provide banks and supervisors  ify as additional tier 1 under Basel III, capital instruments must 
the ability to select approaches that are most appropriate for their  provide for principal loss absorption through a conversion into 
operations and their financial market infrastructure. In general,  common equity or a write-down of principal feature. The trigger 
Credit Suisse has adopted the most advanced approaches, which  for such conversion or write-down must include a CET1 ratio of at 
align with the way that risk is internally managed and provide the  least 5.125% as well as a trigger at the point of non-viability.
greatest risk sensitivity.
Our capital metrics fluctuate during any reporting period in the 
ordinary course of business.
122 Capital management
   
Capital frameworks for Credit Suisse Swiss Requirements
BIS Requirements  Swiss Requirements
The legislation implementing the Basel III framework in Switzer-
Countercyclical buffer up to  Countercyclical buffer up to 
land in respect of capital requirements for systemically relevant 
2.5% CET1 2.5% CET1
banks, including Credit Suisse, goes beyond the Basel III mini-
28.6% mum standards for systemically relevant banks.
Under the Capital Adequacy Ordinance, Swiss banks classified 
as systemically important banks operating internationally, such as 
ern Credit Suisse, are subject to two different minimum requirements 
14.3%1   onc for loss-absorbing capacity: such banks must hold sufficient 
Bail-in debt instruments ne c capital that absorbs losses to ensure continuity of service (going 
o
G
concern requirement), and they must issue sufficient debt instru-
ments to fund an orderly resolution without recourse to public 
resources (gone concern requirement).
14.3%
Going concern capital and gone concern capital together form 
11.5% 4.3%   our total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC). The going concern and 
2% Tier 2  Additional tier 1 gone concern requirements are generally aligned with the FSB’s 
total loss-absorbing capacity standard.
9.5% 10%
n
1.5%  Additional tier 1 er
nc Both the going concern and the gone concern requirements were 
8% g co subject to phase-in, with gradually increasing requirements as 
 1% Progressive buffer Buf5fe.5r %co CmEpTo1n e nt Goin well as grandfathering provisions for certain outstanding instru-
2.5%  
ments, and became fully effective on January 1, 2020. Under the 
Capital conservation buffer
Capital Adequacy Ordinance’s grandfathering provisions, addi-
4.5% CET1   tional tier 1 capital instruments with a low trigger qualify as going 
4.5% CET1
Minimum component concern capital until their first call date; additional tier 1 capital 
instruments and tier 2 capital instruments that no longer qualify 
1 Does not include any rebates for resolvability and for certain tier 2 low-trigger instruments 
as going concern capital, qualify as gone concern capital until ter-
recognized in gone concern capital.
mination or one year before their final maturity, respectively.
Basel III further provides for a countercyclical buffer that could 
require banks to hold up to 2.5% of CET1. This requirement is  Additionally, there are FINMA decrees that apply to Credit Suisse 
imposed by national regulators where credit growth is deemed to  as a systemically important bank operating internationally, includ-
be excessive and leading to the build-up of system-wide risk. ing capital adequacy requirements as well as liquidity and risk 
diversification requirements.
Banks are required to maintain a tier 1 leverage ratio of 3%.
Banks that do not maintain the minimum requirements may be 
limited in their ability to pay dividends and make discretionary 
bonus payments and other earnings distributions.
Capital management 123
   
Going concern requirement In December 2013, FINMA issued a decree (2013 FINMA 
The going concern requirement applicable in 2020 for a G-SIB  Decree), specifying capital adequacy requirements for the Bank on 
consists of (i) a base requirement of 12.86% of RWA and 4.5% of  a stand-alone basis (Bank parent company), and for the Bank and 
leverage exposure; and (ii) a surcharge, which reflects the G-SIB’s  the Group, each on a consolidated basis, as systemically relevant 
systemic importance. For Credit Suisse, this translates into a going  institutions.
concern requirement in 2020 of 14.3% of RWA, of which the 
minimum CET1 component is 10%, with the remainder to be met  In October 2017, FINMA issued an additional decree with respect 
with a maximum of 4.3% additional tier 1 capital, which includes  to the regulatory capital requirements of the Bank parent com-
high-trigger capital instruments that would be converted into  pany (2017 FINMA Decree), specifying the treatment of invest-
common equity or written down if the CET1 ratio falls below 7%.  ments in subsidiaries for capital adequacy purposes. This decree 
Under the going concern requirement, the Swiss leverage ratio  partially replaced certain aspects of the 2013 FINMA Decree, but 
must be 5%, of which the minimum CET1 component is 3.5%,  all other aspects of that decree remain in force. The changes aim 
with the remainder to be met with a maximum of 1.5% additional  to create a capital adequacy framework for the Bank parent com-
tier 1 capital, which includes high-trigger capital instruments. pany that is more comparable to relevant international frameworks 
and does not rely on exemptions from, or corrections of, the basic 
Gone concern requirement framework applicable to all Swiss banks. The changes only apply 
The gone concern requirement of a G-SIB is equal to its total going  to the going concern capital requirements for the Bank parent 
concern requirement, which in 2020 consists of a base requirement  company.
of 12.86% of RWA and 4.5% of leverage exposure, plus any sur-
charges applicable to the relevant G-SIB. The gone concern require- The 2017 FINMA Decree requires the Bank parent company to 
ment does not include any countercyclical buffers. Credit Suisse is  risk-weight both direct and indirect investments in subsidiaries, 
subject to a gone concern requirement in 2020 of 14.3% of RWA  with the initial risk-weight set at 200%. Beginning in 2019, these 
and a 5% Swiss leverage ratio and is subject to potential capital  risk-weights have gradually begun to increase over 10 years to 
rebates for resolvability and for certain tier 2 low-trigger instruments  250% for participations in subsidiaries in Switzerland and to 
recognized as gone concern capital. 400% for participations in subsidiaries abroad. In 2020, partici-
pations in subsidiaries in Switzerland were risk-weighted at 210% 
The gone concern requirement should primarily be fulfilled with bail- and participations in subsidiaries abroad at 240%.
in instruments that are designed to absorb losses after the write-
down or conversion into equity of regulatory capital of a G-SIB in a  The 2017 FINMA Decree also applies an adjustment (referred to 
restructuring scenario, but before the write-down or conversion into  as a regulatory filter) to any impact on CET1 capital arising from 
equity of other senior obligations of the G-SIB. Bail-in instruments  the accounting change under applicable Swiss banking rules for 
do not feature capital triggers that may lead to a write-down and/or a  the Bank parent company’s investments in subsidiaries from the 
conversion into equity outside of restructuring, but only begin to bear  portfolio valuation method to the individual valuation method, which 
losses once the G-SIB is formally in restructuring proceedings and  was implemented as of December 31, 2019. In contrast to the 
FINMA orders capital measures (i.e., a write-down and/or a conver- accounting treatment, the regulatory filter allows Credit Suisse to 
sion into equity) in the restructuring plan. measure the regulatory capital position as if the Bank parent com-
pany had maintained the portfolio valuation method. As a result, 
Bail-in instruments must fulfill certain criteria in order to qualify under  the methodology valuation losses under the individual valuation 
the gone concern requirement, including FINMA approval. In addition  method are reversed and the Bank parent company’s CET1 capital 
to bail-in instruments, the gone concern requirement may further  as well as the Bank parent company’s participation values, which 
be fulfilled with other capital instruments, including CET1, additional  are subject to risk weighting, are higher, since the regulatory filter 
tier 1 capital instruments or tier 2 capital instruments. allows the reversal of the methodology valuation losses under the 
individual valuation method, in comparison to the portfolio valuation 
FINMA decrees method applied for regulatory capital.
The SNB designated the Group as a financial group of systemic  > Refer to credit-suisse.com/regulatorydisclosures for the Bank parent com-
importance under applicable Swiss law. FINMA requires the  pany’s regulatory disclosures.
Group to fully comply with the special requirements for systemi-
cally important banks operating internationally, which include 
capital adequacy requirements and also specify liquidity and risk 
diversification requirements.
124 Capital management
   
Regulatory developments
Swiss capital and leverage requirements for Credit Suisse
   Capital    Leverage  
Effective as of January 1, 2020   ratio   ratio  In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Swiss government, 
Capital components (%)         the SNB and FINMA have taken various measures to mitigate the 
CET1 – minimum   4.5   1.5  consequences for the economy and the financial system, includ-
Additional tier 1 – maximum   3.5   1.5  ing the temporary exclusion of central bank reserves from lever-
Minimum component   8.0   3.0  age ratio calculations, deactivation of the Swiss countercyclical 
CET1 – minimum   5.5   2.0  capital buffer and modifications to the phase-in of RWA inflation 
Additional tier 1 – maximum   0.8   0.0  related to certain Basel III revisions to the capital requirements 
Buffer component   6.3   2.0  for credit risk. In addition, the BCBS announced changes to the 
Going concern   14.3   5.0  implementation timeline of the outstanding Basel III standards.
> 
   of which base requirement   12.86   4.5  Refer to “COVID-19 pandemic and related regulatory measures” in II – Operat-
ing and financial review – Credit Suisse for a discussion of regulatory develop-
   of which surcharge   1.44   0.5 
ments pertaining to COVID-19.
Gone concern   14.3   5.0 
   of which base requirement   12.86   4.5 
   of which surcharge   1.44   0.5  In January 2020, FINMA and Credit Suisse agreed that a substantial 
Total loss-absorbing capacity   28.6   10.0  part of the net exposure of Credit Suisse AG (Bank parent) toward 
Credit Suisse Group AG (Group parent) originating from unsecured 
Does not include the effects of the countercyclical buffers and any rebates for resolvability 
loans shall be covered by an additional gone concern capacity at the 
and for certain tier 2 low-trigger instruments recognized in gone concern capital.  
As of the end of 2020, for the Group, the rebates for resolvability and for certain tier 2  Bank parent. The Group parent, in support of its single point-of-entry 
low-trigger instruments for the capital ratios were 2.565% and 0.436%, respectively, and  bail-in strategy, is obliged to make the additional funds available. 
for the Bank, they were 2.565% and 0.435%, respectively. For the Group, the rebates for 
These additional funds constitute eligible gone concern capacity. 
resolvability and for certain tier 2 low-trigger instruments for leverage ratios were 0.9% and 
0.132%, respectively, and for the Bank, they were 0.9% and 0.131%, respectively. Net of  However, to the extent that the aforementioned net exposure of the 
these rebates, the gone concern ratio for capital and leverage for the Group were 11.299%  Bank parent is covered by such funds, they do not qualify for the 
and 3.968%, respectively, and for the Bank they were 11.3% and 3.969%, respectively.
gone concern capital ratio calculation at the Bank or the Group level.
Other requirements Since January 1, 2020, the Bank parent company has been sub-
Requirements in Switzerland include an extended countercyclical  ject to new quantitative gone concern requirements for additional 
buffer, which is based on the BIS countercyclical buffer that could  loss-absorbing capacity comprising three elements: (i) require-
require banks to hold up to 2.5% of RWA in the form of CET1 cap- ments for its third-party risk exposure; (ii) a buffer requirement 
ital. The extended countercyclical buffer relates to a requirement  equal to 30% of the consolidated requirement of the Bank; and 
that can be imposed by national regulators when credit growth is  (iii) the sum of gone concern capital provided to its subsidiar-
deemed to be excessive and leading to the build-up of system-wide  ies, currently Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG, Credit Suisse Holdings 
risk. The Swiss Federal Council has not activated the BIS coun- (USA) Inc., Credit Suisse International and Credit Suisse Secu-
tercyclical buffer for Switzerland. rities (Europe) Limited. In accordance with the Capital Ade-
quacy Ordinance transitional provision, a second element (buffer 
FINMA requirements include capital charges for mortgages that  requirement) is being phased in from January 1, 2021 to Janu-
finance owner-occupied residential property in Switzerland (mort- ary 1, 2024.
gage multiplier). The mortgage multiplier applies for purposes of 
both BIS and FINMA requirements. Effective January 1, 2020, certain revisions to the capital require-
ments of credit risk became effective. The revisions relate to equity 
Other regulatory disclosures investments in funds and central counterparty positions and a new 
standardized approach for counterparty credit risk (SA-CCR) for 
In connection with the implementation of Basel III, certain regula- derivatives.
tory disclosures for the Group and certain of its subsidiaries are 
required. The Group’s Pillar 3 disclosure, regulatory disclosures,  In July 2020, the Basel Committee published an updated stan-
additional information on capital instruments, including the main  dard for the regulatory capital treatment of credit valuation adjust-
features and terms and conditions of regulatory capital instru- ment (CVA) risk for derivatives and securities financing transac-
ments and total loss-absorbing capacity-eligible instruments  tions. The revisions for the regulatory capital treatment of CVA 
that form part of the eligible capital base and total loss-absorb- risk mainly include recalibrated risk weights and an overall recali-
ing capacity resources, G-SIB financial indicators, reconciliation  bration of the standardized and basic approach. The implementa-
requirements, leverage ratios and certain liquidity disclosures as  tion date for the revised CVA framework has been set for Janu-
well as regulatory disclosures for subsidiaries can be found on our  ary 1, 2023.
website.
> 
Refer to credit-suisse.com/regulatorydisclosures for additional information.
Capital management 125
   
Capital instruments
Higher Trigger Capital Amount
The capital ratio write-down triggers for certain of our outstand-
Contingent capital instruments ing capital instruments take into account the fact that other out-
We have issued high-trigger and low-trigger capital instruments  standing capital instruments that contain relatively higher capital 
to meet our capital requirements. Our high-trigger instruments  ratios as part of their trigger feature are expected to convert into 
either mandatorily convert into our ordinary shares or their princi- equity or be written down prior to the write-down of such capital 
pal amount is written down to zero upon the occurrence of certain  instruments. The amount of additional capital that is expected to 
specified triggering events. These events include our CET1 ratio  be contributed by such conversion into equity or write-down is 
falling below 7% (or any lower applicable minimum threshold), or  referred to as the Higher Trigger Capital Amount.
a determination by FINMA that conversion or write down is nec-
essary, or that we require public sector capital support, to prevent  The following tier 1 capital notes (collectively, Tier 1 Capital 
us from becoming insolvent, bankrupt or unable to pay a material  Notes), which have a trigger amount of 5.125% and qualify as low 
amount of our debts, or other similar circumstances. Conversion  trigger capital instruments, were outstanding as of December 31, 
or write down can only be prevented if FINMA, at our request,  2020:
is satisfied that certain conditions exist and conversion or write  p USD 2.5 billion 6.25% tier 1 capital notes; and
down is not required. High-trigger instruments are designed to  p USD 2.25 billion 7.5% tier 1 capital notes.
absorb losses before our other capital instruments, including the 
low-trigger capital instruments. The features of low-trigger capi- The following tier 2 capital notes (collectively, Tier 2 Capital 
tal instruments are described below. Contingent Capital Awards  Notes), which have a trigger amount of 5% and qualify as low 
would not convert into common equity, but would be written down  trigger capital instruments, were outstanding as of December 31, 
to zero upon a trigger event. 2020:
p USD 2.5 billion 6.5% tier 2 capital notes.
Issuances and redemptions
      Par value           
      at issuance         Year of  
   Currency   (million)   Coupon rate (%)   Description   maturity 
I    ssuances – callable bail-in instruments         
First quarter of 2020   EUR   1,250   0.65   Senior notes   2028 
   USD   280  –    Zero coupon accreting senior notes   2060 
Second quarter of 2020   USD   3,000   4.194   Senior notes   2031 
   EUR   2,000   3.25   Senior notes   2026 
   USD   1,500   2.193   Senior notes   2026 
   GBP   750   2.25   Senior notes   2028 
January 2021 to date   EUR   1,500   floating rate   Senior notes   2026 
   EUR   1,500   0.625   Senior notes   2033 1 
   USD   2,000   1.305   Senior notes   2027 
                
I    ssuances – high-trigger capital instruments         
First quarter of 2020   USD   1,000   5.1   Perpetual tier 1 contingent capital notes  –  
Third quarter of 2020   USD   1,500   5.25   Perpetual tier 1 contingent capital notes  –  
Fourth quarter of 2020   USD   1,500   4.5   Perpetual tier 1 contingent capital notes  –  
                
R     edemptions         
First quarter of 2020   USD   2,500   5.4   Tier 2 subordinated notes  –  
   CHF   200   3.375   Tier 2 subordinated notes  –  
   USD   1,500   2.75   Senior notes  –  
Third quarter of 2020   EUR   1,250   5.75   Tier 2 capital notes  –  
   CHF   435   0.63   Senior notes  –  
Fourth quarter of 2020   GBP   250   7.00   Tier 2 subordinated notes  –  
   USD   2,000   3.125   Senior notes  –  
   USD   45  –    Zero coupon tier 2 subordinated notes  –  
   EUR   50   floating rate   Senior notes  –  
1 Matures in 2033 with no call option.
126 Capital management
   
Each of the series of Tier 1 Capital Notes and Tier 2 Capital Notes  Eligible capital – Group
qualify as low-trigger capital instruments and have a write-down fea- end of   2020   2019   % change 
ture, which means that the full principal amount of the notes will be 
E ligible capital (CHF million)           
permanently written down to zero upon the occurrence of specified 
Total shareholders’ equity   42,677   43,644   (2) 
triggering events. These events occur when the amount of our CET1 
Adjustments          
ratio, together with an additional ratio described below that takes into 
   Regulatory adjustments 1  (342)   (247)   38 
account other outstanding capital instruments, falls below 5.125% 
   Goodwill 2  (4,681)   (4,848)   (3) 
for the Tier 1 Capital Notes and 5% for the Tier 2 Capital Notes. The 
   Other intangible assets 2  (271)   (38)  –  
write-down can only be prevented if FINMA, at our request, is satis-
   Deferred tax assets that rely on           
fied that certain conditions exist and determines a write-down is not     future profitability   (1,070)   (1,465)   (27) 
required. The capital notes will also be written down upon a non-via-    Shortfall of provisions to expected losses   (176)   (458)   (62) 
bility event, which occurs when FINMA determines that a write-down     Gains/(losses) due to changes in           
is necessary, or that we require extraordinary public sector capital     own credit on fair-valued liabilities 3  2,466   2,911   (15) 
support, to prevent us from becoming insolvent, bankrupt or unable     Defined benefit pension assets 2  (2,249)   (2,263)   (1) 
to pay a material amount of our debts, or other similar circumstances.    Investments in own shares   (397)   (426)   (7) 
   Other adjustments 4  (596)   (36)  –  
With respect to the capital instruments that specify a trigger  Total adjustments   (7,316)   (6,870)   6 
event if the CET1 ratio were to fall below 5.125%, the Higher  CET1 capital   35,361   36,774   (4) 
Trigger Capital Amount was CHF 11.4 billion and the Higher  High-trigger capital instruments           
(7% trigger)   11,410   8,310   37 
Trigger Capital Ratio (i.e., the ratio of the Higher Trigger Capital 
Low-trigger capital instruments           
Amount to the aggregate of all RWA of the Group) was 4.1%,  (5.125% trigger)   4,431   4,707   (6) 
both as of the end of 2020. Additional tier 1 capital   15,841   13,017   22 
Tier 1 capital   51,202   49,791   3 
With respect to the capital instruments that specify a trigger  Tier 2 low-trigger capital instruments           
event if the CET1 ratio were to fall below 5%, the Higher Trig- (5% trigger)   961   2,934   (67) 
ger Capital Amount was CHF 15.8 billion and the Higher Trigger  Tier 2 capital 5  961   2,934   (67) 
Capital Ratio was 5.8%, both as of the end of 2020. Total eligible capital 5  52,163   52,725   (1) 
> 
Refer to the table “BIS capital metrics – Group” for further information on the  1 Includes certain adjustments, such as a cumulative dividend accrual.
BIS metrics used to calculate such measures. 2 Net of deferred tax liability.
3 Since the first quarter of 2020, net of tax.
4 Includes reversals of cash flow hedge reserves and, in 2020, of unrealized gains on cer-
tain investments that are not eligible for CET1 recognition.
5 Amounts are shown on a look-through basis. Certain tier 2 instruments are subject to 
BIS capital metrics phase out through 2022. As of 2020 and 2019, total eligible capital was CHF 52,437 
million and CHF 53,038 million, including CHF 273 million and CHF 313 million of such 
instruments and the total capital ratio was 19.1% and 18.3%, respectively.
BIS capital metrics – Group
end of   2020   2019   % change 
C  apital and  risk-weigh ted assets (CHF million)       
CET1 capital   35,361   36,774   (4) 
Tier 1 capital   51,202   49,791   3 
Total eligible capital   52,163   52,725   (1) 
Risk-weighted assets   275,084   290,463   (5) 
Capital ratios (%)             
CET1 ratio   12.9   12.7  –  
Tier 1 ratio   18.6   17.1  –  
Total capital ratio   19.0   18.2  –  
Capital management 127
   
2020 Capital movement – Group Our CET1 ratio was 12.9% as of the end of 2020 compared to 
   2020   2019  12.7% as of the end of 2019. Our tier 1 ratio was 18.6% as of the 
end of 2020 compared to 17.1% as of the end of 2019. Our total 
CET1 capital (CHF million)        
capital ratio was 19.0% as of the end of 2020 compared to 18.2% 
Balance at beginning of period   36,774   35,824 
as of the end of 2019.
Net income attributable to shareholders   2,669   3,419 
Foreign exchange impact 1  (2,664)   (985) 
CET1 capital was CHF 35.4 billion as of the end of 2020, a 
Dividends   (755)   (720) 
decrease of 4% compared to CHF 36.8 billion as of the end of 
Reversal of unrealized gains on certain equity investments        
not eligible for CET1 recognition   (427)   0  2019. CET1 was mainly impacted by a negative foreign exchange 
Regulatory adjustment of goodwill and intangible assets,         impact, a dividend accrual and the reversal of unrealized gains on 
net of deferred tax liability   (389)   (137)  certain equity investments not eligible for CET1 recognition, par-
Repurchase of shares under the share buyback program   (325)   (1,000)  tially offset by net income attributable to shareholders.
Other 2  478   373 
Balance at end of period   35,361   36,774  Additional tier 1 capital was CHF 15.8 billion as of the end of 
Additional tier 1 capital (CHF million)         2020 compared to CHF 13.0 billion as of the end of 2019, 
Balance at beginning of period   13,017   10,216  mainly reflecting the issuance of high-trigger additional tier 1 cap-
Foreign exchange impact   (1,214)   (204)  ital notes, partially offset by a negative foreign exchange impact.
Issuances   3,633   2,796 
Other 3  405   209  Tier 2 capital was CHF 1.0 billion as of the end of 2020 com-
Balance at end of period   15,841   13,017  pared to CHF 2.9 billion as of the end of 2019, mainly due to the 
redemption of tier 2 low-trigger capital instruments.
Tier 2 capital (CHF million)        
Balance at beginning of period   2,934   3,508 
Total eligible capital as of the end of 2020 was CHF 52.2 billion 
Foreign exchange impact   (161)   (83) 
compared to CHF 52.7 billion as of the end of 2019, reflect-
Redemptions   (1,341)   0 
ing decreases in tier 2 capital and CET1 capital, offset by an 
Other 4  (471)   (491) 
increase in additional tier 1 capital.
Balance at end of period   961   2,934 
Eligible capital (CHF million)        
Balance at end of period   52,163   52,725 
1 Includes US GAAP cumulative translation adjustments and the foreign exchange impact 
on regulatory CET1 adjustments.
2 Includes the net effect of share-based compensation and a regulatory adjustment of 
defined benefit pension plan assets.
3 Primarily reflects valuation impacts.
4 Includes the impact of the prescribed amortization requirement as instruments move 
closer to their maturity date.
128 Capital management
   
Risk-weighted assets
to market risk, the internal models and standardized approaches 
are used. Within the Basel framework for FINMA regulatory capi-
Our balance sheet positions and off-balance sheet exposures  tal purposes, we implemented risk measurement models, includ-
translate into RWA, which are categorized as credit, market and  ing an incremental risk charge (IRC), stressed value-at-risk (VaR) 
operational RWA. When assessing RWA, it is not the nominal  and risks not in VaR (RNIV).
size, but rather the nature (including risk mitigation such as col-
lateral or hedges) of the balance sheet positions or off-balance  The IRC is a regulatory capital charge for default and migration 
sheet exposures that determines the RWA. risk on positions in the trading books and is intended to comple-
ment additional standards being applied to the VaR modeling 
Credit risk RWA reflect the capital requirements for the possibil- framework, including stressed VaR. Stressed VaR replicates 
ity of a loss being incurred as the result of a borrower or coun- a VaR calculation on the Group’s current portfolio, taking into 
terparty failing to meet its financial obligations or as a result of a  account a one-year observation period relating to significant 
deterioration in the credit quality of the borrower or counterparty.  financial stress and helps reduce the pro-cyclicality of the mini-
Under Basel III, certain regulatory capital adjustments are depen- mum capital requirements for market risk. RNIV and stressed 
dent on the level of CET1 capital (thresholds). The amount above  RNIV are risks that are not currently implemented within the 
the threshold is deducted from CET1 capital and the amount  Group’s VaR model, such as certain basis risks, higher order risks 
below the threshold is risk weighted. RWA subject to such thresh- and cross risks.
old adjustments are included in credit risk RWA. For measur-
ing the capital requirements related to credit risk, we received  For capital purposes, FINMA, in line with BIS requirements, uses 
approval from FINMA to use the advanced internal ratings-based  a multiplier to impose an increase in market risk capital for every 
(A-IRB) approach. Under the A-IRB approach for measuring  regulatory VaR backtesting exception above four in the prior roll-
credit risk, risk weights are determined by using internal risk  ing 12-month period. In 2020, our market risk capital multiplier 
parameters for probability of default (PD), loss given default  remained at FINMA and BIS minimum levels and we did not expe-
(LGD) and effective maturity. The exposure at default (EAD) is  rience an increase in market risk capital.
either derived from balance sheet values or by using models. For  > Refer to “Market risk” in Risk management for further information.
the capital requirements for counterparty credit risk, we imple-
mented the CVA, which covers the risk of mark-to-market losses  Operational risk RWA reflect the capital requirements for the 
on the expected counterparty risk arising from changes in a  risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal pro-
counterparty’s credit spreads. cesses, people and systems or from external events. For cal-
culating the capital requirements related to operational risk, we 
Market risk RWA reflect the capital requirements of potential  received approval from FINMA to use the advanced measurement 
changes in the fair values of financial instruments in response to  approach (AMA). Under the AMA for measuring operational risk, 
market movements inherent in both balance sheet and off-bal- we have identified key scenarios that describe our major opera-
ance sheet items. For calculating the capital requirements related  tional risks using an event model.
Risk-weighted assets – Group
as of December 31, 2020 (CHF billion)
Off-balance sheet  Balance sheet  Risk-weighted  
exposures positions assets  275
18 Market risk  18
Off-balance sheet  Trading assets &   Trading liabilities, short 
43
derivatives investments1 positions
Securities financing  Securities financing  6
transactions2 transactions2
Loans, receivables and  142 Credit risk  198
Guarantees, commitments
other assets
7
Premises and equipment
Processes, people, systems, 
Operational risk  59
external events
1 Includes primarily trading assets, investment securities and other investments.   
2 Includes central bank funds sold, securities purchased under resale agreements and central bank funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements and securities l ending 
transactions.
Capital management 129
   
Risk-weighted assets – Group
   Swiss   International             
   Universal    Wealth   Asia   Investment    Corporate     
end of   Bank  Management   Pacific   Bank   Center   Group 
2      020 (CHF million)        
Credit risk   69,428   29,920   20,133   53,475   25,156   198,112 
Market risk   1,598   1,962   1,645   10,749   2,363   18,317 
Operational risk   10,262   11,118   4,811   13,648   18,816   58,655 
Risk-weighted assets   81,288   43,000   26,589   77,872   46,335   275,084 
2      019 (CHF million)        
Credit risk   66,878   28,866   24,981   57,832   28,396   206,953 
Market risk   2,144   2,328   1,424   6,689   2,607   15,192 
Operational risk   11,467   12,335   5,452   17,697   21,367   68,318 
Risk-weighted assets   80,489   43,529   31,857   82,218   52,370   290,463 
Risk-weighted assets movements exposures, mainly in the Investment Bank. The movements in risk 
levels attributable to book size was primarily driven by decreased 
RWA decreased 5% to CHF 275.1 billion as of the end of 2020  advanced CVA in International Wealth Management, the Cor-
from CHF 290.5 billion as of the end of 2019, mainly reflecting  porate Center and Swiss Universal Bank, decreased derivatives 
a negative foreign exchange impact and movements in risk lev- exposures in the Corporate Center and Asia Pacific, an equity 
els, mainly in credit risk. These decreases were partially offset by  impairment loss in International Wealth Management and equity 
increases related to methodology and policy changes in credit risk  exposures in the Investment Bank.
and internal model and parameter updates in credit and market 
risk. Excluding the foreign exchange impact, the decrease in  market 
risk was primarily driven by internal model and parameter 
Excluding the foreign exchange impact, the movement in  credit  updates, mainly in the Investment Bank, primarily reflecting the 
risk was primarily driven by increases related to methodology and  market data update for regulatory VaR, as a result of the signifi-
policy changes and internal model and parameter updates, largely  cant market volatility in first half of 2020.
offset by movements in risk levels attributable to book size. The 
increase in methodology and policy changes reflected the phase- Excluding the foreign exchange impact, the decrease in 
in of certain Basel III revisions for credit risk, including SA-CCR   operational risk was mainly driven by internal model and param-
for derivatives, mainly in International Wealth Management, equity  eter updates. In addition to decreases related to the annual 
investments in funds and central counterparty default fund con- recalibration of the advanced measurement approach, we have 
tributions. The increase related to internal model and parameter  updated our operational risk RWA advanced measurement 
updates was mainly driven by a regular data update pertaining  approach in respect of historical mortgage-related settlements, 
to the advanced CVA model, primarily due to increased market  which was reflected in the Corporate Center. Internal model and 
volatility, mainly in Swiss Universal Bank, the Corporate Center  parameter updates also reflected updated operational risk alloca-
and International Wealth Management. This was partially off- tion keys, resulting in lower operational risk RWA in the Invest-
set by the implementation of a new model for corporate clients,  ment Bank, offset by higher operational risk RWA in the Corpo-
accompanied by the phase out of a multiplier on certain corporate  rate Center and International Wealth Management.
130 Capital management
   
Risk-weighted asset movement by risk type – Group
   Swiss   International             
   Universal    Wealth   Asia   Investment    Corporate     
2020   Bank  Management   Pacific   Bank   Center   Total 
C       redit risk (CHF million)        
Balance at beginning of period   66,878   28,866   24,981   57,832   28,396   206,953 
Foreign exchange impact   (1,232)   (1,855)   (1,940)   (4,971)   (2,072)   (12,070) 
Movements in risk levels   (113)   (4,064)   (3,294)   381   (4,200)   (11,290) 
   of which credit risk – book size 1  (551)   (4,598)   (2,863)   (1,208)   (3,421)   (12,641) 
   of which credit risk – book quality 2  438   534   (431)   1,589   (779)   1,351 
Model and parameter updates – internal 3  2,339   1,139   (440)   (2,129)   2,014   2,923 
Model and parameter updates – external 4  0   80   2   51   44   177 
Methodology and policy changes 5  1,556   5,754   824   2,311   974   11,419 
Balance at end of period   69,428   29,920   20,133   53,475   25,156   198,112 
M       arket risk (CHF million)        
Balance at beginning of period   2,144   2,328   1,424   6,689   2,607   15,192 
Foreign exchange impact   (186)   (252)   (216)   (1,028)   (288)   (1,970) 
Movements in risk levels   (382)   (1,149)   408   853   (782)   (1,052) 
Model and parameter updates – internal 3  22   1,035   29   4,235   826   6,147 
Balance at end of period   1,598   1,962   1,645   10,749   2,363   18,317 
O       perational risk (CHF million)        
Balance at beginning of period   11,467   12,335   5,452   17,697   21,367   68,318 
Foreign exchange impact   (1,011)   (1,098)   (469)   (1,452)   (1,881)   (5,911) 
Movements in risk levels   (14)   (140)   (97)   (293)   (6)   (550) 
Model and parameter updates – internal 3  (180)   21   (75)   (2,304)   (664)   (3,202) 
Balance at end of period   10,262   11,118   4,811   13,648   18,816   58,655 
T      otal (CHF million)        
Balance at beginning of period   80,489   43,529   31,857   82,218   52,370   290,463 
Foreign exchange impact   (2,429)   (3,205)   (2,625)   (7,451)   (4,241)   (19,951) 
Movements in risk levels   (509)   (5,353)   (2,983)   941   (4,988)   (12,892) 
Model and parameter updates – internal 3  2,181   2,195   (486)   (198)   2,176   5,868 
Model and parameter updates – external 4  0   80   2   51   44   177 
Methodology and policy changes 5  1,556   5,754   824   2,311   974   11,419 
Balance at end of period   81,288   43,000   26,589   77,872   46,335   275,084 
1 Represents changes in portfolio size.
2 Represents changes in average risk weighting across credit risk classes.
3 Represents movements arising from internally driven updates to models and recalibrations of model parameters specific only to Credit Suisse.
4 Represents movements arising from externally mandated updates to models and recalibrations of model parameters specific only to Credit Suisse.
5 Represents movements arising from externally mandated regulatory methodology and policy changes to accounting and exposure classification and treatment policies not specific only to 
Credit Suisse.
Capital management 131
   
Leverage metrics
BIS leverage metrics – Group
end of   2020   2019   % change 
Credit Suisse has adopted the BIS leverage ratio framework, as 
C  apital and  leverage exposure (CHF million)        
issued by the BCBS and implemented in Switzerland by FINMA. 
CET1 capital   35,361   36,774   (4) 
Under the BIS framework, the leverage ratio measures tier 1 cap-
Tier 1 capital   51,202   49,791  3  
ital against the end-of-period exposure. As used herein, leverage 
Leverage exposure   799,853 1   909,994   (12) 
exposure consists of period-end total assets and prescribed regu-
latory adjustments, such as derivative financial instruments, secu- Leverage ratios (%)            
rities financing transactions and off-balance sheet exposures. CET1 leverage ratio   4.4   4.0  –  
Tier 1 leverage ratio   6.4   5.5  –  
Leverage exposure – Group
1 Leverage exposure as of the end of 2020 excludes CHF 110,677 million of cash held at 
end of   2020   2019  central banks, after adjusting for the dividend paid in 2020.
Leverage exposure (CHF million)         
BIS leverage ratios – Group
Swiss Universal Bank   295,507   284,798 
International Wealth Management   104,014   99,085 
The CET1 leverage ratio was 4.4% as of the end of 2020, com-
Asia Pacific   74,307   81,090 
pared to 4.0% as of the end of 2019, mainly reflecting lower 
Investment Bank   319,339   332,019 
leverage exposure. The tier 1 leverage ratio was 6.4% as of the 
Corporate Center   6,686   113,002 
end of 2020, compared to 5.5% as of the end of 2019, mainly 
Leverage exposure   799,853   909,994 
reflecting lower leverage exposure.
The leverage exposure was CHF 799.9 billion as of the end of 
Swiss metrics
2020, which decreased 12% compared to CHF 910.0 billion as 
of the end of 2019. The decrease mainly reflects the temporary 
exclusion of central bank reserves from the leverage exposure in  Swiss capital metrics
2020, as permitted by FINMA. This temporary exclusion termi- As of the end of 2020, our Swiss CET1 capital was CHF 35.4 
nated as of January 1, 2021. billion and our Swiss CET1 ratio was 12.8%. Our going concern 
> Refer to “Balance sheet and off-balance sheet” for further information on the  capital was CHF 51.2 billion and our going concern capital ratio 
movement in the Group’s consolidated balance sheet. was 18.6%. Our gone concern capital was CHF 41.9 billion 
and our gone concern capital ratio was 15.2%. Our total loss-
absorbing capacity was CHF 93.0 billion and our TLAC ratio was 
Leverage exposure components – Group 33.8%.
end of   2020   2019   % change 
Swiss capital metrics – Group
 Leverage exposure (CHF million)          
Total assets   805,822   787,295   2  end of   2020   2019   % change 
Adjustments           S wiss capit al and risk-weighted assets (CHF million)       
   Difference in scope of consolidation            Swiss CET1 capital   35,351   36,740   (4) 
   and tier 1 capital deductions 1  (16,680)   (14,146)   18 
Going concern capital   51,192   49,757  3  
   Derivative financial instruments   68,577   75,856   (10) 
Gone concern capital   41,852   41,138   2 
   Securities financing transactions   (39,009)   (29,580)   32 
Total loss-absorbing capacity   93,044   90,895   2 
   Off-balance sheet exposures   88,944   90,569   (2) 
Swiss risk-weighted assets   275,576   291,282   (5) 
   Other   (107,801) 2  –   –  
S wiss capital ratios (%)           
Total adjustments   (5,969)   122,699  –  
Swiss CET1 ratio   12.8   12.6  –  
Leverage exposure   799,853   909,994   (12) 
Going concern capital ratio   18.6   17.1  –  
1 Includes adjustments for investments in banking, financial, insurance or commercial enti-
Gone concern capital ratio   15.2   14.1  –  
ties that are consolidated for accounting purposes but outside the scope of regulatory 
consolidation and tier 1 capital deductions related to balance sheet assets. TLAC ratio   33.8   31.2  –  
2 Includes cash held at central banks of CHF 110,677 million, after adjusting for the divi-
The Swiss capital requirements have been fully phased-in as of January 1, 2020 and the 
dend paid in 2020.
2019 balances are presented on a comparative basis as previously reported. 
Rounding differences may occur.
132 Capital management
   
Swiss capital and risk-weighted assets – Group Swiss capital and leverage ratios for Credit Suisse
end of   2020   2019   % change  Capital ratio  Leverage ratio
Swiss capital (CHF million)            
CET1 capital – BIS   35,361   36,774   (4) 
33.8%
Swiss regulatory adjustments 1  (10)   (34)   (71) 
Swiss CET1 capital   35,351   36,740   (4) 
Additional tier 1 high-trigger capital           
28.6%
instruments   11,410   8,310   37 
Grandfathered additional tier 1          
low-trigger capital instruments   4,431   4,707   (6) 
Swiss additional tier 1 capital   15,841   13,017   22  15.2%
Going concern capital   51,192   49,757  3  
BTiaeirl -2in  lodweb-ttr iingsgterur mcaepnittsa l  instruments   39,495601     372,,913724     (676)   14.3% one concern
Tier 2 amortization component   1,441   1,032   40  G
Gone concern capital 2  41,852   41,138   2 
Total loss-absorbing capacity   93,044   90,895   2 
5.8%
R  isk-weighted assets (CHF million)          
Risk-weighted assets – BIS   275,084   290,463   (5)  11.6%
4.3%
Swiss regulatory adjustments 3  492   819   (40)  10%
Swiss risk-weighted assets   275,576   291,282   (5) 
T21 h0Ien1 c9Sl uwbdaieslassn  cacadepjsui tsaatrmle r eepnqrteussir efeonmrt eecdne trosta nhi naa  vuceno rbmeeapelainzr eafduti lvlgyea  pbinhasas sioseu adtss-ii dnpe rae tsvh iooefu  tJsralaydn riuneagpr oybr o1teo, dk2..020 and the  12.8% 10% Going concern 52..02%% 5% Gone concern
2 CAt2ie0mHr1 oF29u  ,3an g4mtso6o na rmerte iizcl lasoiothninooc nwea rnncndo  o cmCnap Hpaoi Ftnlao e3lo nw7kt-2ast  sham rCroielHul iosgFunh b, 4 bjre2eac,ss1tpi9 ste.o8 c C pmtiehvirealltilsaoye,inn   oo atfuin estd rut  h2cCrh Hoi niuFnsgst r3htur 8um2,m05e72en6n2tst . ms aA.inslldi oo tnfh ,2 ei0nirc 2rle0uld aaitnnegdd    4.4% 31..55%% oing concern
G
3 Primarily includes differences in the credit risk multiplier.
End of 2020 Requirement End of 2020 Requirement
Swiss leverage metrics – Group
p CET1   p Additional tier 1   p Bail-in debt and other instruments
end of   2020   2019   % change 
Rounding differences may occur. Does not include the effects of the countercyclical buffers 
S wiss capit al and leverage exposure (CHF million)         or any rebates for resolvability and for certain tier 2 low-trigger instruments recognized in 
gone concern capital.
Swiss CET1 capital   35,351   36,740   (4) 
Going concern capital   51,192   49,757  3  
Gone concern capital   41,852   41,138   2 
Swiss leverage metrics
Total loss-absorbing capacity   93,044   90,895   2 
The leverage exposure used in the Swiss leverage ratios is mea-
Leverage exposure   799,853   909,994   (12) 
sured on the same period-end basis as the leverage exposure for 
 Swiss leverage ratios (%)            the BIS leverage ratio. As of the end of 2020, our Swiss CET1 
Swiss CET1 leverage ratio   4.4   4.0  –   leverage ratio was 4.4%, our going concern leverage ratio was 
Going concern leverage ratio   6.4   5.5  –   6.4%, our gone concern leverage ratio was 5.2% and our TLAC 
Gone concern leverage ratio   5.2 1   4.5  –   leverage ratio was 11.6%.
TLAC leverage ratio   11.6   10.0  –  
The Swiss capital requirements have been fully phased-in as of January 1, 2020 and the 
2019 balances are presented on a comparative basis as previously reported.  
Rounding differences may occur.
1 The gone concern ratio would be 4.6%, if calculated using a leverage exposure of 
CHF 910,530 million, without the temporary exclusion of cash held at central banks, after 
adjusting for the dividend paid in 2020, of CHF 110,677 million.
Capital management 133
   
Bank regulatory disclosures
Eligible capital and risk-weighted assets – Bank
end of   2020   2019   % change 
The following capital, RWA and leverage disclosures apply to the 
E ligible capital (CHF million)           
Bank. The business of the Bank is substantially the same as that 
Total shareholders’ equity   46,264   46,120   0 
of the Group, including business drivers and trends relating to 
Regulatory adjustments 1  (1,088)   (58)   – 
capital, RWA and leverage metrics.
>  Other adjustments 2  (4,475)   (4,129)   8 
Refer to “BIS capital metrics”, “Risk-weighted assets”, “Leverage metrics” and 
“Swiss metrics” for further information. CET1 capital   40,701   41,933   (3) 
Additional tier 1 instruments   14,958 3   12,091   24 
Additional tier 1 capital   14,958   12,091   24 
Tier 1 capital   55,659   54,024   3 
BIS capital metrics – Bank
Tier 2 low-trigger capital instruments           
end of   2020   2019   % change  (5% trigger)   961   2,934   (67) 
Tier 2 capital 4  961   2,934   (67) 
 Capital and  risk-weigh ted assets (CHF million)       
Total eligible capital 4  56,620   56,958   (1) 
CET1 capital   40,701   41,933   (3) 
Tier 1 capital   55,659   54,024   3  R isk-weigh ted assets  by risk type (CHF million)       
Total eligible capital   56,620   56,958   (1)  Credit risk   198,704   207,333   (4) 
Risk-weighted assets   275,676   290,843   (5)  Market risk   18,317   15,192   21 
Operational risk   58,655   68,318   (14) 
Capital ratios (%)             
Risk-weighted assets   275,676   290,843   (5) 
CET1 ratio   14.8   14.4  –  
Tier 1 ratio   20.2   18.6  –   1 Includes certain adjustments, such as a cumulative dividend accrual.
Total capital ratio   20.5   19.6  –   2 Includes certain deductions, such as goodwill, other intangible assets and certain 
deferred tax assets.
3 Consists of high-trigger and low-trigger capital instruments. Of this amount, CHF 11.4 
The Bank’s CET1 ratio was 14.8% as of the end of 2020 com- billion consists of capital instruments with a capital ratio write-down trigger of 7% and 
CHF 3.6 billion consists of capital instruments with a capital ratio write-down trigger of 
pared to 14.4% as of the end of 2019. The Bank’s tier 1 ratio 
5.125%.
was 20.2% as of the end of 2020 compared to 18.6% as of the  4 Amounts are shown on a look-through basis. Certain tier 2 instruments are subject to 
end of 2019. The Bank’s total capital ratio was 20.5% as of the  phase out through 2022. As of 2020 and 2019, total eligible capital was CHF 56,893 
million and CHF 57,271 million, including CHF 273 million and CHF 314 million of such 
end of 2020 compared to 19.6% as of the end of 2019.
instruments and the total capital ratio was 20.6% and 19.7%, respectively.
CET1 capital was CHF 40.7 billion as of the end of 2020, a  Tier 2 capital was CHF 1.0 billion as of the end of 2020 com-
decrease of 3% compared to CHF 41.9 billion as of the end of  pared to CHF 2.9 billion as of the end of 2019, mainly due to the 
2019. CET1 was mainly impacted by a negative foreign exchange  redemption of tier 2 low-trigger capital instruments.
impact, a dividend accrual and the reversal of unrealized gains on 
certain equity investments not eligible for CET1 recognition, par- The Bank’s total eligible capital was CHF 56.6 billion as of the 
tially offset by net income attributable to shareholders. end of 2020 compared to CHF 57.0 billion as of the end of 2019, 
mainly reflecting decreases in tier 2 capital and CET1 capital, off-
Additional tier 1 capital was CHF 15.0 billion as of the end of  set by an increase in additional tier 1 capital.
2020 compared to CHF 12.1 billion as of the end of 2019, mainly 
reflecting the issuance of high-trigger additional tier 1 capital  RWA decreased CHF 15.2 billion to CHF 275.7 billion as of the 
notes, partially offset by a negative foreign exchange impact. end of 2020 compared to CHF 290.8 billion as of the end of 
2019.
134 Capital management
   
Leverage exposure components – Bank Swiss capital and risk-weighted assets – Bank
end of   2020   2019   % change  end of   2020   2019   % change 
 Leverage exposure (CHF million)           Swiss capital (CHF million)            
Total assets   809,688   790,459   2  CET1 capital – BIS   40,701   41,933   (3) 
Adjustments           Swiss regulatory adjustments 1  (10)   (34)   (71) 
   Difference in scope of consolidation            Swiss CET1 capital   40,691   41,899   (3) 
   and tier 1 capital deductions 1  (14,079)   (11,545)   22 
Additional tier 1 high-trigger capital           
   Derivative financial instruments   68,651   75,906   (10)  instruments   11,408   8,315   37 
   Securities financing transactions   (39,004)   (29,580)   32  Grandfathered additional tier 1          
low-trigger capital instruments   3,549   3,776   (6) 
   Off-balance sheet exposures   88,948   90,574   (2) 
Swiss additional tier 1 capital   14,957   12,091   24 
   Other   (121,342) 2  –   –  
Going concern capital   55,648   53,990  3  
Total adjustments   (16,826)   125,355  –  
Bail-in debt instruments   39,455   37,170   6 
Leverage exposure   792,862   915,814   (13) 
Tier 2 low-trigger capital instruments   961   2,934   (67) 
1 Includes adjustments for investments in banking, financial, insurance or commercial enti-
Tier 2 amortization component   1,441   1,032   40 
ties that are consolidated for accounting purposes but outside the scope of regulatory 
consolidation and tier 1 capital deductions related to balance sheet assets. Gone concern capital 2  41,857   41,136   2 
2 Includes cash held at central banks of CHF 124,218 million, after adjusting for the divi- Total loss-absorbing capacity   97,505   95,126  3  
dend paid in 2020.
R  isk-weighted assets (CHF million)          
Risk-weighted assets – BIS   275,676   290,843   (5) 
BIS leverage metrics – Bank Swiss regulatory adjustments 3  481   808   (40) 
end of   2020   2019   % change  Swiss risk-weighted assets   276,157   291,651   (5) 
C  apital and  leverage exposure (CHF million)         The Swiss capital requirements have been fully phased-in as of January 1, 2020 and the 
CET1 capital   40,701   41,933   (3)  2019 balances are presented on a comparative basis.
1 Includes adjustments for certain unrealized gains outside the trading book.
Tier 1 capital   55,659   54,024  3   2 Amounts are shown on a look-through basis. Certain tier 2 instruments and their related 
Leverage exposure   792,862 1   915,814   (13)  tier 2 amortization components are subject to phase out through 2022. As of 2020 and 
2019, gone concern capital was CHF 42,203 million and CHF 38,574 million, including 
Leverage ratios (%)             CHF 346 million and CHF 372 million, respectively, of such instruments.
CET1 leverage ratio   5.1   4.6  –   3 Primarily includes differences in the credit risk multiplier.
Tier 1 leverage ratio   7.0   5.9  –  
Swiss leverage metrics – Bank
1 Leverage exposure as of the end of 2020 excludes CHF 124,218 million of cash held at 
central banks, after adjusting for the dividend paid in 2020. end of   2020   2019   % change 
S wiss capit al and leve rage exposure (CHF million)       
Swiss capital metrics – Bank
Swiss CET1 capital   40,691   41,899   (3) 
end of   2020   2019   % change  Going concern capital   55,648   53,990  3  
S wiss capit al and risk -weighted assets (CHF million)        Gone concern capital   41,857   41,136   2 
Swiss CET1 capital   40,691   41,899   (3)  Total loss-absorbing capacity   97,505   95,126  3  
Going concern capital   55,648   53,990  3   Leverage exposure   792,862   915,814   (13) 
Gone concern capital   41,857   41,136   2 
S wiss leverage ratios (%)           
Total loss-absorbing capacity   97,505   95,126  3  
Swiss CET1 leverage ratio   5.1   4.6  –  
Swiss risk-weighted assets   276,157   291,651   (5) 
Going concern leverage ratio   7.0   5.9  –  
S wiss capital ratios (%)            Gone concern leverage ratio   5.3 1   4.5  –  
Swiss CET1 ratio   14.7   14.4  –   TLAC leverage ratio   12.3   10.4  –  
Going concern capital ratio   20.2   18.5  –  
The Swiss capital requirements have been fully phased-in as of January 1, 2020 and the 
Gone concern capital ratio   15.2   14.1  –   2019 balances are presented on a comparative basis. 
TLAC ratio   35.3   32.6  –   Rounding differences may occur.
1 The gone concern ratio would be 4.6%, if calculated using a leverage exposure of 
The Swiss capital requirements have been fully phased-in as of January 1, 2020 and the  CHF 917,080 million, without the temporary exclusion of cash held at central banks, after 
2019 balances are presented on a comparative basis.  adjusting for the dividend paid in 2020, of CHF 124,218 million.
Rounding differences may occur.
Capital management 135
   
Shareholders’ equity
Bank
The Bank’s total shareholders’ equity was CHF 46.3 billion as of 
Group the end of 2020 compared to CHF 46.1 billion  as of the end of 
The Group’s total shareholders’ equity was CHF 42.7 billion as  2019. Total shareholders’ equity was positively impacted by net 
of the end of 2020 compared to CHF 43.6 billion as of the end  income attributable to shareholders and an increase in the share-
of 2019. Total shareholders’ equity was negatively impacted  based compensation obligation. These movements were partially 
by foreign exchange-related movements on cumulative transla- offset by foreign exchange-related movements on cumulative 
tion adjustments, transactions relating to the settlement of share  translation adjustments and transactions relating to the settlement 
based-compensation awards, dividends paid and the repurchase  of share-based compensation awards.
of shares under the share buyback program. These movements 
were mostly offset by net income attributable to shareholders and 
an increase in the share-based compensation obligation.
> 
Refer to the “Consolidated statements of changes in equity” in VI – Consoli-
dated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group for further information on the 
Group’s total shareholders’ equity.
Shareholders’ equity and share metrics
        Group        Bank 
end of   2020   2019   % change   2020   2019   % change 
S      hareholders’ equity (CHF million)          
Common shares   98   102   (4)   4,400   4,400   0 
Additional paid-in capital   33,323   34,661   (4)   46,232   45,774   1 
Retained earnings   32,834   30,634  7    15,871   13,492   18 
Treasury shares, at cost   (428)   (1,484)   (71)   –   –  –  
Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)   (23,150)   (20,269)   14   (20,239)   (17,546)   15 
Total shareholders’ equity   42,677   43,644   (2)   46,264   46,120   0 
Goodwill   (4,426)   (4,663)   (5)   (3,755)   (3,960)   (5) 
Other intangible assets   (237)   (291)   (19)   (237)   (291)   (19) 
Tangible shareholders’ equity 1  38,014   38,690   (2)   42,272   41,869   1 
S      hares outstanding (million)          
Common shares issued   2,447.7   2,556.0   (4)   4,399.7   4,399.7   0 
Treasury shares   (41.6)   (119.8)   (65)  –   –   –  
Shares outstanding   2,406.1   2,436.2   (1)   4,399.7   4,399.7   0 
P      ar value (CHF)          
Par value   0.04   0.04   0   1.00   1.00   0 
B      ook value per share (CHF)          
Total book value per share   17.74   17.91   (1)   10.52   10.48   0 
Goodwill per share   (1.84)   (1.91)   (4)   (0.85)   (0.90)   (6) 
Other intangible assets per share   (0.10)   (0.12)   (17)   (0.06)   (0.06)   0 
Tangible book value per share 1  15.80   15.88   (1)   9.61   9.52   1 
1 Management believes that tangible shareholders’ equity and tangible book value per share, both non-GAAP financial measures, are meaningful as they are measures used and relied 
upon by industry analysts and investors to assess valuations and capital adequacy.
Foreign exchange exposure CARMC and are regularly reviewed. Foreign exchange risk asso-
Foreign exchange risk associated with investments in branches,  ciated with the nonfunctional currency net assets of branches and 
subsidiaries and affiliates is managed within defined parameters  subsidiaries is managed through a combination of forward-look-
that create a balance between the interests of stability of capital  ing and concurrent backward-looking hedging activity, which is 
adequacy ratios and the preservation of Swiss franc shareholders’  aimed at reducing the foreign exchange rate induced volatility of 
equity. The decisions regarding these parameters are made by  reported earnings.
136 Capital management
   
Share purchases
Issuer purchases of equity securities
           of which 
The Swiss Code of Obligations limits a corporation’s ability to hold             share buyback program 2 
or repurchase its own shares. We may only repurchase shares if     Total   Average   Total    Maximum 
   number   price paid   number  amount that 
we have sufficient free reserves to pay the purchase price, and     of shares   per share   of shares   may yet be 
if the aggregate nominal value of the repurchased shares does     purchased   purchased   purchased   purchased 
in   (million) 1   (CHF)   (million)  (CHF million) 3 
not exceed 10% of our nominal share capital. Furthermore, we 
must create a special reserve in our parent company’s financial  2020                
statements in the amount of the purchase price of the acquired  January   82.3   13.28   6.8   911 
shares. In our consolidated financial statements, own shares are  February   53.5   12.79   8.5   800 
recorded at cost and reported as treasury shares, resulting in a  March   144.2   8.24   13.2   675 
reduction in total shareholders’ equity. Shares repurchased by us  April   43.9   8.09   0.0   675 
do not carry any voting rights at shareholders’ meetings. May   52.3   8.22   0.0   675 
June   76.4   9.79   0.0   675 
In 2020, we purchased 1,303.3 million treasury shares and sold  July   33.8   9.88   0.0   675 
or re-issued 1,222.4 million treasury shares. Of these, 1,274.8  August   93.1   10.23   0.0   675 
million shares were purchased through open market transac- September   118.1   9.64   0.0   675 
tions, predominantly for market-making purposes and facilitat- October   194.0   9.40   0.0   675 
ing customer orders and to meet the Group’s delivery obligations  November   230.5   10.63   0.0   675 
with respect to share-based compensation. As of December 31,  December   181.2   11.35   0.0   675 
2020, the Group held 41.6 million treasury shares. Total share purchases   1,303.3   –   28.5   – 
> 
Refer to “Note 27 – Accumulated other comprehensive income and additional  1 We purchased 1,274.8 million shares in 2020, other than through the share buyback 
share information” in VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse  program, through open market transactions, predominantly for market-making purposes 
Group for information on movement in treasury shares. and facilitating customer orders as well as to meet the Group’s delivery obligations with 
respect to share-based compensation.
2 At the 2019 Investor Day on December 11, 2019, we announced a share buyback pro-
As announced at the 2019 Investor Day on December 11, 2019,  gram of Group ordinary shares for 2020. The Board of Directors approved the share buy-
the Board of Directors approved a share buyback program for  back program of up to CHF 1.5 billion. The program was suspended in March 2020 and 
completed on December 30, 2020.
2020 of up to CHF 1.5 billion. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, 
3 Based on our stated intention to buy back at least CHF 1.0 billion of shares.
we had expected to buy back at least CHF 1.0 billion of shares 
in 2020, subject to market and economic conditions. We com-
menced the 2020 share buyback program on January 6, 2020 
Dividends and dividend policy
and acquired our own shares on a second trading line on the SIX 
Swiss Exchange, subject to deduction of applicable Swiss fed-
eral withholding tax. As of March 13, 2020, we had bought back  Under the Swiss Code of Obligations, dividends may be paid out 
CHF 325 million worth of shares. In light of the market volatility  only if and to the extent the corporation has distributable profits 
and the expected impact of COVID-19 on economic activity, the  from previous business years, or if the free reserves of the corpo-
buyback program was suspended in March 2020. In July 2020,  ration are sufficient to allow distribution of a dividend. In addition, 
we cancelled 108.3 million common shares, which we had bought  at least 5% of the annual net profits must be retained and booked 
back under the 2019 and 2020 share buyback programs. The  as general legal reserves for so long as these reserves amount 
cancellation of the shares was approved at the Annual General  to less than 20% of the paid-in share capital. Our reserves cur-
Meeting on April 30, 2020. On December 30, 2020, the 2020  rently exceed this 20% threshold. Furthermore, dividends may 
share buyback program was completed. be paid out only after shareholder approval at the Annual General 
Meeting (AGM). The Board of Directors may propose that a divi-
As announced on October 29, 2020, the Board of Directors  dend be paid out, but cannot itself set the dividend. In Switzer-
approved an additional share buyback program for 2021 of up to  land, the auditors are required to confirm whether the appropria-
CHF 1.5 billion. We expect to buy back at least CHF 1.0 billion of  tion of retained earnings is in accordance with Swiss law and the 
shares in 2021, subject to market and economic conditions. We  company’s articles of incorporation. In practice, the shareholders 
commenced the 2021 share buyback program on January 12,  usually approve the dividend proposal of the Board of Directors. 
2021 and are acquiring our own shares on a second trading line on  Dividends are usually due and payable after the shareholders’ 
the SIX Swiss Exchange, subject to deduction of applicable Swiss  resolution relating to the allocation of profits has been passed. 
federal withholding tax. As of March 12, 2021, we had bought  Under the Swiss Code of Obligations, the statute of limitations 
back CHF 209 million worth of shares. Shares repurchased in  in respect of claiming the payment of dividends that have been 
2021 are expected to be cancelled by means of a capital reduction  declared is five years.
to be proposed at a future annual general meeting of shareholders.
> 
Refer to “Impact of share-based compensation on shareholders’ equity” in V – 
Compensation – Supplementary information for further information.
Capital management 137
   
In light of the COVID-19 pandemic and in response to a request  individuals holding the shares as a private investment, and 50% 
by FINMA, on April 9, 2020, the Board of Directors made a  will be paid out of retained earnings, net of 35% Swiss withhold-
revised dividend proposal to our shareholders at the 2020 AGM.  ing tax. The ex-dividend date has been set to May 4, 2021.
Instead of a total dividend of CHF 0.2776 per share, the Board of 
Directors proposed a cash distribution of CHF 0.1388 per share.  Reflecting our holding company structure, the Group is not an 
At the 2020 AGM on April 30, 2020, our shareholders approved  operating company and holds investments in subsidiaries. It is 
the proposal. On October 29, 2020, the Board of Directors  therefore reliant on the dividends of its subsidiaries to pay share-
proposed a second cash distribution of CHF 0.1388 per share,  holder dividends and service its long-term debt. The subsidiar-
which was approved by our shareholders at an Extraordinary  ies of the Group are generally subject to legal restrictions on the 
General Meeting on November 27, 2020. amount of dividends they can pay. The amount of dividends paid 
by operating subsidiaries is determined after consideration of 
For each distribution, 50% of the distributions was paid out of  the expectations for future results and growth of the operating 
capital contribution reserves, free of Swiss withholding tax and  businesses.
not subject to income tax for Swiss resident individuals hold- > Refer to “Proposed distribution out of capital contribution reserves” in VII 
ing the shares as a private investment, and 50% was paid out of  – Parent company financial statements – Credit Suisse Group – Proposed 
appropriation of retained earnings and capital distribution for further informa-
retained earnings, net of 35% Swiss withholding tax.
tion on dividends.
Our dividend payment policy seeks to provide investors with an 
efficient form of capital distribution relative to earnings. Our divi- Dividend per ordinary share
dend payment policy is to pay a cash dividend per share, subject     USD 1   CHF 
to performance and the decision of the Board of Directors and 
Dividend per ordinary share for the financial year        
approval of our shareholders in due course. We expect to gen-
2019   0.2761   0.2776 
erate a sustainable ordinary dividend for shareholders and to 
2018   0.257126   0.2625 
increase the ordinary dividend by at least 5% per annum.
2017   0.249   0.25 
2016   0.7161   0.70 
Our Board of Directors will propose to the shareholders at the 
2015   0.7194   0.70 
AGM on April 30, 2021 a cash distribution of CHF 0.2926 per 
share for the financial year 2020. 50% of the distribution will be  1 Represents the distribution on each American Depositary Share. For further information, 
refer to credit-suisse.com/dividend.
paid out of capital contribution reserves, free of Swiss withhold-
ing tax and will not be subject to income tax for Swiss resident 
138 Capital management
   
Risk management
As of the end of 2020, the Group had a gross loan portfolio of CHF 293.5 
billion, gross impaired loans of CHF 3.2 billion and, in 2020, an average 
risk management VaR of USD 76 million.
In 2020, we decisively navigated the COVID-19 pandemic due to  markets and the global economy significantly recovered from May 
prudent risk management, structurally well-contained credit risk  through August as lockdowns and social distancing restrictions 
across our portfolio and our strong capital position. Despite the  due to the pandemic eased in Europe, the US and Asia, high 
challenges resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, on August 1,  unemployment and the rise in corporate debt brought a levelling 
2020 we unified the risk management (Risk) and compliance  off in the scale of recovery in the final months of 2020 and dur-
(Compliance) organizations into one Chief Risk and Compliance  ing the first months of 2021. In addition, the surge in COVID-
Officer function (Risk & Compliance) to further enhance the  19 infections in Europe, in the US and in some countries in Asia 
effectiveness and the efficiency of our control environment and  that began in September 2020 led to the introduction of new 
improve coordination within the function. localized and in some cases national restrictions on economic 
activity, which were extended far into the first quarter of 2021. 
Our Risk function’s key achievements in 2020 included the  The approval by the authorities of COVID-19 vaccines start-
enhancement of our crisis reporting capabilities and the support  ing in December and the inception of mass inoculation programs 
of the swift delivery of COVID-19 loans to small and medium- increased the prospect of social and economic activity return-
sized enterprises in Switzerland. ing to normal from the second quarter of 2021. However, the 
situation remains challenging given the need to limit COVID-19 
Our Compliance function continued to provide second line of  infection rates in the near term to contain the emergence of new 
defense management of compliance risks in alignment with the  COVID-19 strains where current vaccines may be less effective.
Group’s risk appetite, enabling compliant business growth. In 
2020, the Group made significant progress on its compliance  The pandemic and the consequences for markets and the global 
strategy, with a continued focus on capability enhancements and  economy affected the Group’s financial performance in 2020, 
standardization of its compliance program framework Group-wide. including significant impacts on our provision for credit losses and 
trading revenues, as well as on net interest income as a result of 
Risk & Compliance is focused on delivering on its core purpose  foreign exchange movements and a sharp reduction in US dollar 
– to partner with the business to seek to ensure our actions are  interest rates. We continue to closely monitor the COVID-19 pan-
strategic, sustainable and compliant with the risk appetite of the  demic and its effects on our operations and businesses.
Group.
Credit and equity markets
Private sector corporate debt growth was rapid in 2020. The 
Key risk developments
COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted specific sectors, 
such as commercial real estate, retail, aviation, tourism and hos-
We are closely monitoring the following key risk and global eco- pitality and energy. The Fed and other central banks supported 
nomic developments as well as the potential effects on our opera- corporates under the difficult conditions of 2020 and early 2021 
tions and businesses, including through the reassessment of  but the extension of their asset purchase programs into the higher 
financial plans and the development of stress scenarios that take  risk segments of the debt markets could have the unintended 
into account potential additional negative impacts. 2020 was sig- consequence of encouraging excessive risk-taking among global 
nificantly shaped by the COVID-19 pandemic. investors, fueling the threat of future financial market instabil-
ity. Credit markets suffered a substantial number of corporate 
COVID-19 pandemic defaults during the course of 2020 and a slower-than expected or 
The rapid spread of the COVID-19 pandemic across the world in  delayed economic recovery in 2021 could further increase default 
early 2020 led to the introduction of tight government controls  rates.
and travel bans, as well as the implementation of other measures, 
which quickly closed down activity and increased economic dis- The volume of trading by retail investors in January and February 
ruption globally. World markets were severely impacted, with mul- of 2021 challenging large short positions held by hedge funds 
tiple industries, including commercial real estate, retail, aviation,  also raised questions over market collusion, investor protection 
tourism and hospitality and energy, significantly affected. The  and potentially excessive risk-taking. The need for trading plat-
containment measures introduced to address the outbreak of the  forms favored by retail investors to raise significant amounts of 
pandemic sent the global economy into a deep recession in the  additional capital shows that such activities have grown to poten-
first half of 2020. However, major central banks and governments  tially become systemic threats to future financial market stability. 
around the world responded by implementing unprecedented  Risk has been monitoring potential short squeeze target positions.
monetary and fiscal policy stimulus measures. Although world 
Risk management 139
   
China relations on global investor behavior and across the financial markets of 
The economic recession related to the COVID-19 pandemic  central bank policy rates staying at current very low levels for 
threatened to lead to a renewed trade tariff escalation between  an extended period of time. We also run stress scenarios which 
the US and China, a further increase of tensions on technology- model the potential impact of surprise events, such as sharply 
related issues and a potential acceleration in a trend to a more  higher inflation, on the financial markets and on the economy.
protectionist environment for financial flows and for longer-term 
investments. In addition, changes to national security laws in  US elections
Hong Kong in 2020 increased tensions between China and the  There was a period of high volatility in the financial markets lead-
US, as well as with European countries and Australia. Further,  ing up to the November 2020 US elections, reflecting fears that 
relations with India may be impacted by rising geopolitical com- confirmation of the election outcomes could be delayed or that 
petition and as India increasingly positions itself as an alternative  outcomes could be disputed. Government initiatives to contain 
manufacturing sector hub to China. Under the new US admin- the further spread of the pandemic also intensified while an addi-
istration, relations between the US and China are expected to  tional fiscal support program for businesses and households was 
become less confrontational, but challenges over technology  agreed in December 2020. In addition, the new administration 
transfers and intellectual property rights are expected to continue.  proposed another budget stimulus package in the beginning of 
We closely monitor the risk management implications of a poten- 2021 and the vaccination program against the pandemic acceler-
tial expansion of sanctions on Chinese companies, disruptions to  ated sharply.
global supply chains and the increased scrutiny regarding listing 
requirements for Chinese companies on stock exchanges. Withdrawal of the UK from the EU
The transition period for the UK’s withdrawal from the EU ended 
Emerging markets and geopolitical risks on December 31, 2020. Ahead of that time there was a risk that 
There are many emerging market countries which are highly  there would be no final agreement between the UK and the EU 
rated by the credit rating agencies and which are well-placed to  by that date on detailed trade arrangements. That uncertainty, 
deal with the impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic. However,  in particular against the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
some countries faced prolonged challenges in controlling infec- created disruptions in the UK in December, with some spill-
tion rates. In addition, many sovereigns with weak balance sheets  over on EU countries such as Ireland. A detailed trade arrange-
have seen negative impacts from the pandemic and suffered  ment for the shipment of goods was eventually reached between 
some adverse financial impacts, such as significant and disorderly  the UK and the EU by December 31, 2020. However, agree-
currency depreciations. The pandemic brought deep recessions  ment on equivalence regimes for financial market transactions 
to the major emerging market countries, with the exception of  are only expected to be finalized in the first half of 2021. We are 
China, in the first half of 2020. Economic recovery occurred in  continuing to closely monitor the potential operational implica-
most countries in the second half of 2020 as well as a return  tions on transactions and on the functioning of financial markets 
of foreign capital inflows, but further economic improvement in  caused by changes to equivalence regimes or future regulatory 
2021 is expected to be slow and uneven. Government responses  divergence.
to the COVID-19 crisis will leave a legacy of significantly higher 
sovereign debt levels, which may weigh on the ability of econo- Climate change
mies to grow rapidly over the medium-to-long term. In addi- Climate risk has continued to gain momentum as a significant 
tion, low-income groups have suffered significantly as a result of  issue for banks and financial institutions due to increasing regula-
the COVID-19 recessions. This is expected to worsen income  tory initiatives, industry developments, client and investor expec-
inequalities, complicate economic policy-making and keep the  tations and public pressure. There is also increasing demand for 
risk of political instability and social unrest in certain regions in  comprehensive disclosure. We have made significant progress 
which we operate relatively high. Portfolio reviews into vulnerabili- to address this demand and our Board of Directors (Board) and 
ties and exposures are conducted on a regular basis for select  management remain highly focused on the topic. We further 
emerging markets.  intensified our efforts to reinforce climate risk management by 
creating a dedicated Climate Risk function. We have created a 
Monetary policy model for a client energy transition framework that would guide 
In the new policy framework introduced at the end of August  our engagements and impose restrictions against lending to cli-
2020, the Fed moved to a flexible average inflation target of 2%  ents with no credible transition plans in place. We continue to 
per annum. Fed guidance, reiterated in January at the Fed- develop our related risk taxonomy, scenario and other related 
eral Open Market Committee, pointed to the funds rate staying  frameworks.
close to zero until late 2023, which indicated that the targeted 
inflation rate would be challenging to achieve and that the Fed’s  Cyber risk
2021 priority will be to support economic activity and to help lift  The financial industry continues to be increasingly reliant on 
employment. Other major central banks also reviewed their mon- technology and faces dynamic cyber threats from a variety of 
etary policy framework and in the near term will focus on sup- actors. We continue to invest significantly in our information and 
porting activity and employment, rather than being concerned  cybersecurity program in order to strengthen our ability to antici-
about a surge in inflation. We closely monitor the potential impact  pate, detect, defend against and recover from cyber attacks. We 
140 Risk management
   
regularly assess the effectiveness of our key controls and con- p  Establish a clear risk appetite that sets out the types and lev-
duct ongoing employee training and awareness activities, includ- els of risk we are prepared to take;
ing for key management personnel, in order to embed resilience  p  Have in place risk management and compliance policies that 
and a strong cyber risk culture. In response to the COVID-19  set out authorities and responsibilities for taking and managing 
pandemic, the Group has increased the usage of remote working  risks;
technology and has adapted controls to address the increased  p  Seek to establish resilient risk constraints that promote mul-
cyber risk exposure. tiple perspectives on risk and reduce the reliance on single risk 
measures;
Replacement of interbank offered rates p  Actively monitor risks and take mitigating actions where they 
A major structural change in global financial markets is in prog- fall outside accepted levels; and
ress with respect to the replacement of IBOR benchmarks. There  p  Breaches of risk limits or tolerances are identified, analyzed 
is significant international and regulatory pressure to replace  and escalated, and large, repeated or unauthorized exceptions 
certain IBOR benchmarks with alternative reference rates. There  may lead to terminations, adverse adjustments to compensa-
are significant risks associated with the transition, including  tion or other disciplinary action.
financial, legal, tax, operational and conduct risks and the risk 
of an untimely transition due to a lack of client or market readi-
ness. Credit Suisse has a significant level of liabilities and assets  Culture
linked to IBOR indices across businesses that require transition to 
alternative reference rates and has mobilized an IBOR transition  Risk culture encompasses a shared set of values across the 
program to coordinate transition readiness on a firm-wide basis.  Group that fosters the importance, understanding and control of 
To manage transition risk, the Group implemented a global policy  risk.
to limit new IBOR-referencing business and control the wind-
down of legacy exposures in advance of the cessation dates.  The Group promotes a strong risk culture where employees are 
Accordingly, the divisions are developing plans to ensure timely  empowered to take accountability for identifying and escalating 
compliance with the policy and limits therein. During the course of  risks and for challenging inappropriate actions. The businesses 
2020, we incorporated alternative reference rates into our stress  are held accountable for managing all of the risks they generate, 
testing framework. including those relating to employee behavior and conduct, in line 
with our risk appetite. Expectations on risk culture are regularly 
communicated by senior management, reinforced through policies 
Risk management oversight
and training, and considered in the performance assessment and 
compensation processes and, with respect to employee conduct, 
Prudent risk-taking in line with the Group’s strategic priorities is  assessed by formal disciplinary review committees.
fundamental to our business and success. The primary objec-
tives of risk management are to protect our financial strength and  We seek to promote responsible behavior through the Group’s 
reputation, while ensuring that capital is well deployed to support  Code of Conduct, which provides a clear statement on the behav-
business activities and growth. The Group’s risk management  ioral expectations of our employees and members of the Board, 
framework is based on transparency, management accountability  in order to maintain and strengthen our reputation for integrity, 
and independent oversight. Risk management is an integral part  fair dealing and measured risk-taking. In addition, through 2020 
of the business planning process with strong senior management  our Conduct and Ethics Standards were an important part of 
and Board involvement. embedding our desired behaviors into our business strategy and 
the organizational fabric. 
We continuously work to strengthen risk management across 
the Group in an effort to meet the challenges resulting from a  In January 2021, we announced the evolution of our Code of 
volatile market environment and increasing complexity driven by  Conduct to include a refreshed set of cultural values (inclusion, 
the changing regulatory landscape. Utilizing comprehensive risk  meritocracy, partnership, accountability, client focus and trust) 
management processes and sophisticated control systems, we  which continue to focus on the important components origi-
continuously work to minimize the negative impact that may arise  nally outlined in our previous Conduct and Ethics Standards, but 
from risk concentrations. present them in a modernized and updated framework. In 2021, 
the Code of Conduct was updated to align with the new cultural 
The Group’s business operations are based on conscious and  values.
disciplined risk-taking. We believe that independent risk manage- > Refer to “Conduct risk” in Risk coverage and management – Non-financial risk 
ment, compliance and audit processes with proper management  for further information.
accountability are critical to the interests and concerns of stake- > Refer to “credit-suisse.com/sustainabilityreport” for our Sustainability Report.
holders. The Group’s approach to risk management is supported 
by the following principles:
Risk management 141
   
Governance The Group’s operations are regulated by authorities in each of 
the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Central banks 
Effective governance sets a solid foundation for comprehensive  and other bank regulators, financial services agencies, securi-
risk management discipline. The Group’s risk governance frame- ties agencies and exchanges and self-regulatory organizations 
work is based on a “three lines of defense” governance model,  are among the regulatory authorities that oversee our businesses. 
where each line has a specific role with defined responsibilities  FINMA is our primary regulator.
and works in close collaboration to identify, assess and mitigate  > Refer to “Regulation and supervision” in I – Information on the company for 
risks. further information.
The first line of defense is the front office, which is responsible  The Group’s governance includes a committee structure and a 
for pursuing suitable business opportunities within the strategic  comprehensive set of corporate policies which are developed, 
risk objectives and compliance requirements of the Group. Its pri- reviewed and approved by the Board, the Executive Board, their 
mary responsibility is to ensure compliance with relevant legal and  respective committees, the Chief Risk and Compliance Officer 
regulatory requirements, maintain effective internal controls and  (CRCO) and the board of directors of significant subsidiaries, 
ensure that the Group operates within its risk appetite. in accordance with their respective responsibilities and levels of 
authority.
The second line of defense includes functions across the Group  > Refer to “Board of Directors” and “Executive Board” in IV – Corporate Gover-
such as Risk & Compliance, General Counsel (including Regula- nance for further information.
tory Affairs) and Product Control. The functions within the second 
line articulate standards and expectations for the effective man- Board of Directors
agement of risk and controls, including advising on, publishing  The Board is responsible for our strategic direction, supervision 
related policies on and assessing compliance with applicable legal  and control, and for defining our overall tolerance for risk. In par-
and regulatory requirements. They are responsible for reviewing,  ticular, the Board approves the risk management framework and 
measuring and challenging front office activities and for produc- sets overall risk appetite in consultation with its Risk Committee 
ing independent assessments and risk reporting for senior man- (Risk Committee) among other responsibilities and authorities 
agement and regulatory authorities. Risk & Compliance is also  defined in the Organizational Guidelines and Regulations (OGR).
responsible for articulating and designing the risk appetite frame-
work across the Group. The Risk Committee is responsible for assisting the Board in 
fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by periodically reviewing the 
The third line of defense is the Internal Audit function, which  Risk function, its resources and key risks.
monitors the effectiveness of controls across various functions 
and operations, including risk management, compliance and gov-
ernance practices.
Key management bodies and committees covering risk management matters
Group / Bank
Board of Directors
Conduct and Financial Crime   
Risk Committee Audit Committee Compensation Committee
Control Committee
Executive Board 
Executive Board Risk Forum
Capital Allocation & Risk Management Committee (CARMC)
Valuation Risk Management  
Position & Client Risk (PCR) Asset & Liability  Management (ALM) Internal Control S ystem (ICS) Committee (VARMC)
Divisional risk management committees1 Legal entities
p Risk boards and management committees for certain significant legal entities 
Swiss Universal Bank Asia Pacific
with independent governance and oversight
International   p Responsible for assuring local regulatory compliance as well as defining local 
Wealth Management Investment Bank risk appetite
1 Divisional risks may be covered by the respective legal entity risk management committees.
142 Risk management
   
The Audit Committee is responsible for assisting the Board in  and manage the risk portfolio. CARMC will furthermore escalate 
fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by monitoring management’s  items requiring additional oversight to the Executive Board Risk 
approach with respect to financial reporting, internal controls,  Forum. There are three cycles of CARMC, which each meet at 
accounting and legal and regulatory compliance. Additionally, the  least quarterly. 
Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the independence  p  The Position & Client Risk (PCR) cycle determines the risk 
and performance of internal and external auditors. management strategy and approves risk appetite and other 
appropriate measures relating to the market, credit, liquidity, 
The Conduct and Financial Crime Control Committee is  reputational, sustainability, environmental and social risks of 
responsible for assisting the Board in fulfilling its oversight duties  clients or industries across the various businesses within the 
with respect to the Group’s exposure to financial crime risk. It  Group. 
is tasked with monitoring and assessing the effectiveness of  p  The Asset & Liability Management (ALM) cycle reviews the 
financial crime compliance programs and initiatives focused on  funding and balance sheet trends and activities, plans and 
improving conduct and vigilance within the context of combatting  monitors regulatory and business liquidity requirements and 
financial crime. internal and regulatory capital adequacy, provides governance 
and oversight over all material business migrations and ensures 
The Compensation Committee is responsible for determin- that legal entity strategic initiatives are within the Group’s risk 
ing, reviewing and proposing compensation principles for the  appetite and appropriately supported and controlled.
Group. Under the compensation risk framework, various corpo- p  The Internal Control System (ICS) cycle monitors and analyzes 
rate functions including Risk & Compliance, General Counsel,  significant non-financial risks (including operational, legal and 
Human Resources, Internal Audit and Product Control provide  compliance risks), reviews and approves the business conti-
input for the assessment of the divisions’ and certain individuals’  nuity program’s alignment with the corporate strategy on an 
overall risk and conduct performance and determine an overall  annual basis, sets risk constraints on specific businesses and 
risk rating, which is presented to the chairs of the Compensa- functions to control significant non-financial risks (including 
tion Committee, Risk Committee and Audit Committee, and is  operational risk exposure) and reviews and assesses the ade-
contemplated as part of the divisions’ and certain individuals’  quacy and effectiveness of the internal control system.
performance. 
The Valuation Risk Management Committee (VARMC) is 
Executive Board responsible for establishing policies regarding the valuation of 
The Executive Board is responsible for establishing our strategic  certain material assets and the policies and calculation meth-
business plans, subject to approval by the Board, and imple- odologies applied in the valuation process. Further, VARMC is 
menting such plans. It further reviews and coordinates significant  responsible for monitoring and assessing valuation risks, review-
initiatives within the Risk & Compliance function and approves  ing inventory valuation conclusions and directing the resolution of 
Group-wide risk policies. The CRCO represents the Risk & Com- significant inventory valuation issues.
pliance function and provides regular information and reports to 
the Executive Board and the Board. Divisional and legal entity risk management committees
Divisional and legal entity risk management committees review 
Executive Board Risk Forum risk, legal, compliance and internal control matters specific to the 
The Executive Board Risk Forum, chaired by the CRCO, was  divisions and individual legal entities, respectively.
established in 2020. The forum is responsible for determining 
the management strategy for critical risk and compliance issues  Risk & Compliance organization
at the Group and/or cross-divisional level, reviewing and resolv-
ing issues pertaining to risk escalated by the Capital Allocation &  The risk management functions (Risk) within Risk & Compli-
Risk Management Committee (CARMC) or any Executive Board  ance are responsible for providing risk management oversight and 
member, reviewing and overseeing critical approvals including, but  establishing an organizational basis to manage risk matters. Risk 
not limited to, risk appetite and the risk framework and monitoring  challenges and engages with the business divisions in shaping 
of key risk and compliance trends and relevant metrics. the divisions’ and the Group’s risk profiles.
Executive Board committees The key organizational elements include a structure consisting of 
divisional/legal entity coverage and global risk type functions. The 
The Capital Allocation & Risk Management Committee  structure reflects the Group’s business strategy and legal entity 
(CARMC) is responsible for overseeing and directing our risk  considerations and is supported by strategy-enabling functions.
profile, recommending risk limits at the Group level to the Risk 
Committee and the Board, establishing and allocating risk appe- The organization has continued to evolve, including the modi-
tite among the various businesses, reviewing new significant  fication and formation of certain global risk type and strategy-
business strategies or changes in business strategies including  enabling functions, in order to support our efforts to drive strate-
business migrations, making risk-related decisions on escalations,  gic and sustainable returns on risk that reflect the risk appetite of 
and for applying measures, methodologies and tools to monitor  the Group.
Risk management 143
   
Compliance is an independent global function within Risk & Com- ensuring alignment of the risk management activities within our 
pliance that works with the businesses to manage risks arising  divisions.
from the potential failure to comply with applicable laws, regula-
tions, rules or market standards. As a second line of defense  Legal entity chief risk officers provide risk oversight for certain 
function, responsibilities include independently assessing compli- significant legal entities in the locations of our main operations. 
ance risk, executing monitoring and testing activities and report- They are responsible for ensuring that Group risk appetite frame-
ing on adherence to our compliance risk appetite and other mate- works and related policies are applied consistently and according 
rial matters to the Board and senior management. Compliance  to local requirements.
creates, implements and monitors compliance policies and pro-
cedures to prevent or detect compliance breaches of employees  Divisional chief compliance officers, who also provide compliance 
and clients. Compliance is mandated to ensure that regulatory  oversight for the most significant legal entities in their respective 
and compliance risks are adequately overseen and managed in  regions, are responsible for providing independent oversight and 
the organization and is also responsible for the identification and  control over the compliance risks and regulatory risks relating to 
remediation of significant breaches of the Group’s compliance  their respective divisions and legal entities.
processes and controls. Compliance runs global risk oversight 
programs, for example cross border and client tax compliance,  Strategy-enabling functions
and establishes and monitors policies, guidelines, procedures and  Data & Technology (including Digital Transformation & Products 
controls related to potential risks such as money laundering, brib- Labs), a shared function within Risk & Compliance, drives the 
ery and corruption and sanctions. transformation of key front to back processes and the delivery of 
advanced analytics, case management, self-service digital assis-
Global risk and compliance functions tance and robotics capabilities on a common platform.
The global risk type functions design our risk appetite framework 
and ensure globally harmonized models and methodologies. They  Regulatory Affairs
comprise Credit Risk (including reputational risk), Market Risk, 
Non-Financial Risk, Independent Validation & Review, Treasury  On September 1, 2020, Regulatory Affairs was combined with 
& Liquidity Risk, Enterprise Risk Management and Quantitative  the Group’s Public Policy and Regulatory Foresight and Intel-
Analysis & Technology and are accountable for functional risk  ligence teams, forming the new Public Policy and Regulatory 
oversight and the risk constraint framework at the global and local  Affairs department within the General Counsel function. By com-
legal entity level. They are also responsible for functional mod- bining these three teams, the Group brings the key Regulatory 
els, methodologies and policies and function-related regulatory  Affairs functions, which include regulatory change detection and 
change.  assessment, advocacy and supervisory engagement, under uni-
fied leadership directly reporting to the General Counsel, which 
Credit Risk Review is a review function independent from the  is intended to further enhance consistency and strengthen the 
Credit Risk function with a direct reporting line to the Chair of the  Group’s capabilities in these key areas. Regulatory Affairs is a 
Risk Committee, administratively reporting to the CRCO. Credit  global function that assists the Group’s efforts to mitigate regu-
Risk Review assesses the Group’s credit exposures and credit  latory risk by advising, managing and providing transparency on 
risk management processes and practices. regulatory interactions, such as exams, ad hoc requests, meet-
ings and notifications, and tracking regulatory commitments. 
The Deputy Chief Compliance Officer (DCCO) leads the global 
Compliance function, with responsibility for financial crime com-
Risk appetite framework
pliance, core compliance and compliance investigations, and 
compliance operations, reporting to the CRCO. The DCCO is 
responsible for setting global compliance standards, frameworks  Overview
and policies, and for overseeing global compliance programs. The 
DCCO provides input to divisional chief compliance officers, who  We maintain a comprehensive Group-wide risk appetite frame-
report to the DCCO on a secondary basis, and acts as the del- work, which is governed by a global policy and provides a robust 
egate of the CRCO for compliance matters within parameters set  foundation for risk appetite setting and management across the 
out by the CRCO. Group. A key element of the framework is a detailed statement of 
the Board-approved risk appetite which is aligned to our financial 
Divisional/legal entity coverage and capital plans. The framework also encompasses the pro-
Our governance framework includes dedicated risk management  cesses and systems for assessing the appropriate level of risk 
committees for each division. The divisional chief risk officers  appetite required to constrain our overall risk profile.
for Swiss Universal Bank, International Wealth Management, 
Asia Pacific and the Investment Bank have established granular  Risk capacity is the maximum level of risk that we can assume 
risk appetite frameworks and reporting capabilities to cover the  given our current level of resources before breaching any con-
specific needs of their business divisions and are responsible for  straints determined by liquidity and capital requirements, the 
144 Risk management
   
operational environment and our responsibilities to depositors,  p  ensuring sound management of funding and liquidity in normal 
shareholders, investors and other stakeholders. Risk appetite  and stressed conditions;
expresses the aggregate level and types of risk we are willing to  p  maintaining capital adequacy under both normal and stressed 
assume within our risk capacity to achieve our strategic objectives  conditions; and
and business plan. Risk profile is a point-in-time assessment of  p  maintaining the integrity of our business and operations.
our net risk exposures aggregated within and across each rele-
vant risk category and is expressed in a variety of different quan- Group-wide risk appetite is determined in partnership with the 
titative risk metrics and qualitative risk observations. The size of  financial and capital planning process on an annual basis, based 
our risk profile is restricted to the planned level of our risk appe- on bottom-up forecasts that reflect planned risk usage by the 
tite through the use of risk constraints, such as limits, guidelines,  businesses and top-down, Board-driven strategic risk objec-
tolerances and targets. tives and risk appetite. Scenario stress testing of financial and 
capital plans is an essential element in the risk appetite calibra-
Key aspects and process tion process, through which our strategic risk objectives, financial 
resources and business plans are aligned. The capital plans are 
The Group risk appetite framework is governed by an overarching  also analyzed using our economic capital coverage ratio, which 
global policy that encompasses the suite of specific policies, pro- provides a further means of assessing bottom-up risk plans 
cesses and systems with which the risk constraints are calibrated  with respect to available capital resources. The risk appetite 
and the risk profile is managed. Strategic risk objectives (SROs)  is approved through a number of internal governance forums, 
are effectively embedded across our organization at the Group,  including joint approval by the CRCO and the CFO, CARMC, the 
business division and legal entity level through a suite of differ- Risk Committee and, subsequently, by the Board.
ent types of risk measures (quantitative and qualitative) as part 
of our efforts to ensure we operate within the thresholds defined  The risk appetite statement is the formal plan, approved by the 
by the Board. The SROs are regularly assessed as part of our  Board, for our Group-wide risk appetite. Divisional allocations are 
continuing enhancements to our risk management processes. In  cascaded from the Group and approved in divisional risk manage-
December 2020, the Board reviewed and confirmed the SROs,  ment committees. Legal entity risk appetites are set by the local 
which consist of: legal entity board of directors within the limits established by the 
p  promoting stability of earnings to support performance in line  Group. The top-down and bottom-up risk appetite calibration pro-
with financial objectives; cess includes the following key steps:
Risk appetite framework – key definitions
Risk capacity Risk capacity Maximum level of risk that we can assume given our current level of 
resources before breaching any constraints determined by c apital and liquidity require-
ments, the operational environment and our responsibilities to depositors, shareholders, 
Risk appetite  investors and other stakeholders.
Risk appetite Aggregate level and types of risk we are willing to assume within our risk 
capacity to achieve our strategic objectives and business plan.
Risk profile Point-in-time assessment of our net risk exposures aggregated within and 
across each  relevant risk category and expressed in a variety of different quantitative risk 
metrics and qualitative risk observations.
Risk profile
Risk constraints   Risk constraints Quantitative and qualitative measures based on forward-looking 
(qualitative constraint statements, limits,   assumptions that allocate our aggregate risk appetite to businesses, legal entities, risk 
guidelines, tolerances, targets and flags) categories, concentrations and, as appropriate, other levels.
Risk management 145
   
Top-down: and non-financial risk and are designed to ensure that risk-taking 
p  Group-level strategic risk objectives are agreed by the Board  activity by our businesses remains within the Group-wide risk 
in line with our financial and capital objectives. appetite.
p  Top-down risk capacities and risk appetites are determined 
with reference to available resources and key thresholds, such  Risk constraints
as minimum regulatory requirements.
p  A risk appetite statement is determined and approved annu- A core aspect of our risk appetite framework is a sound system 
ally by the Board, and is based on the strategic risk objectives,  of integrated risk constraints. These allow us to maintain our risk 
the comprehensive scenario stress testing of our forecasted  profile within our overall risk appetite, and encourage meaningful 
financial results and capital requirements, and our economic  discussion between the relevant businesses, Risk functions and 
capital framework. A semi-annual review of the risk appetite  members of senior management around the evolution of our risk 
and capacity levels is performed. The risk appetite statement  profile and risk appetite. Considerations include changing exter-
comprises quantitative and qualitative risk measures necessary  nal factors (such as market developments, geopolitical conditions 
for adequate control of the risk appetite across the organiza- and client demand) as well as internal factors (such as financial 
tion. The review of the top-down and bottom-up risk appetite  resources, business needs and strategic views). Our risk appetite 
levels and their allocation between divisions and legal entities  framework utilizes a suite of different types of risk constraints to 
is performed by CARMC. reflect the aggregate risk appetite of the Group and to further 
p  Separate legal entity risk appetite frameworks aligned to local  cascade risk appetite across our organization, including among 
regulatory requirements are in place for material subsidiaries.  business divisions and legal entities. The risk constraints restrict 
An integrated year-end planning process ensures that individ- our maximum balance sheet and off-balance sheet exposure 
ual legal entity risk appetites are consistent with Group levels. given the market environment, business strategy and financial 
p  Divisional risk committees are responsible for allocating risk  resources available to absorb losses. Different levels of seniority 
appetite within the respective divisions based on individual  are mapped to each type of risk constraint, which require specific 
business line reviews and requirements. permanent or temporary modification, enforcement and breach 
response protocols. Risk constraints are monitored on a regular 
Bottom-up: basis as part of our efforts to ensure they continue to fulfill their 
p  Planned risk levels and related risk appetite requests are  purposes.
provided by front office business experts in conjunction with 
financial and capital plans in order to ensure consistency with  We define the following risk constraint categories:
the business strategy. Risk plans are reviewed by the relevant  p  Qualitative constraints represent constraints that are used 
risk management committees. to manage identified but unquantifiable or subjective risks, 
p  Bottom-up risk forecasts are aggregated across businesses  with adherence assessed by the appropriate level of constraint 
to assess divisional and Group-wide risk plans and to support  authority.
management decisions on variations to existing risk appetite  p  Quantitative constraints represent constraints that are used 
levels or the possible need for new risk appetite measures. to manage identified quantifiable risks and exist in the form of 
p  The effectiveness of risk appetite in support of business  limits, guidelines, tolerances, targets and flags.
strategy execution and delivery against financial objectives is 
assessed via a risk appetite effectiveness framework. This  Constraint authority for the risk constraints is determined by the 
framework assists senior management and the Board in ensur- relevant approving body and constraints are currently in effect 
ing that appropriate levels of risk appetite are set and that the  for all key risk governance bodies and committees including the 
subsequent risk constraints are appropriately calibrated. Board, its Risk Committee, the Executive Board Risk Forum and 
p  Risk, financial and capital plans are jointly reviewed and  CARMC. The appropriateness of the constraint types for the vari-
approved by the Executive Board and the Board. ous risk classes within our risk appetite, including market, credit, 
non-financial and liquidity risk, is determined considering the 
The Group-wide risk appetite framework encompasses multiple  respective characteristics of the various risk constraint types. 
quantitative and qualitative aspects. The quantitative risk appe-
tite aspects are measured using various metrics, including stress  In general, risk constraints will be set in different ways depending 
scenario metrics related to capital, earnings and liquidity, risk- on their respective functions and objectives. For example, certain 
weighted assets and economic risk capital. The qualitative risk  risk constraints will reflect a maximum risk appetite, whereas oth-
appetite aspects are used to monitor adherence to international  ers will be set closer to the current usage in order to ensure timely 
and local laws and regulations, industry guidelines and internal  escalation and feedback among the relevant businesses, Risk 
policies, and are designed to manage and mitigate the Group’s  functions and members of senior management. These consider-
conduct and reputational risk. The division-specific risk appetite  ations also influence the extent to which certain risk constraints 
statements leverage the Group-wide quantitative and qualitative  may be introduced, modified or retired in response to changing 
aspects by including constraints across credit risk, market risk  external and internal factors. 
146 Risk management
   
We define the following types of risk constraints: a detailed framework of individual risk limits designed to control 
p  Qualitative constraint statements are required for all quali- risk-taking at a granular level by individual businesses and in the 
tative constraints. Qualitative constraint statements need to be  aggregate. The risk constraints are intended to:
specific and to clearly define the respective risk to ensure that  p  limit overall risk-taking to the Group’s risk appetite;
the risk profile for unquantifiable or subjective risks is readily  p  trigger senior management discussions with the businesses 
assessable. involved, risk management and governance committees in 
p  Limits, guidelines and tolerances are specific threshold  case of substantial change in the overall risk profile;
levels for a given risk metric. Limits are binding thresholds  p  ensure consistent risk measurement across businesses;
that require discussion to avoid a breach and trigger imme- p  provide a common framework for the allocation of resources to 
diate remediating action if a breach occurs. Guidelines are  businesses; and
thresholds which, if breached, require an action plan to reduce  p  provide a basis for protecting the Group’s capital base and 
risk below the guideline or to propose, justify and agree to  meeting strategic risk objectives.
adjust the guideline. Tolerances are designed as management 
thresholds to initiate discussion, and breach of a tolerance  The limit owners are responsible for reviewing warning triggers 
level triggers review by the relevant constraint authority.  for risk limits. They may set warning triggers for potential limit 
p  Targets represent the level of risk that the Group intends to  excesses at any level lower than the approved limits as deemed 
accept in pursuit of business objectives at a specific point in  appropriate after taking into account the nature of the underly-
time in the future. ing business. A comprehensive risk appetite constraint framework 
p  Flags are early warning indicators, which serve primarily as  is in place which defines roles and responsibilities, including risk 
a business risk management and supervisory control tool for  constraint setting and escalation authorities. Strict escalation pro-
our front offices, Treasury and Risk. Flags can be set for any  cedures apply to any breach in risk constraints. 
quantifiable risk and may be complementary to other types of 
constraints.
Risk coverage and management
With respect to limits, guidelines and tolerances, established cri-
teria are applied in the selection of the appropriate risk constraint,  We use a wide range of risk management practices to address 
including the assessment of (i) the materiality of the respective  the variety of risks that arise from our business activities. Poli-
risk metric with regard to its contribution to the overall Group risk  cies, processes, standards, risk assessment and measurement 
appetite; (ii) the importance of the risk constraint to the organiza- methodologies, risk appetite constraints, and risk monitoring and 
tion from a qualitative perspective; (iii) the characteristic of the  reporting are key components of our risk management practices. 
respective risk, e.g., risk concentrations or high priority risk for  Our risk management practices complement each other in our 
the Group; and (iv) the availability of mitigating actions to manage  analysis of potential loss, support the identification of interde-
the risk profile of the Group in relation to the respective risk. pendencies and interactions of risks across the organization and 
provide a comprehensive view of our exposures. We regularly 
We have established a constraint structure which manages the  review and update our risk management practices to ensure con-
Group’s risk profile using multiple metrics, including VaR, scenario  sistency with our business activities and relevance to our business 
analysis, economic risk capital and various exposure limits at the  and financial strategies. Risk management practices have evolved 
Group level. The overall risk limits for the Group are set by the  over time without a standardized approach within the industry, 
Board in consultation with its Risk Committee and are binding.  therefore comparisons across firms may not be meaningful. Our 
In 2020 and 2019, no Board limits were exceeded. The CRCO  key risk types are aligned to our global risk taxonomy and include 
may approve temporary excesses of certain CARMC limits up  the following:
to a predefined level until the next CARMC meeting. The CRCO  p  Capital risk
also approves a corresponding remediation plan, with immediate  p  Credit risk
notice of the temporary excess and remediation plan to the Group  p  Market risk
CEO, and subsequent notice to CARMC and the Board at their  p  Non-financial risk
next meetings. p  Model risk
p  Reputational risk
Dedicated constraints are also in place to cover the specific risk  p  Business risk
profiles of individual businesses and legal entities. In the context  p  Climate-related risks
of the overall risk appetite of the Group, as defined by the limits  p  Fiduciary risk
set by the Board in consultation with its Risk Committee, CARMC  p  Pension risk
is responsible for allocating key limits to divisions as deemed 
necessary to manage risk within individual lines of business. The  For purposes of categorizing key risk types, non-traded market 
divisional risk management committees and the divisional and  risk and funding liquidity are together an individual risk type in our 
legal entity chief risk officers are responsible for allocating risk  global risk taxonomy. While non-traded market risk is described 
appetite further within the organization. For this purpose, they use  further below as part of market risk, funding liquidity is managed 
Risk management 147
   
by Treasury. Funding liquidity is the risk that the Group, although  Stress testing provides key inputs for managing the following 
solvent, either does not have sufficient financial resources to  objectives of the risk appetite framework:
enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure  p  Ensuring Group-wide capital adequacy on both a regulatory 
such resources only at excessive cost. basis and under stressed conditions: We run a suite of scenar-
> Refer to “Liquidity and funding management” for further information on liquidity  ios on forecasted financial metrics such as net revenues, total 
and funding risks. operating expenses, income before taxes and risk-weighted 
assets. The post-stress capital ratios are assessed against the 
Capital risk risk appetite of the Group.
p  Maintaining stable earnings: We mainly use stress testing to 
Definition quantitatively assess earnings stability risk. Earnings-loss-trig-
Capital risk is the risk that we do not have adequate capital to  gers are established and monitored to contain excessive risk-
support our activities and maintain the minimum capital require- taking which could compromise our earnings stability.
ments. Under the Basel framework, we are required to maintain 
a robust and comprehensive framework for assessing capital  We also conduct externally defined stress tests that meet the 
adequacy, defining internal capital targets and ensuring that these  specific requirements of regulators. For example, as part of vari-
capital targets are consistent with our overall risk profile and the  ous regular stress tests and analysis, FINMA requires a semi-
current operating environment. annual loss potential analysis that includes two stress tests. For 
2020, the FINMA stress test included an extreme scenario that 
Sources of capital risk sees the world economy experience a severe recession mainly as 
Capital risk results from the Group’s risk exposures, avail- a result of a worsening of a European debt crisis and a COVID-
able capital resources, regulatory requirements and accounting  19 pandemic scenario that sees the world economy suffer several 
standards.  severe infection waves, which force governments to implement 
extreme lockdowns on social and economic activity in the fourth 
Evaluation and management of capital risk quarter of 2020 and the first half of 2021. Credit Suisse also 
The stress testing framework and economic risk capital are tools  developed its own version of a COVID-19 pandemic scenario 
used by the Group to evaluate and manage capital risk. Our capi- (severe W-shaped recovery) to stress capital adequacy as part of 
tal management framework is designed to ensure that we meet  its ICAAP.
all regulatory capital requirements for the Group and its regulated 
subsidiaries. Methodology and scope of Group-wide stress testing
> Refer to “Capital strategy” and “Regulatory framework” in Capital management  Stress tests are carried out to determine stressed position losses, 
for further information on the management of capital and risk-weighted assets  earnings volatility and stressed capital ratios using historical, 
and regulatory capital requirements. 
forward-looking and reverse stress testing scenarios. The scope 
of stress testing includes market, credit, operational, business 
Overview of stress testing framework and pension risk. Stress tests also include the scenario impact 
Stress testing or scenario analysis represents a risk management  on risk-weighted assets through changes to market, credit and 
approach that formulates hypothetical questions, including what  operational components.
would happen to our portfolio if, for example, historic or adverse 
forward-looking events were to occur. A well-developed stress  We use historical stress testing scenarios to consider the impact 
testing framework provides a powerful tool for senior manage- of market shocks from relevant periods of extreme market distur-
ment to identify these risks and also take corrective actions to  bance. Standardized severity levels allow comparability of severity 
protect the earnings and capital from undesired impacts.  across differing risk types. The calibration of bad day, bad week, 
severe event and extreme event scenarios involves the identifi-
Stress testing is a fundamental element of our Group-wide  cation of the worst moves that have occurred in recent history. 
risk appetite framework included in overall risk management to  Severe flight to quality (SFTQ) is a key scenario used for Group-
ensure that our financial position and risk profile provide sufficient  wide stress testing and risk appetite setting. It is a combination of 
resilience to withstand the impact of severe economic condi- market shocks and defaults that reflects conditions similar to what 
tions. Stress testing results are monitored against limits, and are  followed the 2008/2009 financial crisis. The SFTQ scenario 
used in risk appetite discussions and strategic business planning  assumes a severe crash across financial markets, along with 
and to support our internal capital adequacy assessment pro- stressed default rates.
cess (ICAAP). Within the risk appetite framework, CARMC sets 
Group-wide and divisional stressed position loss limits to corre- We use forward-looking stress testing scenarios to complement 
spond to minimum post-stress capital ratios. Currently, limits are  historical scenarios. The forward-looking scenarios are cen-
set on the basis of look-through BIS CET1 capital ratios. Stress  tered on potential macroeconomic, geopolitical or policy threats. 
tests also form an integral part of the Group’s capital planning  The Scenario Management Oversight Committee, comprised of 
and the recovery and resolution plan (RRP) process. Within the  internal economists and representatives of the front office, Risk 
RRP, stress tests provide the indicative scenario severity required  & Compliance and the CFO function (Finance), discusses the 
to reach recovery and resolution capital levels. backdrop to several forward-looking scenarios. The Scenario 
148 Risk management
   
Management Oversight Committee reviews a wide range of sce- failures, sudden shifts in market conditions, operational risk 
narios and selects those that are most relevant to the analysis of  events, credit rating downgrades and the shutdown of wholesale 
key macroeconomic shocks. Some examples of forward-looking  funding markets.
scenarios include US and European country recessions, a so-
called emerging markets economic “hard landing” and the impact  Overview of economic risk capital
of monetary policy changes by central banks. Various scenarios  Economic risk capital measures risks in terms of economic reali-
are also used to mitigate concentration risks across the entire  ties rather than regulatory or accounting rules and estimates the 
Group, such as the credit concentration scenario. During 2020,  amount of capital needed to remain solvent and in business under 
the Group focused on the following forward-looking scenarios: extreme market, business and operating conditions over the period 
p  Financial sector problems in the eurozone: the markets chal- of one year, given a target financial strength (our long-term credit 
lenge the solvency of a systemically-important bank, which  rating). This framework allows us to assess, monitor and manage 
puts the overall European financial sector and selected euro- capital adequacy and solvency risk in both “going concern” and 
zone countries under acute pressure with a potential break- “gone concern” scenarios. In a “going concern” scenario, we hold 
down in relations between Switzerland and the EU. As a result,  sufficient capital to absorb losses to ensure continuity of service. 
the eurozone and the Swiss economy are forced into reces- In a “gone concern” scenario, we hold sufficient capital to absorb 
sion. Contagion from a European recession to the US and  unexpected losses at a confidence level of 99.97% and fund an 
emerging market economies is assumed to be substantial. orderly resolution without recourse to public resources. Economic 
p  A China and emerging markets “hard landing” scenario: there  risk capital supplements the Group’s RRP process.
is a severe economic slowdown in China driven by a wave of 
defaults in the private non-financial and financial sectors. The  Economic risk capital as a metric for Group-wide and divisional 
problems in China negatively impact all large emerging mar- risk management, including limit setting and monitoring, has been 
kets through lower commodity prices, increased capital flight  significantly de-emphasized and, since January 2020, is primar-
and reduced intra-regional foreign trade. The Hong Kong dol- ily used for certain specific businesses only. At the level of the 
lar comes under significant pressure and de-pegs from the US  Group, economic risk capital is now used primarily as a tool for 
dollar. There is also significant contagion to the economy in the  capital management in a “gone concern” scenario, measuring the 
US and in Europe. combined impact from quantifiable risks such as market, credit, 
p  Stress scenarios for the UK and for the US: the scenarios  operational, pension and expense risk. Return on economic 
take into account the large increase in economic policy out- risk capital as a metric for performance management has been 
look uncertainties and the higher risk that inflation significantly  replaced by other metrics such as return on regulatory capital. 
accelerates, bringing about a disorderly rise in government  Due to the limited use of economic risk capital, the Group no lon-
bond yields. The UK stress scenario focuses on the risks  ger reports economic risk capital metrics.
which may materialize from leaving the EU. The US stress sce- > Refer to “Capital strategy” and “Regulatory framework” in Capital management 
nario focuses on the credit, market and business risks which  for further information on our capital management framework.
may materialize from excessive risk taking, investors’ search 
for yield, more expansionary fiscal policies and a shift toward  Methodology and scope of economic risk capital
more protectionist foreign trade practices. Economic risk capital is set to a level needed to absorb unexpected 
losses at a confidence level of 99.97%. Our economic risk capital 
We also use a flight to quality lite scenario (FTQ Lite), which is  model is a set of methodologies used for measuring quantifiable 
a one-in-three years likelihood scenario with a lower severity of  risks associated with our business activities on a consistent basis. 
impact than SFTQ but with a higher likelihood of occurrence. FTQ  It is calculated separately for position risk (reflecting our exposure 
Lite is used to test the earnings robustness of the Group. to market and credit risks), operational risk and other risks, using 
appropriate methodologies for each risk category. Economic risk 
The scenarios are reviewed and updated regularly as markets  capital is calculated by aggregating position, operational and other 
and business strategies evolve. In April 2020, an ad hoc internal  risks.
COVID-19 severe W-shaped recovery scenario was developed to 
assess how the Group would be affected by a further spread of  Position risk is the level of unexpected loss from our portfolio of 
the pandemic and a prolonged recovery path. We also utilize ad  balance sheet and off-balance sheet positions over a one-year 
hoc scenario analyses, for example in respect of the escalation in  holding period and includes market and credit risks. It is calculated 
geopolitical tensions in the Middle East, in connection with cur- at a 99% confidence level for risk management purposes reflecting 
rent events as a proactive risk management tool. a “going concern” scenario and at a 99.97% confidence level for 
capital management purposes reflecting a “gone concern” resolu-
We use reverse stress testing scenarios to complement traditional  tion scenario. Our position risks categories are described in the 
stress testing and enhance our understanding of business model  table “Position risk categories”. To determine our overall position 
vulnerabilities. Reverse stress testing scenarios define a range of  risk, we consider the diversification benefit across risk types. When 
severe adverse outcomes and identify what could lead to these  analyzing position risk for risk management purposes, we look at 
outcomes. The more severe scenarios include large counterparty  individual risk types before and after the diversification benefit.
Risk management 149
   
Position risk categories 
   Risks captured
Credit risk     Risk of counterparty defaults relating to investment and private banking credit exposures directly held 
in the form of lending products (including loans and credit guarantees) or derivatives and shorter-term 
exposures such as underwriting commitments and trading book inventory, as well as credit exposures 
indirectly held in the form of collateral in derivatives, reverse repurchase and securities lending 
transactions; settlement risk is not captured in the economic risk capital framework
     Potential changes in creditworthiness relating to private banking corporate and retail credit exposures
Non-traded credit spread risk     Potential changes in creditworthiness relating to investment banking credit exposures
Securitized products     Commercial and residential real estate activities, including mortgage-backed securities, mortgage 
loans and real estate acquired at auction, and other securitized products, including asset-backed 
securities
     Benefits from certain market risk hedges
Traded risk     Interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity and commodity prices and volatilities, 
equity risk arbitrage, life finance and litigation activities, and illiquid hedge fund exposures
     Risks currently not implemented in our economic risk capital models for traded risks, primarily for fixed 
income and equity trading, such as certain basis risks, higher order risks and cross risks between 
asset classes
Equity investments    Private equity and other illiquid equity investment exposures
Operational risk is the risk of financial loss arising from inad- Capital Data Committee, both of which are functional approval 
equate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from  committees under the Risk Processes & Standards Committee 
external events. We use an internal model to calculate the eco- (RPSC) governance and approve new and changed models and 
nomic capital requirement for operational risk at a 99.97% confi- methodologies. Members of the functional approval committees 
dence level and a one-year holding period. include relevant risk function experts, such as for market, liquidity, 
credit and operational risk, and representatives from the Group’s 
Other risks covered include expense risk, pension risk, owned real  divisions, major legal entities and control functions.
estate risk, foreign exchange risk between available economic 
capital and economic risk capital, interest rate risk on client interest  Our economic risk capital models are similarly governed by the 
rate margin positions and the benefit from deferred share-based  MACC, which approves the economic risk capital models and 
compensation awards. methodologies.
Available economic capital is our internal view of the capital avail- Credit risk
able to absorb losses based on the reported BIS CET1 capital 
under Basel III, with economic adjustments applied to provide con- Definition
sistency with our economic risk capital. Credit risk is the risk of financial loss arising as a result of a bor-
rower or counterparty failing to meet its financial obligations or 
The economic risk capital coverage ratio operates with a number of  as a result of deterioration in the credit quality of the borrower or 
distinct bands that serve as key controls for monitoring and man- counterparty. In the event of a default, a bank generally incurs a 
aging our operational solvency. An economic risk capital coverage  loss equal to the amount owed by the debtor, less any recover-
ratio lower than 125% requires senior management review. Imme- ies from foreclosure, liquidation of collateral, the restructuring of 
diate actions such as risk reductions or capital measures would be  the debtor company or other recovery proceeds from the debtor. 
triggered at a coverage ratio lower than 100%. The Board has set  A change in the credit quality of a counterparty has an impact 
the minimum level for this coverage ratio at 80%. on the valuation of assets measured at fair value, with valuation 
changes recorded in the consolidated statements of operations.
Governance of capital risk
For capital risk, the Scenario Management Oversight Commit- Sources of credit risk
tee has received responsibility from CARMC for the Group-wide  Credit risk arises from the execution of our business strategy in 
scenario calibration and analysis process, including the design of  the divisions and reflects exposures directly held in the form of 
scenarios and the assessment and approval of scenario results.  lending products (including loans and credit guarantees) or deriva-
Stress tests are conducted on a regular basis and the results,  tives, shorter-term exposures such as underwriting commitments, 
trend information and supporting analysis are reported to the  and settlement risk related to the exchange of cash or securities 
Board, senior management and regulators. We have a com- outside of typical delivery versus payment structures. For the divi-
prehensive set of stress testing models that is governed by the  sions, the main sources of credit risk are presented in the table 
Model Approval and Control Committee (MACC) and the NFRM  “Main sources of credit risk by division”.
150 Risk management
   
Main sources of credit risk by division 
Swiss Universal Bank   Real estate financing, lending to corporate clients and lending against financial collateral
International Wealth Management   Lending against financial collateral and real assets (e.g., real estate, ships, aircraft) and corporate 
lending
Asia Pacific   Lending to ultra-high-net-worth and entrepreneur clients, mainly backed by listed financial collateral; 
secured and unsecured loans to corporates in the Asia Pacific region
Investment Bank   Loan underwriting and lending commitments to corporate clients, markets and trading activities including 
securities financing and derivatives products with global institutional clients
Corporate Center  Money market exposure through balance sheet management, credit exposure with central counterparties 
and legacy positions
Evaluation and management of credit risk structured expert approach using a variety of inputs such as peer 
We use a credit risk management framework which provides for  analyses, industry comparisons, external ratings and research as 
the consistent evaluation, measurement and management of  well as the judgment of expert credit officers.
credit risk across the Group. Assessments of credit risk expo-
sures for internal risk estimates and risk-weighted assets are  In addition to counterparty ratings, Credit Risk also assesses the 
calculated based on PD, LGD and EAD models. The credit risk  risk profile of individual transactions and assigns transaction rat-
framework incorporates the following core elements: ings which reflect specific contractual terms such as seniority, 
p  counterparty and transaction assessments: application of  security and collateral.
internal credit ratings (PD), assignment of LGD and EAD val-
ues in relation to counterparties and transactions; Internal credit ratings may differ from external credit ratings, 
p  credit limits: establishment of credit limits, subject to approval  where available, and are subject to periodic review. Our internal 
by delegated authority holders, to serve as primary risk con- ratings are mapped to a PD band associated with each rating 
trols on exposures and to prevent undue risk concentrations; which is calibrated to historical default experience using inter-
p  credit monitoring, impairments and provisions: processes to  nal data and external data sources. Our internal masterscale for 
support the ongoing monitoring and management of credit  credit ratings is shown in the table “Credit Suisse counterparty 
exposures, supporting the early identification of deterioration  ratings”. 
and any subsequent impact; and
p  risk mitigation: active management of credit exposures through  LGD estimates the size of loss that may arise on a credit expo-
the use of cash sales, participations, collateral, guarantees,  sure in the event of a default. We assign LGD on credit exposures 
insurance or hedging instruments. based on the structure of the transaction and credit mitigation 
such as collateral or guarantees. The LGD values are calibrated 
Counterparty and transaction assessments to reflect a downturn macroeconomic environment and include 
We evaluate and assess counterparties and clients to whom we  recovery costs. 
have credit exposures. For the majority of counterparties and 
clients, we use internally developed statistical rating models to  EAD represents the expected amount of credit exposure in the 
determine internal credit ratings which are intended to reflect the  event of a default and reflects the current drawn exposure and an 
PD of each counterparty. These rating models are backtested  expectation regarding the future evolution of the credit exposure. 
against internal experience, validated by a function independent  For loan exposures, a credit conversion factor is applied to project 
of model development and approved by our main regulators for  the additional drawn amount between current utilization and the 
application in the regulatory capital calculation under the A-IRB  approved facility amount. The credit exposure related to traded 
approach of the Basel framework. Findings from backtesting  products such as derivatives is based on a simulation using statis-
serve as a key input for any future rating model developments. tical models. 
Internal statistical rating models are based on a combination of  We use internal rating methodologies consistently for the pur-
quantitative factors (e.g., financial fundamentals and market data)  poses of approval, establishment and monitoring of credit limits 
and qualitative factors (e.g., credit history and economic trends). and credit portfolio management, credit policy, management 
reporting, risk-adjusted performance measurement, economic 
For the remaining counterparties where statistical rating models  risk capital measurement and allocation and financial accounting.
are not used, internal credit ratings are assigned on the basis of a 
Risk management 151
   
Credit Suisse counterparty ratings
Ratings   PD bands (%)   Definition   S&P   Fitch   Moody’s   Details 
AAA   0.000 – 0.021   Substantially    AAA   AAA   Aaa   Extremely low risk, very high long-term 
      risk free            stability, still solvent under extreme conditions 
AA+   0.021 – 0.027   Minimal risk   AA+   AA+   Aa1   Very low risk, long-term stability, repayment 
AA   0.027 – 0.034      AA   AA   Aa2   sources sufficient under lasting adverse 
AA-   0.034 – 0.044      AA-   AA-   Aa3   conditions, extremely high medium-term stability 
A+   0.044 – 0.056   Modest risk   A+   A+   A1   Low risk, short- and medium-term stability, small adverse  
A   0.056 – 0.068     A   A    A2   developments can be absorbed long term, short- and  
A-   0.068 – 0.097      A-   A-   A3   medium-term solvency preserved in the event of serious  
                  difficulties 
BBB+   0.097 – 0.167   Average risk   BBB+   BBB+   Baa1   Medium to low risk, high short-term stability, adequate  
BBB   0.167 – 0.285      BBB   BBB   Baa2   substance for medium-term survival, very stable short  
BBB-   0.285 – 0.487      BBB-   BBB-   Baa3   term 
BB+   0.487 – 0.839   Acceptable risk   BB+   BB+   Ba1   Medium risk, only short-term stability, only capable of  
BB    0.839 – 1.442      BB   BB   Ba2   absorbing minor adverse developments in the medium term,  
BB-   1.442 – 2.478      BB-   BB-   Ba3   stable in the short term, no increased credit risks expected  
                  within the year 
B+   2.478 – 4.259   High risk   B+   B+   B1   Increasing risk, limited capability to absorb 
B   4.259 – 7.311      B   B   B2   further unexpected negative developments 
B-   7.311 – 12.550      B-   B-   B3    
CCC+   12.550 – 21.543   Very high   CCC+   CCC+   Caa1   High risk, very limited capability to absorb 
CCC    21.543 – 100.00   risk   CCC    CCC    Caa2   further unexpected negative developments 
CCC-   21.543 – 100.00      CCC-   CCC-   Caa3    
CC   21.543 – 100.00      CC   CC   Ca    
C   100   Imminent or  C   C   C    Substantial credit risk has materialized, i.e., counterparty  
D1   Risk of default   actual loss   D   D      is distressed and/or non-performing.  Adequate specific  
D2   has materialized               provisions must be made as further adverse developments  
                  will result directly in credit losses. 
Transactions rated C are potential problem loans; those rated D1 are non-performing assets and those rated D2 are non-interest earning.
Credit limits allowance for credit losses in relation to such exposures is based 
Our credit exposures are managed at the counterparty and ulti- on an assessment of the exposure profile and expectations for 
mate parent level in accordance with credit limits which apply in  recovery, which are discussed with the Group chief credit officer 
relation to current and potential future exposures. Credit limits to  whose approval is required for any full or partial write-offs.
counterparties and groups of connected companies are subject 
to formal approval under delegated authority within the divisions  We have an impairment process for loans valued at amortized cost 
where the credit exposures are generated, and where significant  which are specifically classified as potential problem exposure, non-
in terms of size or risk profile, are subject to further escalation to  performing exposure, non-interest-earning exposure or restruc-
the Group chief credit officer or CRCO. tured exposure. The Group maintains specific valuation allowances, 
which we consider a reasonable estimate of losses identified in the 
In addition to counterparty and ultimate parent exposures, credit  existing credit portfolio, and provides for loan losses based on a 
limits and tolerances are also applied at the portfolio level to mon- regular and detailed analysis of all counterparties, taking collateral 
itor and manage risk concentrations such as to specific industries,  value into consideration, where applicable. If uncertainty exists as 
countries or products. In addition, credit risk concentration is reg- to the repayment of either principal or interest, a specific valuation 
ularly supervised by credit and risk management committees. allowance is either created or adjusted accordingly. The specific 
allowance for credit losses is revalued by Credit Risk at least annu-
Credit monitoring, impairments and provisions ally or more frequently depending on the risk profile of the borrower 
A rigorous credit quality monitoring process is performed to pro- or credit-relevant events. A credit portfolio & provisions review 
vide for early identification of possible changes in the creditwor- committee regularly reviews the appropriateness of allowances for 
thiness of clients, and includes regular asset and collateral quality  credit losses.
reviews, business and financial statement analysis, and relevant 
economic and industry studies. Credit Risk maintains regularly  An inherent (or general) allowance for credit losses is estimated 
updated watch lists and holds review meetings to re-assess coun- for all loans and other financial assets held at amortized cost and 
terparties that could be subject to adverse changes in creditwor- related off-balance sheet credit exposures not specifically identified 
thiness. The review of the credit quality of clients and counterpar- as impaired. With effect from January 1, 2020, the Group changed 
ties does not depend on the accounting treatment of the asset or  the methodology for the calculation of credit loss provisions due to 
commitment. the adoption of a new accounting standard under US GAAP. The 
new methodology is a forward-looking expected loss approach 
In the event that a deterioration in creditworthiness results in a  referred to as a current expected credit losses (CECL) methodol-
default, credit exposures are transferred to recovery management  ogy. Under the former approach, provisions for credit losses were 
functions within Credit Risk and are subject to formal reporting  based on incurred losses only. Under the new methodology, the 
to a monthly recovery review meeting. The determination of any  method for determining the inherent credit loss in certain lending 
152 Risk management
   
portfolios is derived from calculating the expected lifetime credit  to ensure that basis or tenor risk is appropriately identified and 
loss via bespoke models and requires significant management  managed.
judgment by means of a qualitative overlay process. The forward-
looking component of the new models is reflected through fore- In addition to collateral and hedging strategies, we also actively 
casts of portfolio- and region-specific macroeconomic factors. In  manage our loan portfolio and may sell or sub-participate positions 
addition to these factors for systematic risk, the models contain  in the loan portfolio as a further form of risk mitigation.
idiosyncratic risk drivers. Qualitative adjustments reflect remaining 
idiosyncratic and portfolio-specific risks, which are not captured in  Governance of credit risk
the models. The calibration of these models is based on internal  Credit risk is managed and controlled by the Credit Risk function 
and/or external data. PD estimates contain a time-dependent, for- and divisional chief risk officers and governed by a comprehen-
ward-looking component. LGD estimates can contain loan-specific  sive framework of policies and committees. Key processes are 
attributes. In addition, selected LGD models contain a forward- reviewed through supervisory checks on a regular basis by Credit 
looking component. Similar to LGD models, EAD models can  Risk, including the Group chief credit officer.
contain loan-specific and/or forward-looking information. All model 
outputs are subject to a monthly review process, and the related  The Group chief credit officer has established an executive gover-
expected credit loss assessments require approval by the Senior  nance and change committee to support overall management and 
Management Approval Committee (SMAC) which is jointly chaired  oversight of the Credit Risk function. The committee is comprised 
by the CRCO and CFO. The SMAC is the ultimate approval body  of senior personnel of key functions within Credit Risk and divi-
of the CECL provisions for the Group, and it also approves the sce- sional chief credit officers. The governance framework is based 
nario weighting probabilities and baseline macroeconomic factors. on a committee structure covering key areas of the credit risk 
> Refer to “Note 20 – Financial instruments held at amortized cost and credit  framework including the credit risk appetite committee, credit risk 
losses” in VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group for fur- policy committee, credit risk controls committee and various proj-
ther information on our CECL methodology.
ect and change related governance committees. The governance 
Changes in the credit quality of loans held at fair value are  framework ensures appropriate oversight of the global Credit Risk 
reflected in valuation changes recorded directly in revenues, and  function and the maintenance of required global standards for the 
therefore are not part of the impaired loans balance which only  management of the Group’s credit exposure.
includes loans valued on an amortized cost basis.
Credit risk review
Risk mitigation Governance and supervisory checks within Credit Risk are sup-
Drawn and undrawn credit exposures are managed by taking  plemented by the Credit Risk Review function. The Credit Risk 
financial and non-financial collateral supported by enforceable  Review function is independent from Credit Risk with a direct 
legal documentation, as well as by utilizing credit hedging tech- functional reporting line to the Risk Committee Chair, adminis-
niques. Financial collateral in the form of cash, marketable securi- tratively reporting to the CRCO. Credit Risk Review’s primary 
ties (e.g., equities, bonds or funds) and guarantees serves to miti- responsibility is to provide timely and independent assessments 
gate the inherent risk of credit loss and to improve recoveries in  of the Group’s credit exposures and credit risk management 
the event of a default. Financial collateral is subject to controls on  processes and practices. Any findings and agreed actions are 
eligibility and is supported by frequent market valuation depending  reported to senior management and, as necessary, to the Risk 
on the asset class to ensure exposures remain adequately col- Committee.
lateralized. Depending on the quality of the collateral, appropriate 
haircuts are applied for risk management purposes. Market risk
Non-financial collateral such as residential and commercial real  This market risk section has been updated to focus on the con-
estate, tangible assets (e.g., ships or aircraft), inventories and com- cepts of traded market risk and non-traded market risk in order to 
modities are valued at the time of credit approval and periodically  more closely align the descriptions to the internal risk framework 
thereafter depending on the type of credit exposure and collateral  and control processes.
coverage ratio.
Definition
In addition to collateral, we also utilize credit hedging in the form of  Market risk is the risk of financial loss arising from movements in 
protection provided by single-name and index credit default swaps  market risk factors. The movements in market risk factors that 
as well as structured hedging and insurance products. Credit hedg- generate financial losses are considered to be adverse changes in 
ing is used to mitigate risks arising from the loan portfolio, loan  interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity and 
underwriting exposures and counterparty credit risk. Hedging is  commodity prices and other factors, such as market volatility and 
intended to reduce the risk of loss from a specific counterparty  the correlation of market prices across asset classes. A typical 
default or broader downturn in markets that impact the overall  transaction or position in financial instruments may be exposed to 
credit risk portfolio. Credit hedging contracts are typically bilateral  a number of different market risk factors. Market risks arise from 
or centrally cleared derivative transactions and are subject to collat- both our trading and non-trading activities.
eralized trading arrangements. Hedging risk mitigation is evaluated 
Risk management 153
   
Although market risk includes funding liquidity for purposes of  to take into account a comprehensive set of risk factors across all 
categorizing our key risk types, the descriptions in this section pri- asset classes.
marily relate to traded market risk and non-traded market risk.
VaR is an important tool in risk management and is used for mea-
Traded market risk suring quantifiable risks from our activities exposed to market risk 
Sources of traded market risk on a daily basis. In addition, VaR is one of the main risk measures 
Market risks arise from our trading activities, primarily in the  for limit monitoring, financial reporting, calculation of regulatory 
Investment Bank (which includes Global Trading Solutions). Our  capital and regulatory backtesting.
trading activities typically include fair-valued positions and risks 
arising from our involvement in primary and secondary mar- Our VaR model is based on historic data moves that derive plau-
ket activities, for client facilitation and market-making purposes,  sible future trading losses. The model is responsive to changes 
including derivatives markets. in market conditions through the use of exponential weighting 
that applies a greater weight to more recent events, and the use 
The Group is active globally in the principal trading markets, using  of expected shortfall equivalent measures to ensure all extreme 
a wide range of trading and hedging products, including deriva- adverse events are considered in the model. We use the same 
tives and structured products. Structured products are custom- VaR model for risk management (including limit monitoring and 
ized transactions often using combinations of financial instru- financial reporting), regulatory capital calculation and regulatory 
ments and are executed to meet specific client or internal needs.  backtesting purposes, although confidence level, holding period, 
As a result of our broad participation in products and markets, the  historical look-back period and the scope of financial instruments 
Group’s trading strategies are correspondingly diverse and expo- considered can be different. 
sures are generally spread across a range of risks and locations.
For our risk management VaR, we use a rolling two-year historical 
The market risks associated with the portfolio, including the  dataset, a one-day holding period and a 98% confidence level. 
embedded derivative elements of our structured products, are  This means that we would expect daily mark-to-market trading 
actively monitored and managed as part of our overall risk man- losses to exceed the reported VaR not more than twice on aver-
agement framework and are reflected in our VaR measures. age in 100 trading days over a multi-year observation period. 
The 98% confidence level VaR is calculated using an equivalent 
Evaluation and management of traded market risk expected shortfall approach. The expected shortfall represents 
We use market risk measurement and management methods  the average of the potential worst losses beyond the confidence 
capable of calculating comparable exposures across our many  level. This measure captures risks from trading activities and it is 
activities and employ focused tools that can model specific char- closely aligned to the model we use to measure regulatory VaR 
acteristics of certain instruments or portfolios. The tools are used  for capital purposes. Compared to regulatory VaR, however, it 
for internal market risk management, internal market risk report- has a wider scope and generally includes trading book securitiza-
ing and external disclosure purposes. Our principal market risk  tions risk, banking book positions held at fair value and foreign 
measures for traded market risk are VaR, scenario analysis, as  exchange and commodity risk from banking book positions. The 
included in our stress testing framework, position risk, as included  scope of our risk management VaR is periodically reviewed to 
in our economic risk capital, and sensitivity analysis. These mea- ensure it remains aligned with the internal risk framework and 
sures complement each other in our market risk assessment and  control processes.
are used to measure traded market risk at the Group level. Our 
risk management practices are regularly reviewed to ensure they  For regulatory capital purposes, we operate under the Basel III 
remain appropriate. market risk framework which includes the following components 
for the calculation of regulatory capital: regulatory VaR, stressed 
Measurement of traded market risk using value-at-risk VaR, IRC, RNIV, stressed RNIV and a regulatory prescribed 
VaR is a risk measure that quantifies the potential loss on a given  standardized approach for securitizations. The regulatory VaR for 
portfolio of financial instruments over a certain holding period  capital purposes uses a two-year historical dataset, a ten-day 
that is expected not to be exceeded at a certain confidence level.  holding period and a 99% confidence level calculated using an 
Positions are aggregated by risk factors rather than by prod- expected shortfall approach. This measure captures all risks in 
uct. For example, interest rate risk VaR captures potential losses  the trading book and foreign exchange and commodity risks in 
driven by fluctuations of interest rates affecting a wide variety of  the banking book and excludes securitization positions, as these 
interest rate products (such as interest rate swaps and swaptions)  are treated under the securitization approach for regulatory pur-
as well as other products (such as foreign exchange derivatives  poses. Stressed VaR replicates the regulatory VaR calculation on 
and equity derivatives) for which interest rate risk is not the pri- the Group’s current portfolio over a continuous one-year observa-
mary market risk driver. The use of VaR allows the comparison  tion period that reflects a period of significant financial stress for 
of risk across different businesses. It also provides a means of  the Group. The historical dataset starting in 2006 allows for the 
aggregating and netting a variety of positions within a portfolio to  capturing of a longer history of potential loss events and helps 
reflect historical correlations between different assets, allowing  reduce the pro-cyclicality of the minimum capital requirements 
for a portfolio diversification benefit. Our VaR model is designed  for market risk. IRC is a regulatory capital charge for default and 
154 Risk management
   
migration risk on positions in the trading books that may not be  assumes that risks will remain in existence over the entire 
captured adequately under a ten-day holding period. RNIV cap- holding period; and
tures a variety of risks, such as certain basis risks, higher order  p  VaR is calculated using positions held at the end of each busi-
risks and cross risks between asset classes, not adequately cap- ness day and does not include intra-day changes in exposures.
tured by the VaR model for example due to lack of sufficient or 
accurate risk or historical market data. To mitigate some of the VaR limitations and estimate losses asso-
ciated with market movements that are unusually severe or not 
Backtesting VaR uses a two-year historical dataset, a one-day  reflected in the historical observation period, we use other metrics 
holding period and a 99% confidence level calculated using an  designed for risk management purposes and described above, 
expected shortfall approach. This measure captures risks in the  including stressed VaR, scenario analysis, as included in our 
trading book and includes securitization positions. Backtest- stress testing framework, position risk, as included in our eco-
ing VaR is not a component used for the calculation of regula- nomic risk capital, and sensitivity analysis.
tory capital but may have an impact through the regulatory capital 
multiplier if the number of backtesting exceptions exceeds regula- For some risk types there can be insufficient historical data for 
tory thresholds. a calculation within the Group’s VaR model. This often happens 
because underlying instruments may have traded only for a lim-
Assumptions used in our market risk measurement methods for  ited time. Where we do not have sufficient market data, the VaR 
regulatory capital purposes are compliant with the standards pub- calculation relies on market data proxies or extreme parameter 
lished by the BCBS and other international standards for market  moves. Market data proxies are selected to be as close to the 
risk management. We have approval from FINMA, as well as  underlying instrument as possible. Where neither a suitable mar-
from other regulators for our subsidiaries, to use our regulatory  ket dataset nor a close proxy is available, extreme market moves 
VaR model in the calculation of market risk capital requirements.  are used.
Ongoing enhancements to our VaR methodology are subject to 
regulatory approval or notification depending on their materiality,  We use a risk factor identification process to ensure that risks are 
and the model is subject to regular reviews by regulators and the  identified for capture. There are two parts to this process. First, 
Group’s independent Model Risk Management function. the market data dependency approach systematically determines 
the risk requirements based on data inputs used by front-office 
Information required under Pillar 3 of the Basel framework related  pricing models and compares this with the risk types that are 
to market risk is available on our website. captured by the Group’s VaR model and the RNIV framework. 
> Refer to “credit-suisse.com/regulatorydisclosures” for further information. Second, the product-based approach is a qualitative analysis of 
> Refer to “Risk-weighted assets” in Capital management for further information  product types undertaken in order to identify the risk types that 
on the use of our regulatory VaR model in the calculation of market risk capital  those product types would be exposed to. A comparison is again 
requirements.
made with the risk types that are captured in the VaR and RNIV 
frameworks. This process identifies risks that are not yet captured 
VaR assumptions and limitations in the VaR model or the RNIV framework. A plan for including 
The VaR model uses assumptions and estimates that we believe  these risks in one or the other framework can then be devised. 
are reasonable, but VaR only quantifies the potential loss on a  RNIV is captured in our economic risk capital framework.
portfolio based on historical market conditions. The main assump-
tions and limitations of VaR as a risk measure are: VaR backtesting
p  VaR relies on historical data to estimate future changes in  Backtesting is one of the techniques used to assess the accu-
market conditions. Historical scenarios may not capture all  racy and performance of our VaR model used by the Group for 
potential future outcomes, particularly where there are signifi- risk management and regulatory capital purposes and serves to 
cant changes in market conditions, such as increases in vola- highlight areas of potential enhancements. Backtesting is used 
tilities and changes in the correlation of market prices across  by regulators to assess the adequacy of regulatory capital held by 
asset classes; the Group, the calculation of which includes regulatory VaR and 
p  VaR provides an estimate of losses at a specified confidence  stressed VaR. 
level; the use of an expected shortfall equivalent measure 
allows all extreme adverse events to be considered in the  Backtesting involves comparing the results produced by the VaR 
model; model with the hypothetical trading revenues on the trading book. 
p  VaR is based on either a one-day (for internal risk manage- Hypothetical trading revenues are defined in compliance with 
ment, backtesting and disclosure purposes) or a ten-day (for  regulatory requirements and aligned with the VaR model output 
regulatory capital purposes) holding period. This assumes that  by excluding (i) non-market elements (such as fees, commissions, 
risks can be either sold or hedged over the holding period,  cancellations and terminations, net cost of funding and credit-
which may not be possible for all types of exposure, particu- related valuation adjustments) and (ii) gains and losses from intra-
larly during periods of market illiquidity or turbulence; it also  day trading. A backtesting exception occurs when a hypothetical 
trading loss exceeds the daily VaR estimate.
Risk management 155
   
For capital purposes and in line with BIS requirements, FINMA  Traded market risk constraints
increases the capital multiplier for every regulatory VaR back- Our market risk constraints framework encompasses specific 
testing exception above four in the prior rolling 12-month period,  constraints on various market risk measures, including VaR and 
resulting in an incremental market risk capital requirement for the  results of scenario analysis and sensitivity analysis at the Group, 
Group. VaR models with less than five backtesting exceptions  divisional, legal entity and business line levels. For example, we 
are considered by regulators to be classified in a defined “green  have controls over consolidated traded market risk exposures as 
zone”. The “green zone” corresponds to backtesting results that  well as concentrations in the portfolio. Risk constraints are cas-
do not themselves suggest a problem with the quality or accuracy  caded to lower organizational levels within the businesses. Risk 
of a bank’s model. limits are binding and any significant increase in risk exposures 
is escalated in a timely manner. The Group’s OGR and internal 
Scenario analysis policies determine limit-setting authority, temporary modification 
Market risk stress testing and scenarios quantify portfolio impacts  of such limits in certain situations and required approval author-
under stressed market conditions, expressed as a potential loss  ity at the Group, Bank, divisional, business and legal entity levels 
number, which can be used in conjunction with other metrics such  for any instances that could cause such limits to be exceeded. 
as market risk sensitivities and VaR to manage the Group’s expo- Market risk limit excesses are subject to a formal escalation pro-
sure to traded market risk. The analysis performed by the market  cedure and the incremental risk associated with the excess must 
risk scenarios team supports the daily risk management of spe- be approved by the responsible risk manager within the Market 
cific businesses, as well as their understanding of the impact of  Risk function, with escalation to senior management if certain 
scenarios run across the Group, either for internal assessments or  thresholds are exceeded. The majority of the market risk limits 
for regulatory requests. Stress testing is essential for understand- are monitored on a daily basis. Limits for which the inherent cal-
ing the impact of large market moves and is particularly important  culation time is longer or for which the risk profile changes less 
for portfolios that hold complex and exotic instruments, where  often are monitored less frequently depending on the nature of 
the risk profile is non-linear or where the value of the positions  the limit (weekly, monthly or quarterly). The business is mandated 
may be contingent on several factors (known as cross-risks), or  to remediate market risk limit excesses within three business days 
to less liquid risk factors such as correlation. Market Risk imple- upon notification. Remediation actions that take longer than three 
ments thresholds and tolerances to help manage the portfolio  days are subject to an out-of-policy remediation process with 
during stressed market conditions and advises the trading desks  senior management escalation.
on potential hedging strategies.
Mitigation of traded market risk
Market risk stress testing is also used to model potential out- Once a transaction has been executed, it is captured as part 
comes and capture vulnerabilities of the trading portfolios around  of our risk monitoring processes and subject to the market risk 
specific macroeconomic or geopolitical events such as the UK’s  constraints framework. Specific policies ensure that for any new 
withdrawal from the EU, the COVID-19 pandemic and the US  material and/or unusual transactions, the Market Risk function 
elections. These outcomes are used to guide business activi- has been engaged and appropriate approvals are sought. These 
ties and develop risk management strategies during such events  transactions are reviewed and approved by the Market Risk func-
and are often supported with risk tolerances, which limit potential  tion so that the risk profile of the portfolio is in line with the risk 
loss given the likelihood of the event, in line with the Group’s risk  appetite after execution.
appetite.
Traded market risk is mitigated using financial securities, deriva-
Credit, debit and funding valuation adjustments tives, insurance contracts or other appropriate means. 
Credit valuation adjustments (CVA) are modifications to the mea-
surement of the value of derivative assets used to reflect the  Governance of traded market risk
credit risk of counterparties.  Traded market risk is managed and controlled by the Market Risk 
function and divisional chief risk officers and governed by a com-
Debit valuation adjustments (DVA) are modifications to the mea- prehensive framework of policies and committees.
surement of the value of derivative liabilities used to reflect an 
entity’s own credit risk. Oversight of the Market Risk function is provided by various com-
mittees and supervisory reviews at the Group, legal entity and 
Funding valuation adjustments (FVA) reflect the fair value costs  divisional level, covering the related framework, risk appetite, 
and benefits of funding associated with (i) any under-collateralized  quantitative approaches, evolving risk profile, material new trades 
portions of a derivative and (ii) the funding of equivalent transfer- and new business activity. The committees are comprised of 
able collateral where the proceeds of any derivative collateraliza- senior Market Risk personnel. Relevant topics are escalated to 
tion cannot be sold or repledged. senior management.
These adjustments and their impact on revenues are not captured  The governance framework ensures appropriate oversight of the 
by the VaR framework. Group’s traded market risk exposures.
156 Risk management
   
Like other models, our VaR model is subject to internal gover- and is subject to fluctuations in exchange rates. Non-structural 
nance including validation by a team of modeling experts that  foreign exchange risk relates to our foreign currency risk from 
are independent from the model developers. Validation includes  banking book positions other than from our net investment in for-
identifying and testing the model’s assumptions and limitations,  eign operations. It is managed under our market risk constraints 
investigating its performance through historical and potential  framework and is covered by VaR.
future stress events, and testing that the live implementation of 
the model behaves as intended. We employ a range of different  Structural foreign exchange risk is specified and measured in 
control processes to help ensure that the models used for traded  terms of sensitivity to hypothetical foreign currency shocks. The 
market risk remain appropriate over time. As part of these control  sensitivity to hypothetical foreign currency shocks is also used to 
processes, the MACC meets regularly to review model perfor- define our risk appetite constraints. Along with the management 
mance and approve any new or amended models. of the Group’s CET1 ratio sensitivity to moves in foreign exchange 
rates, we measure and monitor sensitivities for several other key 
Non-traded market risk metrics, such as tier 1 leverage ratio, where the currency compo-
Sources of non-traded market risk sition can be different from that of the CET1 ratio.
Non-traded market risk primarily relates to asset and liability mis-
match exposures in our banking book. Our businesses and Trea- Mitigation of non-traded market risk
sury have non-traded portfolios that carry market risks, mainly  The Group’s IRRBB risk appetite level is primarily driven by the 
related to changes in interest rates but also to changes in foreign  available capital and is allocated to the Group’s material legal 
exchange rates. entities. The Group does not have a regulatory requirement to 
hold capital against IRRBB. The economic impacts of adverse 
We assume interest rate risks through lending and deposit-tak- shifts in interest rates from FINMA-defined scenarios are signifi-
ing, money market and funding activities, and the deployment of  cantly below 15% of tier 1 capital, which is the threshold used by 
our consolidated equity as well as other activities at the divisional  FINMA to identify banks that potentially run excessive levels of 
level. Non-maturing products, such as savings accounts, have no  interest rate risk at group and legal entity levels.
contractual maturity date or direct market-linked interest rate and 
are risk-managed on a pooled basis using replication portfolios on  The Group aims to keep a limited risk profile for the economic 
behalf of the business divisions. Replication portfolios transform  value of the Group’s asset and liability position while maintain-
non-maturing products into a series of fixed-term products that  ing high earnings stability. This is achieved mainly by systematic 
approximate the re-pricing and volume behavior of the pooled cli- hedging of issued debt and interest rate risk arising from loans 
ent transactions. and deposit maturity mismatches in the private banking business. 
The main instruments used for hedging are interest rate swaps.
Information required under Pillar 3 of the Basel framework related 
to interest rate risk in the banking book (IRRBB) is available on  Structural foreign exchange risk is actively managed by Treasury 
our website. through the execution of currency hedges with the aim of mitigat-
> Refer to “credit-suisse.com/regulatorydisclosures” for further information. ing the sensitivity of the Group’s CET1 ratio to adverse move-
ments in foreign exchange rates within parameters set out in the 
The majority of non-traded foreign exchange risk is associated  risk appetite framework.
with our investments in foreign branches, subsidiaries and affili-
ates denominated in currencies other than the reporting currency  Governance of non-traded market risk
of the Group (i.e., Swiss francs). The PCR cycle of CARMC is responsible for the Group’s IRRBB 
and structural foreign exchange risk control framework and 
Evaluation and management of non-traded market risk escalation of risk constraint breaches. The Group’s RPSC and 
We monitor IRRBB through established systems, processes and  associated sub-committees are responsible for the oversight and 
controls. Risk measures are provided to estimate the impact of  approval of related risk models, global policies, manuals, guide-
changes in interest rates both in terms of risk to earnings as well  lines and procedures. Divisional and legal entity risk manage-
as risk to the economic value of the Group’s asset and liability  ment committees review IRRBB and structural foreign exchange-
position. For the purpose of this disclosure, IRRBB is measured  related matters specific to their local entities and jurisdictions.
using sensitivity analysis, which measures the potential change 
in economic value resulting from specified hypothetical shocks  Non-financial risk
to interest rates. It is not a measure of the potential impact on 
reported earnings in the current period, since it takes into account  Definition and sources of non-financial risk
accrual accounted positions as well as certain positions that are  Non-financial risk is the risk of an adverse direct or indirect 
carried at fair value.  impact originating from sources outside the financial markets, 
including but not limited to operational risk, technology risk, cyber 
Structural foreign exchange risk is a market risk stemming from  risk, compliance risk, regulatory risk, legal risk and conduct risk. 
our investments in foreign operations denominated in currencies  Non-financial risk is inherent in most aspects of our business, 
other than the reporting currency of the Group, net of hedges,  including the systems and processes that support our activities. It 
Risk management 157
   
comprises a large number of disparate risks that can manifest in a  breaches, unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data, 
variety of ways. Examples include the risk of damage to physical  unavailability of service, computer viruses or other events that 
assets, business disruption, failures relating to data integrity and  could have an adverse security impact. Any such event could sub-
trade processing, cyber attacks, internal or external fraudulent or  ject us to litigation or cause us to suffer a financial loss, a disrup-
unauthorized transactions, inappropriate cross-border activities,  tion of our businesses, liability to our clients, regulatory interven-
money laundering, improper handling of confidential information,  tion or reputational damage. We could also be required to expend 
conflicts of interest, improper gifts and entertainment and failure  significant additional resources to modify our protective measures 
in duties to clients. or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures.
Non-financial risk can arise from a wide variety of internal and  We recognize that cyber risk represents a rapidly evolving exter-
external forces, including human error, inappropriate conduct,  nal risk landscape. The financial industry continues to face cyber 
failures in systems, processes and controls, pandemic, deliber- threats from a variety of actors who are driven by monetary, politi-
ate attack or natural and man-made disasters. Outsourcing and  cal and other motivations. We actively monitor external incidents 
external third parties may also create risks around maintaining  and threats and assess and respond accordingly to any potential 
business processes, system stability, data loss, data manage- vulnerabilities that this may reveal. We are also an active partici-
ment, reputation and regulatory compliance. The main categories  pant in industry forums and information exchange initiatives and 
and sources of non-financial risk are described below. engage in regulatory consultation on this subject.
Operational risk We have an enterprise-wide cybersecurity strategy to provide 
Operational risk is the risk of an adverse impact arising from inad- strategic guidance as part of our efforts to achieve an optimized 
equate or failed internal processes, people or systems, or from  end-to-end security and risk competence that enables a secure 
external events. Operational risk does not include business and  and innovative business environment, aligned with the Group’s 
reputational risks; however, some operational risks can lead to  risk appetite. A technology security team leverages a wide array 
reputational issues and as such these risks may be closely linked. of leading technology solutions and industry best practices to 
support our ability to maintain a secure perimeter and detect and 
Technology risk respond to threats in real time.
Technology risk deserves particular attention given the complex 
technological landscape that covers our business model. Ensuring  We regularly assess the effectiveness of key controls and con-
that confidentiality, integrity and availability of information assets  duct ongoing employee training and awareness activities, includ-
are protected is critical to our operations. Technology risk is the  ing for key management personnel, in order to embed a strong 
risk that system-related failures, such as service outages or infor- cyber risk culture. As part of the enterprise risk and control 
mation security incidents, may disrupt business. Technology risk  framework (ERCF), the Executive Board as well as divisional and 
is inherent not only in our IT assets, but also in the people and  legal entity risk management committees are given updates on 
processes that interact with them including through dependency  the broader technology risk exposure.
on third-party suppliers and the worldwide telecommunications 
infrastructure. We seek to ensure that the data used to support  Significant incidents are escalated to the Risk Committee 
key business processes and reporting is secure, complete, accu- together with key findings and mitigating actions. Related busi-
rate, available, timely and meets appropriate quality and integrity  ness continuity and response plans are tested and simulations are 
standards. We require our critical IT systems to be identified,  conducted up to the Executive Board and Board level.
secure, resilient and available to support our ongoing operations, 
decision-making, communications and reporting. Our systems  Legal risk
must also have the capabilities, capacity, scalability and adapt- Legal risk is the risk of loss or imposition of damages, fines, pen-
ability to meet current and future business objectives, the needs  alties or other liability or any other material adverse impact aris-
of our customers and regulatory and legal expectations. Failure  ing from circumstances including the failure to comply with legal 
to meet these standards and requirements may result in adverse  obligations, whether contractual, statutory or otherwise, changes 
events that could subject us to reputational damage, fines, liti- in enforcement practices, the making of a legal challenge or claim 
gation, regulatory sanctions, financial losses or loss of market  against us, our inability to enforce legal rights or the failure to 
share. Technology risks are managed through our technology risk  take measures to protect our rights.
management program, business continuity management plan and 
business contingency and resiliency plans. Technology risks are  Compliance risk
included as part of our overall enterprise risk and control assess- Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions or 
ment based upon a forward-looking approach focusing on the  financial loss that may result from the failure to comply with appli-
most significant risks in terms of potential impact and likelihood. cable laws, regulations, rules or market standards.
Cyber risk Regulatory risk
Cyber risk, which is part of technology risk, is the risk that the  Regulatory risk is the risk that changes in laws, regulations, rules 
Group will be compromised as a result of cyber attacks, security  or market standards may limit our activities and have a negative 
158 Risk management
   
effect on our business or our ability to implement strategic ini- Where appropriate, remediation plans are put in place with own-
tiatives, or can result in an increase in operating costs for the  ership by senior management and ongoing Executive Board level 
business or make our products and services more expensive for  oversight through CARMC.
clients.
Non-financial risk capital management
Conduct risk Our activities to manage non-financial risk capital include sce-
The Group considers conduct risk to be the risk that improper  nario analysis and operational risk regulatory capital measure-
behavior or judgment by our employees may result in a nega- ment, as further described below. In addition, we transfer the risk 
tive financial, non-financial or reputational impact to our clients,  of potential losses from certain non-financial risks to third-party 
employees or the Group, or negatively impact the integrity of the  insurance companies in certain instances.
financial markets. Conduct risk may arise from a wide variety of 
activities and types of behaviors. A Group-wide definition of con- Non-financial risk scenario analysis
duct risk supports the efforts of our employees to have a com- Non-financial risk scenario analysis is forward-looking and is used 
mon understanding of and consistently manage and mitigate our  to identify and measure exposure to a range of potential adverse 
conduct risk. Further, it promotes standards of responsible con- events, such as unauthorized trading, transaction processing 
duct and ethics in our employees. Managing conduct risk includes  errors and compliance issues. These scenarios help businesses 
consideration of the risks generated by each business and the  and functions assess the suitability of controls in light of exist-
strength of the associated mitigating controls. Conduct risk is also  ing risks and estimate hypothetical but plausible risk exposures. 
assessed by reviewing and learning from past incidents within the  Scenarios are developed as qualitative estimation approaches to 
Group and at other firms in the financial services sector. support stressed loss projections and capital calculations (both 
economic and regulatory capital) as part of regulatory require-
The ongoing focus and investment in a strong risk culture is fun- ments set by regulatory agencies in the jurisdictions in which we 
damental to the management of conduct risk. The Group’s Code  operate.
of Conduct provides a clear statement on the behavioral expecta-
tions, supported by our cultural values. Non-financial risk regulatory capital measurement
> Refer to “Culture” in Risk management oversight and to “Corporate governance  We use a set of internally validated and approved models to cal-
framework” in IV – Corporate Governance – Overview for further information  culate our regulatory capital requirements for non-financial risk 
on our Code of Conduct.
(also referred to as “operational risk capital”) across the Group 
and for legal entities. For Group regulatory capital requirements, 
Evaluation and management of non-financial risks we use a model under the AMA. The model is based on a loss 
We aim to maintain the integrity of our business, operations and  distribution approach that uses relevant historical internal and 
reputation as a core principle guiding the management and over- external loss data to estimate frequency and severity distribu-
sight of non-financial risks by ensuring that our day-to-day opera- tions for different types of potential non-financial risk losses, 
tions are sustainable and resilient, do not expose us to significant  such as an unauthorized trading incident, execution delivery 
losses and enable our employees to make decisions and conduct  errors, fraud, litigation events or a material business disruption. 
business in line with our values and desired reputation as a firm. Business experts and senior management review and challenge 
model parameters in light of changes of business environment 
Each business area and function is responsible for its risks and  and internal control factors to ensure that the capital projection is 
the provision of adequate resources and procedures for the man- reasonable and forward-looking. Deductions are taken from the 
agement of those risks. They are supported by the designated  regulatory capital requirement for non-financial risk to account for 
second line of defense functions responsible for independent  the mitigating values of insurance policies held by the Group. The 
risk and compliance oversight, methodologies, tools and report- regulatory capital requirement represents the 99.9th percentile of 
ing within their areas as well as working with management on  the estimated distribution of total operational losses for the Group 
non-financial risk issues that arise. Businesses and relevant con- over a one-year time horizon. A risk-sensitive approach is applied 
trol functions meet regularly to discuss risk issues and identify  to allocate capital to the businesses.
required actions to mitigate risks.
Governance of non-financial risks
The Non-Financial Risk function oversees the Group’s estab- Effective governance processes establish clear roles and respon-
lished ERCF, providing a consistent and unified approach to  sibilities for managing non-financial risks and define appropri-
evaluating and monitoring the Group’s non-financial risks. The  ate escalation processes for outcomes that are outside expected 
ERCF sets common minimum standards across the Group for  levels. We utilize a comprehensive set of policies and procedures 
non-financial risk and control processes and review and challenge  that set out how employees are expected to conduct their activi-
activities. Risk and control assessments are in place across all  ties, including clearly defined roles for each of the three lines of 
divisions and functions, consisting of the risk and control self- defense to achieve appropriate segregation of duties.
assessment, compliance risk assessment and legal risk assess-
ment. Key non-financial risks are identified annually and represent  Risk & Compliance is responsible for setting minimum standards 
the most significant risks requiring senior management attention.  for managing non-financial risks at the Group level. This includes 
Risk management 159
   
ensuring the cohesiveness of policies and procedures, tools and  owners and model supervisors are responsible for identifying, 
practices throughout the Group, particularly with regard to the  developing, implementing and testing their models. Model super-
identification, evaluation, mitigation, monitoring and reporting of  visors are responsible for ensuring that models are submitted to 
these risks. Other second line of defense non-financial risk over- the Model Risk Management function for validation and approval 
sight functions are responsible for setting supplemental policies  and entered into the Group’s model inventory. The Model Risk 
and procedures where applicable. Management function is structured to be independent from model 
users, developers and supervisors.
Non-financial risk exposures, metrics, issues and remediation 
efforts are discussed in quarterly CARMC internal control system  A rigorous validation practice should ensure that models are 
meetings and in divisional operational risk and compliance man- conceptually sound, correctly implemented by the model own-
agement committee meetings, which have senior representatives  ers and developers and functioning as intended. To accomplish 
from relevant functions. this, model risk management deploys a team of objective, well-
informed subject matter experts (the model validators) who have 
For conduct risk, periodic monitoring of metrics is based on  the necessary skills and knowledge to pose effective challenge 
thresholds set by severity level, with material trends identified and  to all classes of models as a guiding principle for mitigating model 
escalated as appropriate to senior management. risk.
Model risk Under the Group model governance policies, all models are risk-
tiered according to an internal scoring method that combines 
Like most other financial firms, we rely on advanced quantita- complexity and materiality to assign models into one of four risk 
tive models across all business lines and legal entities to support  tiers. These rating tiers are used to prioritize models and allo-
a broad range of applications, including estimating various forms  cate resources for initial validations, annual reviews and ongoing 
of financial risk, valuation of securities, stress testing, assessing  monitoring.
capital adequacy, providing wealth management services to cli-
ents and to meet various reporting requirements. Governance of model risk
Governance is an important part of model risk management. Vari-
Definition and sources of model risk ous model review committees within the Model Risk Management 
Model risk is the risk of adverse consequences from decisions  function prepare aggregate model risk reports that serve to iden-
made based on model results that may be incorrect, misin- tify concentrations of model risk and to make recommendations 
terpreted or used inappropriately. All quantitative models are  for remediation. These reports are submitted regularly to a dedi-
imperfect approximations that are subject to varying degrees of  cated model risk governance committee which escalates issues 
uncertainty in their output depending on, among other factors,  as necessary to the Group’s Model Risk Steering Committee and 
the model’s complexity and its intended application. As a result,  the Board’s Risk Committee.
modeling errors are unavoidable and can result in inappropriate 
business decisions, financial loss, regulatory and reputational risk  The Model Risk Management function reviews models, reports 
and incorrect or inadequate capital reporting. Model errors, intrin- model limitations to key stakeholders, tracks remediation plans for 
sic uncertainty and inappropriate use are the primary contributors  validation findings and reports on model risk tolerance and met-
to aggregate, Group-wide model risk. rics to senior management. The Model Risk Management func-
tion oversees controls to support a complete and accurate Group-
Evaluation and management of model risk wide model inventory and performs semi-annual attestations 
Through our global model risk management and governance  affirming the completeness and accuracy of its model inventory.
framework we seek to identify, measure and mitigate all sig-
nificant risks arising from the use of models embedded within  Reputational risk
our global model ecosystem. Model risks can then be mitigated 
through a well-designed and robust model risk management  Definition and sources of reputational risk
framework, encompassing both model governance policies and  Reputational risk is the risk that negative perception by our stake-
procedures in combination with model validation best practices. holders, including clients, counterparties, employees, sharehold-
ers, regulators and the general public, may adversely impact client 
Robust model risk management is crucial to ensuring that the  acquisition and damage our business relationships with clients 
Group’s model risk is assessed and managed using a central  and counterparties, affecting staff morale and reducing access to 
inventory that includes all models of the Group in order to remain  funding sources.
within a defined model risk appetite by focusing on identifica-
tion, measurement and resolution of model limitations. Under the  Reputational risk may arise from a variety of sources, including, but 
Group’s model governance policies, the Model Risk Manage- not limited to, the nature or purpose of a proposed transaction or 
ment function validates and approves all new models and mate- service, the identity or activity of a potential client, the regulatory or 
rial changes to existing models before their implementation, in  political climate in which the business will be transacted, significant 
compliance with standards established by regulators. Developers,  public attention surrounding the transaction itself or the potential 
160 Risk management
   
sustainability risks of a transaction. Sustainability risks are poten- Governance of reputational risk
tially adverse impacts on the environment, on people or society,  The PCR cycle within CARMC and the newly formed Global Cli-
which may be caused by, contributed to or directly linked to finan- ent Risk Committee, which reports to and receives its delegated 
cial service providers through the activities of their clients. These  authority from the PCR cycle, on a global level, and the divisional 
may manifest themselves as reputational risks, but potentially also  client risk committees, on a divisional or legal entity level, are the 
as credit, operational or other risks. Reputational risk may also arise  governing bodies responsible for the oversight and active discus-
from reputational damage in the aftermath of a non-financial risk  sion of reputational and sustainability risks. At the Board level, the 
incident, such as cyber crime or the failure by employees to meet  Risk Committee and Audit Committee jointly assist the Board in 
expected conduct and ethical standards. fulfilling its reputational risk oversight responsibilities by review-
ing and approving the Group’s risk appetite framework as well as 
Evaluation and management of reputational risk assessing the adequacy of the management of reputational and 
Reputational risk is included in the Group’s risk appetite frame- sustainability risks. 
work to ensure that risk-taking is aligned with the approved risk 
appetite. We highly value our reputation and are fully committed  In order to inform our stakeholders about how we manage some 
to protecting it through a prudent approach to risk-taking and a  of the environmental and social risks inherent to the banking 
responsible approach to business. This is achieved through the  business, we publish our Sustainability Report, in which we also 
use of dedicated processes, resources and policies focused on  describe our efforts to conduct our operations in a manner that is 
identifying, evaluating, managing and reporting potential reputa- environmentally and socially responsible and broadly contributes 
tional risks. This is also achieved by applying the highest stan- to society. 
dards of personal accountability and ethical conduct as set out  > Refer to “credit-suisse.com/sustainabilityreport” for our Sustainability Report.
in the Group’s Code of Conduct and the Group’s approach to 
cultural values and behaviors. Reputational risk potentially aris-
ing from proposed business transactions and client activity is  Business risk
assessed in the reputational risk review process. The Group’s 
global policy on reputational risk requires employees to be con- Definition and sources of business risk
servative when assessing potential reputational impact and,  Business risk is the risk of not achieving our financial goals and 
where certain indicators give rise to potential reputational risk, the  ambitions in connection with the Group’s strategy and how the 
relevant business proposal or service must be submitted through  business is managed in response to the external operating envi-
the reputational risk review process. This involves a submis- ronment. External factors include both market and economic 
sion by an originator (any employee), approval by a business area  conditions, as well as shifts in the regulatory environment. Inter-
head or designee, and its subsequent referral for evaluation by a  nally, we face risks arising from inappropriate strategic decisions, 
reputational risk approver or by the respective divisional client risk  ineffective implementation of business strategies or an inability 
committee. Reputational risk approvers are experienced and high- to adapt business strategies in response to changes in the oper-
ranking senior managers, independent of the business divisions  ating environment, including in relation to client and competitor 
with the authority to approve, reject or impose conditions (also in  behavior.
relation to environmental or social matters) on a transaction or the 
establishment of a client relationship. In cases of particularly com- The Group depends on dividends, distributions and other pay-
plex or cross-divisional transactions, the decision may be referred  ments from its subsidiaries and the capital payouts in these sub-
to the Global Client Risk Committee (GCRC), which includes  sidiaries might be restricted as a result of regulatory, tax or other 
representatives of the Executive Board, including the CRCO and  constraints. Our businesses are also exposed to a variety of risks 
General Counsel, and has authority to approve, reject or impose  that could adversely impact the Group’s dividend payments or 
conditions on our participation in the transaction or service. share buyback programs. 
For transactions with potential sustainability risks, the internal  Business risk also includes risks associated with the Group’s illiq-
specialist unit Sustainability Risk evaluates the nature of the trans- uid investments. These investments are not subject to CARMC-
action and Credit Suisse’s role, the identity and activities of the  approved processes for trading activities due to their character-
client and the regulatory context of its operations, and assesses  istics and risk profile. Illiquid investments include private equity, 
the environmental and social aspects of the client’s operations,  hedge fund and mutual fund seed and co-investments as well as 
products or services. The team determines whether the client’s  other investments, such as collateralized loan obligations (CLO) 
activities are consistent with the relevant industry standards  mandated by regulatory risk retention requirements. Banking 
and whether the potential transaction is compatible with Credit  book loans and strategic investments are not covered under the 
Suisse’s policies and guidelines for sensitive sectors. The out- illiquid investment risk.
come of this analysis is submitted to the responsible business unit 
and/or entered into the reputational risk review process for evalu- Evaluation and management of business risk
ation by a reputational risk approver. The Group financial plan serves as the basis for the financial 
goals and ambitions against which the businesses and legal 
Risk management 161
   
entities are assessed regularly throughout the year. These regular  senior management representation from our business divisions 
reviews include evaluations of financial performance, capitalization  as well as from General Counsel, Risk & Compliance and the 
and capital usage, key business risks, overall operating environ- new Sustainability, Research & Investment Solutions function. 
ment and business strategy. This enables management to iden- The mandate of the program is to develop comprehensive strate-
tify and execute changes to the Group’s operations and strategy  gies to address climate risk. This includes supporting our clients’ 
where needed. energy transition toward low-carbon operations, technologies and 
services, continuing the ongoing implementation of the TCFD 
Governance of business risk recommendations as well as working toward the implementa-
Strategic and related financial plans are developed by each divi- tion of various industry recommendations and compliance with 
sion annually and aggregated into a Group financial plan, which is  upcoming regulatory expectations. In 2020, we further intensified 
reviewed by the CRCO, CFO and CEO before presentation to the  our efforts on climate risk management by creating a dedicated 
full Executive Board and the Board. On a regular basis, the Board  climate risk team within Credit Risk. 
and the Executive Board conduct more fundamental in-depth 
reviews of the Group’s strategy and reassess our performance  Overall, Credit Suisse is pursuing a three-pronged approach as 
objectives. part of our efforts to address climate change and climate-related 
> Refer to “Strategy” in I – Information on the company for further information. risks. First, we are working with our clients to support their tran-
sition to low-carbon and climate-resilient business models, and 
Illiquid investment risk is separately governed by the Risk Com- we are working to further integrate climate change into our risk 
mittee and the PCR cycle of CARMC. The divisional risk manage- management models as part of our climate risk strategy program. 
ment committees and associated sub-committees are responsible  Second, we are focusing on delivering sustainable finance solu-
for the day-to-day oversight and approval of related risk models,  tions that help our clients achieve their goals and contribute to the 
guidelines and procedures. realization of the UN Sustainable Development Goals; and third, 
we are working on further reducing the carbon footprint of our 
Climate-related risks own operations.
Definition of climate-related risks Our efforts to implement the TCFD recommendations continued 
Climate-related risks are the potentially adverse direct and indirect  in 2020. Detailed disclosures in accordance with TCFD recom-
impacts on the Group’s financial metrics, operations or reputation  mendations are available in our Sustainability Report.
due to transitional or physical effects of climate change. Climate- > Refer to “credit-suisse.com/sustainabilityreport” for our Sustainability Report.
related risks could manifest themselves through existing risk 
types such as credit risk, market risk, non-financial risk, business  Strategy
risk or reputational risk.  Credit Suisse recognizes its share of responsibilities in combat-
ing climate change by supporting the transition to a low-carbon 
Sources of climate-related risks and climate-resilient economy. As a financial institution, we are 
We have identified several key risks and opportunities originat- committed to playing our part in addressing this global challenge 
ing from either the physical or the transitional effects of climate  through our role as a financial intermediary between the econ-
change. Physical risks can arise from climate and weather-related  omy, the environment and society.
events (e.g., heatwaves, droughts, floods, storms and sea-level 
rise) and can potentially result in material financial losses, impair- We aim to leverage existing risk management processes and 
ing asset values and the creditworthiness of borrowers. Transi- capabilities for the management of climate risk exposures by 
tion risks can arise from the process of adjustment toward a low  mapping the underlying climate risks to our existing risk types. As 
carbon economy through changes in climate policy, technological  methodologies for assessing climate risk evolve, we are develop-
developments and disruptive business models, and shifting inves- ing consistent climate-related metrics that we believe are use-
tor and consumer sentiment. Physical and transition climate risks  ful for risk management purposes. The Group has enhanced its 
can affect us as an organization either directly, through our physi- internal reports and is developing further climate risk-related sce-
cal assets, costs and operations, or indirectly, through our finan- nario analysis. We have also continued exploring scenario models 
cial relationships with our clients.  through the range of pilots that include the participation in the UN 
Environment Programme Finance Initiative and the engagement in 
Evaluation and management of climate-related risks the Paris Agreement Capital Transition Assessment (PACTA) pilot 
Climate risk is one of the environmental aspects considered as  that covered implications from both physical and transition risks.
part of the broader sustainability risk agenda of Credit Suisse. 
In 2018, we established a climate change program to address  Credit Suisse is engaged in a range of activities which aim to 
the recommendations of the FSB’s Taskforce on Climate-related  support the transition to a lower carbon and more climate-resil-
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) with respect to external disclo- ient economy. As part of our strategy that demonstrates Credit 
sures on climate-related risks and opportunities. In 2019, we  Suisse’s commitment to climate change goals, while also acting 
integrated our TCFD adoption program into our Group-wide cli- as a proactive partner to our clients who are working to transi-
mate risk strategy program, sponsored by the CRCO, that has  tion their businesses, we have developed sector-specific client 
162 Risk management
   
energy transition frameworks (CETFs). CETFs consist of the  financing specifically related to the development of new coal-fired 
identification of priority sectors/industries and a methodology to  power plants. Additionally, as announced in July 2020, we will 
categorize clients that operate in these sectors according to their  generally not be directly lending or be involved in capital mar-
energy transition readiness. With this approach we aim to actively  kets underwriting to any company deriving more than 25% of its 
encourage clients to transition along the CETF scale over time  revenues from thermal coal extraction or from coal power. Such 
and support them through financing and advisory services. At the  transactions will only be allowed if it will help the company specifi-
same time we aim to manage Credit Suisse’s business and repu- cally to transition in accordance with the Paris Agreement and 
tational risk exposure by assessing clients against the relevant  the use of proceeds are tied to such transition strategies or, for 
CETFs before transacting with them. Financing of clients with  companies deriving more than 25% of revenues from coal power, 
the lowest categorization in terms of transition readiness, i.e., of  if the company can demonstrate a decreasing share of coal in its 
“unaware” clients, will be phased out over time. To date, we have  generation portfolio consistent with our CETFs. These restrictions 
rolled out CETFs for the highest priority sectors, such as oil and  do not apply to companies that are involved in metallurgical coal 
gas, coal mining and utilities/power generation (fossil fuel-based).  extraction. We also announced that we would not provide financ-
Other sectors for which we are developing or planning to develop  ing related to offshore and onshore oil and gas projects in the 
CETFs include shipping, aviation, commodities trade finance as  Arctic region. 
well as manufacturing, construction/real estate, agriculture and 
forestry. Additionally, we introduced further restrictions in 2020 to  Direct physical risks of climate change are identified and 
certain business activities related to thermal coal extraction, coal  assessed through the business continuity management process 
power and offshore and onshore oil and gas projects in the Arctic  alongside other physical risks such as natural disasters.
region.
We actively engage in industry forums to foster the development 
Strategic alignment of our business with the objectives of the  of industry standards. We have contributed to the development 
Sustainable Development Goals set by the United Nations and  of transition risk and physical risk assessment models as part of 
the Paris Agreement on Climate Change (Paris Agreement) is  the UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative Phase II bank-
another important objective for us and we have signed the Prin- ing pilot. Together with other banks we participated in the PACTA 
ciples for Responsible Banking as well as the Poseidon Principles  pilot project to test methodologies for measuring the alignment 
to further these objectives. of credit portfolios with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. In 
Switzerland, Credit Suisse participated in the voluntary climate 
In December 2020, we announced that we would develop  alignment test of investment portfolios and Swiss mortgages for 
science-based targets within the next 24 months, including to  Swiss banks, asset managers, pension funds and insurance com-
achieve net zero emissions from our operations, supply chain and  panies coordinated by the Swiss Federal Office for the Environ-
financing activities no later than 2050, with intermediate emission  ment. We published a summary of our individual results, as one of 
goals for 2030. In addition, we announced aligning our financing  the few participating banks to do so.
with the Paris Agreement objective of limiting global warming to 
1.5°C. Metrics and targets
We have developed a range of internal analytics on Credit 
Risk management Suisse’s exposures to clients in climate-impacted sectors. We are 
Climate-related risks are embedded in our Group-wide risk taxon- now accelerating the development of our capabilities to measure 
omy. These risks – alongside other environmental and social risks  and manage climate and sustainability-related risks and thereby 
– are considered within the Group-wide, standardized reputa- adhere to our commitments to align our financing with the Paris 
tional risk review process. In 2020, we also continued our work to  Agreement objectives. More detail on Credit Suisse’s exposures 
identify risks stemming from climate change and to integrate the  to climate-related risks is available in our Sustainability Report.
management of these risks within the front-to-back processes  > Refer to “credit-suisse.com/sustainabilityreport” for our Sustainability Report.
of the Group because these risks manifest themselves through 
reputational, credit, operational and other risks. Our green finance solutions are designed to achieve a positive 
impact on the environment while also creating financial value 
We have identified sensitive sectors which pose greater envi- for our clients, drawing upon the expertise of various specialist 
ronmental and social risks (including impacts to the climate) and  departments across our divisions.
have policies and guidelines in place to govern the responsible 
provision of financial services to clients within these sectors. Con- From 2013 to the end of 2020, we supported the issuance of 
sequently, within the reputational risk review process, we evalu- over USD 49 billion of sustainable debt capital markets products 
ate factors such as a company’s greenhouse gas footprint or its  such as green, social, sustainability, sustainability-linked and 
energy efficiency targets while some of our policies and guide- transition bonds as well as green certificates of deposits and 
lines require clients to have a plan in place to deal with climate  commercial paper. We are also active in the sustainability lend-
change risks. In 2019, our sector policies and guidelines, which  ing market and during 2020 we participated in a total of over 
had previously excluded any form of financing for new greenfield  USD 34 billion worth of sustainability-linked loans, including loan 
thermal coal mines, were updated to also exclude any form of  renewals and extensions. Additionally, we actively support clean 
Risk management 163
   
and renewable energy businesses. From 2010 through the end of  reviewing forward-looking investment risks in our client portfolios 
2020, we were involved in over 150 transactions in this field with  and investment funds is central to our investment oversight pro-
a value of over USD 130 billion. gram. Areas of focus include:
p  Measuring and monitoring investment performance of discre-
In 2020, we announced the goal to provide at least CHF 300  tionary client portfolios and investment funds and comparing 
billion of sustainable financing to support transition strategies  the returns against benchmarks and peer groups to under-
(renewables, green/blue/transition bonds, low-carbon energy  stand level, sources and drivers of the returns.
solutions and financings aligned to the UN Sustainable Develop- p  Assessing risk measures such as exposure, sensitivities, 
ment Goals) over the next 10 years. stress scenarios, expected volatility and liquidity across our 
portfolios to ensure that we are managing the assets in line 
We are part of the global RE100 (100% renewable electricity) ini- with the clients’ expectations and risk tolerance.
tiative through which we intend to source 100% renewable elec- p  Treating clients with a prudent standard of care, which 
tricity across our entire global operations by 2025. In 2020, 94%  includes information disclosure, subscriptions and redemptions 
of the Group’s electricity consumed globally was generated using  processes, trade execution and requiring the highest ethical 
renewable resources. Furthermore, we manage and disclose  conduct.
greenhouse gas emissions from our own operations on the basis  p  Ensuring discretionary portfolio managers’ investment 
of an ISO 14001-certified environmental management system. At  approach is in accordance with prospectus, regulations and cli-
an operational level, we have been working on a greenhouse gas  ent guidelines.
neutral basis globally since 2010. p  Monitoring client investment guidelines or investment fund lim-
its. In certain cases, internal limits or guidelines are also estab-
Governance of climate-related risks lished and monitored.
Climate change-related responsibilities are included in the Board’s 
Risk Committee charter. At the Executive Board level, the PCR  Fiduciary risks from activities other than discretionary investment 
cycle of CARMC assumes responsibility for the overall climate  management, such as the advised portfolios, are managed and 
change strategy and is mandated to ensure that the capabilities  monitored in a similar oversight program. This program is actively 
for the management of relevant long-term risk trends, including  managed in cooperation with the Compliance function and is 
climate change, are put in place. Furthermore, key internal poli- based on the suitability framework.
cies incorporate important elements of climate risk management.
Governance of fiduciary risk
In 2020, we established the GCRC on a global level, reporting  Sound governance is essential for all discretionary management 
to and receiving its delegated authority from the PCR cycle of  activities including trade execution and the investment process. 
CARMC, on a global level, and the divisional client risk commit- Our program targets daily, monthly or quarterly monitoring of all 
tees, on a divisional or legal entity level. The establishment of the  portfolio management activities with independent analysis pro-
GCRC enables a comprehensive assessment of risks related to  vided to senior management. Formal review meetings are in place 
transactions and client relationships, including reputational risk,  to ensure that investment performance and risks are in line with 
sustainability risk and climate risk. expectations and adequately supervised.
The newly established Climate Risk function within Credit Risk  Pension risk
provides dedicated capabilities to assess and manage the multi-
faceted aspects of climate-related risks. Additionally, at the level  Definition and sources of pension risk
of the Board, we have established the Sustainability Advisory  Pension risk is the financial risk from contractual or other liabili-
Committee. ties to which we are exposed as a sponsor of and/or participant 
in pension plans. It is the risk that we may be required to make 
Fiduciary risk unexpected payments or other contributions to a pension plan 
because of a potential obligation (i.e., underfunding).
Definition and sources of fiduciary risk
Fiduciary risk is the risk of financial loss arising when the Group  We sponsor three types of pension plans:
or its employees, acting in a fiduciary capacity as trustee, invest- p  defined benefit plans;
ment manager or as mandated by law, do not act in the best  p  defined contribution plans; and 
interest of the client in connection with the provision of advice  p  our Swiss savings plan.
and/or management of our client’s assets including from a prod-
uct-related market, credit, liquidity, counterparty and non-financial  Pension risk arises from defined benefit plans and the Swiss sav-
risk perspective. ings plan, which has elements of a defined benefit plan. Under 
these plans, we, as the plan sponsor, bear the potential risk of 
Evaluation and management of fiduciary risk having to provide additional funding in the event of a plan shortfall 
With regard to fiduciary risk that relates to discretionary invest- whereby the plan liabilities exceed the plan assets. Under defined 
ment-related activities, assessing investment performance and  contribution plans there is no defined benefit at retirement and 
164 Risk management
   
Risk portfolio analysis
the employee bears the investment risk; as a result, the plan 
sponsor is not responsible for a shortfall. The majority of our pen-
sion risk derives from the defined benefit plans in Switzerland, the  Credit risk
UK and the US.
Credit risk overview
Sources of risks can be broadly categorized into asset investment  All transactions that are exposed to potential losses arising as a 
risks (e.g., underperformance of bonds, equities and alternative  result of a borrower or counterparty failing to meet its financial 
investments) and liability risks, primarily from changes in interest  obligations or as a result of deterioration in the credit quality of 
rates, inflation and longevity. the borrower or counterparty are subject to credit risk exposure 
measurement and management.
Evaluation and management of pension risk > Refer to “Note 20 – Financial instruments measured at amortized cost and 
Pension plan structure credit losses” in VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 
for information on credit quality and aging analysis of loans.
The Group’s major pension plans are established as separate 
entities from the sponsor firm and are governed by trustees who  For regulatory capital purposes, credit risk comprises sev-
are charged with safeguarding the interests of the plan members  eral regulatory categories where credit risk measurement and 
pursuant to statutory and regulatory requirements. Risk-taking  related regulatory capital requirements are subject to different 
activity within the Group’s pension funds is not typically within the  measurement approaches under the Basel framework. Details 
direct control of the sponsor firm. There is however a risk that we,  on regulatory credit risk categories, credit quality indicators and 
as the plan sponsor, may have a potential obligation to contribute  credit risk concentration are available in our disclosures required 
due to underfunding which could have a negative impact on the  under Pillar 3 of the Basel framework related to risk, which will be 
Group’s capital and income before taxes. available on our website.
> 
Refer to “credit-suisse.com/regulatorydisclosures” for further information.
Metrics and targets
Pensions risk forms an integral part of the Group’s risk appe- Loans and irrevocable loan commitments
tite assessment with internal macro-economic stress scenarios  The following table provides an overview of loans and irrevocable 
used for Group-wide stress testing. These are incremental to  loan commitments by division in accordance with accounting prin-
the assessment performed by the trustees and their external  ciples generally accepted in the US and are not comparable with 
advisers. the regulatory credit risk exposures presented in our disclosures 
required under Pillar 3 of the Basel framework.
Within Risk, pension risk is measured and quantified through both 
our stress testing framework and internal capital metrics used to  Loans and irrevocable loan commitments
assess the Group’s capital requirements. These measures are  end of   2020   2019 
intended to assess the potential impact from the revaluation of 
CHF million        
pension assets and liabilities on the Group’s capital metrics and 
Gross loans   293,539   297,841 
income before taxes. 
Irrevocable loan commitments   119,022   125,127 
Total loans and irrevocable loan commitments   412,561   422,968 
Governance of pension risk
   of which Swiss Universal Bank   190,872   183,604 
The overall pension risk framework and governance structure of 
   of which International Wealth Management   59,667   58,774 
our pension plans consists of three components:
p  Trustees have overall responsibility of the pension plan and     of which Asia Pacific   42,287   49,489 
   of which Investment Bank   118,167   129,059 
act on behalf of the beneficiaries of the plan with additional 
   of which Corporate Center   1,568   2,042 
oversight by actuaries and external consultants. Trustees are 
responsible for ensuring that the pension plan is run properly 
and the member benefits are secure.
p  Depending on the jurisdiction there is oversight provided by  Loans held-for-sale and traded loans
senior management, trustees, actuaries and/or advisors in  As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, loans held-for-sale included 
relation to local funding, investment strategy, plan changes or  CHF 102 million and CHF 25 million, respectively, of seasoned 
other actions of the pension fund. US subprime residential mortgages from consolidated variable 
p  Risk & Compliance monitors and reports various metrics and  interest entities (VIE). Traded loans included US subprime resi-
analytics to senior management and regulators (e.g., economic  dential mortgages of CHF 233 million and CHF 173 million as of 
risk capital, severe flight to quality and loss potential analysis). December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Risk management 165
   
Loans in accordance with generally accepted accounting standards in 
The table “Loans” provides an overview of our loans by loan  the US and are not comparable with the regulatory credit risk 
classes, impaired loans, the related allowance for credit losses  exposures presented in our disclosures required under Pillar 3 of 
and selected loan metrics by business division. The carrying val- the Basel framework.
ues of loans and related allowance for credit losses are presented 
Loans
   Swiss  International             
   Universal   Wealth   Asia   Investment   Corporate   Credit 
end of   Bank  Management   Pacific   Bank   Center   Suisse 
2     020 (CHF million)          
Mortgages   106,071   3,653   1,520   0   26   111,270 
Loans collateralized by securities   6,960   19,900   23,324   1,574   31   51,789 
Consumer finance   4,336   414   4   62   72   4,888 
Consumer   117,367   23,967   24,848   1,636   129   167,947 
Real estate   24,122   1,983   2,374   557   9   29,045 
Commercial and industrial loans   31,458   24,848   8,629   8,292   870   74,097 
Financial institutions   3,176   1,776   2,528   11,320   272   19,072 
Governments and public institutions   768   64   472   1,923   151   3,378 
Corporate & institutional   59,524   28,671   14,003   22,092   1,302   125,592 
Gross loans   176,891   52,638   38,851   23,728   1,431   293,539 
   of which held at fair value   25   62   2,446   8,316   559   11,408 
Net (unearned income) / deferred expenses   104   (104)   (27)   (69)   1   (95) 
Allowance for credit losses 1  (663)   (345)   (199)   (300)   (29)   (1,536) 
Net loans   176,332   52,189   38,625   23,359   1,403   291,908 
2     019 (CHF million)          
Mortgages 2  104,257   3,883   1,492   0   39   109,671 
Loans collateralized by securities 2  6,757   20,828   26,809   2,000   31   56,425 
Consumer finance   3,791   504   21  7    78   4,401 
Consumer   114,805   25,215   28,322   2,007   148   170,497 
Real estate   23,569   2,076   3,095   465   15   29,220 
Commercial and industrial loans 2  29,395   24,932   9,883   8,406   879   73,495 
Financial institutions   2,650   1,619   3,910   11,747   441   20,367 
Governments and public institutions   744   237   878   2,237   166   4,262 
Corporate & institutional   56,358   28,864   17,766   22,855   1,501   127,344 
Gross loans   171,163   54,079   46,088   24,862   1,649   297,841 
   of which held at fair value   190   31   3,922   8,021   498   12,662 
Net (unearned income) / deferred expenses   96   (106)   (45)   (62)   1   (116) 
Allowance for credit losses 1  (487)   (179)   (74)   (143)   (63)   (946) 
Net loans   170,772   53,794   45,969   24,657   1,587   296,779 
1 Allowance for credit losses is only based on loans that are not carried at fair value.
2 Certain corporate & institutional loans have been reclassified to consumer loans following the application of a look-through approach with regard to beneficial owners. Prior periods have 
been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
Compared to December 31, 2019, gross loans decreased  decreases in Asia Pacific and the Investment Bank, partially off-
CHF 4.3 billion to CHF 293.5 billion as of December 31, 2020,  set by an increase in Swiss Universal Bank. The net decrease of 
mainly due to the translation impact from the US dollar, lower  CHF 0.9 billion in loans to governments and public institutions 
loans collateralized by securities, lower loans to financial institu- mainly reflected decreases in Asia Pacific and the Investment 
tions and lower loans to governments and public institutions,  Bank. Consumer mortgages increased CHF 1.6 billion, mainly 
partially offset by higher consumer mortgages and higher com- driven by an increase in Swiss Universal Bank. Commercial and 
mercial and industrial loans. The net decrease of CHF 4.6 billion  industrial loans increased CHF 0.6 billion, mainly driven by an 
in loans collateralized by securities mainly reflected decreases  increase in Swiss Universal Bank, partially offset by a decrease in 
in Asia Pacific and International Wealth Management. Loans to  Asia Pacific.
financial institutions decreased CHF 1.3 billion, mainly reflecting 
166 Risk management
   
On a divisional level, decreases in gross loans of CHF 7.2 billion  Collateralized loans
in Asia Pacific, CHF 1.4 billion in International Wealth Manage- The table “Collateralized loans” provides an overview of collateral-
ment, CHF 1.1 billion in the Investment Bank and CHF 0.2 billion  ized loans by division. For consumer loans, the balances reflect 
in the Corporate Center were partially offset by an increase of  the gross carrying value of the loan classes “Mortgages” and 
CHF 5.7 billion in Swiss Universal Bank. “Loans collateralized by securities”, of which substantially all are 
> Refer to “Note 19 – Loans” and “Note 20 – Financial instruments measured at  fully collateralized. Consumer finance loans are not included as 
amortized cost and credit losses” in VI – Consolidated financial statements –  the majority of these loans are unsecured. For corporate & insti-
Credit Suisse Group for further information.
tutional loans, the balances reflect the value of mortgages and 
financial and other collateral related to secured loans, considered 
up to the amount of the related loans.
Collateralized loans
   Swiss  International             
   Universal   Wealth   Asia   Investment   Corporate   Credit 
end of   Bank  Management   Pacific   Bank   Center   Suisse 
2     020 (CHF million)          
Gross loans   176,891   52,638   38,851   23,728   1,431   293,539 
Collateralized loans   161,405   50,024   33,183   9,653   115   254,380 
   of which consumer 1  113,031   23,553   24,844   1,574   57   163,059 
      of which mortgages   106,071   3,653   1,520   0   26   111,270 
      of which loans collateralized by securities   6,960   19,900   23,324   1,574   31   51,789 
   of which corporate & institutional 2  48,374   26,471   8,339   8,079   58   91,321 
      of which secured by mortgages   33,756   2,780   159   249   0   36,944 
      of which secured by financial and other collateral   14,618   23,691   8,180   7,830   58   54,377 
2     019 (CHF million)          
Gross loans   171,163   54,079   46,088   24,862   1,649   297,841 
Collateralized loans   157,485   52,295   38,380   11,041   388   259,589 
   of which consumer 1  111,014   24,711   28,301   2,000   70   166,096 
      of which mortgages   104,257   3,883   1,492   0   39   109,671 
      of which loans collateralized by securities   6,757   20,828   26,809   2,000   31   56,425 
   of which corporate & institutional 2  46,471   27,584   10,079   9,041   318   93,493 
      of which secured by mortgages   33,920   2,826   730   152   0   37,628 
      of which secured by financial and other collateral   12,551   24,758   9,349   8,889   318   55,865 
1 Reflects the gross carrying value of the consumer loan classes “Mortgages” and “Loans collateralized by securities”, before allowance for credit losses.
2 Reflects the value of mortgages and financial and other collateral related to secured corporate & institutional loans, considered up to the amount of the related loans.
Within consumer loans, mortgages primarily include mortgages  are regularly reviewed according to the Group’s risk management 
on residential real estate such as single family homes, apartments  policies and directives, with maximum review periods determined 
and holiday homes as well as building loans. Mortgages may also  by collateral type, market liquidity and market transparency. For 
include certain loans that are secured by a combination of mort- example, traded securities are revalued on a daily basis and prop-
gages or other real estate titles and other collateral including,  erty values are appraised over a medium-term horizon gener-
e.g., securities, cash deposits or life insurance policies. Loans  ally exceeding one year considering the characteristics of the 
collateralized by securities primarily include lombard loans secured  property, current developments in the relevant real estate market 
by well-diversified portfolios of securities and share-backed loans. and the current level of credit exposure to the borrower. If the 
credit exposure to a borrower has changed significantly, in volatile 
Within corporate & institutional loans, mortgage collateral primar- markets or in times of increasing general market risk, collateral 
ily includes income-producing commercial and residential real  values may be appraised more frequently. Management judgment 
estate held by corporate & institutional clients. Financial and other  is applied in assessing whether markets are volatile or general 
collateral includes various types of eligible collateral, e.g., secu- market risk has increased to a degree that warrants a more fre-
rities, cash deposits, financial receivables related to factoring,  quent update of collateral values. Movements in monitored risk 
certain real assets such as ownership titles in ship and aircraft,  metrics that are statistically different compared to historical expe-
inventories and commodities, and certain guarantees. rience are considered in addition to analysis of externally-provided 
forecasts, scenario techniques and macroeconomic research. 
Financial collateral is subject to frequent market valuation  For impaired loans, the fair value of collateral is determined within 
depending on the asset class. In the Group’s private banking, cor- 90 days of the date the impairment was identified and thereaf-
porate and institutional businesses, all collateral values for loans  ter regularly revalued by Credit Risk within the impairment review 
Risk management 167
   
process. In the Group’s investment banking businesses, collat- December 31, 2019, 97% of the aggregate Swiss residential 
eral-dependent loans are appraised on at least an annual basis,  mortgage loan portfolio of CHF 110.5 billion had an LTV ratio 
or when a loan-relevant event occurs. equal to or lower than 80%. For substantially all Swiss residen-
tial mortgage loans originated in 2020 and 2019, the average 
As of December 31, 2020, 97% of the aggregate Swiss  LTV ratio was equal to or lower than 80% at origination. Our 
residential mortgage loan portfolio of CHF 112.4 billion had  LTV ratios are based on the most recent appraised value of the 
a loan-to-value (LTV) ratio equal to or lower than 80%. As of  collateral.
Impaired loans
   Swiss  International             
   Universal   Wealth   Asia   Investment   Corporate   Credit 
end of   Bank  Management   Pacific   Bank   Center   Suisse 
2     020 (CHF million)          
Non-performing loans   406   692   312   210   46   1,666 
Non-interest-earning loans   258   81   0   0   36   375 
Non-accrual loans   664   773   312   210   82   2,041 
Restructured loans   39   60   150   56   8   313 
Potential problem loans   324   101   219   199   0   843 
Other impaired loans   363   161   369   255   8   1,156 
Gross impaired loans 1  1,027   934 2   681   465   90   3,197 
   of which loans with a specific allowance   908   576   681   465   80   2,710 
   of which loans without a specific allowance   119   358   0   0   10   487 
2     019 (CHF million)          
Non-performing loans   453   482   166   87   62   1,250 
Non-interest-earning loans   204   43   0   0   13   260 
Non-accrual loans   657   525   166   87   75   1,510 
Restructured loans   66   203   0   13   68   350 
Potential problem loans   155   47   0   61  3    266 
Other impaired loans   221   250   0   74   71   616 
Gross impaired loans 1  878   775 2   166   161   146   2,126 
   of which loans with a specific allowance   799   468   166   148   133   1,714 
   of which loans without a specific allowance   79   307   0   13   13   412 
1 Impaired loans are only based on loans that are not carried at fair value.
2 Includes gross impaired loans of CHF 76 million and CHF 39 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, which are mostly secured by guarantees provided by investment-
grade export credit agencies.
Impaired loans COVID-19 pandemic and a newly impaired position in commod-
Compared to December 31, 2019, gross impaired loans increased  ity trade finance. These increases in Swiss Universal Bank were 
CHF 1.1 billion to CHF 3.2 billion as of December 31, 2020,  partially offset by repayments and write-offs in several client seg-
mainly driven by higher potential problem loans across all divisions  ments. Gross impaired loans in the Corporate Center decreased 
and higher non-performing loans in International Wealth Manage- CHF 56 million, mainly driven by the fair value option election for 
ment, Asia Pacific and the Investment Bank. an impaired exposure under the CECL guidance.
In Asia Pacific, gross impaired loans increased CHF 515 million,  In March 2020, US federal banking regulators issued the “Inter-
mainly driven by the impairment of several share-backed loans  agency Statement on Loan Modifications and Reporting for 
and a newly impaired position in the catering sector, partially  Financial Institutions Working with Customers Affected by the 
offset by the write-off of a share-backed loan in the healthcare  Coronavirus (Revised)” (Interagency Statement). According to 
sector. In the Investment Bank, gross impaired loans increased  the Interagency Statement, short-term modifications made on a 
CHF 304 million, mainly driven by new impairments in the oil and  good faith basis in response to the COVID-19 crisis to borrow-
gas, aviation and retail sectors. In International Wealth Manage- ers that were otherwise current prior to the relief being granted 
ment, gross impaired loans increased CHF 159 million, primarily  would not be considered to be troubled debt restructurings. This 
driven by increases in European mortgages, aviation finance and  includes short-term modifications such as payment deferrals, fee 
export finance, partially offset by reductions in ship finance. In  waivers, repayment term extensions or payment delays that are 
Swiss Universal Bank, gross impaired loans increased CHF 149  insignificant. The Interagency Statement was developed in con-
million, mainly reflecting new impairments of large Swiss corpo- sultation with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) 
rates that experienced a significant decline in revenues due to the  and the Group has applied this guidance. The Group has granted 
168 Risk management
   
short-term modifications to certain borrowers due to the COVID- restructurings in restructured loans. As of December 31, 2020, 
19 crisis in the form of deferrals of capital and interest payments  the Group had CHF 4.3 billion of loans held at amortized cost that 
that are within the scope of this guidance and the loans sub- were modified and not reported as troubled debt restructurings as 
ject to those deferrals have not been reported as troubled debt  a result of this relief and interpretative guidance.
Allowance for credit losses on loans
   Swiss  International             
   Universal   Wealth   Asia   Investment   Corporate   Credit 
end of   Bank  Management   Pacific   Bank   Center   Suisse 
2     020 (CHF million)          
Balance at beginning of period 1, 2  534   344   42   99   30   1,049 
Current-period provision for expected credit losses   240   100   235   323   2   900 
   of which methodology changes   (19)   0   0   0   0   (19) 
   of which provisions for interest   11   4   12   8   2   37 
Gross write-offs   (107)   (71)   (44)   (100)   (3)   (325) 
Recoveries   8   1   0   2   2   13 
Net write-offs   (99)   (70)   (44)   (98)   (1)   (312) 
Foreign currency translation impact and other adjustments, net   (12)   (29)   (34)   (24)   (2)   (101) 
Balance at end of period 1  663   345   199   300   29   1,536 
   of which individually evaluated   440   141   153   106   26   866 
   of which collectively evaluated   223   204   46   194  3    670 
1 Allowance for credit losses is only based on loans that are not carried at fair value.
2 Includes a net impact of CHF 103 million from the adoption of the new CECL guidance and the related election of the fair value option for certain loans on January 1, 2020, of which 
CHF 47 million is reflected in Swiss Universal Bank, CHF 165 million in International Wealth Management, CHF (32) million in Asia Pacific, CHF (44) million in the Investment Bank and 
CHF (33) million in the Corporate Center.
The following tables provide an overview of changes in impaired 
loans and related allowance for credit losses by loan portfolio 
segment.
Gross impaired loans by loan portfolio segment
     Corporate &    
   Consumer   institutional   Total 
2  020 (CHF million)       
Balance at beginning of period   683   1,443   2,126 
New impaired loans   843   2,187   3,030 
Increase in existing impaired loans   187   69   256 
Reclassifications to non-impaired status   (227)   (321)   (548) 
Repayments 1  (390)   (510)   (900) 
Liquidation of collateral, insurance or guarantee payments   (57)   (181)   (238) 
Sales 2  (18)   (54)   (72) 
Write-offs   (82)   (237)   (319) 
Foreign currency translation impact and other adjustments, net   (34)   (104)   (138) 
Balance at end of period   905   2,292   3,197 
1 Full or partial principal repayments.
2 Includes transfers to loans held-for-sale for intended sales of held-to-maturity loans.
Risk management 169
   
Allowance for credit losses on loans by portfolio segment
     Corporate &    
   Consumer   institutional   Total 
2  020 (CHF million)       
Balance at beginning of period 1, 2  241   808   1,049 
Current-period provision for expected credit losses   191   709   900 
   of which methodology changes   0   (19)   (19) 
   of which provisions for interest   22   15   37 
Gross write-offs   (87)   (238)   (325) 
Recoveries   8   5   13 
Net write-offs   (79)   (233)   (312) 
Foreign currency translation impact and other adjustments, net   (35)   (66)   (101) 
Balance at end of period 1  318   1,218   1,536 
   of which individually evaluated   230   636   866 
   of which collectively evaluated   88   582   670 
1 Allowance for credit losses is only based on loans that are not carried at fair value.
2 Includes a net impact of CHF 103 million from the adoption of the new CECL guidance and the related election of the fair value option for certain loans on January 1, 2020, of which 
CHF 55 million is reflected in consumer loans and CHF 48 million in corporate & institutional loans.
Allowance for credit losses as new provisions mainly in the mining, real estate and oil and gas 
Compared to December 31, 2019, the allowance for credit losses  sectors. In Asia Pacific, the increase in allowance for credit losses 
increased CHF 0.5 billion to CHF 1.5 billion as of December 31,  of CHF 157 million mainly reflected new provisions for several 
2020, primarily due to increases in the Investment Bank, Asia  share-backed loans and newly impaired positions in the cater-
Pacific and Swiss Universal Bank. The allowance for credit losses  ing and mining sectors as well as an increase in CECL provisions 
for the Group included a net increase of CHF 103 million from  mainly reflecting the slowdown in economic activities in the region 
the adoption of the new CECL guidance and the related election  in the first half of 2020. In Swiss Universal Bank, the increase 
of the fair value option for certain loans on January 1, 2020. In  in allowance for credit losses of CHF 129 million mainly reflected 
the Investment Bank, the increase in allowance for credit losses  new provisions in commodity trade finance and in small and 
of CHF 201 million mainly reflected increased CECL provisions,  medium-sized enterprises as well as increased CECL provisions 
primarily driven by sectors highly vulnerable to the COVID-19  reflecting the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic. In International 
pandemic such as oil and gas, leisure, retail and aviation, as well  Wealth Management, the allowance for credit losses was stable.
Loan metrics
   Swiss  International             
   Universal   Wealth   Asia   Investment   Corporate   Credit 
end of   Bank  Management   Pacific   Bank   Center   Suisse 
2     020 (%)          
Non-accrual loans / Gross loans   0.4   1.5   0.9   1.4   9.4   0.7 
Gross impaired loans / Gross loans   0.6   1.8   1.9   3.0   10.3   1.1 
Allowance for credit losses / Gross loans   0.4   0.7   0.5   1.9   3.3   0.5 
Specific allowance for credit losses / Gross impaired loans   42.8   15.1   22.5   22.8   28.9   27.1 
2     019 (%)          
Non-accrual loans / Gross loans   0.4   1.0   0.4   0.5   6.5   0.5 
Gross impaired loans / Gross loans   0.5   1.4   0.4   1.0   12.7   0.7 
Allowance for credit losses / Gross loans   0.3   0.3   0.2   0.8   5.5   0.3 
Specific allowance for credit losses / Gross impaired loans   39.3   16.9   13.9   29.8   42.5   28.6 
Gross loans and gross impaired loans exclude loans carried at fair value and the allowance for credit losses is only based on loans that are not carried at fair value.
Derivative instruments Derivatives are either privately negotiated OTC contracts or stan-
The Group enters into derivative contracts in the normal course of  dard contracts transacted through regulated exchanges. The 
business for market making, positioning and arbitrage purposes,  most frequently used derivative products include interest rate 
as well as for our own risk management needs, including mitiga- swaps, cross-currency swaps and credit default swaps (CDS), 
tion of interest rate, foreign exchange and credit risk. interest rate and foreign exchange options, foreign exchange for-
ward contracts, and foreign exchange and interest rate futures.
170 Risk management
   
The replacement values of derivative instruments correspond to their  The following table illustrates how credit risk on derivatives receiv-
fair values at the dates of the consolidated balance sheets and arise  ables is reduced by the use of legally enforceable netting agree-
from transactions for the account of individual customers and for our  ments and collateral agreements. Netting agreements allow us to 
own account. Positive replacement values (PRV) constitute an asset,  net balances from derivative assets and liabilities transacted with 
while negative replacement values (NRV) constitute a liability. Fair  the same counterparty when the netting agreements are legally 
value does not indicate future gains or losses, but rather premiums  enforceable. Replacement values are disclosed net of such agree-
paid or received for a derivative instrument at inception, if applicable,  ments in the consolidated balance sheets. Collateral agreements 
and unrealized gains and losses from marking to market all deriva- are entered into with certain counterparties based upon the nature 
tives at a particular point in time. The fair values of derivatives are  of the counterparty and/or the transaction and require the place-
determined using various methodologies, primarily observable mar- ment of cash or securities with us as collateral for the underlying 
ket prices where available and, in their absence, observable market  transaction. The carrying values of derivatives are presented in 
parameters for instruments with similar characteristics and maturities,  accordance with generally accepted accounting standards in the 
net present value analysis or other pricing models as appropriate. US and are not comparable with the derivatives metrics presented 
in our disclosures required under Pillar 3 of the Basel framework.
Derivative instruments by maturity
          2020          2019 
            Positive            Positive 
   Less      More   replace-   Less      More   replace- 
   than   1 to 5   than   ment   than   1 to 5   than   ment 
end of / due within   1 year   years   5 years   value   1 year   years   5 years   value 
C        HF billion            
Interest rate products   8.7   19.7   46.9   75.3   6.1   18.1   44.3   68.5 
Foreign exchange products   14.0   5.7   4.8   24.5   11.7   5.6   4.7   22.0 
Equity/index-related products   7.9   10.8   0.5   19.2   6.4   5.3   0.3   12.0 
Credit derivatives   0.5   2.6   1.8   4.9   0.5   4.7   1.0   6.2 
Other products 1  0.7   0.0   1.0   1.7   0.4   0.0   1.0   1.4 
OTC derivative instruments   31.8   38.8   55.0   125.6   25.1   33.7   51.3   110.1 
Exchange-traded derivative instruments            20.6            5.7 
Netting agreements 2           (120.6)            (97.9) 
Total derivative instruments            25.6            17.9 
   of which recorded in trading assets            25.5            17.7 
   of which recorded in other assets            0.1            0.2 
1 Primarily precious metals, commodity and energy products.
2 Taking into account legally enforceable netting agreements.
Derivative transactions exposed to credit risk are subject to a credit  Derivative instruments are categorized as exposures from trad-
request and approval process, ongoing credit and counterparty  ing activities (trading) and those qualifying for hedge accounting 
monitoring and a credit quality review process. The following table  (hedging). Trading includes activities relating to market mak-
represents the rating split of our credit exposure from derivative  ing, positioning and arbitrage. It also includes economic hedges 
instruments. where the Group enters into derivative contracts for its own risk 
management purposes, but where the contracts do not qualify for 
Derivative instruments by counterparty credit rating hedge accounting under US GAAP. Hedging includes contracts 
end of   2020   2019  that qualify for hedge accounting under US GAAP, such as fair 
value hedges, cash flow hedges and net investment hedges.
CHF billion         > 
Refer to “Note 28 – Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities” in VI – 
AAA   1.6   1.2  Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group for further information 
AA   5.8   6.5  on offsetting of derivatives.
A   2.5   2.4  > 
Refer to “Note 33 – Derivatives and hedging activities” in VI – Consolidated 
BBB   4.4   4.8  financial statements – Credit Suisse Group for further information on deriva-
BB or lower   10.7   2.2  tives, including an overview of derivatives by products categorized for trading 
OTC derivative instruments   25.0   17.1  and hedging purposes.
Exchange-traded derivative instruments 1  0.6   0.8 
Total derivative instruments 1  25.6   17.9 
Credit ratings do not reflect the benefit of collateral received.
1 Taking into account legally enforceable netting agreements.
Risk management 171
   
Forwards and futures for these options typically include fixed income and equity securi-
The Group enters into forward purchase and sale contracts for  ties, foreign currencies and interest rate instruments or indices. 
mortgage-backed securities, foreign currencies and commitments  Counterparties to these option contracts are regularly reviewed in 
to buy or sell commercial and residential mortgages. In addition,  order to assess creditworthiness.
we enter into futures contracts on equity-based indices and other 
financial instruments, as well as options on futures contracts.  Selected European credit risk exposures
These contracts are typically entered into to meet the needs of  The scope of our disclosure of European credit risk exposure 
customers, for trading and for hedging purposes. includes all countries of the EU which are rated below AA or its 
equivalent by at least one of the three major rating agencies and 
On forward contracts, the Group is exposed to counterparty  where our gross exposure exceeds our quantitative threshold of 
credit risk. To mitigate this credit risk, we limit transactions by  EUR 0.5 billion. We believe this external rating is a useful mea-
counterparty, regularly review credit limits and adhere to internally  sure in determining the financial ability of countries to meet their 
established credit extension policies. financial obligations, including giving an indication of vulnerability 
to adverse business, financial and economic conditions.
For futures contracts and options on futures contracts, the 
change in the market value is settled with a clearing broker in  Monitoring of selected European credit risk exposures
cash each day. As a result, our credit risk with the clearing bro- The Group’s credit risk exposure to these European countries is 
ker is limited to the net positive change in the market value for a  managed as part of our overall risk management process. The 
single day. Group makes use of country limits and performs scenario analy-
ses on a regular basis, which include analyses of our indirect 
Swaps sovereign credit risk exposures from our exposures to selected 
Swap agreements consist primarily of interest rate swaps, CDS,  European financial institutions. This assessment of indirect sov-
currency and equity swaps. The Group enters into swap agree- ereign credit risk exposures includes analysis of publicly available 
ments for trading and risk management purposes. Interest rate  disclosures of counterparties’ exposures to the European coun-
swaps are contractual agreements to exchange interest rate pay- tries within the defined scope of our disclosure. We monitor the 
ments based on agreed upon notional amounts and maturities.  concentration of collateral underpinning our OTC derivative and 
CDS are contractual agreements in which the buyer of the swap  reverse repurchase agreement exposures through monthly report-
pays a periodic fee in return for a contingent payment by the  ing, and also monitor the impact of sovereign rating downgrades 
seller of the swap following a credit event of a reference entity.  on collateral eligibility. Strict limits on sovereign collateral from G7 
A credit event is commonly defined as bankruptcy, insolvency,  and non-G7 countries are monitored monthly. Similar disclosure is 
receivership, material adverse restructuring of debt, or failure to  part of our regular risk reporting to regulators.
meet payment obligations when due. Currency swaps are con-
tractual agreements to exchange payments in different curren- As part of our global scenario framework, the counterparty credit 
cies based on agreed notional amounts and currency pairs. Equity  risk stress testing framework measures counterparty exposure 
swaps are contractual agreements to receive the appreciation or  under scenarios calibrated to the 99th percentile for the worst 
depreciation in value based on a specific strike price on an equity  one month and one year moves observed in the available his-
instrument in exchange for paying another rate, which is usually  tory, as well as the absolutely worst weekly move observed in the 
based on an index or interest rate movements. same dataset. The scenario results are aggregated at the coun-
terparty level for all our counterparties, including all European 
Options countries to which we have exposure. Furthermore, counterparty 
We write options specifically designed to meet the needs of cus- default scenarios are run where specific entities are set to default. 
tomers and for trading purposes. These written options do not  In one of these scenarios, a European sovereign default is inves-
expose us to the credit risk of the customer because, if exer- tigated. This scenario determines the maximum exposure that we 
cised, we and not our counterparty are obligated to perform.  have to this country in the event of its default and serves to iden-
At the beginning of the contract period, we receive a cash pre- tify those counterparties where exposure will rise substantially as 
mium. During the contract period, we bear the risk of unfavorable  a result of the modeled country defaulting.
changes in the value of the financial instruments underlying the 
options. To manage this market risk, we purchase or sell cash or  The scenario framework also considers a range of other severe 
derivative financial instruments. Such purchases and sales may  scenarios, including a specific eurozone crisis scenario which 
include debt and equity securities, forward and futures contracts,  assumes the default of selected European countries, currently 
swaps and options. modeled to include Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain. It is 
assumed that the sovereigns, financial institutions and corporates 
We also purchase options to meet customer needs, for trading  within these countries default, with a 100% loss of sovereign 
purposes and for hedging purposes. For purchased options, we  and financial institutions exposures and a 0% to 100% loss of 
obtain the right to buy or sell the underlying instrument at a fixed  corporates depending on their credit ratings. As part of this sce-
price on or before a specified date. During the contract period,  nario, we additionally assume a severe market sell-off involving an 
our risk is limited to the premium paid. The underlying instruments  equity market crash, widening credit spreads, a rally in the price 
172 Risk management
   
of gold and a devaluation of the euro. In addition, the eurozone  CDS reflect the notional amount of CDS protection purchased 
crisis scenario assumes the default of a small number of our mar- less the notional amount of CDS protection sold and are based 
ket counterparties that we believe would be severely affected by a  on the origin of the CDS reference credit, rather than that of the 
default across the selected European countries. These counter- CDS counterparty. CDS included in the inventory column repre-
parties are assumed to default as we believe that they would be  sent contracts recorded in our trading books that are hedging the 
the most affected institutions because of their direct presence in  credit risk of the instruments included in the inventory column and 
the relevant countries and their direct exposures. Through these  are disclosed on the same basis as the value of the fixed income 
processes, revaluation and redenomination risks on our exposures  instrument they are hedging. 
are considered on a regular basis by our Risk function.
The Group does not have any tranched CDS positions on these 
Presentation of selected European credit risk exposures European countries and only an insignificant amount of indexed 
The basis for the presentation of the country exposure is our  credit derivatives is included in inventory.
internal risk domicile view. The risk domicile view is based on the 
domicile of the legal counterparty, i.e., it may include exposure to  The credit risk of CDS contracts themselves, i.e., the risk that 
a legal entity domiciled in the reported country even if its parent is  the CDS counterparty will not perform in the event of a default, is 
located outside of the country. managed separately from the credit risk of the reference credit. 
To mitigate such credit risk, generally all CDS contracts are col-
The credit risk exposure in the table is presented on a risk-based  lateralized. In addition, they are executed with counterparties with 
view before deduction of any related allowance for credit losses.  whom we have an enforceable International Swaps and Deriva-
We present our credit risk exposure and related risk mitigation for  tives Association (ISDA) master agreement that provides for daily 
the following distinct categories: margining.
p  Gross credit risk exposure includes the principal amount of 
loans drawn, letters of credit issued and undrawn portions of  Development of selected European credit risk exposures
committed facilities, the PRV of derivative instruments after  On a gross basis, before taking into account risk mitigation, our 
consideration of legally enforceable netting agreements, the  risk-based sovereign credit risk exposure to Cyprus, Greece, 
notional value of investments in money market funds and the  Ireland, Italy, Malta, Portugal and Spain decreased 10% to 
market values of securities financing transactions and the  EUR 2,265 million as of December 31, 2020, compared to 
debt cash trading portfolio (short-term securities) netted at the  EUR 2,514 million as of December 31, 2019. Our net exposure to 
issuer level. these sovereigns was EUR 1,943 million, 16% lower compared to 
p  Risk mitigation includes CDS and other hedges, at their net  EUR 2,306 million as of December 31, 2019. Our non-sovereign 
notional amount, guarantees, insurance and collateral (primar- risk-based credit risk exposure in these countries as of Decem-
ily cash, securities and, to a lesser extent, real estate, mainly  ber 31, 2020 included net exposures to financial institutions of 
for exposures of our private banking, corporate and institu- EUR 2,304 million, 12% lower compared to December 31, 2019, 
tional businesses to corporates & other). Collateral values  and net exposures to corporates and other counterparties of 
applied for the calculation of the net exposure are determined  EUR 2,649 million, 11% higher compared to December 31, 2019.
in accordance with our risk management policies and reflect 
applicable margining considerations. A significant majority of the purchased credit protection is trans-
p  Net credit risk exposure represents gross credit risk exposure  acted with central counterparties or banks outside of the dis-
net of risk mitigation. closed countries. For credit protection purchased from central 
p  Inventory represents the long inventory positions in trading and  counterparties or banks in the disclosed countries, such credit 
non-trading physical debt and synthetic positions, each at mar- risk is reflected in the gross and net exposure to each respective 
ket value, all netted at the issuer level. Physical debt is non- country.
derivative debt positions (e.g., bonds), and synthetic positions 
are created through OTC contracts (e.g., CDS purchased and/ Sovereign debt rating developments
or sold and total return swaps). From year-end 2019 through February 28, 2021, the long-term 
sovereign debt ratings of the countries listed in the table changed 
CDS presented in the risk mitigation column are purchased as a  as follows: Fitch increased Greece’s rating from BB- to BB and 
direct hedge to our OTC exposure and the risk mitigation impact  decreased Italy’s rating from BBB to BBB-. Moody’s increased 
is considered to be the notional amount of the contract for risk  Greece’s rating from B1 to BA3. These rating changes did not 
purposes, with the mark-to-market fair value of CDS risk-man- have a significant impact on the Group’s financial position, result 
aged against the protection provider. Net notional amounts of  of operations, liquidity or capital resources.
Risk management 173
   
Selected European credit risk exposures
   Gross         Net            Total 
   credit risk         credit risk            credit risk 
   exposure      Risk mitigation   exposure   Inventory 2         exposure 
                  Net       
                  synthetic       
December 31, 2020      CDS   Other 1         inventory 3   Gross   Net 
C         yprus (EUR million)          
Financial institutions   7   0   2   5   0   0  7    5 
Corporates & other   1,242   0   1,046   196   0   0   1,242   196 
Total   1,249   0   1,048   201   0   0   1,249   201 
G         reece          
Sovereign   102   84   0   18   6   2   108   24 
Financial institutions   280   0   277  3    1   0   281   4 
Corporates & other   321   0   283   38  3    (3)   324   41 
Total   703   84   560   59   10   (1)   713   69 
       I reland          
Sovereign   1,022   0   0   1,022   1   1   1,023   1,023 
Financial institutions   1,473   0   236   1,237   27   (67)   1,500   1,264 
Corporates & other   948   0   355   593   39   (26)   987   632 
Total   3,443   0   591   2,852   67   (92)   3,510   2,919 
I        taly          
Sovereign   568   49   189   330   0   (12)   568   330 
Financial institutions   855   0   441   414   81   (16)   936   495 
Corporates & other   3,929   50   2,931   948   143   33   4,072   1,091 
Total   5,352   99   3,561   1,692   224   5   5,576   1,916 
M         alta          
Financial institutions   97   0   24   73   0   0   97   73 
Corporates & other   520   0   490   30   4   0   524   34 
Total   617   0   514   103   4   0   621   107 
P        ortugal          
Sovereign   0   0   0   0   25   25   25   25 
Financial institutions   370   0   296   74   14   1   384   88 
Corporates & other   285  3    237   45   28   23   313   73 
Total   655   3   533   119   67   49   722   186 
S        pain          
Sovereign   541   0   0   541   0   (65)   541   541 
Financial institutions   968   0   657   311   64   (5)   1,032   375 
Corporates & other   2,643   110   2,015   518   64   (121)   2,707   582 
Total   4,152   110   2,672   1,370   128   (191)   4,280   1,498 
T        otal          
Sovereign   2,233   133   189   1,911   32   (49)   2,265   1,943 
Financial institutions   4,050   0   1,933   2,117   187   (87)   4,237   2,304 
Corporates & other   9,888   163   7,357   2,368   281   (94)   10,169   2,649 
Total   16,171   296   9,479   6,396   500   (230)   16,671   6,896 
1 Includes other hedges (derivative instruments), guarantees, insurance and collateral.
2 Represents long inventory positions netted at issuer level.
3 Substantially all of which results from CDS; represents long positions net of short positions.
174 Risk management
   
Market risk Risk management VaR now measures the Group’s traded market 
risk exposure, which generally includes trading book positions, 
Traded market risk banking book positions held at fair value and foreign exchange 
Development of traded market risks and commodity risk from banking book positions. Before the 
The tables entitled “One-day, 98% risk management VaR” and  update, risk management VaR measured the Group’s trading 
“Average one-day, 98% risk management VaR by division” show  book exposure. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to 
our traded market risk exposure, as measured by one-day, 98%  the current presentation.
risk management VaR in Swiss francs and US dollars. As we 
measure VaR for internal risk management purposes using the  We regularly review our VaR model to ensure that it remains 
US dollar as the base currency, the VaR figures were translated  appropriate given evolving market conditions and the composition 
into Swiss francs using daily foreign exchange translation rates.  of our trading portfolio. In the third quarter of 2020, a VaR model 
VaR estimates are computed separately for each risk type and for  enhancement was implemented to use full revaluation of certain 
the whole portfolio. The different risk types are grouped into five  exotic equity products to capture the risk of co-movements of for-
categories including interest rate, credit spread, foreign exchange,  eign exchange spot and at-the-money volatility as well as equity 
commodity and equity risks.  spot and at-the-money volatility in a unified equity model. The risk 
of these co-movements was previously captured through a com-
In connection with the update of the market risk section to focus  bination of our equity and foreign exchange VaR models comple-
on the concepts of traded market risk and non-traded market  mented by the RNIV charge. This model enhancement affected 
risk in order to more closely align the descriptions to the Group’s  the scope of the foreign exchange and the equity models, how-
internal risk framework and control processes, we also reflected  ever, it did not have a material impact on total risk management 
corresponding updates in the information presented in the risk  VaR.
management VaR tables beginning in the fourth quarter of 2020. 
One-day, 98% risk management VaR
                  Diversi-    
   Interest   Credit   Foreign         fication    
in / end of   rate   spread   exchange   Commodity   Equity   benefit 1   Total 
C       HF million           
2020                      
Average   22   82   12   2   19   (65)   72 
Minimum   10   27  3    1   10  –  2   28 
Maximum   43   176   38  3    32  –  2   185 
End of period   13   70   36   2   32   (93)   60 
2019                      
Average   16   29   4   2   11   (27)   35 
Minimum   9   25   2   1   8  –  2   30 
Maximum   29   39   9  3    17  –  2   46 
End of period   13   28  3    1   11   (26)   30 
U       SD million           
2020                      
Average   24   88   14   2   20   (72)   76 
Minimum   11   28  3    1   10  –  2   29 
Maximum   44   181   43  3    36  –  2   189 
End of period   14   79   41   2   36   (104)   68 
2019                      
Average   16   29   4   2   11   (27)   35 
Minimum   9   25   2   1   8  –  2   30 
Maximum   29   39   9  3    17  –  2   47 
End of period   14   29  3    1   11   (27)   31 
Excludes risks associated with counterparty and own credit exposures. Risk management VaR measures traded market risk and generally includes the trading book positions, banking book 
positions held at fair value and foreign exchange and commodity risk from banking book positions; prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
1 Diversification benefit represents the reduction in risk that occurs when combining different, not perfectly correlated risk types in the same portfolio and is measured as the difference 
between the sum of the individual risk types and the risk calculated on the combined portfolio.
2 As the maximum and minimum occur on different days for different risk types, it is not meaningful to calculate a portfolio diversification benefit.
Risk management 175
   
Average one-day, 98% risk management VaR by division
   Swiss  International            Diversi-    
   Universal   Wealth   Asia   Investment   Corporate   fication   Credit 
in   Bank  Management   Pacific   Bank   Center   benefit 1   Suisse 
C      HF million            
2020   9   6   19   64   5   (31)   72 
2019 2  10  3    12   30   4   (24)   35 
U      SD million            
2020   10  7    20   68   5   (34)   76 
2019 2  10  3    12   30   4   (24)   35 
Excludes risks associated with counterparty and own credit exposures. Risk management VaR measures traded market risk and generally includes the trading book positions, banking book 
positions held at fair value and foreign exchange and commodity risk from banking book positions; prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
1 Difference between the sum of the standalone VaR for each division and the VaR for the Group.
2 The restatement of divisional historical average risk management VaR under the new organization required certain additional assumptions, which will not be required for future periods.
We measure VaR in US dollars, as the majority of our trading  limited to the trading book only, and excludes the cost of carry, 
activities are conducted in US dollars. credit provisions and internal revenue transfers. The cost of carry 
is the change in value of the portfolio from one day to the next, 
Period-end risk management VaR of USD 68 million as of  assuming all other factors such as market levels and trade popula-
December 31, 2020 increased 119% compared to Decem- tion remain constant, and can be negative or positive. In 2020, 
ber 31, 2019, and average risk management VaR of USD 76 mil- we had seven trading loss days compared to three trading loss 
lion in 2020 increased 117% compared to 2019. The increases  days in 2019.
observed for average interest rate, credit spread and equity 
risk management VaR in 2020 primarily reflect the significantly  Daily total backtesting revenues
increased volatility in financial markets globally at the end of the 
Days
first quarter of 2020. The increase in foreign exchange risk man-
150
agement VaR reflected the model enhancement implemented in 
the third quarter of 2020. 120 121 123120
On a divisional level, the Investment Bank was the main contribu- 90
tor to the Group’s increased risk management VaR. Average risk  64
60
management VaR of Swiss Universal Bank in 2020 was stable as 
a scope adjustment for accrual accounted positions in mid-2020  38
30
wciaals  mlaarrgkeelyts o affts tehte b eyn tdh eo fs tighnei ffiicrsatn qtlyu ainrtcerre aosf e2d0 v2o0la.tility in finan- 0 1 2 43 14 122 9 5 41
The chart entitled “Daily risk management VaR” shows the aggre- CmHilliFon < (100) (100)–(75) (75)–(50) (50)–(25) (25)–0 0–25 25–50 50–75 75–100 100–125 125–150 > 150
gated traded market risk on a consolidated basis. 
p 2020   p 2019
Daily risk management VaR
CHF million
For capital purposes and in line with BIS requirements, FINMA 
200
increases the capital multiplier for every regulatory VaR back-
160
testing exception above four in the prior rolling 12-month period, 
120 resulting in an incremental market risk capital requirement for the 
Group.
80
40 In April 2020, FINMA announced that it believed most backtest-
ing exceptions experienced by regulated institutions in March and 
0
April 2020 were not due to shortcomings of the model, but due 
1Q20 2Q20 3Q20 4Q20
to the increase in volatility related to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
j One-day risk management VaR (98%)  To mitigate this volatility-related pro-cyclicality, FINMA allowed a 
Excludes risks associated with counterparty and own credit exposures.
temporary freeze on backtesting exceptions impacting the capital 
multiplier, expiring on July 1, 2020. In June 2020, FINMA con-
The histogram entitled “Daily total backtesting revenues” com- firmed that (i) all recent exceptions that are proven by the institu-
pares the daily total backtesting revenues for 2020 with those  tion as not attributable to a lack of precision of the risk aggre-
for 2019. Total backtesting revenues is an internally used metric,  gation model can be disregarded; and (ii) the exemption will be 
176 Risk management
   
fundamentally incorporated into future supervisory practice. As a  Non-traded market risk
result, we had one backtesting exception in our regulatory VaR  Development of interest rate risks in the banking book
model in the rolling 12-month period through the end of 2020,  Interest rate risk on banking book positions is measured by 
which is considered for the calculation of the capital multiplier. estimating the impact resulting from a one basis point parallel 
> Refer to “Risk-weighted assets” in Capital management for further information  increase in yield curves on the present value of interest rate-
on the use of our regulatory VaR model in the calculation of trading book mar- sensitive banking book positions. This is measured on the Group’s 
ket risk capital requirements.
entire banking book. Interest rate risk sensitivities disclosed below 
are in line with our internal risk management view.
Credit, debit and funding valuation adjustments > Refer to credit-suisse.com/regulatorydisclosures for the Group’s publication 
VaR excludes the impact of changes in both counterparty and our  “Pillar 3 and regulatory disclosures 4Q20 – Credit Suisse Group AG” which 
includes additional information on regulatory interest rate risk in the banking 
own credit spreads on derivative products. As of December 31, 
book in accordance with FINMA guidance.
2020, the estimated sensitivity implies that a one basis point 
increase in credit spreads, both counterparty and our own, would  As of December 31, 2020, the interest rate sensitivity of a one 
have resulted in a CHF 1.2 million gain on the overall deriva- basis point parallel increase in yield curves was negative CHF 5.3 
tives position in our trading businesses. In addition, a one basis  million, compared to negative CHF 4.0 million as of Decem-
point increase in our own credit spread on our fair valued struc- ber 31, 2019. The change was mainly driven by our regular man-
tured notes portfolio (including the impact of hedges) would have  agement of banking book and net interest income hedging activi-
resulted in a CHF 14.4 million gain as of December 31, 2020. As  ties, partially offset by the appreciation of the Swiss franc against 
of December 31, 2020, the estimated FVA sensitivity implies that  the US dollar.
a one basis point increase in the fair value funding spread would 
have resulted in a CHF 0.3 million gain on the overall derivatives 
position in the investment banking businesses.
One basis point parallel increase in yield curves by currency – banking book positions
end of   CHF   USD   EUR   Other   Total 
2    020 (CHF million)         
Impact on present value   (2.0)   (3.4)   0.2   (0.1)   (5.3) 
2    019 (CHF million)         
Impact on present value   (1.8)   (2.1)   0.0   (0.1)   (4.0) 
Interest rate risk on banking book positions is also assessed  As of December 31, 2020, the most adverse economic impact 
using other measures, including the potential value change  from these scenarios (including additional tier 1 capital instru-
resulting from a significant change in yield curves. The interest  ments) was a loss of CHF 655 million, compared to a loss of 
rate scenarios disclosed below have been aligned to the FINMA  CHF 551 million as of December 31, 2019. The change was 
guidance for Pillar 3 disclosures. The table “Interest rate sce- mainly driven by our regular management of banking book and 
nario results – banking book positions” shows the impact of the  net interest income hedging activities, partially offset by the 
FINMA-defined interest rate scenarios on the net present value  appreciation of the Swiss franc against the US dollar.
of our banking book positions excluding additional tier 1 capital 
instruments (as per Pillar 3 requirements) and including additional 
tier 1 capital instruments.
Risk management 177
   
Interest rate scenario results – banking book positions
               Total –   Total –  
               Pillar 3    Internal  
end of   CHF   USD   EUR   Other   view 1   view 2 
2     020 (CHF million)          
Parallel up   (317)   (1,735)   56   41   (1,955)   (655) 
Parallel down   393   2,064   (16)   144   2,585   1,286 
Steepener shock 3  (248)   (177)   (12)   9   (428)   (227) 
Flattener shock 4  202   (206)   21   73   90   178 
Rise in short-term interest rates   39   (931)   30   107   (755)   (149) 
Fall in short-term interest rates   (48)   1,036   (30)   117   1,075   469 
2     019 (CHF million)          
Parallel up   (332)   (1,308)   58   (47)   (1,629)   (551) 
Parallel down   368   1,452   65   54   1,939   862 
Steepener shock 3  (182)   67  7    (21)   (129)   (43) 
Flattener shock 4  127   (386)   (11)   10   (260)   (107) 
Rise in short-term interest rates   (17)   (917)   (11)   (8)   (953)   (380) 
Fall in short-term interest rates   11   895   6   6   918   345 
All scenarios are in line with FINMA guidance (FINMA circular 2019/2).
1 Excludes additional tier 1 capital instruments in accordance with Pillar 3 requirements.
2 Includes additional tier 1 capital instruments in accordance with the Group’s risk management view.
3 Reflects a fall in short-term interest rates combined with a rise in long-term interest rates.
4 Reflects a rise in short-term interest rates combined with a fall in long-term interest rates.
Illiquid investments developed nations and a 20% decline in the equity markets of 
emerging market nations. The estimated impact of this scenario 
The Group’s illiquid investment positions, which may not be  would have been a decrease of CHF 271 million in the value of 
strongly correlated with general equity markets, are measured  the illiquid investment portfolio as of December 31, 2020, com-
using sensitivity analysis that estimates the potential change  pared to a decrease of CHF 262 million as of December 31, 
in value resulting from a 10% decline in the equity markets of  2019.
178 Risk management
   
Balance sheet and off-balance sheet
As of the end of 2020, total assets of CHF 805.8 billion increased 2% and 
total liabilities of CHF 762.9 billion increased 3% compared to the end of 
2019, primarily reflecting higher operating activities, partially offset by a 
negative foreign exchange translation impact.
The majority of our transactions are recorded on our balance  translation impact and decreases in debt and equity securities. 
sheet. However, we also enter into transactions that give rise to  Brokerage receivables were stable. Central bank funds sold, 
both on and off-balance sheet exposure. securities purchased under resale agreements and securities 
borrowing transactions decreased CHF 27.9 billion, or 26%, pri-
marily due to a decrease in reverse repurchase transactions from 
Balance sheet 
customers and banks, a decrease in cash collateral and the for-
eign exchange translation impact. Net loans decreased CHF 4.9 
Total assets were CHF 805.8 billion as of the end of 2020, an  billion, or 2%, mainly due to the foreign exchange translation 
increase of CHF 18.5 billion, or 2%, compared to the end of  impact, lower loans collateralized by securities, lower loans to 
2019. Excluding the foreign exchange translation impact, total  financial institutions and lower loans to governments and public 
assets increased CHF 68.7 billion. Cash and due from banks  institutions, partially offset by higher consumer mortgages and 
increased CHF 37.2 billion, or 37%, mainly driven by higher  higher commercial and industrial loans. All other assets increased 
cash positions at the ECB, the SNB and the Fed. Trading assets  CHF 10.2 billion, or 11%, primarily including an increase of 
increased CHF 3.5 billion, or 2%, primarily reflecting an increase  CHF 10.6 billion, or 26%, in securities received as collateral.
in derivative instruments, partially offset by the foreign exchange 
Balance sheet summary
        end of      % change 
   2020   2019   2018   20 / 19   19 / 18 
A     ssets (CHF million)         
Cash and due from banks   139,112   101,879   100,047   37   2 
Central bank funds sold, securities purchased under                
resale agreements and securities borrowing transactions   79,133   106,997   117,095   (26)   (9) 
Trading assets   157,338   153,797   133,635   2   15 
Net loans   291,908   296,779   287,581   (2)  3  
Brokerage receivables   35,941   35,648   38,907   1   (8) 
All other assets   102,390   92,195   91,651   11   1 
Total assets   805,822   787,295   768,916   2   2 
L    iabilities and equity (CHF million)         
Due to banks   16,423   16,744   15,220   (2)   10 
Customer deposits   390,921   383,783   363,925   2   5 
Central bank funds purchased, securities sold under                
repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions   23,851   27,533   24,623   (13)   12 
Trading liabilities   45,871   38,186   42,169   20   (9) 
Long-term debt   161,087   152,005   154,308   6   (1) 
Brokerage payables   21,653   25,683   30,923   (16)   (17) 
All other liabilities   103,075   99,647   93,729   3   6 
Total liabilities   762,881   743,581   724,897   3  3  
Total shareholders’ equity   42,677   43,644   43,922   (2)   (1) 
Noncontrolling interests   264   70   97   277   (28) 
Total equity   42,941   43,714   44,019   (2)   (1) 
Total liabilities and equity   805,822   787,295   768,916   2   2 
Balance sheet and off-balance sheet 179
   
Total liabilities were CHF 762.9 billion as of the end of 2020,  Guarantees and similar arrangements
an increase of CHF 19.3 billion, or 3%, compared to the end of  In the ordinary course of business, guarantees and indemnifica-
2019. Excluding the foreign exchange translation impact, total  tions are provided that contingently obligate us to make payments 
liabilities increased CHF 70.2 billion. Long-term debt increased  to a guaranteed or indemnified party based on changes in an 
CHF 9.1 billion, or 6%, primarily reflecting issuances of senior  asset, liability or equity security of the guaranteed or indemnified 
debt, partially offset by maturities of senior debt and the foreign  party. We may be contingently obligated to make payments to a 
exchange translation impact. Trading liabilities increased CHF 7.7  guaranteed party based on another entity’s failure to perform, or 
billion, or 20%, primarily reflecting increases in derivative instru- we may have an indirect guarantee of the indebtedness of oth-
ments and short positions, partially offset by the foreign exchange  ers. Guarantees provided include, but are not limited to, custom-
translation impact. Customer deposits increased CHF 7.1 bil- ary indemnifications to purchasers in connection with the sale of 
lion, or 2%, mainly due to an increase in demand and savings  assets or businesses; to investors in private equity funds spon-
deposits, partially offset by decreases in certificates of deposits  sored by us regarding potential obligations of their employees to 
and time deposits and the foreign exchange translation impact.  return amounts previously paid as carried interest; and to inves-
Brokerage payables decreased CHF 4.0 billion, or 16%, primar- tors in our securities and other arrangements to provide gross-up 
ily due to the foreign exchange translation impact, a decrease in  payments if there is a withholding or deduction because of a tax 
margin lending and lower futures balances. Central bank funds  assessment or other governmental charge.
purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements and 
securities lending transactions decreased CHF 3.7 billion, or  In connection with the sale of assets or businesses, we some-
13%, mainly reflecting the foreign exchange translation impact,  times provide the acquirer with certain indemnification provisions. 
decreases in federal funds purchased, repurchase transactions  These indemnification provisions vary by counterparty in scope 
with banks and cash collateral, partially offset by an increase in  and duration and depend upon the type of assets or businesses 
repurchase transactions with customers. Due to banks decreased  sold. They are designed to transfer the potential risk of certain 
CHF 0.3 billion, or 2%, primarily reflecting the foreign exchange  unquantifiable and unknowable loss contingencies, such as litiga-
translation impact. All other liabilities increased CHF 3.4 billion, or  tion, tax and intellectual property matters, from the acquirer to 
3%, primarily including an increase of CHF 10.6 billion, or 26%,  the seller. We closely monitor all such contractual agreements 
in obligation to return securities received as collateral, partially  in order to ensure that indemnification provisions are adequately 
offset by a decrease of CHF 7.5 billion, or 26%, in short-term  provided for in our consolidated financial statements.
borrowings. 
> Refer to “Liquidity and funding management” and “Capital management” for more  US GAAP requires disclosure of our maximum potential payment 
information, including our funding of the balance sheet and the leverage ratio. obligations under certain guarantees to the extent that it is pos-
sible to estimate them and requires recognition of a liability for 
the fair value of obligations undertaken for guarantees issued or 
Off-balance sheet 
amended after December 31, 2002.
> 
Refer to “Note 34 – Guarantees and commitments” in VI – Consolidated finan-
We enter into off-balance sheet arrangements in the normal  cial statements – Credit Suisse Group for disclosure of our estimated maximum 
payment obligations under certain guarantees and related information.
course of business. Off-balance sheet arrangements are transac-
tions or other contractual arrangements with, or for the benefit 
of, an entity that is not consolidated. These transactions include  Representations and warranties on residential mortgage 
derivative instruments, guarantees and similar arrangements,  loans sold
retained or contingent interests in assets transferred to an uncon- In connection with the Investment Bank division’s sale of US resi-
solidated entity in connection with our involvement with special  dential mortgage loans, we have provided certain representations 
purpose entities (SPEs), and obligations and liabilities (including  and warranties relating to the loans sold. We have provided these 
contingent obligations and liabilities) under variable interests in  representations and warranties relating to sales of loans to institu-
unconsolidated entities that provide financing, liquidity, credit and  tional investors, primarily banks, and non-agency, or private label, 
other support. securitizations. The loans sold are primarily loans that we have 
purchased from other parties. The scope of representations and 
Derivative instruments warranties, if any, depends on the transaction, but can include: 
We enter into derivative contracts in the normal course of busi- ownership of the mortgage loans and legal capacity to sell the 
ness for market making, positioning and arbitrage purposes, as  loans; loan-to-value ratios and other characteristics of the prop-
well as for our own risk management needs, including mitigation  erty, the borrower and the loan; validity of the liens securing the 
of interest rate, foreign exchange and credit risk. loans and absence of delinquent taxes or related liens; conformity 
> Refer to “Derivative instruments” in Risk management – Risk portfolio analy- to underwriting standards and completeness of documentation; 
sis – Credit risk and “Note 33 – Derivatives and hedging activities” and “Note  and origination in compliance with law. If it is determined that rep-
36 – Financial instruments” in VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit 
resentations and warranties were breached, we may be required 
Suisse Group for further information.
to repurchase the related loans or indemnify the investors to 
make them whole for losses. Whether we will incur a loss in con-
nection with repurchases and make whole payments depends on: 
180 Balance sheet and off-balance sheet
   
the extent to which claims are made; the validity of such claims  From time to time, we may issue subordinated and senior securi-
made within the statute of limitations (including the likelihood  ties through SPEs that lend the proceeds to Group entities.
and ability to enforce claims); whether we can successfully claim 
against parties that sold loans to us and made representations 
Contractual obligations and other 
and warranties to us; the residential real estate market, including 
the number of defaults; and whether the obligations of the securi- commercial commitments 
tization vehicles were guaranteed or insured by third parties.
> 
Refer to “Representations and warranties on residential mortgage loans sold” 
in Note 34 – Guarantees and commitments in VI – Consolidated financial  In connection with our operating activities, we enter into certain 
statements – Credit Suisse Group for further information.
contractual obligations and commitments to fund certain assets. 
Our contractual obligations and commitments include short and 
Involvement with special purpose entities long-term on-balance sheet obligations as well as future contrac-
In the normal course of business, we enter into transactions with,  tual interest payments and off-balance sheet obligations. Total 
and make use of, SPEs. An SPE is an entity in the form of a trust  obligations increased CHF 10.6 billion in 2020 to CHF 664.0 
or other legal structure designed to fulfill a specific limited need  billion, primarily reflecting increases in long-term debt of CHF 9.1 
of the company that organized it and is generally structured to  billion to CHF 161.1 billion, in trading liabilities of CHF 7.7 bil-
isolate the SPE’s assets from creditors of other entities, includ- lion to CHF 45.9 billion and in customer deposits of CHF 7.1 
ing the Group. The principal uses of SPEs are to assist us and  billion to CHF 390.9 billion. The increases were partially offset 
our clients in securitizing financial assets and creating invest- by decreases in short-term borrowings of CHF 7.5 billion to 
ment products. We also use SPEs for other client-driven activity,  CHF 20.9 billion and in brokerage payables of CHF 4.0 billion to 
such as to facilitate financings, and for Group tax or regulatory  CHF 21.7 billion.
purposes. > Refer to “Note 24 – Leases”, “Note 26 – Long-term debt” and “Note 34 – 
>  Guarantees and commitments” in VI – Consolidated financial statements – 
Refer to “Note 35 –Transfers of financial assets and variable interest entities” 
Credit Suisse Group for further information.
in VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group for further 
information.
Contractual obligations and other commercial commitments
               2020   2019 
   Less         More       
   than   1 to 3   3 to 5   than       
Payments due within   1 year   years   years   5 years   Total   Total 
O    n- and off-balance sheet obligations (CHF million)            
Due to banks   16,413   0   10   0   16,423   16,744 
Customer deposits   389,406   923   49   543   390,921   383,783 
Short-term borrowings   20,868   0   0   0   20,868   28,385 
Long-term debt 1  24,983   47,060   32,390   56,654   161,087 2   152,005 2 
Contractual interest payments 3  531   722   265   448   1,966 4   2,715 
Trading liabilities   45,871   0   0   0   45,871   38,186 
Brokerage payables   21,653   0   0   0   21,653   25,683 
Operating lease obligations   385   687   527   1,642   3,241   3,811 
Purchase obligations   905   714   253   71   1,943   2,053 
Total obligations 5  521,015   50,106   33,494   59,358   663,973   653,365 
1 Refer to “Debt issuances and redemptions” in Liquidity and funding management – Funding management and “Note 26 – Long-term debt” in VI – Consolidated financial statements – 
Credit Suisse Group for further information on long-term debt.
2 Includes non-recourse liabilities from consolidated VIEs of CHF 1,746 million and CHF 1,671 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
3 Includes interest payments on fixed rate long-term debt, fixed rate interest-bearing deposits (excluding demand deposits) and fixed rate short-term borrowings, which have not been 
effectively converted to variable rate on an individual instrument level through the use of swaps.
4 Due to the non-determinable nature of interest payments, the following notional amounts have been excluded from the table: variable rate long-term debt of CHF 73,525 million, variable 
rate short-term borrowings of CHF 17,775 million, variable rate interest-bearing deposits and demand deposits of CHF 172,269 million, fixed rate long-term debt and fixed rate interest-
bearing deposits converted to variable rate on an individual instrument level through the use of swaps of CHF 81,184 million and CHF 3 million, respectively.
5 Excludes total accrued benefit liability for pension and other post-retirement benefit plans of CHF 401 million and CHF 446 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, 
recorded in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets, as the accrued liability does not represent expected liquidity needs. Refer to “Note 32 – Pension and other post-retirement 
  benefits” in VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group for further information on pension and other post-retirement benefits.
Balance sheet and off-balance sheet 181
   
[this page intentionally left blank]
182 Balance sheet and off-balance sheet
   
  IV – Corporate  
Governance
Overview  184
Shareholders  190
Board of Directors  196
Executive Board  221
Additional information  229
183
   
Corporate Governance
2020 marked a year of change for the Group’s corporate governance with 
the announcement of a new Chairman, the transition to a new CEO and 
the implementation of several important organizational changes.
Overview
members of the Board and Executive Board, as well as exter-
nal advisors; the Sustainability Advisory Committee will provide 
The Group’s corporate governance reflects our commitment to  guidance and expertise with respect to the firm-wide sustain-
safeguarding the interests of our stakeholders. Our corporate  ability strategy and its execution.
governance complies with internationally accepted standards, and 
we recognize the importance of good corporate governance. We  Executive Board
know that transparent disclosure of our governance helps stake- p The announcement in early 2020 of the Board’s appointments 
holders assess the quality of the Group’s corporate governance  of Thomas Gottstein as the new CEO, succeeding Tidjane 
and assists investors in their investment decisions. Thiam, and André Helfenstein as CEO of Swiss Universal 
Bank (both effective February 14, 2020);
Corporate Governance developments p A number of changes to the roles of existing Executive Board 
members in light of organizational changes described below, 
The key corporate governance developments for the Group in  covering the appointments of Brian Chin as CEO of the 
2020 and in early 2021 included: Investment Bank, Lara Warner as Chief Risk and Compli-
ance Officer (CRCO) and Lydie Hudson as CEO of Sustain-
Board of Directors (Board) ability, Research & Investment Solutions (SRI), all with effect 
p The Board’s nomination of António Horta-Osório, Group Chief  from August 1, 2020. As a consequence of the creation of a 
Executive of Lloyds Banking Group (until end April 2021),  single Investment Bank division, David Miller, former CEO of 
as the new Chairman of the Board for election at the 2021  the Investment Banking & Capital Markets division, stepped 
Annual General Meeting (AGM) and successor to Urs Rohner,  down from the Executive Board, also with effect from August 
who will not stand for re-election at the AGM, after having  1, 2020; and
reached the 12-year tenure limit; p As of the date of this report, the Executive Board consists 
p Further nominations of Board member candidates Clare Brady,  of three female and eight male members, or 27% and 73%, 
former director of internal audit at the International Monetary  respectively, in line with the minimum 20% representation of 
Fund and auditor general of the World Bank Group, and Blythe  each gender as stipulated by the respective provision in the 
Masters, former CEO of the financial technology firm Digital  new Swiss corporate law.
Asset Holdings and long-time executive at JPMorgan Chase, 
for election as new Board members at the 2021 AGM; Organizational structure
p Subject to shareholder approval at the 2021 AGM of Clare  p Creation of a single, globally-integrated Investment Bank divi-
Brady and Blythe Masters, five of thirteen, or 38%, of Board  sion through the combination of the former Global Markets, 
members will be female; Investment Banking & Capital Markets and Asia Pacific – Mar-
p The election of Board member Richard Meddings, a financial  kets businesses to achieve critical scale;
expert with over 30 years of experience in the financial ser- p Combination of the former Risk Management and Compliance 
vices sector, at the 2020 AGM and his subsequent appoint- functions into a single, integrated CRCO function (Risk and 
ment as Chair of the Audit Committee, succeeding John Tiner,  Compliance), to further enhance the effectiveness and effi-
who will not stand for re-election at the 2021 AGM after hav- ciency of the Group’s control environment amid stricter regula-
ing reached the 12-year tenure limit; tory frameworks;
p The appointment of Christian Gellerstad as Chair of the Con- p Launch of the new SRI function at the Executive Board level, 
duct and Financial Crime Control Committee, succeeding Urs  underlying the sharpened focus on sustainability, and the 
Rohner, who will remain a member of the committee until the  establishment of a firm-wide Sustainability Leadership Com-
2021 AGM; mittee comprising members of senior management and co-
p The announcement that Board and Audit Committee member  chaired by the CEO of SRI and the Chief Sustainability Officer 
Joaquin J. Ribeiro will not stand for re-election at the 2021  (CSO); and
AGM, and the announcement last year that Board and Audit  p The merger of the business of Neue Aargauer Bank AG with 
Committee member Alexander Gut would not stand for re- that of Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG, in the context of steps 
election at the 2020 AGM; and announced in August 2020 with regard to the positioning of 
p The Board’s decision to establish a new Sustainability Advisory  the Group’s retail banking business in Switzerland and in order 
Committee, chaired by the current Board member and Board- to create a uniform presence and single brand in the Canton of 
appointed Sustainability Leader Iris Bohnet and consisting of  Aargau, Switzerland.
184 Corporate Governance
   
New Asset Management division the “comply or explain” disclosure obligations on gender diver-
p The decision of the Board on March 17, 2021, subsequent to  sity effective as of January 1, 2021. Listed companies will have 
the recent reports and announcements regarding the Credit  a transitional period of five years to comply with the “comply or 
Suisse Asset Management managed supply chain finance  explain” gender guidelines for the board of directors and ten years 
funds, to appoint Ulrich Körner as CEO of Asset Management  for the implementation at the level of the executive board. As of 
and a member of the Group Executive Board, effective April 1,  December 31, 2020, Credit Suisse complies with the gender 
2021. From that date, the Asset Management business will be  requirements for our Executive Board and, subject to shareholder 
separated from the International Wealth Management division  approval, expects to comply with the requirements for our Board 
and managed as a new separate division of the Group. following the 2021 AGM.
Annual General Meeting Governance of crisis management
p Following a request by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory  The Group has a crisis management framework and robust gover-
Authority FINMA (FINMA) and in light of the economic chal- nance processes in place to enable the effective management of 
lenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Board revised its  crises. The crisis management framework includes the implemen-
original proposal to shareholders in March 2020 regarding the  tation of global and regional Crisis Assessment Teams (CAT) and 
appropriation of retained earnings and distribution of dividends  Crisis Management Teams (CMT) consisting of representatives from 
and proposed a distribution of dividends in two equal tranches  senior management and specialist functions from across the firm. 
during 2020. The dividend proposals were subsequently  The Global CAT assesses the impact of a specific crisis event to the 
approved by shareholders at the AGM on April 30, 2020 and  firm on a global level and provides recommendations for final deci-
at an Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) on November 27,  sions to the Global CMT, whose members include all members of 
2020; the Executive Board. In the case of a specific crisis event, firm-wide 
p Also due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and pursuant to the  business continuity management response measures are triggered 
related Federal Council’s COVID-19 ordinance, the 2020  and overseen by the Executive Board. At the Board level, oversight 
AGM and EGM were held without the personal attendance of  of business continuity management is within the responsibility of the 
shareholders. Shareholders were represented at the AGM and  Risk Committee. In any given crisis event, the Board may delegate 
EGM exclusively by the independent proxy; and certain responsibilities to a sub-committee of its members that is 
p The Board decided to hold the 2021 AGM without the per- authorized to take actions that exceed the mandate of the Execu-
sonal attendance of shareholders, given the ongoing COVID- tive Board, in particular when decisions are needed in too short a 
19 pandemic and related restrictions and to ensure the health  time frame to convene the full Board. Such a crisis could include, for 
and safety of shareholders and employees. example, a sovereign crisis, large single name default, cyber or other 
operational incident and global macroeconomic or market event or 
External auditor rotation public health crisis, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. Once the 
p The election of PricewaterhouseCoopers AG (PwC) as the  crisis management process is invoked, multiple response measures 
Group’s new statutory auditor at the 2020 AGM and the suc- are triggered, including Group crisis specific risk reporting, if neces-
cessful completion of the Group’s external auditor rotation  sary, and other potential steps, such as notification of regulators.
from KPMG AG (KPMG) to PwC, effective for the fiscal year 
ending December 31, 2020. In February 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic in coun-
tries and regions in which the Group operates, the Executive Board 
Regulatory developments invoked our crisis management process, which remains in place as 
We regularly monitor developments in corporate governance  of the date of this report, given that the COVID-19 pandemic has 
guidelines, regulations and best practice standards in all jurisdic- not yet subsided and that renewed lockdowns and other restrictions 
tions relevant to our business operations. On June 19, 2020,  have occurred across different countries in the latter part of 2020 
the Swiss Parliament adopted a number of substantial amend- and early 2021. Invoking the crisis management process meant that 
ments to the Swiss corporate law set out under the Swiss Code  various response measures were put in place, including travel restric-
of Obligations. The revisions include changes to executive com- tions, a quarantine protocol, guidelines for client meetings, employee 
pensation of listed companies, transferring the regulations of the  gatherings and working from home, and certain changes to the 
Swiss Ordinance Against Excessive Compensation with respect  daily operations of critical processes, in order to ensure continuity of 
to Listed Corporations (Compensation Ordinance) into the Code  our business operations and to protect the health and safety of our 
of Obligations, and provide for a more flexible process on share- employees. The crisis management process and related measures 
holder meetings and the strengthening of shareholder rights. The  were continuously monitored and adapted throughout 2020 and 
new law further stipulates gender diversity guidelines at the board  early 2021, in light of changing circumstances, with daily Execu-
and executive board levels, which include “comply or explain”  tive Board calls held following the initial outbreak of the COVID-19 
disclosure obligations for representation of each gender on the  pandemic in the first part of 2020. Specific crisis reporting was 
board of directors and executive board of listed companies of at  also developed, with regular updates provided to regulators and the 
least 30% and 20%, respectively. While the general effective  Board. The Board has remained actively involved in the ongoing 
date of the new law will be announced at a later point in time,  monitoring of the Group’s response to market developments and 
the Swiss Federal Council resolved in September 2020 to make  operational challenges, including business continuity management 
Corporate Governance 185
   
and the effectiveness of the crisis mitigation measures put in place,  law and international best practice standards for corporate gover-
and has engaged in regular dialogue with the Executive Board  nance. The governing bodies of the Group are:
regarding these matters. In March 2020, the Board approved to  p the General Meeting of Shareholders;
establish the tactical crisis committee as a sub-committee of the  p the Board of Directors;
Board, consisting of the Chairman of the Board (Chairman) and the  p the Executive Board; and
Chairs of the Audit Committee and Risk Committee, for the pur- p the external auditors.
poses of enabling rapid decision making on time-sensitive matters 
regarding risk, capital and liquidity management within the Board’s  The shareholders elect the members of the Board and the exter-
authority, given the volatile market environment in particular during  nal auditors on an annual basis and approve required resolutions 
the first half of 2020. As markets stabilized in the second half of  at the AGM, such as the consolidated financial statements, capi-
2020, the Board decided that the tactical crisis committee was no  tal increases and Board and Executive Board compensation. The 
longer needed in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. Board is responsible for the overall strategic direction, supervi-
sion and control of the Group and appoints the members of the 
The tactical crisis committee was reactivated in March 2021 with the  Executive Board. The Executive Board is responsible for the day-
same members plus the Chair of the Conduct and Financial Crime  to-day operational management of the Group’s business and for 
Control Committee for the purposes of exercising close oversight and  developing and implementing business plans.
ensuring timely decision making with respect to the resolution of the 
issues in connection with the Credit Suisse Asset Management man- The Group is engaged in the banking business and is structured 
aged supply chain finance funds. into four business divisions – Swiss Universal Bank; International 
Wealth Management; Asia Pacific; and the Investment Bank. The 
Corporate Governance framework divisions are supported by corporate functions that provide infra-
structure and services and have internal control responsibilities. 
The Group’s corporate governance framework consists of its  The Group’s banking business is carried out through its legal enti-
governing bodies and its corporate governance policies and pro- ties, which are operational in various jurisdictions and subject to the 
cedures, which define the competencies of the governing bodies  governance rules and supervision of the regulators in those jurisdic-
and other corporate governance rules, as well as the practices  tions. The Group has identified certain major subsidiary compa-
to be followed throughout the Group, in line with Swiss corporate  nies, which, in aggregate, account for a significant proportion of the 
Group’s business operations. 
Corporate Governance Framework
Shareholders
Board of Directors
Governance and   Compensation   Risk   Conduct and Financial  Audit  
Nominations Committee Committee Committee Crime Control Committee Committee
Innovation and Technology Committee1 Sustainability Advisory Committee2
Executive Board 
Executive Board Risk Forum dit
PoCsaitpioitna( P&l CA CRlllio)ecnat tRioisnk  & R MisaAkns asMgeaet nm&a eLgnieat mb(AileiLtynM t ) CommIni Sttteyesrnetea (mlC C (AoICRnStMr)oCl ) ValuC aotimonm Rititseke   M(VaAnRagMeCm)ent  Group CBoonarddu c(Ct EanBd)  Ethics  nches ernal Audit External Au
Divisions Corporate Functions Bra Int
d 
Swiss Universal Bank Chief Operating Officer Chief Financial Officer s an
e
International Wealth Management General Counsel Sustainability, Research &  diari
Asia Pacific Investment Solutions (SRI) bsi
u
Chief Risk and   S
Investment Bank Compliance Officer Human Resources
1 Interdisciplinary advisory body formed by the Board of Directors, which consists of members of the Board of Directors and senior management, as well as external advisors.
2 New advisory body approved by the Board of Directors in February 2021 and is currently being set up; members consist of Board of Director and Executive Board members and external 
advisors.
186 Corporate Governance
   
These major subsidiaries, which are all subsidiaries of Credit Suisse  including the following, which are available on our website at credit-
AG, are: Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG; Credit Suisse Holdings (USA)  suisse.com/governance:
Inc.; Credit Suisse International; and Credit Suisse Securities (Europe)  p Articles of Association (AoA): define the purpose of the busi-
Ltd. Certain business activities of Credit Suisse Securities (Europe)  ness, the capital structure and the basic organizational frame-
Ltd. are in the process of being merged into Credit Suisse Interna- work. The AoA of Credit Suisse Group AG (Group) are dated 
tional, such that Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. is expected to  April 30, 2020, and the AoA of Credit Suisse AG (Bank) are 
no longer be defined as a major subsidiary in the course of 2021. This  dated September 4, 2014. The Group’s and the Bank’s AoAs 
is in line with our objective to streamline and optimize our legal entity  are available on our website at credit-suisse.com/articles.
structure in the context of the Group’s legal entity strategy. Corpo- p Code of Conduct: defines the Group’s purpose, cultural values 
rate governance at these major subsidiaries is closely aligned with the  and behaviors that members of the Board and all employees are 
Group’s corporate governance, and the major subsidiaries are subject  required to follow, including adherence to all relevant laws, regula-
to consolidated supervision at the level of the Group and the Bank. tions and policies in order to maintain and strengthen our reputa-
tion for integrity, fair dealing and measured risk taking. The Credit 
As part of the Group’s preparations for the UK’s withdrawal from  Suisse Code of Conduct: Our Purpose and Values is available on 
the EU, certain business operations have been transferred from  our website at credit-suisse.com/code in four languages.
subsidiaries of Credit Suisse in the UK to other subsidiaries in  p Organizational Guidelines and Regulations (OGR): define the 
Germany, Credit Suisse (Deutschland) AG, and in Spain, Credit  organizational structure of the Group and the responsibilities 
Suisse Securities, Sociedad de Valores, S.A., thus increasing the  and sphere of authority of the Board, its committees and the 
importance of these EU subsidiaries to the Group’s overall opera- various senior management bodies within the Group, as well 
tions. The corporate governance at these EU subsidiaries has  as the relevant reporting procedures. The OGR is available on 
been adapted accordingly, including by strengthening the respec- our website at credit-suisse.com/ogr.
tive boards of directors through the appointment of new senior  p Board charter: outlines the organization and responsibilities 
management representatives as board members. Following the  of the Board. The Board charter is available on our website at 
UK withdrawal from the EU and in the context of an overarching  credit-suisse.com/boardcharter.
global legal entity simplification program, the Group has further- p Board committee charters: define the organization and 
more developed a comprehensive EU entity strategy during 2020,  responsibilities of the committees. The Board committee 
which is in the process of implementation. In July 2020, as part  charters are available on our website at credit-suisse.com/
of the EU entity strategy and with a focus on strengthening our  committeecharter.
market offering in the EU, an application for authorization as a  p Compensation policy: provides a foundation for the develop-
credit institution was filed with the Bank of Spain to convert the  ment of sound compensation plans and practices. The Group’s 
existing broker-dealer entity, Credit Suisse Securities, Sociedad  compensation policy is available on our website at  
de Valores, S.A., into a fully licensed banking entity, Credit Suisse  credit-suisse.com/compensationpolicy.
Bank (Europe) SA. The application is currently under consider-
ation by the Bank of Spain and the European Central Bank, and  The summaries herein of the material provisions of our AoA and 
subject to their authorization, the conversion is anticipated to take  the Swiss Code of Obligations do not purport to be complete 
place by mid-year 2021. The new bank will be able to provide the  and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the AoA and the 
full suite of investment banking business EU-wide, including capi- Swiss Code of Obligations.
tal markets advice, loan origination, arranging, underwriting, dis-
tribution and securities and derivatives sales, trading and execu- Company details
tion services. The global legal entity simplification program is also     Group   Bank 
defining a strategy to optimize the legal entity structure across  Legal name   Credit Suisse Group AG   Credit Suisse AG 
other regions, including expediting the closure of redundant enti- Business    Operate as a    Operate as a bank 
ties and an optimization of the legal entity structure of our asset  purpose   holding company    
management businesses within International Wealth Manage- Registration   Commercial register    Commercial register  
details   of the Canton of Zurich    of the Canton of Zurich  
ment. Over the medium term, the Group anticipates achieving a     as of March 3, 1982;    as of April 27, 1883;  
leaner global legal entity structure, which is aligned to the busi-    No. CHE-105.884.494   No. CHE-106.831.974 
ness strategy and requires maintaining fewer legal entities with  Date incorporated,    March 3, 1982   July 5, 1856 
with unlimited duration       
the respective capital benefits for the parent entity, Credit Suisse 
Registered office   Paradeplatz 8   Paradeplatz 8 
AG.    8001 Zurich   8001 Zurich 
> Refer to “Strategy” in I – Information on the company for further information.    Switzerland   Switzerland 
Equity listing   SIX Swiss Exchange   –  
   ISIN: CH0012138530    
The Group’s corporate governance framework is depicted in the     NYSE in the form of ADS    
chart above. The duties and responsibilities of the governing bod-    ISIN: US2254011081    
ies are described in further detail in the sections below. Authorized    Credit Suisse (USA), Inc.,   Credit Suisse (USA), Inc.,  
representative   11 Madison Avenue,    11 Madison Avenue,  
in the US   New York,    New York,  
The Group’s corporate governance policies and procedures,     New York, 10010   New York, 10010 
adopted by the Board, are defined in a series of documents, 
Corporate Governance 187
   
Credit Suisse Group AG and Credit Suisse AG are registered  C  redit Suisse Purpose and Values
companies in Switzerland. The Group’s shares are listed on the 
SIX Swiss Exchange and – in the form of American Depositary 
Purpose
Shares (ADS), as evidenced by American Depositary Receipts – 
Why we exist
on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The business purpose 
Strategy
of the Group, as set forth in Article 2 of its AoA, is to hold direct  What we do
or indirect interests in all types of businesses in Switzerland and  Brand
Who we are
abroad, in particular in the areas of banking, fi nance, asset man-
Values
agement and insurance. The business purpose of the Bank, as 
set forth in Article 2 of its AoA, is to operate as a bank, with all  I M P A C T
related banking, fi nance, consultancy, service and trading activi- How we act
ties in Switzerland and abroad. The AoA of the Group and the 
Code of Conduct
Bank set forth their powers to establish new businesses, acquire 
a majority or minority interest in existing businesses and provide 
 
related fi nancing as well as acquire, mortgage and sell real estate 
properties both in Switzerland and abroad. Sustainability and Environmental Social and Governance 
> Refer to “II – Operating and fi nancial review” for a detailed review of our oper- (ESG) considerations
ating results. For Credit Suisse, sustainability is about creating sustainable 
> 
Refer to “Note 41 – Signifi cant subsidiaries and equity method investments” in  value for clients, shareholders, employees and other stakehold-
VI – Consolidated fi nancial statements – Credit Suisse Group for a list of sig-
ers. We strive to comply with the cultural values set out in our 
nifi cant subsidiaries and associated entities.
Code of Conduct in every aspect of our work, including in our 
relationships with diverse stakeholders. We do so based on a 
Purpose and values broad understanding of our duties as a fi nancial services provider 
At Credit Suisse, we believe that we have an important role to  and employer and as an integral part of the economy, society and 
play in society and in supporting our communities. As a bank,  the environment. With the establishment of the new SRI function 
we provide capital, manage and protect wealth, participate in  at the Executive Board level in 2020, Credit Suisse has set out 
markets and facilitate infrastructure development. This allows  its ambition to become a leader in sustainability in the fi nancial 
us to contribute to sustainable economic growth. In this context,  industry and drive a cohesive, fi rm-wide sustainability strategy, 
we launched the Credit Suisse purpose statement in December  through which we aspire to meet the evolving needs and expec-
2020. The purpose statement was developed over the course of  tations of clients, investors, employees and society in general. 
2020 by a diverse team of senior talents, involved the participa- For a number of years, we have published an annual Corporate 
tion of over 500 Credit Suisse employees and was approved by  Responsibility Report, reporting on topics that are relevant to our 
the Executive Board and the Board. In addition to the purpose  business and our stakeholders. For 2020, we have enhanced the 
statement, a full revision of the Group’s Code of Conduct was  scope of the reporting included in the former Corporate Respon-
completed in 2020. The refreshed document “The Credit Suisse  sibility Report and are publishing this for the fi rst time as the 
Code of Conduct: Our Purpose and Values” refl ects the new pur- Credit Suisse Sustainability Report (Sustainability Report). The 
pose statement and emphasizes our six cultural values of inclu- Sustainability Report covers the majority of the content from the 
sion, meritocracy, partnership, accountability, client focus and  prior Corporate Responsibility Report in a refreshed format and 
trust (“IMPACT”) and the underlying behaviors that we expect  structure and, in addition, includes new and enhanced disclo-
all of our employees and members of the Board to observe. The  sures, in particular our disclosure pursuant to the Sustainability 
revised Code of Conduct continues to reinforce our commitment  Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards for the fi rst time, 
to complying with all applicable laws, regulations and policies in  as well as enhanced Task Force on Climate-related Financial Dis-
order to safeguard our reputation for integrity, fair dealing and  closures (TCFD) disclosures.
measured risk-taking and includes clear guidelines for the escala-
tion of concerns by employees, including concerns regarding the  The Group’s Sustainability Report continues to refl ect the Global 
CEO, members of the Executive Board and senior fi nancial offi - Reporting Initiative Standards for sustainability reporting (Core 
cers. The purpose and values framework is shown in the illustra- option) while also providing information on the progress we have 
tion below. made in implementing the Ten Principles of the UN Global Com-
> Refer to credit-suisse.com/code for our Code of Conduct. pact as well as examples of how we can contribute to the realiza-
tion of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Our Sustainability 
Report 2020 is reported to the SIX Swiss Exchange in accor-
dance with the opting-in regulation for companies issuing sustain-
ability reports.
188 Corporate Governance
   
ESG-focused activities
During 2020, the Group undertook a wide range of activities that reflect its commitment to the sustainability approach described 
above and made a number of important achievements towards further embedding ESG considerations in many aspects of our business 
endeavors. In addition to the establishment of SRI at the Executive Board level, the key activities and achievements in 2020 are sum-
marized in the table below.
Governance  p Established a new Sustainability Advisory Committee at Board level to provide guidance and expertise with respect to the firm-wide 
and thought  sustainability strategy and its execution
leadership p Created a new firm-wide Sustainability Leadership Committee at management level with senior representatives from each division 
and control function to drive and execute the sustainability strategy
p Hosted our eighth annual Conservation Finance Conference, bringing together leading influencers, conservation experts and finan-
ciers to discuss key topics for the next decade and unique opportunities for investors in the field of conservation
p Joined networks and taskforces aimed at advancing sustainability efforts in the global economy and improving governance around 
sustainability issues; these included the Task Force on Nature-related Financial Disclosures and Climate Action 100+, as well as the 
International Corporate Governance Network
p Continued to publish thought leadership reports on topics such as the Blue Economy and ocean-related investments or investments 
in alternative proteins as a path to conservation
Sustainable  p Announced the goal of providing at least CHF 300 billion of sustainable financing over the next ten years and introduced further 
finance and  restrictions on the financing of thermal coal extraction, coal power generation, and oil & gas projects in the Arctic region in order to 
investment 
further align our business activities with the objectives of the Paris Agreement on climate change
solutions
p Announced new sustainability ambitions in December 2020, including our commitment to develop science-based targets in 2021 
and 2022, including our commitment to achieve net zero emissions from our operations, supply chain and financing activities no later 
than 2050, with intermediate emissions goals for 2030 aligning our financing with the Paris Agreement objective of limiting global 
warming to 1.5° C, and repositioning our portfolio to mobilize capital towards our clients’ transitions
p Reviewed a selection of transactions and client relationships by our Sustainability Risk function for potential environmental and social 
risks and engaged with some of the clients involved in these transactions as part of the assessment process
p Became a signatory to the Poseidon Principles, a global framework promoting the integration of climate considerations into lending 
decisions in ship finance
p Announced in February 2021 a collaboration with BlackRock to develop sustainable private markets client solutions
COVID-19  p Contributed to the development and delivery of the bridging loan program for Swiss companies impacted by the COVID-19 pan-
pandemic  demic and provided approximately CHF 3 billion in loans to over 16,700 Swiss SMEs in 2020
relief  p Launched our global donation matching campaign – encouraging employee donations to charities, including those working to allevi-
ate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and to support those affected by inequality – benefiting approximately 1,400 charitable 
organizations
Corporate  p Continued volunteering efforts by Credit Suisse employees around the world to help charitable causes, leveraging their skills and 
citizenship  expertise for the benefit of local communities – with volunteering assignments shifting to virtual settings where possible
and Diversity &  p Established the new Credit Suisse APAC Foundation to provide philanthropic support to organizations across the Asia Pacific 
Inclusion
(APAC) region with a focus on the bank’s main corporate citizenship topics of Financial Inclusion, Financial Education and Future 
Skills
p Further strengthened our diversity and inclusion framework with the launch of several key initiatives including publicly announcing a 
US and UK target to double our Black Talent senior headcount and increase our overall Black Talent representation in those loca-
tions by 50% by 2024
p Established the ambition to increase the proportion of women in the leadership pipeline and management within the bank and set 
the objective of increasing female representation to 42% of our overall workforce by 2024
p Joined, as a founding member, the World Economic Forum’s (WEF) coalition to tackle racism in the workplace through the WEF’s 
“Partnering for Racial Justice in Business” initiative
The Group’s Sustainability Report and our Statement on Sustainability are available on our website  
at credit-suisse.com/sustainabilityreport.
Our approach to sustainability is broad and considers the prod- operations, including the launch of new, innovative ESG products, 
ucts and services we provide within the context of our purpose  services and advisory capabilities for clients, as well as taking 
and their impact on people and our planet, which we believe is  action with and aiding clients in industries impacted most by cli-
essential for our long-term success. Our ambition is to fully inte- mate change with their transition plans. 
grate sustainability in how we work with clients and across our 
Corporate Governance 189
   
Employee relations October 29, 2020, the Group announced that the Board had 
As of December 31, 2020, we had 48,770 employees worldwide,  approved a share buyback program for 2021 to purchase up to 
of which 16,040 were in Switzerland and 32,730 were abroad. Our  CHF 1.5 billion of Group shares and the expectation of a buyback 
corporate titles include managing director, director, vice president,  of at least CHF 1.0 billion in 2021, subject to market and eco-
assistant vice president and non-officer staff. The majority of our  nomic conditions. The 2021 share buyback program commenced 
employees do not belong to unions. We have not experienced any  on January 12, 2021.
significant strikes, work stoppages or labor disputes in recent years.  > Refer to “Share purchases” in III – Treasury, Risk, Balance sheet and Off-
We consider our relations with our employees to be good. balance sheet – Capital management for further information.
>  > 
Refer to “Credit Suisse” in II – Operating and financial review for further infor- Refer to “Note 15 – Share capital, conditional, conversion and authorized capi-
mation on our responsibility as an employer. tal” in VII – Parent company financial statements – Credit Suisse Group and 
our AoA (Articles 26, 26c and 27) for information on changes to our capital 
structure during the year. Refer to credit-suisse.com/annualreporting for prior 
year annual reports.
Shareholders
Shareholder information
Capital structure 
Shareholder base
Our total issued share capital as of December 31, 2020 was  We have a broad shareholder base, with the majority of shares 
CHF 97,909,909 divided into 2,447,747,720 shares, with a  owned directly or indirectly by institutional investors outside Swit-
nominal value of CHF 0.04 per share. As a result of the share  zerland. As of December 31, 2020, 101,560 shareholders were 
buyback program approved by the Board for 2019 and 2020,  registered in our share register with 1,391,801,051 shares, rep-
the Group repurchased 108,264,000 shares for a total of  resenting 57% of the total shares issued. The remaining 43% of 
CHF 1,325,238,832, before the 2020 share buyback program  shares are not registered in our share register. As of Decem-
was suspended in March 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  ber 31, 2020, 74,631,010 or 3.05%, of the issued shares were in 
At the AGM on April 30, 2020, shareholders approved a reduc- the form of ADS. The information provided in the following tables 
tion of the share capital to CHF 97,909,909 by cancelling the  reflects the distribution of Group shares as registered in our share 
108,264,000 own registered shares, which were repurchased  register as of December 31, 2020.
as part of the 2019 and 2020 share buyback programs. On 
Distribution of Group shares
end of          2020          2019 
   Number of      Number of      Number of      Number of    
   shareholders  %    shares  %    shareholders  %    shares  %  
D        istribution of Group shares            
Private investors   98,878   97   204,295,564  8    102,226   97   193,914,934  8  
   of which Switzerland   88,291   87   169,789,350  7    91,492   87   161,708,453  6  
   of which foreign   10,587   10   34,506,214  1    10,734   10   32,206,481  1  
Institutional investors   2,682  3   1,187,505,487   49   2,816  3   1,197,045,392   47 
   of which Switzerland   2,288   2   277,697,525   11   2,444   2   275,856,250   11 
   of which foreign 1  394   0   909,807,962   37   372   0   921,189,142   36 
Shares registered in share register   101,560   100  1,391,801,051   57   105,042   100  1,390,960,326   54 
   of which Switzerland   90,579   89   447,486,875   18   93,936   89   437,564,703   17 
   of which Europe   9,199  9    541,030,285   22   9,398  9    578,893,120   23 
   of which US 1  163   0   372,501,718   15   139   0   349,295,718   14 
   of which other   1,619   2   30,782,173  1    1,569  1    25,206,785  1  
Shares not registered in share register   –  –   1,055,946,669   43   –  –   1,165,051,394   46 
Total shares issued   –  –   2,447,747,720   100   –  –   2,556,011,720   100 
1 Includes shares issued in the form of ADS.
190 Corporate Governance
   
Distribution of institutional investors in share register by industry
end of          2020          2019 
   Number of      Number of      Number of      Number of    
   shareholders  %    shares  %    shareholders  %    shares  %  
I       nstitutional investors by industry            
Banks   21  1    3,287,145   0   18  1    987,663   0 
Insurance companies   79  3    32,750,238  3    77  3    16,219,642  1  
Pension funds   326   12   53,767,056  5    388   14   57,414,038  5  
Investment trusts   335   12   195,455,111   16   324   12   203,160,475   17 
Other trusts   403   15   8,278,171  1    451   16   9,895,856  1  
Governmental institutions   28  1    729,057   0   24  1    757,697   0 
Other 1  1,393   52   136,821,433   12   1,435   51   148,320,147   12 
Direct entries   2,585   96   431,088,211   36   2,717   96   436,755,518   36 
Fiduciary holdings   97  4    756,417,276   64   99  4    760,289,874   64 
Total institutional investors   2,682   100  1,187,505,487   100   2,816   100  1,197,045,392   100 
Rounding differences may occur.
1 Includes various other institutional investors for which a breakdown by industry type was not available.
Through the use of an external global market intelligence firm,  and compensation and other matters of importance to the Group 
we regularly gather additional information on the composition of  or its shareholders. Shareholder engagement meetings may be 
our shareholder base, including information on shares that are  attended by the Chairman, the Compensation Committee Chair, 
not registered in our share register. According to this data, our  the CEO, CFO and other members of the Board or senior man-
shareholder base as of December 31, 2020 comprised 88%  agement. The responsibility for shareholder engagement is over-
institutional investors, with around half of such investors located  seen by our Investor Relations department. The Group aims to 
in North America. The distribution of Group shareholdings by  ensure that all shareholders receive the relevant information they 
investor type and region is shown as follows:  need to keep abreast of current Group developments and make 
informed decisions.
Group shares   Institutional investors  
by investor type by region Information policy
End of 2020 (in %) End of 2020 (in %) We are committed to an open and fair information policy with 
our shareholders and other stakeholders. Our Investor Rela-
tions and Corporate Communications departments are respon-
sible for addressing inquiries received. All Group shareholders 
10 2 9 registered in our share register receive an invitation to our AGM, 
9
including instructions on how to receive the annual report and 
47 other reports. Each registered shareholder may elect to receive 
15
the quarterly reports on our financial performance. All of these 
reports and other information can be accessed on our website at 
88 20 credit-suisse.com/investors.
p p p Notices required under Swiss law
 Institutional investors  North America   Switzerland
p Private investors p UK & Ireland  p Europe Notices to shareholders required under Swiss law are made by 
p p
 Other investors  Other publication in the Swiss Official Gazette of Commerce. The Board 
may designate further means of communication for publish-
ing notices to shareholders. Notices required under the listing 
Shareholder engagement rules of the SIX Swiss Exchange will either be published in two 
The Group engages regularly with its shareholders and proxy  Swiss newspapers in German and French and sent to the SIX 
advisors. The purpose of such engagements is to understand  Swiss Exchange or otherwise communicated to the SIX Swiss 
the perspectives of its shareholders, exchange views about the  Exchange in accordance with applicable listing rules. The SIX 
Group’s strategy, financial performance, corporate governance  Swiss Exchange may further disseminate the relevant information.
Corporate Governance 191
   
Significant shareholders The Group also holds positions in its own shares, including shares 
Under the Swiss Federal Act on Financial Market Infrastructure  acquired through the share buyback program described above, 
and Market Conduct in Securities and Derivative Trading (FMIA),  which are subject to the same disclosure requirements as sig-
anyone holding shares in a company listed on the SIX Swiss  nificant external shareholders. These positions fluctuate and, in 
Exchange is required to notify the company and the SIX Swiss  addition to the activity from our share buyback program, primarily 
Exchange if their holding reaches, falls below or exceeds the  reflect activities related to market making, facilitating client orders 
following thresholds: 3%, 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 331/%,  and satisfying the obligations under our employee compensa-
3
50% or 662/% of the voting rights entered into the commercial  tion plans. Shares held by the Group have no voting rights. As of 
3
register, whether or not the voting rights can be exercised (that is,  December 31, 2020, our holdings amounted to 1.99% purchase 
notifications must also include certain derivative holdings such as  positions (1.67% registered shares and 0.32% share acquisition 
options or similar instruments). Following receipt of such notifica- rights) and 4.62% sales positions (disposal rights), mainly related 
tion, the company has an obligation to inform the public. In addi- to the Group’s outstanding tier 1 capital instruments, which would 
tion, pursuant to the Swiss Code of Obligations, a company must  be converted into Group ordinary shares upon the occurrence of 
disclose in the notes to its annual consolidated financial state- certain specified triggering events. As a result of the share buy-
ments the identity of any shareholders who own in excess of 5%  back program for 2020, the Group’s purchase positions in its own 
of its shares. The following provides an overview of the holdings  shares increased steadily during early 2020, before the 2020 
of our significant shareholders, including any rights to purchase  share buyback program was suspended in March 2020 due to 
or dispose of shares, based on the most recent disclosure noti- the COVID-19 pandemic. The 108,264,000 shares that were 
fications. In line with the FMIA requirements, the percentages  repurchased as part of the 2019 and 2020 share buyback pro-
indicated below were calculated in relation to the share capital  grams were subsequently cancelled after shareholders approved 
reflected in the AoA at the time of the disclosure notification. As  a capital reduction through cancellation of shares that were repur-
shareholders are only required to notify the company and the SIX  chased under the share buyback programs in 2019 and 2020 at 
Swiss Exchange if their holding reaches, falls below or exceeds  the 2020 AGM. The Group resumed share repurchases in Janu-
the thresholds listed above, the percentage holdings of our sig- ary 2021 under the 2021 share buyback program, subject to 
nificant shareholders may vary at any given time compared to  market and economic conditions. The Group intends to propose a 
the date of submission of the most recent notification for these  cancellation of the shares repurchased as part of the 2021 share 
respective shareholders. The full text of all notifications can be  buyback program at the 2022 AGM. 
found on our website at credit-suisse.com/shareholders. Each  > Refer to “Issuances and redemptions” in III – Treasury, Risk, Balance sheet and 
share entitles the holder to one vote, except as described below. Off-balance sheet – Capital management for further information.
> 
Refer to “Note 3 – Business developments, significant shareholders and sub-
sequent events” in VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse  Cross shareholdings
Group for further information on significant shareholders.
The Group has no cross shareholdings in excess of 5% of capital 
or voting rights with any other company.
192 Corporate Governance
   
Significant shareholders
   Group publication   Number of   Approximate   Purchase rights 
   of notification   shares (million)   shareholding % 1   % 2 
D    ecember 31, 2020 or the most recent notification date       
Qatar Investment Authority (registered entity – Qatar Holding LLC)   September 6, 2018   133.2   5.21   0.39 3 
Norges Bank   February 15, 2018   127.4   4.98  –  
The Olayan Group (registered entity – Competrol Establishment)   December 12, 2018   126.0   4.93   0.07 4 
Dodge & Cox   September 19, 2020 5   122.2   4.99  –  
BlackRock Inc.   March 16, 2021   100.5   4.11   0.93 6 
Harris Associates L.P.   November 9, 2013 7   81.5   5.17  –  
Silchester International Investors LLP   December 7, 2018   77.4   3.03  –  
D    ecember 31, 2019 or the most recent notification date       
Qatar Investment Authority (registered entity – Qatar Holding LLC)   September 6, 2018   133.2   5.21   0.39 
Norges Bank   February 15, 2018   127.4   4.98  –  
The Olayan Group (registered entity – Competrol Establishment)   December 12, 2018   126.0   4.93   0.07 
BlackRock Inc.   September 2, 2017   86.9   4.17  –  
Harris Associates L.P.   November 9, 2013   81.5   5.17  –  
Dodge & Cox   December 28, 2018   78.2   3.06  –  
Silchester International Investors LLP   December 7, 2018   77.4   3.03  –  
D    ecember 31, 2018 or the most recent notification date       
Qatar Investment Authority (registered entity – Qatar Holding LLC)   September 6, 2018   133.2   5.21   0.39 
Norges Bank   February 15, 2018   127.4   4.98  –  
The Olayan Group (registered entity – Competrol Establishment)   December 12, 2018   126.0   4.93   0.07 
BlackRock Inc.   September 2, 2017   86.9   4.17  –  
Harris Associates L.P.   November 9, 2013   81.5   5.17  –  
Dodge & Cox   December 28, 2018   78.2   3.06  –  
Silchester International Investors LLP   December 7, 2018   77.4   3.03  –  
1 The approximate shareholding percentages were calculated in relation to the share capital at the time of the relevant disclosure notification. They therefore do not reflect changes in such 
percentages that would result from changes in the number of outstanding shares, following the date of the disclosure notification.
2 Purchase rights are calculated by deducting the total of all equity securities or equity related securities from total of all the purchase positions; differences due to rounding may occur.
3 The purchase rights relate to put options.
4 The purchase rights relate to put options and perpetual tier 1 contingent convertible capital notes.
5 This position includes the reportable position of Dodge & Cox International Stock Fund (3.09% shares), as published by SIX Swiss Exchange on February 5, 2019.
6 Total purchase positions disclosed were 5.04%.
7 This position includes the reportable position of Harris Associates Investment Trust (4.97% shares), as published by the SIX Swiss Exchange on August 1, 2018.
Shareholder rights the disclosure requirements in accordance with the FMIA and the 
relevant ordinances and regulations have been fulfilled; or
We are fully committed to the principle of equal treatment of  p shares that are registered in the name of a nominee, provided 
all shareholders. The following information summarizes certain  that this nominee is willing to furnish us, on request, the name, 
shareholder rights at the Group. address and shareholdings of any beneficial owner or group 
of related beneficial owners on behalf of whom the nominee 
Voting rights and transfer of shares holds 0.5% or more of the total outstanding share capital of 
There is no limitation under Swiss law or the AoA on the right to  the Group.
own Group shares.
To execute voting rights, shares need to be registered in the 
In principle, each share represents one vote at the AGM. Shares  share register directly or in the name of a nominee. In order to be 
held by the Group have no voting rights. Shares for which a single  registered in the share register, the purchaser must file a share 
shareholder or shareholder group can exercise voting rights may  registration form with the depository bank. The registration of 
not exceed 2% of the total outstanding share capital, unless one  shares in the share register may be requested at any time. Fail-
of the exemptions discussed below applies. The restrictions on  ing such registration, the purchaser may not vote or participate in 
voting rights do not apply to: shareholders’ meetings. However, each shareholder, whether reg-
p the exercise of voting rights by the independent proxy as  istered in the share register or not, is entitled to receive dividends or 
elected by the AGM; other distributions approved at the AGM. Transfer restrictions apply 
p shares in respect of which the shareholder confirms to us that  regardless of the way and the form in which the registered shares 
the shareholder has acquired the shares in the shareholder’s  are kept in the accounts and regardless of the provisions applica-
name for the shareholder’s own account and in respect of which  ble to transfers. The transfer of intermediated securities based on 
Corporate Governance 193
   
Group shares, and the pledging of these intermediated securities as  p approval of the annual report and the statutory and consoli-
collateral, is based on the provisions of the Swiss Federal Intermedi- dated accounts;
ated Securities Act. The transfer or pledging of shares as collateral  p discharge of the acts of the members of the Board and Execu-
by means of written assignment is not permitted. tive Board; and
> Refer to credit-suisse.com/articles for information in our AoA (Art. 10 and 14a)  p determination of the appropriation of retained earnings.
on share register and transfer of shares, voting rights and the independent 
proxy.
A quorum of at least two-thirds of the votes represented is 
required for resolutions on:
Annual General Meeting p change of the purpose of the company;
Under Swiss law, the AGM must be held within six months of the  p creation of shares with increased voting powers;
end of the fiscal year. Notice of an AGM, including agenda items  p implementation of transfer restrictions on shares;
and proposals submitted by the Board and by shareholders, must  p increase in conditional and authorized capital;
be published in the Swiss Official Gazette of Commerce at least  p increase of capital by way of conversion of capital surplus or by 
20 days prior to the AGM. contribution in kind;
p restriction or suspension of pre-emptive subscription rights;
Shares only qualify for voting at an AGM if they are registered in  p change of location of the principal office; and
the share register with voting rights no later than three days prior  p dissolution of the company without liquidation.
to the AGM.
A quorum of at least half of the total share capital and approval 
Convocation of shareholder meetings by at least three-quarters of the votes represented is required for 
The AGM is convened by the Board or, if necessary, by the statu- resolutions on:
tory auditors, with 20 days’ prior notice. The Board is further  p the conversion of registered shares into bearer shares;
required to convene an EGM if so resolved at a shareholders’  p amendments to the AoA relating to registration and voting 
meeting or if so requested by shareholders holding in aggregate  rights of nominee holders; and
at least 10% of the nominal share capital. The request to call  p the dissolution of the company.
an EGM must be submitted in writing to the Board, and, at the 
same time, Group shares representing at least 10% of the nomi- A quorum of at least half of the total share capital and the 
nal share capital must be deposited for safekeeping. The shares  approval of at least seven-eighths of the votes cast is required for 
remain in safekeeping until the day after the EGM. amendments to provisions of the AoA relating to voting rights.
Request to place an item on the agenda Say-on-Pay
Shareholders holding shares with an aggregate nominal value  In accordance with the Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corpo-
of at least CHF 40,000 have the right to request that a specific  rate Governance, the Group will submit the compensation report 
item be placed on the agenda and voted upon at the AGM. The  (contained in the Compensation section of the 2020 Annual 
request to include a particular item on the agenda, together with  Report) for a consultative, non-binding vote by shareholders at 
a relevant proposal, must be submitted in writing to the Board  the 2021 AGM. In accordance with the Compensation Ordinance, 
no later than 45 days before the meeting and, at the same  the Group will submit the following Board and Executive Board 
time, Group shares with an aggregate nominal value of at least  compensation recommendations for binding votes by sharehold-
CHF 40,000 must be deposited for safekeeping. The shares  ers at the 2021 AGM: 
remain in safekeeping until the day after the AGM. p For the Board: a maximum amount of compensation for the 
Board for the period from the 2021 AGM to the 2022 AGM;
Quorum requirements p For the Executive Board: an aggregate amount of variable 
The AGM may, in principle, pass resolutions without regard to the  compensation comprising the variable short-term incentive 
number of shareholders present at the meeting or represented by  (STI) compensation for Executive Board members for the 
proxy, except as discussed below. Resolutions and elections gen- 2020 financial year;
erally require the approval of a majority of the votes represented  p For the Executive Board: a maximum amount of fixed compen-
at the meeting, except as otherwise provided by mandatory provi- sation for the Executive Board for the period from the 2021 
sions of law or by the AoA. AGM to the 2022 AGM; and
p For the Executive Board: an aggregate amount of variable 
Shareholders’ resolutions that require a vote by a majority of the  compensation comprising the variable long-term incentive (LTI) 
votes represented include: compensation for Executive Board members for the 2021 
p amendments to the AoA, unless a supermajority is required; financial year (based on fair value at grant). 
p election of members of the Board, the Chairman, the mem-
bers of the Compensation Committee, the independent proxy  In line with our established practice, the Group will continue 
and statutory auditors; to submit the compensation report for a consultative vote by 
p approval of the compensation of the members of the Board  shareholders.
and the Executive Board; > Refer to “V – Compensation” for further information on the binding vote.
194 Corporate Governance
   
Discharge of the acts of the Board and the Executive  certain provisions in the Group’s employee compensation plans, 
Board which allow for the Compensation Committee or Board to deter-
According to Swiss law, the AGM has the power to discharge the  mine the treatment of outstanding awards for all employees, 
actions of the members of the Board and the Executive Board.  including the Executive Board members, in the case of a change 
The 2020 AGM granted discharge to the members of the Board  in control, there are no provisions that require the payment of 
and the Executive Board for the 2019 financial year. extraordinary benefits in the agreements and plans benefiting 
members of the Board and the Executive Board or any other 
Pre-emptive subscription rights and preferential  members of senior management. Specifically, there are no con-
subscription rights tractually agreed severance payments in the case of a change in 
Under Swiss law, any share issue, whether for cash or non-cash  control of the Group.
consideration or no consideration, is subject to the prior approval  > Refer to “Contract lengths, termination and change in control provisions” in V – 
of the shareholders. Shareholders of a Swiss corporation have  Compensation – Executive Board compensation for further information on the 
clauses on changes in control.
certain pre-emptive subscription rights to subscribe for new 
issues of shares and certain preferential rights to subscribe for 
option bonds, convertible bonds or similar debt instruments with  Borrowing and raising funds
option or convertible rights in proportion to the nominal amount of  Neither Swiss law nor our AoA restrict our power to borrow and 
shares held. A resolution adopted at a shareholders’ meeting with  raise funds in any way. The decision to borrow funds is passed by 
a supermajority may, however, limit or suspend pre-emptive sub- or under the direction of our Board, with no shareholders’ resolu-
scription rights in certain limited circumstances. tion required.
Duty to make an offer Liquidation
Swiss law provides that anyone who, directly or indirectly or acting  Under Swiss law and our AoA, the Group may be dissolved at any 
in concert with third parties, acquires 331/% or more of the vot- time by a shareholders’ resolution, which must be passed by:
3
ing rights of a listed Swiss company, whether or not such rights  p a supermajority of at least three-quarters of the votes cast at 
are exercisable, must make an offer to acquire all of the listed  the meeting in the event the Group were to be dissolved by 
equity securities of such company, unless the AoA of the com- way of liquidation; and
pany provides otherwise. Our AoA does not include a contrary  p  a supermajority of at least two-thirds of the votes represented 
provision. This mandatory offer obligation may be waived under  and an absolute majority of the par value of the shares repre-
certain circumstances by the Swiss Takeover Board or FINMA. If  sented at the meeting in other cases.
no waiver is granted, the mandatory offer must be made pursu-
ant to procedural rules set forth in the FMIA and implementing  Dissolution by order of FINMA is possible if we become bankrupt. 
ordinances. Under Swiss law, any surplus arising out of liquidation (after the 
settlement of all claims of all creditors) is distributed to sharehold-
Clauses on changes in control ers in proportion to the paid-up par value of shares held.
To the best of our knowledge, there are no agreements in place 
that could lead to a change in control of the Group. Subject to 
Corporate Governance 195
   
Board of Directors
An overview of the Board and the committee membership is 
shown in the following table. The composition of the Boards of 
General information the Group and the Bank is identical.
Membership and qualifications Board composition and succession planning
The AoA (Chapter IV, Section 2, The Board of Directors, Art. 15.1  The Governance and Nominations Committee regularly considers 
of the Group’s AoA and Chapter III, Section 6. Board of Directors,  the composition of the Board as a whole and in light of staffing 
Art. 6.1 of the Bank’s AoA) provide that the Board shall consist of  requirements for the committees. The Governance and Nomina-
a minimum of seven members. The Board currently consists of 13  tions Committee recruits and evaluates candidates for Board 
members. We believe that the size of the Board must be such that  membership based on criteria as set forth by the OGR (Chapter II 
the committees can be staffed with qualified members. At the same  Board of Directors, Item 8.2.3). The Governance and Nomina-
time, the Board must be small enough to ensure an effective and  tions Committee may also retain outside consultants with respect 
rapid decision-making process. Board members are elected at the  to the identification and recruitment of potential new Board mem-
AGM by our shareholders individually for a period of one year and  bers. In assessing candidates, the Governance and Nominations 
are eligible for re-election. Shareholders will also elect a member of  Committee considers the requisite skills and characteristics of 
the Board as the Chairman and each of the members of the Com- Board members as well as the composition of the Board as a 
pensation Committee for a period of one year. One year of office  whole. Among other considerations, the Governance and Nomi-
is understood to be the period of time from one AGM to the close  nations Committee takes into account skills, management expe-
of the next AGM. Members of the Board shall generally retire after  rience, independence and diversity in the context of the needs 
having served on the Board for 12 years. Under certain circum- of the Board to fulfill its responsibilities. The Governance and 
stances, the Board may extend the limit of terms of office for a par- Nominations Committee also considers other activities and com-
ticular Board member for a maximum of three additional years. mitments of an individual in order to be satisfied that a proposed 
member of the Board can devote enough time to a Board position 
at the Group.
> 
Refer to “Mandates” for further information.
Members of the Board of Directors
                  Conduct and     
   Board      Governance and         Financial Crime     
   member      Nominations   Audit   Compensation   Control    Risk 
   since   Independence   Committee   Committee   Committee   Committee   Committee 
E      lected at 2020 AGM            
Urs Rohner, Chairman 1,3  2009   Independent   Chair  –   –    Member  –  
Iris Bohnet 1,2  2012   Independent  –   –    Member  –   –  
Christian Gellerstad   2019   Independent   Member  –    Member   Chair  –  
Andreas Gottschling   2017   Independent   Member   Member  –   –    Chair 
Michael Klein   2018   Independent  –   –    Member  –    Member 
Shan Li   2019   Independent  –   –   –   –    Member 
Seraina Macia   2015   Independent  –   –   –   –    Member 
Richard Meddings 3  2020   Independent   Member   Chair  –    Member   Member 
Kai S. Nargolwala 1  2013   Independent   Member  –    Chair   Member  –  
Ana Paula Pessoa 1  2018   Independent  –    Member  –    Member  –  
Joaquin J. Ribeiro   2016   Independent  –    Member  –   –   –  
Severin Schwan, Vice-Chair and                       
Lead Independent Director   2014   Independent   Member  –   –   –    Member 
John Tiner   2009   Independent  –    Member  –   –   –  
1 Member of the Innovation and Technology Committee.
2 Board Sustainability Leader and Chair of the new Sustainability Advisory Committee.
3 Member of the new Sustainability Advisory Committee.
196 Corporate Governance
   
Board composition
Industry experience Geographical focus1 Length of tenure Gender diversity
2
3 3
5
6
3
4 10
3
p p p p
Financial services (banking, insurance) Americas 4 years and less Male
p p p p
 Law, government & academia Switzerland Between 5 and 8 years Female
p p p
Pharma, manufacturing & technology EMEA Between 9 and 12 years
p p
Advertising, marketing & media Asia Pacific
1 Geographical focus represents the region in which the Board member has mostly focused his or her professional activities and may differ from the nationality of that individual.
The background, skills and experience of our Board members are  In areas where the Board’s collective experience and expertise 
diverse and broad and include holding or having held top manage- may require strengthening, the Board may either decide to nomi-
ment positions at financial services and other companies in Swit- nate a new Board member candidate with specialist expertise, 
zerland and abroad, as well as leading positions in government,  engage outside experts or take other measures. For example, at 
academia and international organizations. The Board is composed  the 2020 AGM, Richard Meddings was elected as a new Board 
of individuals with wide-ranging professional expertise in key  member and subsequently appointed Audit Committee chair, 
areas including finance and financial management, risk manage- succeeding former Audit Committee chair John Tiner, who is not 
ment, audit, innovation and technology, legal, compliance and  standing for election at the 2021 AGM after having reached the 
regulatory affairs, advertising, marketing and media, and human  12-year tenure limit. Two further changes to the Audit Committee 
resources and incentive structures. Diversity of culture, experi- were also announced in 2020, which required the Board to iden-
ence and opinion are important aspects of Board composition, as  tify new Board members capable of serving on the Audit Commit-
well as gender diversity. While the ratio of female-to-male Board  tee: former Board and Audit Committee member Alexander Gut 
members may vary in any given year, the Board is committed to  announced that he would not stand for reelection at the 2020 
complying with the gender diversity guidelines as stipulated in the  AGM and current Board and Audit Committee Joaquin J. Ribeiro 
new Swiss corporate law. The collective experience and expertise  indicated that he would not stand for reelection at the 2021 
of our Board members as of the end of 2020 across those key  AGM. Given this situation and in order to maintain an adequately 
areas considered particularly relevant for the Group is illustrated  staffed, strong and independent Audit Committee, the Board 
in the following chart. consequently nominated Clare Brady and Blythe Masters as new 
Board members, two recognized financial experts, both of whom 
Board member experience and expertise the Board intends to appoint as Audit Committee members, sub-
(Number and percentage of Board members) ject to their election at the 2021 AGM.
Leadership development 
100%
experience
Experience in international 
100%
business / organization
Finance / financial 
77%
management expertise
Executive-level role in financial 
62%
industry (>10 years) 
Non-executive listed company 
54%
Board member
Risk, audit and/or compliance 
54%
expertise
Executive-level role in non- 
31%
financial industry (>10 years)
Innovation, technology and/or 
31%
media expertise
HR and incentive structures 23%
Corporate Governance 197
   
To maintain a high degree of expertise, diversity and indepen- will generally approve candidates to be nominated as new Board 
dence in the future, the Board has a succession planning pro- members for election at the AGM at its February or March meet-
cess in place to identify potential candidates for the Board at an  ings, shortly before the publication of this report.
early stage. With this process, we are well prepared when Board 
members rotate off the Board. The objectives of the succession  Chairman succession
planning process are to ensure adequate representation of key  At the AGM 2021, Urs Rohner will have served on the Board for the 
Board competencies and a Board composition that is well suited  maximum standard term limit of 12 years and will therefore not stand 
to address future challenges, while maintaining the stability and  for re-election at the 2021 AGM. In order to find a successor to Urs 
professionalism of the Board. Potential candidates are evaluated  Rohner, the Board established a dedicated search committee early 
according to criteria defined to assess the candidates’ expertise  in 2020, consisting primarily of the members of the Governance and 
and experience, which include the following: Nominations Committee. Following a structured and thorough search 
p proven track record as an executive with relevant leadership  process with an international focus, the search committee reviewed 
credentials gained in an international business environment in  numerous well-qualified candidates and ultimately recommended to 
financial services or another industry; the Board to propose António Horta-Osório as the new Chairman 
p relevant functional skills and credentials in the key areas listed  and successor to Urs Rohner for election at the 2021 AGM. António 
above; Horta-Osório is currently the Group Chief Executive of Lloyds Bank-
p understanding of global banking, financial markets and finan- ing Group, the largest retail and commercial bank in the UK, until the 
cial regulation; end of April 2021. Mr. Horta-Osório is a recognized financial services 
p broad international experience and global business perspective,  industry leader and has had a long and successful career in interna-
with a track record of having operated in multiple geographies; tional banking that spans over thirty years. In addition to his role with 
p ability to bring insight and clarity to complex situations and to  Lloyds Banking Group, António Horta-Osório currently serves as a 
both challenge and constructively support management; non-executive director at Exor in the Netherlands, Fundação Cham-
p high level of integrity and affinity with the Group’s values and  palimaud in Portugal, Sociedade Francisco Manuel dos Santos in 
corporate culture; and Portugal, and Stichting/Enable INPAR in the Netherlands, as well as 
p  willingness to commit sufficient time to prepare for and attend  Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Wallace Collection in Lon-
Board and committee meetings. don. Mr. Horta-Osório is a citizen of Portugal and the UK.
The evaluation of candidates also considers formal indepen- New members and continuing training
dence and other criteria for Board membership, consistent with  Any newly appointed member is required to participate in an orien-
legal and regulatory requirements and the Swiss Code of Best  tation program to become familiar with our organizational structure, 
Practice for Corporate Governance. Furthermore, we believe that  strategic plans, significant financial, accounting and risk issues and 
other aspects, including team dynamics and personal reputation  other important matters relating to the governance of the Group. 
of Board members, play a critical role in ensuring the effective  The orientation program is designed to take into account the new 
functioning of the Board. This is why the Group places the utmost  Board member’s individual background and level of experience in 
importance on the right mix of personalities who are also fully  each specific area. Moreover, the program’s focus is aligned with 
committed to making their blend of specific skills and experience  any committee memberships of the person concerned. Board 
available to the Board. members are encouraged to engage in continuing training. The 
Board and the committees of the Board regularly ask specialists 
While the Board is continually engaged in considering poten- within the Group to speak about specific topics in order to enhance 
tial candidates throughout the year, succession planning for the  the Board members’ understanding of issues that already are, or 
next year is typically kicked off at the Board’s annual strategy  may become, of particular importance to our business.
offsite, which is held mid-year. In addition to its discussions of 
the Group’s strategy, the Board holds a dedicated session on  Meetings
corporate governance, at which, among other topics, current  In 2020, the Board held 19 meetings, the majority of which 
Board composition and future needs are discussed, including the  were held as video or telephone conferences in light of the travel 
needs for suitable Board committee composition. Based on the  and other restrictions on holding in-person meetings due to the 
outcome of these discussions, the interest and availability of cer- COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, the Board held their annual 
tain candidates will be explored further. The Board’s discussions  two-day strategy session. The members of the Board are encour-
will continue at its annual self-assessment session, which usually  aged to attend all meetings of the Board and the committees on 
takes place at year-end, and it will consider specific changes in  which they serve.
Board composition to be proposed at the next AGM. The Board 
198 Corporate Governance
   
Meeting attendance – Board and Board committees
               Conduct and     
      Governance and         Financial Crime     
   Board of   Nominations   Audit   Compensation   Control   Risk 
   Directors 1   Committee 2   Committee 3   Committee 4   Committee 5   Committee 6 
i      n 2020        
Total number of meetings held   20   19   18   11  6   9  
   of which in-person meetings  4    0  1   1   1   1  
   of which video or telephone conference meetings   16   19   17   10  5   8  
Meeting attendance, in %   98   96   100   98   100   95 
   Number of members who missed no meetings   11  5   6   3   5   5  
   Number of members who missed one meeting   1   0   0  1    0   2 
   Number of members who missed two or more meetings  1    2   0   0   0   0 
Approximate meeting duration, in hours 7  8.0 – 9.0   1.0 – 2.0   5.0 – 6.0   2.0 – 3.0   2.0 – 3.0   5.0 – 6.0 
Meeting attendance is shown for the calendar year 2020, which spans two Board periods.
1 The Board consisted of 13 members at the beginning and the end of the year, with 1 member joining the Board (Robert Meddings) and 1 member leaving the Board (Alexander Gut).
2 The Governance and Nominations Committee consisted of 5 members at the beginning of the year and 6 at the end of the year, with 2 members joining the committee (Christian Geller-
stad, Richard Meddings) and 1 member leaving the committee (John Tiner).
3 The Audit Committee consisted of 5 members at the beginning and the end of the year, with 1 member joining the committee (Richard Meddings) and 1 member leaving the committee 
(Alexander Gut).
4 The Compensation Committee consisted of the same 4 members at the beginning and at the end of the year.
5 The Conduct and Financial Crime Control Committee consisted of 5 members at the beginning and the end of the year, with 1 member joining the committee (Richard Meddings) and 
1 member leaving the committee (John Tiner).
6 The Risk Committee consisted of 6 members at the beginning and the end of the year, with 1 member joining the committee (Richard Meddings) and 1 member leaving the committee 
(John Tiner). Two of the nine meetings were non-mandatory workshops and not counted for attendance.
7 The approximate meeting duration in hours refers only to those meetings, which were originally scheduled as in-person meetings, but due to the COVID-19 pandemic, had to be con-
verted to video conference meetings (e.g. meetings held in April, June, August, October and December of 2020). This excluded the Governance and Nominations Committee, which held 
the majority of its meetings per telephone conference. The meetings of the Compensation Committee were on average 2 – 3 hours, with the exception of the meeting at the beginning of 
the year for the purposes of proposing variable compensation for the Group and the Executive Board; the approximate duration of this meeting was 4 – 5 hours.
All members of the Board are expected to spend the necessary  Meeting attendance – individual Board members
time outside of these meetings needed to discharge their respon- Attendance (%)   < 75  75 – 84  85 – 94  95 – 100
sibilities appropriately. The Chairman calls the meeting with suffi-
Board member        
cient notice and prepares an agenda for each meeting. However, 
        p
Urs Rohner, Chairman 
any other Board member has the right to call an extraordinary 
        p
Iris Bohnet 
meeting, if deemed necessary. The Chairman has the discretion 
        p
Christian Gellerstad 
to invite members of management or others to attend the meet-
        p
Andreas Gottschling 
ings. Generally, the members of the Executive Board attend part 
      p 
Michael Klein 
of the meetings to ensure effective interaction with the Board. 
        p
Shan Li 
The Board also holds separate private sessions without manage-
        p
Seraina Macia 
ment present. Minutes are kept of the proceedings and resolu-
        p
Richard Meddings 1
tions of the Board.
        p
Kai S. Nargolwala 
        p
Ana Paula Pessoa 
From time to time, the Board may make certain decisions via 
        p
Joaquin J. Ribeiro 
circular resolution, unless a member asks that the matter be 
      p 
Severin Schwan 
discussed in a meeting and not decided upon by way of written 
        p
John Tiner 
consent. During 2020, the Board resolved on four matters via 
circular resolution. As of the date of the publication of this report,  Includes Board and Committee meeting attendance.
1 Board member as of the 2020 AGM.
in 2021, the Board has held six meetings via video or telephone 
conference and resolved on two matters via circular resolution.
Corporate Governance 199
   
Mandates reports its findings to the Board for the final determination of inde-
Our Board members may assume board or executive level or  pendence of each individual member. The Board has applied the 
other roles in companies and organizations outside of the Group,  independence criteria of the SIX Swiss Exchange Directive on 
which are collectively referred to as mandates. The Compensa- Information relating to Corporate Governance, FINMA, the Swiss 
tion Ordinance sets out that companies must include provisions in  Code of Best Practice for Corporate Governance and the rules of 
their articles of association to define the activities that fall within  the NYSE and the Nasdaq Stock Market (Nasdaq) in determining 
the scope of a mandate and set limits on the number of man- the definition of independence.
dates that board members and executive management may hold. 
According to the Group’s AoA (Chapter IV, Section 2, The Board  Independence criteria applicable to all Board members
of Directors, Art. 20b), mandates include activities in the most  In general, a director is considered independent if the director:
senior executive and management bodies of listed companies  p is not, and has not been for the past three years, employed as 
and all other legal entities that are obliged to obtain an entry in  an Executive Board member at the Group or any of its subsid-
the Swiss commercial register or a corresponding foreign reg- iaries or in another significant function at the Group;
ister. Board members are obligated to disclose all mandates to  p is not, and has not been for the past three years, an employee 
the Group and changes thereto, which occur during their board  or affiliate of the Group’s external auditor;
tenure. Board members wishing to assume a new mandate with  p does not, according to the Board’s assessment, maintain a 
a company or organization must first consult with the Chairman  material direct or indirect business relationship with the Group 
before accepting such mandate, in order to ensure there are no  or any of its subsidiaries which causes a conflict of interest 
conflicts of interest or other issues. due to its nature or extent; and
p is not, or has not been for the past three years, part of an 
The limitations on mandates assumed by Board members outside  interlocking directorate in which an Executive Board member 
of the Group are summarized in the table below. serves on the compensation committee of another company 
that employs the Board member.
Type of mandate and limitation – Board
Type of mandate   Limitation  Whether or not a relationship between the Group or any of its 
Listed companies   No more than four other mandates  subsidiaries and a member of the Board is considered material 
Other legal entities 1  No more than five mandates  depends in particular on the following factors:
Legal entities on behalf of the Group 2  No more than ten mandates  p the volume and size of any transactions concluded in relation 
Charitable legal entities 3  No more than ten mandates  to the financial status and credit standing of the Board mem-
ber concerned or the organization in which he or she is a part-
1 Includes private non-listed companies.
ner, significant shareholder or executive officer;
2 Includes memberships in business and industry associations.
3 Also includes honorary mandates in cultural or educational organizations. p the terms and conditions applied to such transactions in com-
parison to those applied to transactions with counterparties of 
No Board member holds mandates in excess of these restric- a similar credit standing;
tions. The restrictions shown above do not apply to mandates of  p whether the transactions are subject to the same internal 
Board members in legal entities controlled by the Group such as  approval processes and procedures as transactions that are 
subsidiary boards. concluded with other counterparties;
> Refer to “Audit Committee” in Board committees for further information on lim- p whether the transactions are performed in the ordinary course 
its on Audit Committee service. of business; and
p  whether the transactions are structured in such a way and on 
Independence such terms and conditions that the transaction could be con-
cluded with a third party on comparable terms and conditions.
The Board consists solely of non-executive directors within the 
Group, of which at least the majority must be determined to be  Moreover, Board members with immediate family members who 
independent. In its independence determination, the Board takes  would not qualify as independent according to the above listed crite-
into account the factors set forth in the OGR (Chapter II Board of  ria shall be subject to a three-year cooling-off period for purposes of 
Directors, Item 3.2), the committee charters and applicable laws,  determining their independence after fulfilment of the independence 
regulations and listing standards. Our independence standards  criteria by the immediate family member. Significant shareholder 
are also periodically measured against other emerging best prac- status is generally not considered a criterion for independence 
tice standards. unless the shareholding exceeds 10% of the Group’s share capital 
or in instances where the shareholder may otherwise influence the 
The Governance and Nominations Committee performs an annual  Group in a significant manner.
assessment of the independence of each Board member and 
200 Corporate Governance
   
Specific independence considerations  p ensures that the Board members are provided with the infor-
Board members serving on the Audit Committee are subject to  mation relevant for performing their duties;
independence requirements in addition to those required of other  p drives the Board agenda;
Board members. None of the Audit Committee members may be  p drives key Board topics, especially regarding the strategic 
an affiliated person of the Group or may, directly or indirectly, accept  development of the Group, succession planning, the structure 
any consulting, advisory or other compensatory fees from us other  and organization of the Group, corporate governance, as well 
than their regular compensation as members of the Board and its  as compensation and compensation structure, including the 
committees. performance evaluation and compensation of the CEO and the 
Executive Board;
For Board members serving on the Compensation Committee,  p chairs the Board, the Governance and Nominations Commit-
the independence determination considers all factors relevant to  tee and the Shareholder Meetings;
determining whether a director has a relationship with the Group  p takes an active role in representing the Group to key share-
that is material to that director’s ability to be independent from  holders, investors, regulators and supervisors, industry asso-
management in connection with the duties of a Compensation  ciations and other external stakeholders;
Committee member, including, but not limited to: p has no executive function within the Group;
p the source of any compensation of the Compensation Com- p with the exception of the Governance and Nominations Com-
mittee member, including any consulting, advisory or other  mittee and the Conduct and Financial Crime Control Commit-
compensatory fees paid by the Group to such director; and tee, is not a member of any of the other Board standing com-
p  whether the Compensation Committee member is affiliated  mittees; and
with the Group, any of its subsidiaries or any affiliates of any of  p may attend all or parts of selected committee meetings as a 
its subsidiaries. guest without voting power.
Other independence standards Vice-Chair and Lead Independent Director
While the Group is not subject to such standards, the Board  There may be one or more Vice-Chairs. The Vice-Chair:
acknowledges that some proxy advisors apply different standards for  p is a member of the Board;
assessing the independence of our Board members, including the  p is a designated deputy to the Chairman; and
length of tenure a Board member has served, the full-time status of  p assists the Chairman by providing support and advice to the 
a Board Member, annual compensation levels of Board members  Chairman, assuming the Chairman’s role in the event of the 
within a comparable range to executive pay or a Board member’s  Chairman’s absence or indisposition and leading the Board 
former executive status for periods further back than the preceding  accordingly.
three years.
According to the Group’s OGR (Chapter II Board of Directors, 
Independence determination Item 3.4), the Board may appoint a Lead Independent Director. If 
As of December 31, 2020, all members of the Board were deter- the Chairman is determined not to be independent by the Board, 
mined by the Board to be independent. the Board must appoint a Lead Independent Director. The Lead 
Independent Director:
Board leadership p may convene meetings without the Chairman being present;
p takes a leading role among the Board members, particularly 
Chairman of the Board when issues between a non-independent Chairman and the 
The Chairman is a non-executive member of the Board, in accor- independent Board members arise (for example, when a non-
dance with Swiss banking law, and performs his role on a full- independent Chairman has a conflict of interest);
time basis, in line with the practice expected by FINMA, our main  p leads the Board’s annual assessment of the Chairman; and
regulator. The Chairman: p ensures that the work of the Board and Board-related pro-
p coordinates the work within the Board; cesses continue to run smoothly.
p works with the committee chairmen to coordinate the tasks of 
the committees; Severin Schwan currently serves as the Vice-Chair and the Lead 
Independent Director.
Corporate Governance 201
   
Segregation of duties p provides oversight on significant projects including acquisitions, 
In accordance with Swiss banking law, the Group operates under  divestitures, investments and other major projects;
a dual board structure, which strictly segregates the duties of  p approves the recovery and resolution plans of the Group and 
supervision, which are the responsibility of the Board, from the  its major subsidiaries; and
duties of management, which are the responsibility of the Execu- p along with its committees, is entitled, without consulting with 
tive Board. The roles of the Chairman (non-executive) and the  management and at the Group’s expense, to engage external 
CEO (executive) are separate and carried out by two different  legal, financial or other advisors, as it deems appropriate, with 
people. respect to any matters within its authority.
Board responsibilities 
In accordance with the OGR (Chapter II Board of Directors, Item  Management information system
5.1), the Board delegates certain tasks to Board committees and  The Group has a comprehensive management information sys-
delegates the management of the company and the preparation  tem (MIS) in place as part of our efforts to ensure the Board and 
and implementation of Board resolutions to certain management  senior management are provided with the necessary informa-
bodies or executive officers to the extent permitted by law, in par- tion and reports to carry out their respective oversight and man-
ticular Article 716a and 716b of the Swiss Code of Obligations,  agement responsibilities. The Chairman may request additional 
and the AoA (Chapter IV, Section 2, The Board of Directors, Art.  reports as deemed appropriate.
17 of the Group’s AoA and Chapter III, Section 6. Board of Direc-
tors, Art. 6.3 of the Bank’s AoA). Governance of Group subsidiaries
The Board assumes oversight responsibility for establishing 
With responsibility for the overall direction, supervision and control  appropriate governance for Group subsidiaries. The governance 
of the company, the Board: of the Group is based on the principles of an integrated oversight 
p regularly assesses our competitive position and approves our  and management structure with global scope, which enables 
strategic and financial plans and risk appetite statement and  management of the Group as one economic unit. The Group 
overall risk limits; sets corporate governance standards to ensure the efficient and 
p appoints or dismisses the CEO and the members of the Exec- harmonized steering of the Group. In accordance with the OGR 
utive Board and appoints or dismisses the head of Internal  (Chapter II Board of Directors, Item 5.1.12), the Board appoints 
Audit as well as the regulatory auditor; or dismisses the chairperson and the members of the board of 
p receives a status report at each ordinary meeting on our finan- directors of the major subsidiaries of the Group and approves 
cial results, capital, funding and liquidity situation; their compensation. A policy naming the subsidiaries in scope 
p receives, on a monthly basis, management information pack- and providing guidelines for the nomination and compensation 
ages, which provide detailed information on our performance  process is periodically reviewed by the Board. The governance of 
and financial status, as well as quarterly risk reports outlining  the major subsidiaries, subject to compliance with all applicable 
recent developments and outlook scenarios; local laws and regulations, should be consistent with the corpo-
p is provided by management, with regular updates on key  rate governance principles of the Group, as reflected in the OGR 
issues and significant events, as deemed appropriate or  and other corporate governance documents. In order to facilitate 
requested; consistency and alignment of Group and subsidiary governance, it 
p has access to all information concerning the Group in order to  is the Group’s policy for the Board to appoint at least one Group 
appropriately discharge its responsibilities; director to each of the boards of its major subsidiaries. Directors 
p reviews and approves significant changes to our structure and  and officers of the Group and its major subsidiaries are commit-
organization; ted to ensuring transparency and collaboration throughout the 
p approves the annual variable compensation for the Group and  Group.
the divisions and recommends compensation of the Board and 
Executive Board for shareholder approval at the AGM;
202 Corporate Governance
   
Board evaluation and intends to appoint both Clare Brady and Blythe Masters to 
The Board conducts a self-assessment once a year, where it  the Audit Committee, subject to their election at the AGM. Clare 
reviews its own performance against the responsibilities listed  Brady is the former director of internal audit at the International 
in its charter and the Board’s objectives and determines future  Monetary Fund and vice president and auditor general of the 
objectives, including any special focus objectives for the coming  World Bank Group. She is currently a member of the Audit and 
year. The performance assessment of the Chairman is led by the  Risk Commission of the International Federation of Red Cross 
Vice-Chairman; the Chairman does not participate in the discus- and Red Crescent Societies, Switzerland, as well as a non-exec-
sion of his own performance. As part of the self-assessment,  utive member of the board of Fidelity Asian Values, PLC in the 
the Board evaluates its effectiveness with respect to a number  UK. Her long experience in audit, compliance and risk manage-
of different aspects, including board structure and composition,  ment at various banks and international financial institutions will 
communication and reporting, agenda setting and continuous  be an asset to the Board and her extensive expertise in the area 
improvement. From time to time, the Board may also mandate  of internal audit will be of particular benefit to the Audit Commit-
an external advisor to facilitate the evaluation process. In 2020,  tee. Blythe Masters is a former executive at JPMorgan Chase, 
the Board mandated an external firm, Boardroom Review Ltd., to  where she held various key roles over 27 years, including Chief 
perform a board effectiveness evaluation. Similar to the previous  Financial Officer of the Investment Bank, and Head of Global 
evaluation concluded in 2017, the 2020 effectiveness evaluation  Commodities, before joining Digital Asset Holdings, an enter-
included a comprehensive review of Board processes and docu- prise blockchain company, where she was CEO until 2018. She is 
mentation, interviews by the external assessor with the Chair- currently an industry partner at Motive Partners, where she also 
man, the individual Board members, the CEO and certain other  serves as CEO and board member of Motive Capital Corporation. 
Executive Board members, and the participation of the external  Motive Capital Corporation is a special purpose acquisition com-
assessor as an observer in Board and Board committee meet- pany (SPAC), a non-operating entity with the purpose of acquir-
ings. The results from the external board effectiveness evaluation  ing an existing, operational business. Once the acquisition has 
were presented and discussed at a Board meeting in early 2021  been completed, Blythe Masters will not serve as the CEO of the 
and addressed the Board’s leadership and contribution and the  acquired business. She holds several other board memberships, 
work of the Board. Specific topics reviewed included the Board’s  including board and audit committee chair at Phunware, an enter-
culture and current and future composition, priorities for the new  prise mobile platform, board member and audit committee chair 
Chairman of the Board, the Board’s shared strategic perspec- at GCM Grosvenor and board member at A.P. Møller-Maersk. Her 
tive, developing a longer-term agenda, visibility and understanding  experience as a financial services and technology executive, in 
of the rapidly changing global landscape of the financial services  particular, her expertise in corporate and investment banking and 
industry and the ESG agenda. The Board is targeting performing  her more recent experience within innovative financial technolo-
an external board effectiveness evaluation every three years. gies, will strengthen the Board’s expertise in the areas of innova-
tion and technology, as well as complement the Board’s collective 
Board changes  financial services industry experience. Of the current Board mem-
At the 2020 AGM, Richard Meddings was elected as a new  bers, Urs Rohner, Joaquin Ribeiro and John Tiner will not stand 
member of the Board and appointed by the Board as Chair of  for re-election at the AGM. The Board proposes that all other 
the Audit Committee and Board and Audit Committee member  current members of the Board be re-elected to the Board and 
Alexander Gut did not stand for reelection. At the 2021 AGM on  proposes Iris Bohnet, Christian Gellerstad, Michael Klein, Blythe 
April 30, 2021, the Board proposes António Horta-Osório, Clare  Masters and Kai S. Nargolwala as members of the Compensation 
Brady and Blythe Masters for election as new non-executive  Committee. Subject to their election at the AGM, the Board has 
Board members and António Horta-Osório for election as the  determined António Horta-Osório, Clare Brady and Blythe Mas-
new Chairman of the Board. The Board furthermore proposes  ters to be independent Board members, according to the Group’s 
Blythe Masters as a new Compensation Committee member  independence standards. 
Corporate Governance 203
   
Board activities
During 2020 and early 2021, the Board focused on a number of key areas, including but not limited to the activities described below. 
Specifically, the Board:
Strategy and  p oversaw the strategic initiatives to create a globally integrated Investment Bank, unify our Risk and Compliance functions, establish the 
organization SRI function, and merge the former Neue Aargauer Bank into Swiss Universal Bank
p held the annual two-day strategy workshop in a virtual format with the Executive Board
p conducted an in-depth review of the Group’s strategy and growth ambition for onshore China
p assessed opportunities to expand and strengthen our offerings in the area of private markets
p reviewed the Group’s global legal entity strategy with focus on the design and delivery of the set-up for our banking operations in the EU 
after the UK’s withdrawal
Board and  p nominated António Horta-Osório as the new Chairman for election at the 2021 AGM and successor to Urs Rohner
Executive  p nominated Clare Brady and Blythe Masters as new Board members for election at the 2021 AGM
Board  p appointed Richard Meddings and Christian Gellerstad as new Chairs of the Audit and Conduct and Financial Crime Control Committees 
s uccession
respectively, effective as of the 2020 AGM
p appointed Thomas Gottstein as CEO in February 2020, following the resignation of former CEO Tidjane Thiam, and appointed André 
Helfenstein as CEO of Swiss Universal Bank
COVID-19  p closely supervised the firm-wide business continuity management and crisis response measures put in place by the Executive Board due 
p andemic  to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020
response p established a tactical crisis committee as a sub-committee of the Board for the purpose of taking decisions on time-sensitive matters of 
risk, capital and liquidity management that arose in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic
p reviewed with management mid-year the key lessons learned from dealing with the crisis and proposals for enhancing certain areas
p received frequent status reports between meetings on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business
Financial  p reviewed and approved the Group’s financial and capital plans for 2021 and our medium-term financial ambitions as communicated at the 
management  Investor Update on December 15, 2020
and capital  p approved the 2021 share buyback program and reaffirmed the Group’s capital distribution policy
distribution
p received regular financial updates from the CFO on the Group’s financial performance and key ratios
Risk and  p reviewed and approved the Group’s strategic risk objectives and risk appetite for 2021
C  ompliance p monitored the execution of the integration of the risk and compliance functions to form a single Risk and Compliance function
p provided the annual attestation of the Internal Control System effectiveness, following a joint review by the Audit and Risk Committees
p authorized the tactical crisis sub-committee of the Board to closely oversee the resolution of issues in connection with Credit Suisse sup-
ply chain finance funds
Conduct and  p endorsed the new Credit Suisse Purpose Statement and cultural values “IMPACT” as announced in December 2020
culture p reviewed and approved a substantial update to the Group’s Code of Conduct, published in early 2021
p held dedicated session on diversity, equity and inclusion as part of the annual strategy workshop and endorsed Group commitments in 
this area
p received regular updates on conduct, ethics and key culture initiatives at every regular Board meeting, including the results of the global 
employee survey and impact of COVID-19 on key conduct risks
Sustainability p provided guidance on the design and monitored the implementation of the new SRI function
p appointed Iris Bohnet as Board Sustainability Leader and approved the establishment of a new Board level Sustainability Advisory Com-
mittee to include Board members, Executive Board members and external advisors
p reviewed divisional plans to expand ESG offerings and increase Group-wide ESG collaboration
Technology,  p reviewed plans to upgrade technology platforms and continue to invest in and deploy digital solutions across key businesses
digitalization  p received status reports from management on the development of technology and cyber risk as part of the regular COVID-19 pandemic 
and cyber-
reporting
security
p maintained Board-level focus on innovation and technology through the Board’s advisory Innovation and Technology Committee
Group  p held the annual board leadership event with Group and major subsidiary board members; a key focus topic was the changing regulatory 
governance  priorities and supervisory intensity in light of the COVID-19 crisis
and Board  p had an external board effectiveness review conducted in 2020 by a professional assessor, in line with the Board’s objective to conduct 
effectiveness
external assessments every three years
204 Corporate Governance
   
Board committees Governance and Nominations Committee 
The Governance and Nominations Committee consists of the 
The Board has five standing committees: the Governance and  Chairman, the Vice-Chair and the Chairs of the committees of 
Nominations Committee, the Audit Committee, the Compensation  the Board and other members appointed by the Board. It may 
Committee, the Conduct and Financial Crime Control Committee  include non-independent Board members; however, the majority 
and the Risk Committee. In addition, the Board has two advisory  of members must qualify as independent. Our Governance and 
committees, the Innovation and Technology Committee and the  Nominations Committee currently consists of six members. All 
new Sustainability Advisory Committee. Except for the Compen- of our Governance and Nominations Committee members are 
sation Committee members, who are elected by the shareholders  independent.
on an annual basis, the committee members are appointed by the 
Board for a term of one year. The Governance and Nominations Committee generally meets 
on a monthly basis and the meetings are usually attended by the 
At each Board meeting, the Chairs of the committees report to  CEO. It may also ask other members of management or special-
the Board about the activities of the respective committees. In  ists to attend a meeting.
addition, the minutes and documentation of the committee meet-
ings are accessible to all Board members. As part of its main duties and responsibilities, the Governance 
and Nominations Committee:
Each committee has its own charter, which has been approved by  p acts as counselor to the Chairman and supports him in the 
the Board. Each standing committee performs a self-assessment  preparation of the Board meetings;
once a year, where it reviews its own performance against the  p addresses the corporate governance issues affecting the 
responsibilities listed in its charter and the committee’s objectives  Group and develops and recommends to the Board corporate 
and determines any special focus objectives for the coming year. governance principles and such other corporate governance-
related documents as it deems appropriate for the Group;
In light of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Board furthermore estab- p reviews the independence of the Board members annu-
lished a sub-committee of the Board in 2020, the tactical crisis  ally and recommends its assessment to the Board for final 
committee, consisting of the Chairman and the Chairs of the Audit  determination;
and Risk Committees, for the purpose of taking decisions on  p is responsible for setting selection criteria for Board member-
behalf of the full Board on time-sensitive matters of risk, capital  ship, which shall reflect the requirements of applicable laws 
and liquidity management within the Board’s authority. The tactical  and regulations, and identifying, evaluating and nominating 
crisis committee was reactivated in 2021 with the same members  candidates for Board membership;
plus the Chair of the Conduct and Financial Crime Control Com- p guides the Board’s annual performance assessment of the 
mittee for the purposes of exercising close oversight and timely  Chairman, the CEO and the members of the Executive Board;
decision making with respect to the issues that arose in connec- p proposes to the Board the appointment, replacement or dis-
tion with Credit Suisse supply chain finance funds. missal of members of the Executive Board as well as other 
appointments requiring endorsement by the Board; and
Given the Group’s ambition to becoming a leader in sustainability  p reviews succession plans with the Chairman and the CEO 
in the financial industry and the establishment of SRI in 2020, the  relating to Executive Board positions and keeps informed on 
Board also decided to form the new Sustainability Advisory Com- other top management succession plans.
mittee in order to provide guidance and expertise with respect to 
the firm-wide ESG strategy and its execution.
Corporate Governance 205
   
Governance and Nominations Committee activities 
During 2020 and early 2021, the Governance and Nominations Committee focused on a number of key areas, including but not lim-
ited to the activities described below. Specifically, the Governance and Nominations Committee:
Chairman  p established a dedicated search committee to identify a suitable successor to Urs Rohner as Chairman of the Board, who is not 
succession standing for re-election at the 2021 AGM after having served on the Board for the maximum tenure of 12 years 
p conducted interviews with and assessed the qualifications of different candidates, based on key requirements regarding expertise, 
experience and personal characteristics
p recommended to the Board the nomination of António Horta-Osório, Group Chief Executive of Lloyds Banking Group and a highly 
recognized and well-respected leader in the financial services industry, for election at the 2021 AGM as the next Chairman of the 
Board
p supported the Chairman’s transition process during the first quarter of 2021 and up to the 2021 AGM
Board and  p led the assessment and selection of Clare Brady and Blythe Masters, the new Board member candidates proposed for election at 
Executive  the AGM on April 30, 2021
Board  p reviewed and endorsed board succession proposals for our major subsidiary boards, including the appointment of former Credit 
s uccession
Suisse executive Christoph Brunner as a non-executive director and audit committee chair of Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG, succeed-
ing Alexander Gut in this role, and the appointment of Morris Applewhite as an additional non-executive director at Credit Suisse 
Holdings (USA), Inc.
p recommended the appointment of Thomas Gottstein as CEO and successor to Tidjane Thiam, who resigned in February 2020, as well as 
the appointment of André Helfenstein as CEO of Swiss Universal Bank
p advised on the Executive Board role changes in connection with the organizational changes announced in July 2020 and recommended 
the appointments of Brian Chin as CEO of the Investment Bank, Lara Warner as CRCO and Lydie Hudson as CEO of SRI
p advised the CEO on other senior hires in 2020, including a new Global Head of Corporate Communications and deputy Global Head of 
Human Resources
Advice and  p provided advice and guidance to the CEO and the Executive Board with respect to the COVID-19 pandemic management, in particular 
guidance during the first months of 2020
p supported the Chairman in planning for the Board’s annual strategy workshop in 2020, which was focused on defining the Group’s 
future strategic priorities and the longer term implications of the COVID-19 pandemic for the financial services industry and society at 
large
p provided guidance for the annual performance assessments of the Chairman and the CEO
Corporate  p reviewed and endorsed an enhanced governance approach for the APAC division, including closer involvement in the oversight of 
governance APAC’s strategy by select Board members and the establishment of a dedicated APAC China committee, chaired by Shan Li, to 
oversee the execution of the APAC division’s strategic plans in China
p advised on and supported the creation of the new Sustainability Advisory Committee at Board level
p prepared the annual independence assessment of the Board members and recommended its approval by the Board
p continued to monitor developments and engage with FINMA on the enforcement proceedings opened by FINMA in September of 
2020 in the context of the “observation activities” that occurred in 2019
Audit Committee Pursuant to its charter, the Audit Committee holds meetings at 
The Audit Committee consists of at least three members, all of  least once each quarter, prior to the publication of our con-
whom must be independent. The Chair of the Risk Committee is  solidated financial statements. Typically, the Audit Committee 
generally appointed as one of the members of the Audit Commit- convenes for a number of additional meetings and workshops 
tee. Our Audit Committee currently consists of five members, all  throughout the year. The meetings are attended by management 
of whom are independent. representatives, as appropriate, the Head of Internal Audit and 
senior representatives of the external auditor. A private session 
The Audit Committee charter stipulates that all Audit Commit- with Internal Audit and the external auditors is regularly scheduled 
tee members must be financially literate. In addition, they may not  to provide them with an opportunity to discuss issues with the 
serve on the Audit Committee of more than two other companies,  Audit Committee without management being present. The Head 
unless the Board deems that such membership would not impair  of Internal Audit reports directly to the Audit Committee Chair.
their ability to serve on our Audit Committee.
As part of its main duties and responsibilities, the Audit Committee:
Furthermore, the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)  p monitors and assesses the overall integrity of the financial 
requires disclosure about whether a member of the Audit Com- statements as well as disclosures of the financial condition, 
mittee is an audit committee financial expert within the meaning  results of operations and cash flows;
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Board has determined  p monitors the adequacy of the financial accounting and report-
that Richard Meddings is an audit committee financial expert. ing processes and the effectiveness of internal controls over 
financial reporting;
206 Corporate Governance
   
p monitors processes designed to ensure compliance by the  The Audit Committee is regularly informed about significant proj-
Group in all significant respects with legal and regulatory  ects and initiatives aimed at further improving processes and 
requirements, including disclosure controls and procedures; receives regular updates on significant legal, compliance, disciplin-
p monitors the adequacy of the management of non-financial  ary, tax and regulatory matters. Furthermore, the Audit Committee 
risks jointly with the Risk Committee, including the assessment  has established procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment 
of the effectiveness of internal controls that go beyond the  of complaints of a significant nature regarding accounting, internal 
area of financial reporting; accounting controls, auditing or other matters alleging potential 
p reviews jointly with the Conduct and Financial Crime Control  misconduct, including a whistleblower hotline to provide the option 
Committee any significant matters related to compliance and con- to report complaints on a confidential, anonymous basis.
duct for which a joint review is determined to be appropriate; and
p monitors the qualifications, independence and performance of 
the external auditors and of Internal Audit.
Audit Committee activities
During 2020 and early 2021, the Audit Committee focused on a number of key areas, including but not limited to the activities 
described below. Specifically, the Audit Committee:
Quarterly  p performed its regular review of the quarterly and annual financial results and related accounting, reporting and internal control and 
and annual  disclosure matters, as well as matters of significant judgment
financial  p held specific reviews on certain accounting and reporting matters of particular relevance in 2020 and early 2021, such as the 
reporting
Group’s restructuring and the related goodwill assessment, the reporting and disclosure following the new organizational structure 
and the respective restatement of prior periods, the impairment to the valuation of the Group’s non-controlling interest in York Capi-
tal Management and, as announced on January 8, 2021, the increase of litigation provisions mainly in connection with mortgage-
related matters
p held regular reviews of the Bank parent company financial statements, with a particular focus on capital, the financial performance 
and legal entity governance, including the review of capital distribution and the net funding position
p assumed, jointly with the Risk Committee, oversight on the newly implemented US GAAP accounting standard for current expected 
credit losses (CECL), which became effective on January 1, 2020. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the related market volatility, 
heightened oversight was required, with a particular focus on the quarterly credit provisioning, as well as the related governance and 
quality assurance processes
p held various educational sessions (some jointly with the Risk Committee) on selected topics, such as the Fundamental Review of 
Trading Book (FRTB), structured notes, securitized products, pension risk and hedging
Internal and  p received regular updates from the Head of Internal Audit on key audit findings and held a dedicated workshop with the Internal Audit 
external audit senior leadership team about their risk assessments for the organization, emerging risk and control themes, and audit planning and 
methodology, as well as on organizational matters of the Internal Audit function, such as talent and succession planning
p closely monitored the transition from KPMG to PwC and provided guidance to PwC in their first year as the Group’s new external 
auditor, including holding various private sessions and frequent dialogue with the senior audit partners
Legal,  p received updates from the General Counsel at every meeting on significant litigation, regulatory enforcement and tax matters, as 
regulatory  well as regular reports on key regulatory developments and interactions with our main regulators
compliance  p maintained a focus on compliance topics through briefings at every regular meeting by the Deputy Chief Compliance Officer on key 
and conduct 
matters compliance risks and associated internal controls as well as through the quarterly Compliance Risk Report
p reviewed the Group’s whistleblowing processes and governance, as well as select cases and their resolution
p received, jointly with the Conduct and Financial Crime Control Committee, updates on significant matters related to compliance and 
conduct, with a particular focus on the oversight of key programs enhancing the Group’s financial crime compliance framework to 
meet US and Swiss regulatory expectations
p reviewed, jointly with the Risk Committee, the annual assessment of the effectiveness of the internal control system and recom-
mended approval by the Board of the adequacy of the internal control system, according to the requirements of FINMA
Infrastructure  p conducted in-depth reviews of the payments processes and systems landscape, including the application simplification program, the 
and key  application of robotics, as well as the governance framework and checks and balances
change  p held a comprehensive session on IT system architecture, focusing on the complexity of the IT environment, the associated risk pro-
programs
file, end-of-life management, architecture simplification and platform strategy, and the maintenance of the overall stability and secu-
rity levels of the IT environment
p received updates on the Group’s global legal entity strategy and strategy to optimize the legal entity structure following agreed 
design principles, the global booking model, and both global and local legal and regulatory requirements
p reviewed, jointly with the Risk Committee, the Group’s key change programs, the Group’s data management framework and the 
related regulatory interactions and feedback, as well as the Group’s third-party risk management framework, including an over-
view of external third-party relationships, the respective risk profile and regulatory requirements and the related risk assessment 
processes
Corporate Governance 207
   
Internal Audit Compensation Committee
Our Internal Audit function comprises a team of around 400  The Compensation Committee consists of at least three members 
professionals, substantially all of whom are directly involved in  of the Board, all of whom must be independent. Our Compen-
auditing activities. The Head of Internal Audit reports directly to  sation Committee currently consists of four members. All of our 
the Audit Committee Chair and the Audit Committee directs and  Compensation Committee members are independent.
oversees the activities of the Internal Audit function.
Pursuant to its charter, the Compensation Committee holds at 
Internal Audit performs an independent and objective assurance  least four meetings per year. Additional meetings may be sched-
function that is designed to add value to our operations. Using a  uled at any time. The meetings are attended by management rep-
systematic and disciplined approach, the Internal Audit team eval- resentatives, as appropriate.
uates and enhances the effectiveness of our risk management, 
control and governance processes. As part of its main duties and responsibilities, the Compensation 
Committee:
Internal Audit is responsible for carrying out periodic audits in line  p reviews the Group’s compensation policy;
with the Internal Audit Charter, which is approved by the Audit  p establishes new compensation plans or amending existing 
Committee and available publicly. It regularly and independently  plans and recommends them to the Board for approval;
assesses the risk exposure of our various business activities,  p reviews the performance of the Group and the divisions and 
taking into account industry trends, strategic and organizational  recommends the variable compensation pools for the Group 
decisions, best practice and regulatory matters. Based on the  and the divisions to the Board for approval;
results of its assessment, Internal Audit develops detailed annual  p proposes individual compensation for the Board members to 
audit objectives, defining key risk themes and specifying resource  the Board;
requirements for approval by the Audit Committee. p discusses and recommends to the Board a proposal for the 
CEO’s compensation;
As part of its efforts to achieve best practice, Internal Audit regu- p discusses and recommends to the Board the Executive Board 
larly benchmarks its methods and tools against those of its peers.  members’ compensation based on proposals by the CEO;
In addition, it submits periodic internal reports and summaries  p reviews and recommends to the Board the compensation for 
thereof to the management teams as well as the Chairman and  individuals being considered for an Executive Board position; 
the Audit Committee Chair. The Head of Internal Audit reports  and
to the Audit Committee at least quarterly and more frequently  p reviews and endorses the annual compensation report submit-
as appropriate. Internal Audit coordinates its operations with the  ted for a consultative vote by shareholders at the AGM.
activities of the external auditor for maximum effect.
In accordance with the Compensation Ordinance, all compensa-
The Audit Committee annually assesses the performance and  tion proposals for members of the Board and the Executive Board 
effectiveness of the Internal Audit function. For 2020, the Audit  are subject to AGM approval.
Committee concluded that the Internal Audit function was effec-
tive and independent, with the appropriate resources to deliver  The Compensation Committee is authorized to retain outside 
against the Internal Audit Charter. advisors, at the Group’s expense, for the purpose of providing 
guidance to the Compensation Committee as it carries out its 
External Audit responsibilities. Prior to their appointment, the Compensation 
The Audit Committee is responsible for the oversight of the  Committee conducts an independence assessment of the advi-
external auditor. The external auditor reports directly to the Audit  sors pursuant to the rules of the SEC and the listing standards of 
Committee and the Board with respect to its audit of the Group’s  the NYSE and Nasdaq.
financial statements and is ultimately accountable to the share- > Refer to “The Compensation Committee” in V – Compensation – Compensa-
holders. The Audit Committee pre-approves the retention of,  tion governance for information on our compensation approach, principles and 
objectives and outside advisors.
and fees paid to, the external auditor for all audit and non-audit 
services.
> 
Refer to “External audit” in Additional information for further information.
208 Corporate Governance
   
Compensation Committee activities 
During 2020 and early 2021, the Compensation Committee focused on a number of key areas, including but not limited to the activi-
ties described below. Specifically, the Compensation Committee:
Executive  p reviewed and recommended approval by the Board for the Executive Board variable compensation for 2020, including an assess-
Board and  ment of the non-financial performance of the CEO and individual Executive Board members according to the pre-defined non-finan-
Board 
cial categories of strategy/client focus, risk and compliance, conduct and ethics, and people
compens ation
p conducted a comprehensive review and partial redesign of the Executive Board compensation structure for 2021, following the CEO 
change in the first quarter of 2020, including holding two dedicated workshops with senior management and the independent com-
pensation advisor, and approved several changes with respect to the STI and LTI award plans
p reviewed and recommended the performance metrics and targets for the 2021 STI and LTI awards, reflecting the Group’s strategy 
and financial goals for 2021, as well as non-financial metrics
p reviewed and recommended approval by the Board of the compensation arrangements for the incoming and outgoing Executive 
Board members during 2020, including for the Group CEO
p reviewed and recommended approval by the Board of the compensation arrangements for the designated Chairman
Shareholder  p continued to engage extensively with shareholders and proxy advisors on compensation, including holding numerous meetings with 
engagement  shareholders involving the Compensation Committee Chair, the Global Head of Human Resources and, in part, the Chairman; feed-
and Say-on-
back and key issues resulting from these meetings were addressed regularly by the full committee
Pay
p acknowledged the solid shareholder support of 85% or above for the binding compensation proposals for the Board and the Execu-
tive Board at the 2020 AGM and 79% for the non-binding proposal on the Compensation Report and reviewed and discussed inves-
tor comments and proxy advisor analysis and recommendations in the lead up to the Say-on-Pay votes at the AGM
Group  p assessed the Group’s performance and determined the variable compensation pools for 2020, taking into account the Group’s 
compens ation financial performance, in terms of both the reported and underlying financial results for 2020, input from the Group’s risk and control 
functions, including the Conduct and Ethics boards, as well as the economic environment in light of the COVID-19 pandemic
p conducted the annual review of the Group’s compensation framework and determined that it remains fit for purpose and aligned with 
our compensation objectives overall
p reviewed the proposed variable compensation amounts for specific groups of employees, in line with regulatory guidance and the 
Group’s Compensation Policy, including any disciplinary issues and points of positive recognition
p conducted the annual review of the disciplinary process, including the number and type of disciplinary cases and their impact on 
compensation, and constructively challenged management on the rationale for select cases
p approved the application of malus for certain employees upon the recommendation of the Group Conduct and Ethics Board
p reviewed and approved the 2021 edition of the Group’s Compensation Policy and Implementation Standards and continued to focus 
on ensuring comprehensive and transparent disclosure in the Group’s compensation report
p reviewed equal pay and gender pay practices at Credit Suisse
Regulatory  p received and assessed periodic reports on industry and regulatory developments, including executive pay trends, competitor prac-
and industry  tices, key corporate governance developments and regulatory themes with implications for compensation
developments p closely monitored compensation-related impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, including peer company actions with respect to execu-
tive compensation and the wider workforce, and endorsed the Group’s employee charitable donation program, including the donation 
commitments of the Executive Board members and the Chairman
Conduct and Financial Crime Control Committee representatives and representatives of Internal Audit and the 
The Conduct and Financial Crime Control Committee reflects  Group’s external auditors, as appropriate.
the Group’s priority to rigorously address financial crime risk and 
ensure that the highest standards of conduct and vigilance are  The Conduct and Financial Crime Control Committee assists the 
maintained throughout the Group. The Conduct and Financial  Board in fulfilling its oversight duties with respect to the Group’s 
Crime Control Committee consists of at least three members. It  exposure to financial crime risk. It is tasked with monitoring and 
may include non-independent members; however, the majority  assessing the effectiveness of financial crime compliance pro-
of members must qualify as independent. The Audit Commit- grams and initiatives focused on improving conduct and vigilance 
tee Chair is generally appointed as one of the members of the  within the context of combatting financial crime.
Conduct and Financial Crime Control Committee. The Conduct 
and Financial Crime Control Committee currently consists of five  As part of its main duties and responsibilities, the Conduct and 
members, all of whom are independent. Financial Crime Control Committee:
p reviews and assesses the Group’s overall compliance frame-
Pursuant to its charter, the Conduct and Financial Crime Control  work for addressing financial crime risk, including policies, pro-
Committee holds at least four meetings a year. The Conduct and  cedures and organizational set-up;
Financial Crime Control Committee may convene for additional  p monitors and assesses the effectiveness of financial crime 
meetings throughout the year in order to appropriately discharge  compliance programs, including those with respect to the fol-
its responsibilities. The meetings are attended by management  lowing areas: anti-money laundering, client identification and 
Corporate Governance 209
   
know-your-client procedures, client on and off boarding, politi- p receives regular updates by management on regulatory, leg-
cally exposed persons, economic and trade sanctions, anti- islative and industry specific developments with respect to the 
bribery, anti-corruption and client tax compliance; areas specified above;
p reviews the status of the relevant policies and procedures and  p reviews jointly with the Audit Committee and/or Risk Commit-
the implementation of significant initiatives focused on improving  tee any matters for which a joint review is determined to be 
conduct and vigilance within the context of combatting financial  appropriate, including the annual compliance risk assessment 
crime, including employee awareness and training programs; and the Group’s framework for addressing conduct risk; and
p reviews and monitors investigations into allegations of financial  p provides support to the Compensation Committee and advice, 
crime or other reports of misconduct pertaining to the areas  as relevant and appropriate, with respect to the areas specified 
specified above; above as part of the Group’s compensation process.
p reviews with management, Internal Audit and the external audi-
tors audit findings and recommendations with respect to the 
areas specified above, including annual regulatory audit reports;
Conduct and Financial Crime Control Committee activities
During 2020 and early 2021, the Conduct and Financial Crime Control Committee focused on a number of key areas, including but 
not limited to the activities described below. Specifically, the Conduct and Financial Crime Control Committee:
Financial  p comprehensively reviewed the Group’s global Financial Crime Compliance program, covering all key components necessary to effectively 
Crime  manage financial crime risk through the client lifecycle
Compliance  p received regular updates from management at every meeting on financial crime compliance developments and key metrics, including 
effectiveness
metrics focused on anti-money laundering, sanctions and anti-bribery and corruption compliance
p conducted focused sessions on specific financial crime compliance processes, including client tax compliance and sanctions compliance, 
also in view of developments related to Hong Kong and China
p received updates at least quarterly from Internal Audit on financial crime compliance related findings in Internal Audit reports and 
reviewed the results of the anti-money laundering regulatory audits with KPMG in early 2020 as part of the 2019 regulatory audit
Regulatory  p continued to receive regular progress reports in connection with the FINMA enforcement decrees from September 2018, which man-
driven  dated further improvements in anti-money laundering processes, and the findings from a special independent audit
enhancement  p reviewed the implications of the enforcement action of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY) and the New York Department 
programs
of Financial Services issued in November 2020 regarding ongoing efforts to enhance financial crime compliance in our US operations, 
together with senior management from the Investment Bank division and Credit Suisse Holdings (USA), Inc.
p reviewed progress on a comprehensive program in APAC focused on upgrading client lifecycle processes in Wealth Management
p engaged in dialogue with senior representatives of FINMA and the FRBNY on significant matters of financial crime compliance at Credit 
Suisse
Conduct and  p conducted dedicated review sessions on material conduct matters, which occurred during the year, and discussed lessons learned and 
investigations the respective action plans together with the responsible senior management
p received regular reports at every meeting on the status and findings of global investigations into financial crime compliance matters, as 
well as an overview of conduct related investigations
Financial  p assessed the financial crime compliance organizational and governance changes following the integration of the Risk and Compliance 
Crime  functions in mid-year 2020, including the establishment of a Global Financial Crime Risk Oversight Committee at management level
Compliance  p held several joint sessions with the Audit Committee, including joint reviews of the key regulatory enhancement programs described 
governance
above
210 Corporate Governance
   
Risk Committee p reviews and assesses the business continuity management, 
The Risk Committee consists of at least three members. It may  risk measurement and management with respect to the inter-
include non-independent members. The Chair of the Audit Com- nal control system, and annually the firm-wide risk manage-
mittee is generally appointed as one of the members of the Risk  ment framework; and
Committee. Our Risk Committee currently consists of six mem- p reviews, jointly with the Audit Committee, the annual assess-
bers, all of whom are independent. ment of the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal con-
trol system, the status of major infrastructure and committed 
Pursuant to its charter, the Risk Committee holds at least four  change programs, as well as the control functions’ input into 
meetings a year. In addition, the Risk Committee usually con- remuneration.
venes for additional meetings throughout the year in order to 
appropriately discharge its responsibilities. The meetings are  The Risk Committee is regularly informed about the risk profile 
attended by management representatives, as appropriate. of the Group, including major risk topics and key initiatives aimed 
at responding to regulatory change and further improving risk 
The Risk Committee is responsible for assisting the Board in  management across the Group. In addition, the Risk Commit-
fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by periodically reviewing the  tee mandates the Credit Risk Review function to independently 
Group’s risk management function, its resources and key risks. assess Credit Suisse’s credit risk management practices, identify 
issues impacting the quality of credit risk management and report 
As part of its main duties and responsibilities, the Risk  its findings to the Risk Committee.
Committee:
p reviews and assesses the integrity and adequacy of the risk  The Risk Committee furthermore looks to ensure that key risk 
management function of the Group including risk measure- developments are addressed appropriately, such as the evolv-
ment approaches; ing cyber risk landscape. Senior management, the Board and 
p reviews and calibrates risk appetite at the Group level and at  the Risk Committee are actively engaged and regularly informed 
the level of key businesses, considering capital, liquidity, fund- on the extent of the threats and mitigations in place to manage 
ing, credit, market, model, and climate risks, illiquid investment  cyber incidents. Related business continuity and response plans 
activities, and jointly with the Audit Committee, significant mat- are tested and simulations are conducted up to the Executive 
ters of non-financial risk as appropriate; Board and Board level. Significant incidents are escalated to the 
p reviews and calibrates major risk concentrations; Risk Committee together with key findings and mitigating actions. 
p approves the list of countries to be monitored with internal  The close monitoring of and quick response to cyber threats 
country limits and proposes the country limits allocated to such  have been of particular importance during the COVID-19 crisis, 
countries to the Board; which has generally seen an elevated level of cyber threats in the 
industry.
Corporate Governance 211
   
Risk Committee activities 
During 2020 and early 2021, the Risk Committee focused on a number of key areas, including but not limited to the activities 
described below. Specifically, the Risk Committee:
COVID-19  p actively engaged with management throughout the year to closely monitor and address the changing risk landscape due to the 
pandemic  COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting market volatility observed in the first half of 2020, including the review and approval of risk 
m  anagement
appetite adjustments and monitoring of the implementation of lessons learned from the crisis
p focused, together with management, on actions taken to address liquidity management issues that arose in March 2020 in connec-
tion with the initial market reactions to the COVID-19 pandemic
p reviewed regular crisis management reporting from management with particular focus on the development of the lending portfolio, 
as well as an assessment of the COVID-19 impact on regulatory activities
Risk appetite  p reviewed and endorsed the revised risk appetite framework, the Group’s strategic risk objectives and the risk appetite statements for 
and risk  2021
management  p reviewed and endorsed a revised and enhanced country risk framework, which moves Credit Suisse toward industry best practice 
frameworks
based on feedback from consulting firms; the holistic framework spans across both developed and emerging markets and is based 
on risk-sensitive stress metrics that cover market and credit risk position taking
p maintained its focus on supporting the Board in reviewing strategically important topics, including adequacy of capital, liquidity and 
funding and the allocation of capital to Group businesses and major subsidiaries
Infrastructure  p reviewed progress on the integration of the Risk and Compliance functions, including the new organizational structure, regulatory 
and key  interaction during the transition to a unified Risk and Compliance function, and key risks and dependencies
change  p received regular updates on key change programs in line with regulatory expectations, some jointly with the Audit Committee, includ-
programs
ing the global booking model and the legal entity strategy, addressing also the EU target setup and programs focused on enhancing 
data management and governance 
p monitored progress on the Group’s interbank offered rate (IBOR) transition program, an effort to coordinate transition readiness on 
a group-wide basis for the expected replacement of certain IBOR benchmarks, which included updates on key transition risks and 
transition scenario analysis
p reviewed, jointly with the Audit Committee, risks related to data management, IT and outsourcing
p reviewed, jointly with the Innovation and Technology Committee, risks related to IT security, data protection and cyber risk
Risk  p monitored the implementation of risk governance enhancements that improved the review, approval and escalation of risk matters
m  onitoring p monitored aspects of the Group’s risk management framework, for example, with respect to model risk, share backed lending, 
liquidity risk, stress testing and the internal control framework
p reviewed implications of Basel III reforms as part of the Group Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process review and the 
update of the FRTB
p conducted focused credit risk reviews for a number of risk concentrations, addressing collateral, emerging market countries or single 
name concentrations
p regularly monitored the risk profile and risk appetite for various businesses, including the corporate bank, hedge funds, financial 
sponsors, leveraged finance, capital markets, International Wealth Management ship finance, Global Trading Solutions, various 
Swiss Universal Bank businesses and the Corporate Center, with focus on the Asset Resolution Unit
p reviewed, jointly with the Audit Committee, risks related to pension, hedging, CECL and conduct risk
Climate and  p reviewed the Group’s policy and position with respect to reputational risk and sustainability, with particular focus on existing reputa-
sustainability  tional risk process challenges and key developments related to sustainability, such as the TCFD recommendations
risk p received a comprehensive briefing on the progress of our climate risk strategy, which, among other aspects, covered key external 
developments with respect to the management of climate risk at banks, as well as internal progress on the development of energy 
transition frameworks for the Group’s corporate clients in industries impacted most by climate change, and on our existing commit-
ments, such as the restriction of certain business activities in climate-polluting sectors
212 Corporate Governance
   
Innovation and Technology Committee  Sustainability Advisory Committee
The Board established an Innovation and Technology Committee  At the Investor Update on December 15, 2020, the Group 
as an interdisciplinary advisory group in 2015. The group acts as  announced its intention to establish a Sustainability Advisory 
a senior platform to discuss internal progress in relation to innova- Committee at the Board level. In February 2021, the Board 
tion and technology initiatives, as well as relevant industry-wide  approved the set-up and constitution of the new committee, 
technology trends. The Innovation and Technology Committee  which will be chaired by Board Sustainability Leader Iris Bohnet 
is chaired by Claude Honegger, senior technology manager at  and consist of at least two other Board members, three Execu-
Credit Suisse and Head of Innovation and Technology Transfor- tive Board members and external advisors. From the Board and 
mation. Mr. Honegger assumed the role of committee Chair in  Executive Board, the committee members are Urs Rohner, Rich-
2020 from former Group Board member and senior technology  ard Meddings, Thomas Gottstein, Lydie Hudson and Lara War-
advisor Sebastian Thrun, who chaired the committee since its  ner. Subject to his election at the 2021 AGM, the new Chairman, 
inception and remains a committee member. Participants in the  António Horta-Osório, will become a member of the Sustainability 
Innovation and Technology Committee include Board members,  Advisory Committee. The process to select and appoint suitable 
the Group Chief Operating Officer (COO), other members of  external advisors is in progress. The Sustainability Advisory Com-
management, internal technology experts and a senior cyberse- mittee will assist the Board, in an advisory capacity, in fulfilling 
curity advisor. The Innovation and Technology Committee typi- its oversight duties in respect of the development and execution 
cally holds three to four meetings a year. In 2020, the Innova- of the Group’s sustainability strategy and targets, and monitor-
tion and Technology Committee held three meetings. Committee  ing and assessing the effectiveness of the respective sustain-
activities included a review of the COO organization’s response  ability programs and initiatives. Responsibilities include endorsing 
to the COVID-19 pandemic, digitalization opportunities in Wealth  the sustainability strategy and ambitions and ensuring actions are 
Management in general and progress on digital offerings in the  being taken to accomplish them, advising on sustainability metrics 
Swiss Universal Bank division and a comprehensive update on the  and tracking and monitoring progress, and bringing in external 
digital transformation of the Risk and Compliance function and a  expertise, so as to provide a critical outside view across a variety 
review and assessment of the Group’s IT security, data protection  of sustainability topics.
and cyber risk management capabilities, which was conducted 
jointly with the Risk Committee.
Corporate Governance 213
   
Biographies of the Board
Urs Rohner Iris Bohnet
Born 1959 Born 1966
Swiss Citizen Swiss Citizen
Board member since 2009 Board member since 2012
Chairman of the Board
Professional history Professional history
2004–present  Credit Suisse 2012–present  Credit Suisse
  Chairman of the Board and the Governance and Nominations    Member of the Compensation Committee (2012–present)
Committee (2011–present)   Chair of the Sustainability Advisory Committee (2021–present)
  Member of the Conduct and Financial Crime Control    Member of the Innovation and Technology Committee 
Committee (2020–present), Chair (2019 – 2020) (2015–present)
  Member of the Innovation and Technology Committee  1998–present  Harvard Kennedy School
(2015–present)
  Academic Dean (2018–present, 2010 – 2014)
  Member of the board of Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG  
(Swiss subsidiary) (2015–present)   Albert Pratt Professor of Business and Government 
(2018–present)
  Vice-Chair of the Board and member of the Governance and 
Nominations Committee (2009 – 2011)   Director of the Women and Public Policy Program 
(2008–present)
  Member of the Risk Committee (2009 – 2011)
  Professor of public policy (2006 – 2018)
  Chief Operating Officer (2006 – 2009)
  Associate professor of public policy (2003 – 2006)
  General Counsel (2004 – 2009)
  Assistant professor of public policy (1998 – 2003)
  Member of the Executive Board (2004 – 2009)
1997 – 1998  Haas School of Business, University of California at Berkeley, 
2000 – 2004  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG,   visiting scholar
Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO
1983 – 1999  Lenz & Staehelin Education
  Partner (1992 – 1999) 1997  Doctorate in Economics, University of Zurich, Switzerland
  Attorney (1983 – 1988; 1990 – 1992) 1992  Master’s degree in Economic History, Economics and  
Political Science, University of Zurich, Switzerland
1988 – 1989  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, New York, attorney
Other activities and functions
Education
Publicis Groupe Diversity Progress Council, member
1990  Admission to the bar of the State of New York
Economic Dividends for Gender Equality (EDGE), advisory board member
1986  Admission to the bar of the Canton of Zurich
We shape tech, advisory board member
1983  Master in Law (lic.iur.), University of Zurich, Switzerland
Women in Banking and Finance, patron
Other activities and functions UK Government Equalities Office/BIT, advisor
GlaxoSmithKline plc, board member Take The Lead Women, advisor
Swiss Bankers Association, vice-chairman1
Swiss Finance Council, board member1
Institute of International Finance, board member1
European Banking Group, member1
European Financial Services Round Table, member1
University of Zurich Department of Economics, advisory board member
Lucerne Festival, board of trustees member
1 Mr. Rohner performs functions in these organizations in his capacity as Chairman of the 
Group.
214 Corporate Governance
   
Christian Gellerstad Andreas Gottschling
Born 1968 Born 1967
Swiss and Swedish Citizen German Citizen
Board member since 2019 Board member since 2017
Professional history Professional history
2019–present  Credit Suisse 2017–present  Credit Suisse
  Chair of the Conduct and Financial Crime Control Committee    Chair of the Risk Committee (2018–present)
(2020–present)   Member of the Governance and Nominations Committee 
  Member of the Governance and Nominations Committee  (2018–present)
(2020–present)   Member of the Audit Committee (2018–present)
  Member of the Compensation Committee (2019–present)   Member of the Risk Committee (2017–present)
  Member of the Conduct and Financial Crime Control    Member of the board of Credit Suisse International and 
Committee (2019–present) Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited (UK subsidiaries) 
1994 – 2018  Pictet Group (2018–present)
  CEO, Pictet Wealth Management (2007 – 2018) 2013 – 2016  Erste Group Bank, Vienna,  
  Executive Committee Member, Banque Pictet & Cie SA,  Chief Risk Officer and Member of the Management Board
Geneva (2013 – 2018) 2012 – 2013  McKinsey and Company, Zurich, Senior Advisor Risk Practice
  Equity Partner, Pictet Group (2006 – 2018) 2005 – 2012  Deutsche Bank, London, Frankfurt and Zurich
  CEO and Managing Director Banque Pictet & Cie (Europe)    Member of the Risk Executive Committee & Divisional Board 
S.A., Luxembourg (2000 – 2007) (2005 – 2012)
  Deputy CEO and Senior Vice President, Pictet Bank & Trust    Global Head Operational Risk (2006 – 2010)
Ltd., Bahamas (1996 – 2000)   Global Head of Risk Analytics and Instruments (2005 – 2011)
  Financial Analyst & Portfolio Manager, Pictet & Cie, Geneva  2003 – 2005  LGT Capital Management, Switzerland,  
(1994 – 1996) Head of Quant Research
Before 1994  Cargill International, Emerging Markets Trader 2000 – 2003  Euroquants, Germany, Consultant
Education 1997 – 2000  Deutsche Bank, Frankfurt, Head of Quantitative Analysis
2019  Board Director Diploma, International Institute for Management  Education
Development (IMD), Switzerland
1997  Doctorate in Economics, University of California,  
1996  Certified International Investment Analyst (CIIA) and Certified  San Diego, USA
Portfolio Manager and Financial Analyst (AZEK)
1991  Postgraduate Studies in Physics, Mathematics and Economics, 
1993  Master in Business Administration and Economics, University of  Harvard University, Cambridge, US
St. Gallen (HSG), Switzerland
1990  Degrees in Mathematics and Economics,  
Other activities and functions University of Freiburg, Germany
Elatior SA, chairman Other activities and functions
Nubica SA, board member Deutsche Börse AG, supervisory board member
Taurus Group SA, board member
FAVI SA, board member
AFICA SA, board member
Tsampéhro SA, board member
Corporate Governance 215
   
Michael Klein Shan Li
Born 1963 Born 1963
US Citizen Chinese Citizen
Board member since 2018 Board member since 2019
Professional history Professional history
2018–present  Credit Suisse 2019–present  Credit Suisse
  Member of the Compensation Committee (2019–present)   Member of the Risk Committee (2019–present)
  Member of the Risk Committee (2018–present) 2015–present  Silk Road Finance Corporation Limited, Hong Kong, CEO
2010–present  M Klein & Company, Managing Partner 2010–present  Chinastone Capital Management Limited, Shanghai,  
1985 – 2008  Citigroup chairman and CEO
  Vice Chairman 2005–present  San Shan Capital Partners, Hong Kong, Founding partner
  Chairman Institutional Clients Group 1998–present  Fang Holdings Limited, Co-founder
  Chairman & Co-CEO Markets & Banking 2013 – 2015  China Development Bank, Beijing, Chief International Business 
advisor
  Co-President Markets & Banking
2010 – 2011  UBS Asia Investment Bank, Hong Kong, vice chairman
  CEO Global Banking
2001 – 2005  Bank of China International Holdings, Hong Kong, CEO
  CEO Markets and Banking EMEA
1999 – 2001  Lehman Brothers Asia, Hong Kong, Head of China  
  Various senior management positions Investment Banking
Education 1998 – 1999  China Development Bank, Beijing, Deputy Head of Investment 
1985  Bachelors of Science in Economics (Finance and Accounting),  Bank Preparation Leading Group
The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania 1993 – 1998  Goldman Sachs
Other activities and functions   Executive Director, Goldman Sachs International, London 
(1997 – 1998)
MultiPlan, board member
  Executive Director, Goldman Sachs (Asia), Hong Kong 
Churchill Capital Corp. II, IV, V, VI, VII, board member (1995 – 1997)
TBG Europe NV, board member   International Economist, Goldman Sachs & Co., New York 
edX, board member (1993 – 1995)
Chatham House, senior advisor 1993  Credit Suisse First Boston, New York, Associate
Harvard Global Advisory Board, member Education
Investments Committee & Joint Staff Pension Fund, United Nations,   1994  PhD in Economics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
advisory board member (MIT)
Peterson Institute for International Economics, board member 1988  MA in Economics, University of California, Davis
The World Food Programme, investment advisory board member 1986  BS in Management Information Systems, Tsinghua University, 
Conservation International, board member Beijing
Horace Mann School, board of trustees member Other activities and functions
Beijing International Wealth Management Institute, Chairman
CMMB Vision Holdings Ltd, board member
Chinese Financial Association of Hong Kong, vice chairman
Bauhinia Party, co-founder
13th National Committee of the Chinese People‘s Political Consultative 
Conference (CPPCC), member
MIT Economics Visiting Committee, member
Silk Road Planning Research Center, vice chairman
Tsinghua Institute for Governance Studies, vice chairman
MIT Sloan Finance Advisory Board, member
National Center for Economics Research at Tsinghua University, deputy director
216 Corporate Governance
   
Seraina Macia Richard Meddings
Born 1968 Born 1958
Swiss, Australian and US  British Citizen
Citizen Board member since 2020
Board member since 2015
Professional history Professional history
2015–present  Credit Suisse 2020–present  Credit Suisse
  Member of the Risk Committee (2018–present)   Chair of the Audit Committee (2020–present)
  Member of the Audit Committee (2015 – 2018)   Member of the Governance and Nominations Committee 
2020–present  Joyn Insurance Services LLC (2020–present)
  CEO and co-founder   Member of the Conduct and Financial Crime Control 
Committee (2020–present)
2017 – 2020  Blackboard U.S. Holdings, Inc. (AIG Corporation)
  Member of the Risk Committee (2020–present)
  Executive vice president & CEO of Blackboard (AIG 
technology-focused subsidiary; formerly Hamilton USA) 2018–present  TSB Bank plc
2016 – 2017  Hamilton Insurance Group   Chairman
  CEO Hamilton USA   Interim executive chairman (2018-2019)
2013 – 2016  AIG Corporation 2017 – 2019  Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group Plc
  Executive vice-president and CEO Regional Management &    Non-executive director
Operations of AIG, New York (2015 – 2016)   Chair of the Remuneration Committee
  CEO and President of AIG EMEA, London (2013 – 2016)   Member of the Audit and Risk Committee
2010 – 2013  XL Insurance North America, chief executive 2015 – 2019  Deutsche Bank AG
2002 – 2010  Zurich Financial Services   Member of the Supervisory Board
  President Specialties Business Unit, Zurich North America    Chair of the Audit Committee, member of the Risk Committee 
Commercial, New York (2007 – 2010) and member of the Strategy Committee
  CFO Zurich North America Commercial, New York  2014 – 2017  Legal & General Group Plc
(2006 – 2007)   Non-executive director
  Various positions, among others: head of the joint investor    Chair of the Risk Committee
relations and rating agencies management departments; head 
of rating agencies management; senior investor relations officer    Member of the Audit and Remuneration Committee
(2002 – 2008) 2008 – 2014  3i Group Plc
2000 – 2002  NZB Neue Zuercher Bank,     Non-executive director and senior independent director
founding partner and financial analyst   Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee
1990 – 2000  Swiss Re 2002 – 2014  Standard Chartered Group plc
  Rating agency coordinator, Swiss Re Group (2000)   Group executive director
  Senior underwriter and deputy head of financial products,    Finance director (2006-2014)
Melbourne (1996 – 1999)
2000 – 2002  Barclays Plc
  Various senior underwriting and finance positions, Zurich 
(1990 – 1996)   Group financial controller
  COO of Wealth Management Division
Education
1999 – 2000  Woolwich Plc, Group Finance Director
2001  Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA), CFA Institute, US
Prior to 1999  BZW (CSFB) (1996-1999)
1999  MBA, Monash Mt Eliza Business School, Australia
  Hill Samuel Bank (1984-1996)
1997  Post-graduate certificate in Management, Deakin University, 
Australia   Price Waterhouse (1980-1984)
Other activities and functions Education
BanQu, chair 1983  UK Chartered Accountant, Institute of Chartered Accountants 
in England and Wales
CFA Institute, member
1980  MA Modern History, Exeter College, Oxford
Food Bank for New York City, chair
Other activities and functions
HM Treasury Board, non-executive director
Teach First, Director and member of the board of trustees
Hastings Educational Opportunity Area, chair
Corporate Governance 217
   
Kai S. Nargolwala Ana Paula Pessoa
Born 1950 Born 1967
Singaporean Citizen Brazilian Citizen
Board member since 2013 Board member since 2018
Professional history Professional history
2008–present  Credit Suisse 2018–present  Credit Suisse
  Member of the Conduct and Financial Crime Control    Member of the Conduct and Financial Crime Control 
Committee (2019–present) Committee (2019–present)
  Chair of the Compensation Committee (2017–present)   Member of the Audit Committee (2018–present)
  Member of the Governance and Nominations Committee    Member of the Innovation and Technology Committee 
(2017-present) (2018–present)
  Member of the Innovation and Technology Committee  2017–present  Kunumi AI, Partner, investor and chair
(2015–present) 2015 – 2017  Olympic & Paralympic Games 2016, CFO of  
  Member of the Compensation Committee (2014–present) Organising Committee
  Member of the Risk Committee (2013 – 2017) 2012 – 2015  Brunswick Group, Managing partner of Brazilian branch
  Non-executive chairman of Credit Suisse’s Asia-Pacific region  2001 – 2011  Infoglobo Newspaper Group, CFO and innovation director
(2010 – 2011) 1993 – 2001  Globo Organizations, senior management positions in several 
  Member of the Executive Board (2008 – 2010) media divisions
  CEO of Credit Suisse Asia Pacific region (2008 – 2010) Education
1998 – 2007  Standard Chartered plc, main board executive director 1991  MA, FRI (Development Economics), Stanford University, 
Prior to 1998  Bank of America California
  Group executive vice president and head of Asia Wholesale  1988  BA, Economics and International Relations, Stanford University, 
Banking group in Hong Kong (1990 – 1995) California
  Head of High Technology Industry group in San Francisco and  Other activities and functions
New York (1984 – 1990)
Cosan, board member
  Various management and other positions in the UK 
(1976 – 1984) Suzano Pulp and Paper, board member
  Peat Marwick Mitchell & Co., London, accountant  Vinci Group, board member
(1970 – 1976) News Corporation, board member
Education Global Advisory Council for Stanford University, member
1974  Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants (FCA),  Instituto Atlántico de Gobierno, advisory board member
England and Wales Fundação Roberto Marinho, member of the audit committee
1969  BA in Economics, University of Delhi
Other activities and functions
Prudential plc. / Prudential Corporation Asia Limited, non-executive director
PSA International Pte. Ltd. Singapore, non-executive director
Temasek International Pte. Ltd, Sustainable Finance Steering Committee, 
co-chair
Singapore Pools (Private) Limited, Deputy Chairman
Singapore Institute of Directors, Fellow
218 Corporate Governance
   
Joaquin J. Ribeiro Severin Schwan
Born 1956 Born 1967
US Citizen Austrian, German and Swiss 
Board member since 2016 Citizen
Board member since 2014
Vice-Chair of the Board 
Lead Independent Director
Professional history Professional history
2016–present  Credit Suisse 2014–present  Credit Suisse
  Member of the Audit Committee (2016–present)   Vice-Chair and Lead Independent Director (2017–present)
1997 – 2016  Deloitte LLP (USA)   Member of the Governance and Nominations Committee 
  Vice chairman (2010 – 2016) (2017–present)
  Chairman of Global Financial Services Industry practice    Member of the Risk Committee (2014–present)
(2010 – 2016)   Member of the board of Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG  
  Head of US Financial Services Industry practice (2003 – 2010) (Swiss subsidiary) (2015 – 2017)
  Head of Global Financial Services Industry practice in Asia  1993–present  Roche Group
(1997 – 2003)   CEO (2008–present)
  Head of South East Asian Corporate Restructuring practice    Member of the board of Roche Holding Ltd. (2013–present)
(1997 – 2000)   CEO Division Roche Diagnostics (2006 – 2008)
2005 – 2010  World Economic Forum, senior advisor to Finance Governor’s    Head Asia Pacific Region, Roche Diagnostics Singapore 
Committee (2004 – 2006)
Education   Head Global Finance & Services, Roche Diagnostics Basel 
1996  Executive Business Certificate, Columbia Business School,  (2000 – 2004)
New York   Various management and other positions with Roche Germany, 
1988  MBA in Finance, New York University, New York Belgium and Switzerland (1993 – 2000)
1980  Certified Public Accountant, New York Education
1978  Bachelor’s degree in Accounting, Pace University, New York 1993  Doctor of Law, University of Innsbruck, Austria
Other activities and functions 1991  Master’s degrees in Economics and Law,  
University of Innsbruck, Austria
Mr. Riberio currently does not hold directorships in other organizations.
Other activities and functions
International Business Leaders Advisory Council for the Mayor of  
Shanghai, member
Corporate Governance 219
   
John Tiner Former members of the Board
Born 1957 Information about former members of the Board is available on 
British Citizen our website at credit-suisse.com/annualreporting.
Board member since 2009  
Honorary Chairman of Credit Suisse Group AG
Rainer E. Gut, born 1932, Swiss Citizen, was appointed Honorary 
Chairman of the Group in 2000 after he retired as Chairman, a 
position he had held from 1986 to 2000. Mr. Gut was a member 
of the board of Nestlé SA, Vevey, from 1981 to 2005, where he 
was vice-chairman from 1991 to 2000 and chairman from 2000 
to 2005. As Honorary Chairman, Mr. Gut does not have any 
function in the governance of the Group and does not attend the 
meetings of the Board.
Professional history
 
2009–present  Credit Suisse
  Member of the Audit Committee (2009–present) Secretaries of the Board
  Member of the Conduct and Financial Crime Control  Joan E. Belzer
Committee (2019 – 2020) Roman Schaerer
  Chair of the Audit Committee (2011 – 2020)
  Member of the Governance and Nominations Committee 
(2011 – 2020)
  Member of the Risk Committee (2011 – 2020)
  Member of the board of Credit Suisse Holdings (USA), Inc., 
Credit Suisse (USA), Inc. and Credit Suisse Securities (USA), 
LLC (US subsidiaries) (2015–present)
2008 – 2013  Resolution Operations LLP, CEO
2001 – 2007  Financial Services Authority (FSA)
  CEO (2003 – 2007)
  Managing director of the investment, insurance and consumer 
directorate (2001 – 2003)
Prior to 2001  Arthur Andersen, UK
  Managing partner, UK Business Consulting (1998 – 2001)
  Managing partner, Worldwide Financial Services practice 
(1997 – 2001)
  Head of UK Financial Services practice (1993 – 1997)
  Partner in banking and capital markets (1988 – 1997)
  Auditor and consultant, Tansley Witt  
(later Arthur Andersen UK) (1976 – 1988)
Education
2010  Honorary Doctor of Letters, Kingston University, London
1980  UK Chartered Accountant, Institute of Chartered Accountants 
in England and Wales
Other activities and functions
Ardonagh Group Limited, chairman
Salcombe Brewery Limited, chairman
220 Corporate Governance
   
Executive Board
Executive Board changes
The Group announced a number of changes to the Executive 
Membership Board in 2020, as well as changes to the roles of several existing 
Executive Board members. With effect from February 14, 2020, 
The Executive Board is the most senior management body of  Thomas Gottstein was appointed Group CEO, succeeding Tidjane 
the Group. Its members are appointed by the Board. Prior to the  Thiam, and André Helfenstein was appointed the new CEO of 
appointment of an Executive Board member, the terms and con- Swiss Universal Bank and Executive Board member of the Group, 
ditions of the individual’s employment contract with the Group are  as well as the new CEO of Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG, succeed-
reviewed by the Compensation Committee. The Executive Board  ing Thomas Gottstein. With effect from August 1, 2020, Executive 
currently consists of eleven members. The composition of the  Board members Brian Chin, Lara Warner and Lydie Hudson were 
Executive Board of the Group and the Bank is identical, with the  appointed to the new and/or expanded roles of CEO of the Invest-
exception of André Helfenstein, who is a member of the Execu- ment Bank, CRCO and CEO of SRI, respectively. Additionally, 
tive Board of the Group, but not the Bank. with effect from August 1, 2020, David Miller stepped down from 
the Executive Board and assumed a new senior management role 
within the Investment Bank.
Members of the Executive Board
   Executive Board    
   member since   Role 
Thomas P. Gottstein, Chief Executive Officer   2015   Group CEO 
Romeo Cerutti, General Counsel   2009   Corporate Function Head 
Brian Chin, CEO Investment Bank   2016   Divisional Head 
André Helfenstein, CEO Swiss Universal Bank   2020   Divisional Head 
Lydie Hudson, CEO Sustainability, Research & Investment Solutions   2019   Corporate Function Head 
David R. Mathers, Chief Financial Officer   2010   Corporate Function Head 
Antoinette Poschung, Global Head of Human Resources   2019   Corporate Function Head 
Helman Sitohang, CEO Asia Pacific   2015   Divisional Head 
James B. Walker, Chief Operating Officer   2019   Corporate Function Head 
Lara J. Warner, Chief Risk and Compliance Officer   2015   Corporate Function Head 
Philipp Wehle, CEO International Wealth Management   2019   Divisional Head 
Responsibilities Executive Board committees
The Executive Board is responsible for the day-to-day operational  The Executive Board has several standing committees, which 
management of the Group under the leadership of the CEO.  are chaired by an Executive Board member and meet periodically 
throughout the year and/or as required. These committees are:
As part of its main duties and responsibilities, the Executive  p The Executive Board Risk Forum: the Executive Board Risk 
Board: Forum, chaired by the CRCO, was established in 2020. The 
p establishes the strategic business plans for the Group overall  forum is responsible for determining the management strat-
as well as for the principal businesses, subject to approval by  egy for critical risk and compliance issues at the Group and/or 
the Board; cross-divisional level, reviewing and resolving issues pertaining 
p regularly reviews and coordinates significant initiatives, projects  to risk escalated by the Capital Allocation & Risk Management 
and business developments in the divisions and the corporate  Committee (CARMC) or any Executive Board member, review-
functions, including important risk management matters; ing and overseeing critical approvals including, but not limited 
p regularly reviews the consolidated and divisional financial per- to, risk appetite and the risk framework and monitoring of key 
formance, including progress on key performance indicators,  risk and compliance trends and relevant metrics.
as well as the Group’s capital and liquidity positions and those  p Capital Allocation & Risk Management Committee (CARMC): 
of its major subsidiaries; CARMC is responsible for overseeing and directing our risk 
p appoints and dismisses senior managers, with the exception of  profile, recommending risk limits at the Group level to the Risk 
managers from Internal Audit, and periodically reviews senior  Committee and the Board, establishing and allocating risk 
management talent across the Group and talent development  appetite among the various businesses, reviewing new sig-
programs; nificant business strategies or changes in business strategies 
p reviews and approves business transactions, including merg- including business migrations, making risk-related decisions 
ers, acquisitions, establishment of joint ventures and establish- on escalations and for applying measures, methodologies 
ment of subsidiary companies; and and tools to monitor and manage the risk portfolio. CARMC 
p approves key policies for the Group. will furthermore escalate items requiring additional oversight 
Corporate Governance 221
   
to the Executive Board Risk Forum. There are three cycles  enhanced as part of our efforts to prevent sexual harassment at 
of CARMC which each meet quarterly: the Position & Client  work and to make sure all cases are managed in a fair, accurate 
Risk cycle (chaired by the CRCO), the Asset & Liability Man- and consistent way within our global framework.
agement cycle (chaired by the CFO) and the Internal Control  > Refer to “Risk management” in III – Treasury, Risk, Balance sheet and Off-
System cycle (chaired by the Head of Non-Financial Risk, who  balance sheet for information on our risk management oversight.
reports to the CRCO).
p Valuation Risk Management Committee (VARMC): VARMC  Executive Board mandates
(chaired by the CFO) is responsible for establishing policies 
regarding the valuation of certain material assets and the poli- Our Executive Board members may, similar to our Board mem-
cies and calculation methodologies applied in the valuation  bers, assume board or executive level or other roles in compa-
process. Further, VARMC is responsible for monitoring and  nies and organizations outside of the Group, which are collectively 
assessing valuation risks, reviewing inventory valuation con- referred to as mandates. According to the Group’s AoA (Chap-
clusions and directing the resolution of significant valuation  ter IV, Section 3, The Executive Board, Art. 20f), the number of 
issues. mandates Executive Board members may hold in listed compa-
p Group Conduct and Ethics Board: the Group CEB (co-chaired  nies and other organizations outside of the Group is subject to 
by the Global Head of Human Resources and the CEO of  certain restrictions, in order to comply with the Compensation 
SRI since August 1, 2020) is responsible for overseeing how  Ordinance and to ensure that our Executive Board members dedi-
conduct and ethics matters are handled within the divisions  cate sufficient time to fulfil their executive roles.
and corporate functions and ensuring consistency and align-
ment of practices across the Group. The Group CEB conducts  The limitations on mandates assumed by Executive Board mem-
reviews of employee sanctions and may perform subsequent  bers outside of the Group are summarized in the table below.
evaluations for specific matters that have been escalated by 
the CEBs established for each division and the corporate func- Type of mandate and limitation – Executive Board
tions. The Group CEB also oversees the activities of the con- Type of mandate   Limitation 
duct and ethics ombudsperson. Listed companies   No more than one other mandate 
Other legal entities 1  No more than two mandates 
The role of the conduct and ethics ombudsperson was created  Legal entities on behalf of the Group 2  No more than ten mandates 
in 2018 as a result of a review of the Group’s global approach  Charitable legal entities 3  No more than ten mandates 
to handling claims of sexual harassment. The ombudsperson is 
1 Includes private non-listed companies.
accountable directly to the Chief Executive Officer and the Group 
2 Includes memberships in business and industry associations.
Conduct and Ethics Board. The ombudsperson’s role is to serve  3 Also includes honorary mandates in cultural or educational organizations.
as a point of immediate escalation when sexual harassment 
claims arise and to ensure there is appropriate awareness of and  No Executive Board member holds mandates in excess of these 
attention to such claims. The ombudsperson works with our Com- restrictions. The restrictions shown above do not apply to man-
pliance, General Counsel and Human Resources functions as  dates of Executive Board members in legal entities controlled by 
well as our business divisions to review our relevant global train- the Group, such as subsidiary boards.
ing programs, policies and protocols, so that they can be further  > Refer to “Mandates” in Board of Directors for further information.
222 Corporate Governance
   
Biographies of the Executive Board members
Thomas P. Gottstein Romeo Cerutti
Born 1964 Born 1962
Swiss Citizen Swiss and Italian Citizen
Member since 2015 Member since 2009
Chief Executive Officer General Counsel
Professional history Professional history
1999–present  Credit Suisse 2006–present  Credit Suisse
  Chief Executive Officer of the Group (2020–present)   General Counsel (2009–present)
  Member of the board of Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG     Global Co-Head of Compliance (2008 – 2009)
(Swiss subsidiary) (2020–present)   General Counsel, Private Banking (2006 – 2009)
  CEO Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG (2016 – 2020) 1999 – 2006  Lombard Odier Darier Hentsch & Cie
  CEO Swiss Universal Bank (2015 – 2020)   Partner of the Group Holding (2004 – 2006)
  Head of Premium Clients Switzerland & Global External     Head of Corporate Finance (1999 – 2004)
Asset Managers (2014 – 2015)
1995 – 1999  Homburger Rechtsanwälte, Zurich, attorney-at-law
  Head of Investment Banking Coverage Switzerland 
(2010 – 2013) Prior to 1995  Latham and Watkins, Los Angeles, attorney-at-law
  Co-Head of Equity Capital Markets EMEA (2007 – 2009) Education
  Head of Equity Capital Markets Switzerland, Austria and  1998  Post-doctorate degree in Law (Habilitation),  
Scandinavia, London (2005 – 2007) University of Fribourg
  Head of Equity Capital Markets Switzerland, Zurich  1992  Admission to the bar of the State of California
(2002 – 2005) 1992  Master of Law (LLM), University of California, Los Angeles
  Investment Banking Department Switzerland (1999 – 2002) 1990  Doctorate in Law, University of Fribourg
Prior to 1999  UBS 1989  Admission to the bar of the Canton of Zurich
  Telecoms Investment Banking and Equity Capital Markets,  1986  Master in Law (lic.iur.), University of Fribourg
London
  Group Controlling, Zurich Other activities and functions
Vifor Pharma Ltd., vice-chairman
Education
Swiss Finance Institute (SFI), chairman
1995  PhD in Finance and Accounting,  
University of Zurich American-Swiss Chamber of Commerce, legal group member
1989  Degree in Business Administration and Economics,   Ulrico Hoepli Foundation, board of trustees member
University of Zurich
Other activities and functions
Credit Suisse Foundation, board member
Swiss Entrepreneurs Foundation, foundation board member
Opernhaus Zurich, board and audit committee member
Corporate Governance 223
   
Brian Chin André Helfenstein
Born 1977 Born 1967
US Citizen Swiss and British Citizen
Member since 2016 Member since 2020
CEO   CEO Swiss Universal Bank
Investment Bank
Professional history Professional history
2003–present  Credit Suisse 2007–present  Credit Suisse
  CEO Investment Bank (2020–present)   CEO Swiss Universal Bank (2020–present)
  CEO Global Markets (2016 – 2020)   CEO Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG (2020–present)
  Member of the board of Credit Suisse Holdings (USA), Inc.,    Head of Institutional Clients, Swiss Universal Bank  
Credit Suisse (USA), Inc. and Credit Suisse Securities (USA)  (2017 – 2020)
LLC (US subsidiaries) (2016–present)   Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG, member of the executive board 
  Co-Head of Credit Pillar within Global Markets (2015 – 2016) (2016-present)
  Global Head of Securitized Products and Co-Head of Fixed    Swiss Universal Bank, member of the executive board 
Income, Americas (2012 – 2016) (2015-present)
  Other senior positions within Investment Banking (2003 – 2012)   Head of Corporate & Institutional Clients, Swiss Universal Bank  
2000 – 2003  Deloitte & Touche LLP, senior analyst,   (2015 – 2017)
Securitization Transaction Team   Private & Wealth Management organization in Switzerland: 
Prior to 2000  PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP, Capital Markets   Head of Private Banking Clients, Region Zurich and Region 
Advisory Services Head Zurich (2013 – 2015)
  The United States Attorney’s Office, Frauds division   Private & Wealth Management organization in Switzerland: 
Head of Private Clients Region Zurich (2010 – 2013)
Education   Head of Products, Sales & Pricing, Credit Suisse Private 
2000  BS in Accounting, Rutgers University Banking (2007 – 2010)
Other activities and functions 1996 – 2007  The Boston Consulting Group (BCG)
Credit Suisse Americas Foundation, board member   Partner & Managing Director (2005 – 2007)
  Director BCG CH Recruiting and Member of the BCG CH and 
US Career Development Committees (2000 – 2007)
  Various management and other positions (1996 – 2000)
1993 – 1995  STB Unternehmensentwicklungen AG  
(VZ VermögensZentrum AG), Associate
Education
1992  Master’s Degree in Business, University of St. Gallen
1990  Certificate in Psychology/Sociology, Université de la Sorbonne
Other activities and functions
Pension Fund CS Group (Schweiz), foundation board and investment committee 
member
Pension Fund 2 CS Group (Schweiz), foundation board member
Credit Suisse Foundation, foundation board member
FINMA Private Banking Panel, member
SIX Group AG, board and risk committee member
Swiss Entrepreneurs Foundation, foundation board member
Europa Forum Luzern, steering committee member
Venture Incubator AG, board vice chairman
Foundation Bessamin, foundation board member
224 Corporate Governance
   
Lydie Hudson David R. Mathers
Born 1979 Born 1965
US Citizen British Citizen
Member since 2019 Member since 2010
CEO Sustainability,  Chief Financial Officer
Research & Investment 
Solutions
Professional history Professional history
2008–present  Credit Suisse 1998–present  Credit Suisse
  CEO Sustainability, Research & Investment Solutions    Chief Financial Officer (2010–present)
(2020–present)   CEO of Credit Suisse International and Credit Suisse Securities 
  Chief Compliance and Regulatory Affairs Officer (2020) (Europe) Limited (UK subsidiaries) (2016–present)
  Chief Compliance Officer (2019 – 2020)   Chairman of Asset Resolution Unit (2019–present)
  Chief Operating Officer, Global Markets (2015 – 2019)   Head of Strategic Resolution Unit (2015 – 2018)
  Chief Operating Officer, Global Equities (2014 – 2015)   Head of IT and Operations (2012 – 2015)
  Various management and strategy roles in Equities, Fixed    Head of Finance and COO of Investment Banking 
Income and Asset Management (2008 – 2014) (2007 – 2010)
2006 – 2008  The Boston Consulting Group, consultant   Senior positions in Credit Suisse’s Equity business, including 
2001 – 2004  Lehman Brothers, associate, analyst, Global Real Estate Group Director of European Research and Co-Head of European 
Equities (1998 – 2007)
Education Prior to 1998  HSBC
2006  Master in Business Administration (MBA),     Global head of equity research (1997 – 1998)
Harvard Business School
  Research analyst, HSBC James Capel (1987 – 1997)
2001  Bachelor of Arts, International Politics and Economics, 
Middlebury College Education
Other activities and functions 1991  Associate Certification, Society of Investment Analysis
Women‘s Leadership Board, Harvard, board member 1991  MA in Natural Sciences, University of Cambridge, England
Good Shepherd Services, board member 1987  BA in Natural Sciences, University of Cambridge, England
World Economic Forum, Young Global Leader Other activities and functions
European CFO Network, member
Women in Science & Engineering (WISE) program and academic awards and 
grants at Robinson College, Cambridge, sponsor
TheCityUK, leadership council member
Various other charitable and conservation commitments
Corporate Governance 225
   
Antoinette Poschung Helman Sitohang
Born 1956 Born 1965
Swiss Citizen Singaporean Citizen
Member since 2019 Member since 2015
Global Head of Human  CEO  
Resources Asia Pacific
Professional history Professional history
2008–present  Credit Suisse 1999–present  Credit Suisse
  Global Head of Human Resources (2019–present)   CEO Asia Pacific (2015–present)
  Conduct and Ethics Ombudsperson (2018–present)   Regional CEO APAC (2014 – 2015)
  Head of Human Resources for Corporate Functions    Head of Investment Banking Asia Pacific (2012 – 2015)
(2018 – 2019)   Co-Head of the Emerging Markets Council (2012 – 2015)
  Head of Talent Development & Organizational Effectiveness    CEO of South East Asia (2010 – 2015)
(2015 – 2017)
  Co-Head of the Investment Banking Department – Asia Pacific 
  Head of Compensation, Benefits & Payroll (2012 – 2014) (2009 – 2012)
  Head of Human Resources Shared Services (2008 – 2012)   Co-Head of the Global Markets Solutions Group – Asia Pacific 
2007 – 2008  AXA-Winterthur, member of the Executive Board and Head of  (2009 – 2012)
Human Resources   Country CEO, Indonesia (1999 – 2010)
2003 – 2007  “Winterthur” Swiss Insurance Group, Head of Human  Prior to 1999  Bankers Trust, derivatives group
Resources
  Citibank, corporate bank
2001 – 2003  Canton Zurich, Head of Human Resources for the Cantonal 
Administration   Schlumberger Overseas, field engineer
1998 – 2001  Baloise Group, Head of Human Resources Basler Insurance Education
Education 1989  BS degree in Engineering, Bandung Institute of Technology
2016  Certificate of Organizational and Executive Coaching,   Other activities and functions
Columbia University Credit Suisse Foundation, board member
1989  Master in Education, Psychology and Philosophy,    Room to Read Singapore Ltd., regional board member, SEA board chairman
University of Zurich
Other activities and functions
Ms. Poschung currently does not hold directorships in other organizations.
226 Corporate Governance
   
James B. Walker Lara J. Warner
Born 1965 Born 1967
British and US Citizen Australian and US Citizen
Member since 2019 Member since 2015
Chief Operating Officer Chief Risk and Compliance 
Officer
Professional history Professional history
2009–present  Credit Suisse 2002–present  Credit Suisse
  Chief Operating Officer (2019–present)   Chief Risk and Compliance Officer (2020–present)
  Chief Financial Officer of Credit Suisse Holdings (USA), Inc.    Chief Risk Officer (2019 – 2020)
and Regional Americas Finance lead (2018 – 2019)   Member of the board of Credit Suisse Holdings (USA), Inc., 
  Finance Chief Operating Officer (2016 – 2019) Credit Suisse (USA), Inc. and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) 
  Head of Finance Change (2014 – 2019) LLC (US subsidiaries) (2019–present)
  Global Head of Product Control (2011 – 2019)   Chief Compliance and Regulatory Affairs Officer (2015 – 2019)
  Head of Americas Investment Banking Operations and     Chief Operating Officer, Investment Banking (2013 – 2015)
Global Head of OTC Operations (2009 – 2011)   Chief Financial Officer, Investment Banking (2010 – 2015)
2007 – 2009  Barclays Capital, New York, CFO, Americas   Head of Global Fixed Income Research (2009 – 2010)
1994 – 2007  Merrill Lynch   Head of US Equity Research (2004 – 2009)
  CFO, Global Markets & Investment Banking, New York    Senior Equity Research Analyst (2002 – 2004)
(2005 – 2007) 1999 – 2001  Lehman Brothers, equity research analyst
  CFO, Global Equities and Fixed Income, New York  Prior to 1999  AT&T
(2003 – 2005)
  Director of Investor Relations (1997 – 1999)
  CFO, Global Fixed Income, New York (2002 – 2003)
  Chief Financial Officer, Competitive Local Exchange Business 
  CFO, Securities Services Division, New York (2000 – 2002) (1995 – 1997)
  Various senior management positions (1994 – 2000)   Various finance and operating roles (1988 – 1995)
1986 – 1994  Morgan Stanley, various finance and derivative finance roles
Education
Education 1988  Bachelor of Science – Finance, Pennsylvania State University
1986  Postgraduate Diploma Finance, University of Stirling
Other activities and functions
1985  Bachelor of Science Mathematics, University of Glasgow
Women’s Leadership Board of Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of 
Other activities and functions Government, member/Chair Emeritus
Mr. Walker currently does not hold directorships in other organizations. Harvard Kennedy School – Dean‘s Executive Committee, board member
Pennsylvania State University Board of Visitors, member
Corporate Governance 227
   
Philipp Wehle Former members of the Executive Board
Born 1974
Information about former members of the Executive Board is 
German Citizen
available on our website at credit-suisse.com/annualreporting.
Member since 2019
CEO International Wealth 
Management
Professional history
2005–present  Credit Suisse
  CEO International Wealth Management (2019–present)
  CFO International Wealth Management (2015 – 2019)
  Head of Finance Private Banking Coverage (2015)
  Head of Financial Management Region & Wealth Management 
Switzerland (2013 – 2014)
  Head of Financial Management Private Banking Asia Pacific  
(2011 – 2012)
  Head of Controlling Private Banking Switzerland (2007 – 2011)
  Senior Project Manager, Business Development Private 
Banking Switzerland (2005 – 2007)
2001 – 2005  Consart Management Consultants,  
Consultant / Project Manager
Education
2001  Master’s Degree in Economics, University of Bonn, Germany
Other activities and functions
Credit Suisse Asset Management & Investor Services (Schweiz) Holding AG, 
board member
Credit Suisse Foundation, board member
Akademischer Hilfsfond, Bonn, member
228 Corporate Governance
   
 
Additional information
reviewed the processes followed to ensure PwC’s independence, 
according to applicable external auditor independence standards, 
Banking relationships with Board and Executive  and extended the scope of its policy on non-audit service restric-
Board members and related party transactions tions to PwC.
The Group is a global financial services provider. Many of the  Principal external auditor
members of the Board and the Executive Board, their close family  The Group retains a single global audit firm as its principal exter-
members or companies associated with them maintain banking  nal auditor to perform both the statutory (financial) audit and the 
relationships with us. The Group or any of its banking subsidiar- regulatory audit work mandated by FINMA. The AGM elects the 
ies may from time to time enter into financing and other bank- statutory auditor annually, while the Board is responsible for the 
ing agreements with companies in which current members of  appointment of the regulatory auditor.
the Board or the Executive Board have a significant influence as 
defined by the SEC, such as holding executive and/or board level  Our principal external auditor is PwC, Birchstrasse 160, 8050 
roles in these companies. With the exception of the transac- Zurich, Switzerland. The mandate was first given to PwC for 
tions described below, relationships with members of the Board  the fiscal year ending December 31, 2020, following share-
or the Executive Board and such companies are in the ordinary  holder approval for the appointment of PwC at the 2020 AGM. 
course of business and are entered into on an arm’s length basis.  The Group is not subject to mandatory external audit firm rota-
Also, unless otherwise noted, all loans to members of the Board,  tion requirements; however, the lead audit partners are subject 
members of the Executive Board, their close family members  to periodic rotation requirements. Audit partner rotation is key to 
or companies associated with them were made in the ordinary  ensuring the highest level of audit quality. In general, audit part-
course of business, were made on substantially the same terms,  ners with key roles or signing obligations for the Group or material 
including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the  Group entities are subject to a maximum of five years of service. 
time for comparable transactions with other persons and did not  Audit partners with roles overseeing non-material Group entities 
involve more than the normal risk of collectability or present other  or serving a supplemental role are subject to a maximum of seven 
unfavorable features. As of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018,  years of service. Specialist partners, including (but not limited to) 
there were no loan exposures to such related parties that were  IT, valuation, tax and forensic areas are not subject to mandated 
not made in the ordinary course of business and at prevailing  rotation. The lead Group engagement partners are Matthew Fal-
market conditions. coner, Global Lead Partner, Matthew Goldman, Group Engage-
> Refer to “Board loans” and “Executive Board loans (audited)” in V – Compen- ment Partner and Andrin Bernet, Lead Regulatory Audit Partner.
sation – Board of Directors compensation and – Executive Board compensa- > 
Refer to “Audit Committee” in Board of Directors – Board committees for fur-
tion, respectively, for the outstanding loans to members of the Board and the 
ther information on audit rotation.
Executive Board.
Governance
Related party transactions The Audit Committee monitors and pre-approves the fees to 
be paid to the principal external auditor for its services. It has 
In December 2018, a subsidiary of the Group executed a transac- developed and approved a policy on the engagement of public 
tion with an affiliate to sell a minority interest in a trading platform  accounting firms that is designed to help ensure that the indepen-
for a gain of approximately USD 80 million. dence of the external auditor is maintained at all times.
External Audit The policy limits the scope of services that the principal external 
auditor may provide to us or any of our subsidiaries in connection 
External Audit forms an integral part of the Group’s corporate  with its audit and stipulates certain permissible types of non-audit 
governance framework and plays a key role by providing an inde- services, including audit-related services and tax services that 
pendent assessment of our operations and internal controls. have been pre-approved by the Audit Committee. The princi-
> Refer to “Audit Committee” in Board of Directors – Board committees for fur- pal external auditor is required to report periodically to the Audit 
ther information on the responsibilities of the audit committee. Committee about the scope of the services it has provided and 
the fees for the services it has performed to date. The principal 
External auditor rotation external auditor also provides a report as to its independence to 
As of the AGM in April 2020, PwC was approved by sharehold- the Audit Committee at least once a year. In accordance with our 
ers as the Group’s new statutory auditor for the fiscal year ending  pre-approval policy and as in prior years, all non-audit services 
December 31, 2020 and PwC’s appointment by the Board as  provided in 2020 were pre-approved.
FINMA regulatory auditor was formally confirmed.
The fees paid to PwC as the Group’s principal external auditors 
Over the course of 2020, corresponding measures were under- for the financial year 2020 and to KPMG for the financial year 
taken by the Audit Committee to ensure an orderly and effective  2019 are provided in the following table.
transition of external auditor responsibilities. The Audit Committee 
Corporate Governance 229
   
Fees paid to the principal external auditor The following are the significant differences between our corporate 
for financial year   2020   2019   % change  governance standards and the corporate governance standards 
applicable to US domestic issuers listed on the NYSE and Nasdaq:
Fees (CHF million)             p Approval of employee benefit plans: NYSE and Nasdaq stan-
Audit services 1  58.1   56.0  4  
dards require shareholder approval of the establishment of, 
Audit-related services 2  2.5   5.5   (55) 
and material revisions to, certain equity compensation plans. 
Tax services 3  0.2   2.4   (92) 
We comply with Swiss law, which requires that shareholders 
1 Audit services include the integrated audit of the Group’s consolidated and statutory  approve the creation of conditional capital used for the issu-
financial statements, interim reviews and comfort and consent letters. Additionally, they 
ance of shares for employee benefit plans and other equity 
include all assurance and attestation services related to the regulatory filings of the Group 
and its subsidiaries. Audit fees exclude value-added taxes. compensation plans, as well as approve the remuneration of 
2 Audit-related services are primarily in respect of: (i) reports related to the Group’s compli- executives, but does not require shareholders to approve the 
ance with provisions of agreements or calculations required by agreements; (ii) account-
terms of such plans.
ing advice; (iii) audits of private equity funds and employee benefit plans; and (iv) regula-
tory advisory services. p  Risk assessment and risk management: NYSE standards 
3 Tax services are in respect of tax compliance and consultation services, including: (i)  allocate the responsibility for the discussion of guidelines and 
preparation and/or review of tax returns of the Group and its subsidiaries;  
policies governing the process by which risk assessment and 
(ii) assistance with tax audits and appeals; and (iii) confirmations relating to the Qualified 
Intermediary status of Group entities. risk management is undertaken to the Audit Committee, while 
at the Group these duties are assumed by the Risk Commit-
The principal external auditor attends all meetings of the Audit  tee, in line with Swiss regulatory standards and expectations. 
Committee and reports on the findings of its audit and/or interim  Whereas our Audit Committee members satisfy the NYSE as 
review work. The Audit Committee reviews the principal external  well as Nasdaq independence requirements, our Risk Commit-
auditor’s audit plan on an annual basis and evaluates the perfor- tee may include a minority of non-independent members.
mance of the principal external auditor and its senior representa- p  Independence of nominating and corporate governance commit-
tives in fulfilling their responsibilities. Moreover, the Audit Commit- tee: NYSE and Nasdaq standards require that all members of 
tee recommends to the Board the appointment or replacement of  the nominating and corporate governance committee be inde-
the principal external auditor, subject to shareholder approval as  pendent. The Group’s Governance and Nominations Commit-
required by Swiss law. tee is currently composed entirely of independent members, but 
according to its charter, may include non-independent members.
Special auditor p  Reporting: NYSE standards require that certain board com-
In addition, the 2020 AGM elected, pursuant to Art. 21 of our  mittees report specified information directly to shareholders, 
AoA, the firm BDO AG, Fabrikstrasse 50, 8031 Zurich, Swit- while under Swiss law only the Board reports directly to the 
zerland, as special auditor for the purposes of issuing the legally  shareholders and the committees submit their reports to the 
required report for capital increases in accordance with Article  full Board.
652f of the Swiss Code of Obligations, mainly relating to the  p Appointment of the external auditor: NYSE and Nasdaq stan-
valuation of companies in consideration of the qualified capital  dards require that an Audit Committee of a listed company 
increases involving contributions in kind. BDO AG did not provide  comply with and have the authority necessary to comply with 
any such services in 2020 and 2019. the requirements of Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934. Rule 10A-3 requires the Audit Committee to be 
Other information directly responsible for the appointment, compensation, reten-
tion and oversight of the external auditor unless there is a 
Complying with rules and regulations  conflicting requirement under home country law. Under Swiss 
We fully adhere to Swiss corporate law and the principles set out in  law, the appointment of the external auditor must be approved 
the Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate Governance, dated  by the shareholders at the AGM based on the proposal of the 
August 28, 2014, including its appendix stipulating recommenda- Board, upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
tions on the process for setting compensation for the Board and  p Audit Committee charter: Nasdaq standards require the Audit 
the Executive Board. Committee to review and assess the adequacy of its charter 
on an annual basis, while our Audit Committee’s charter only 
In connection with our primary listing on the SIX Swiss Exchange,  requires review and assessment from time to time in accor-
we are subject to the Directive on Information relating to Cor- dance with applicable Swiss laws.
porate Governance, dated June 20, 2019 (in effect since Janu- p Executive sessions: NYSE and Nasdaq standards require the 
ary 2, 2020). Our shares are also listed on the NYSE in the form  board of directors to meet regularly in executive sessions com-
of ADS and certain of the Bank’s exchange traded notes are  posed solely of independent directors. Our Board meets regularly 
listed on Nasdaq. As a result, we are subject to certain US rules  in executive sessions comprising all directors, including any direc-
and regulations. We adhere to the NYSE’s and Nasdaq’s corpo- tors determined not to be independent. However, if any item dis-
rate governance listing standards (NYSE and Nasdaq standards),  cussed at the meeting raises a conflict of interest for any of our 
with a few exceptions where the rules are not applicable to for- directors, such director may not participate in the related decision 
eign private issuers. making. In line with Swiss law, the Board does not include any 
directors who are also members of management.
230 Corporate Governance
   
p Quorums: Nasdaq standards require that the company’s by- The Group’s AoA and the Bank’s AoA do not contain provisions 
laws provide for a quorum of at least 331/% of the outstand- regarding the indemnification of directors and officers. According 
3
ing shares of the company’s common stock for any meeting of  to Swiss statutory law, an employee has a right to be indemnified 
the holders of common stock. Consistent with Swiss corporate  by the employer against losses and expenses incurred by such 
law, the Group’s AoA (Chapter IV, Section 1, The General  person in the execution of such person’s duties under an employ-
Meeting of Shareholders, Art. 12), call for a quorum in certain  ment agreement, unless the losses and expenses arise from 
instances, but do not require a quorum of 331/% or greater of  the employee’s gross negligence or willful misconduct. It is our 
3
the holders of the outstanding shares of common stock for any  policy to indemnify current and former directors and/or employ-
meeting of shareholders. ees against certain losses and expenses in respect of service as 
p Independence: NYSE and Nasdaq independence standards  a director or employee of the Group, one of the Group’s affiliates 
specify thresholds for the maximum permissible amount of  or another entity that we have approved, subject to specific condi-
(i) direct compensation that can be paid by the company to  tions or exclusions. We maintain directors’ and officers’ insurance 
a director or an immediate family member thereof, outside of  for our directors and officers.
such director’s directorship fees and other permitted payments; 
and (ii) payments between the company and another com- Fees and charges for holders of ADS
pany at which such director or an immediate family member  In November 2016, the Group entered into a deposit agreement 
thereof is an executive officer, controlling shareholder, partner or  with The Bank of New York Mellon as depositary for the ADS 
employee. Our independence standards do not specify thresh- (Depositary). In accordance with the deposit agreement, the 
olds for direct compensation or cross-company payments or rev- Depositary may charge holders of our ADS, either directly or indi-
enues, but consider these facts in the overall materiality of the  rectly, fees or charges up to the amounts described below.
business relationship determination for independence purposes.
The Depositary collects its fees and related expenses for the 
Fiduciary duties and indemnification delivery and surrender of ADS directly from investors deposit-
The Swiss Code of Obligations requires directors and members  ing or surrendering ADS for the purpose of withdrawal or from 
of senior management to safeguard the interests of the corpora- intermediaries acting for them. The Depositary collects fees and 
tion and, in connection with this requirement, imposes the duties of  expenses for making distributions to holders by deducting those 
care and loyalty on directors and members of senior management.  fees and expenses from the amounts distributed or by selling a 
While Swiss law does not have a specific provision on conflicts of  portion of distributable property to pay the fees and expenses. 
interest, the duties of care and loyalty are generally understood to  The Depositary may generally refuse to provide any services until 
disqualify directors and members of senior management from par- its fees for those services are paid.
ticipating in decisions that could directly affect them. Directors and 
members of senior management are personally liable to the corpo-
ration for any breach of these provisions.
Fees and charges for holders of ADS
Fees    
USD 5 (or less) per 100 ADS    For the issuance of ADS, including issuances resulting from a distribution of shares, share dividends, share splits  
(or portion thereof)   and other property; for ADS issued upon the exercise of rights; and for the surrender of ADS for cancellation  
   and withdrawal of shares. 
USD 0.05 (or less) per ADS   For any distribution of cash to ADS registered holders, including upon the sale of rights or other entitlements. 
Registration or transfer fees   For the transfer and registration of shares on our share register to or from the name of the Depositary or its agent  
   when the holder deposits or withdraws shares. 
Charges    
Expenses of the Depositary   For cable and facsimile transmissions (when expressly provided in the deposit agreement); and for converting  
   foreign currency to US dollars. 
Taxes and other governmental    Paid, as necessary, to the Depositary or the custodian who pays certain charges on any ADS or share underlying  
charges   an ADS, for example, stock transfer taxes, stamp duty or applicable interest or penalty thereon. 
Other charges   Paid, as necessary, to the Depositary or its agents for servicing the deposited shares. 
Amounts paid by the Depositary to the Group Under certain circumstances, including removal of the Depositary 
In 2020, in accordance with the deposit agreement, the Deposi- or termination of the ADS program by the Group, the Group is 
tary made payments to the Group in an aggregated amount of  required to repay certain amounts paid to the Group and to com-
USD 0.4 million, including for the reimbursement of expenses  pensate the Depositary for payments made or services provided 
relating to its ADS program. The Depositary has also contractu- on behalf of the Group.
ally agreed to provide certain ADS program-related services free 
of charge.
Corporate Governance 231
   
[this page intentionally left blank]
232 Corporate Governance
   
  V – Compensation
Letter from the Chair of the 
Compensation Committee	 234
Executive Board compensation  238
Group	compensation	 246
Board of Directors compensation  255
Compensation	design	 260
Compensation	governance		 265
Report	of	the	Statutory	Auditor	 267
233
   
Compensation
Letter from the Chair of the 
As an organization, Credit Suisse welcomed Thomas Gottstein 
Compensation Committee as Group CEO in February 2020. Mr. Gottstein refined our strat-
egy during the year to focus on growth and operational synergies 
with several key initiatives. These included creating one global 
Investment Bank; integrating our Risk and Compliance functions; 
establishing the Sustainability, Research & Investment Solutions 
(SRI) function; continuing the integration of Neue Aargauer Bank 
(NAB) in SUB; and launching our digital banking offering CSX to 
position Credit Suisse as a digital leader in banking in Switzer-
land. As a result of these structural changes, several of the Exec-
utive Board members have taken on expanded roles, continuing 
the strong ethic of talent development at Credit Suisse.
Kai S. Nargolwala
Chair of the  
COVID-19 and impact on compensation 
Compensation Committee
During the year, the Compensation Committee monitored closely 
Dear shareholders the evolving regulatory guidance, proxy advisor commentary and 
peer compensation decisions concerning the COVID-19 pan-
As Chair of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Direc- demic. The Compensation Committee assessed the impact of 
tors (Compensation Committee), I am pleased to present to you  the COVID-19 pandemic on our existing Group and Executive 
the 2020 Compensation Report. Board compensation framework and design, including pay for 
performance, alignment with the interests of our shareholders, 
We have all experienced an unprecedented period during 2020  and motivation and retention of talent. After careful consider-
on various levels, with extreme market volatility, global economic  ation, the Compensation Committee decided not to modify any 
disruption, restricted mobility and social distancing driven by the  of the performance conditions or features of “in-flight” awards. 
COVID-19 pandemic, all factors which the Compensation Com- With respect to the overall Group variable compensation pool, the 
mittee has had to consider and balance during the year.  Compensation Committee noted that the 2020 financial results 
reflect a substantial increase in the provision for credit losses to 
As a global company operating in more than 50 countries, Credit  take into account the impact of the pandemic, contributing to 
Suisse had an important role to play in mitigating the effects of  a significant year-on-year decrease in reported income before 
the crisis on our employees and the broader community. Several  taxes. With respect to Executive Board compensation, in addi-
measures and initiatives were successfully implemented during  tion to the above, the short-term incentive (STI) and long-term 
the year, including:  incentive (LTI) variable compensation awards are both deter-
p Highly effective global crisis management framework and busi- mined based on financial metrics that include the full effects of 
ness continuity management enabling approximately 90% of  significant items and major litigation provisions. Therefore, the 
our employees to work from home;  Compensation Committee decided not to exercise any discre-
p Free COVID-19 antibody tests to employees;  tion (positive or negative) to modify the Group or Executive Board 
p Extended paid family leave to employees in locations where  variable compensation outcomes. 
schools remain closed; 
p Support for small-medium enterprises (SME) and the Swiss  Underlying	performance	highlights	in	2020
economy with ~CHF 3.0 billion of COVID-19 bridging loans, 
on which we did not generate any profits; Against a backdrop of challenging market conditions, reported 
p A bank-wide matching donation program that raised CHF  net revenues were stable year on year. Reflecting the uncertain 
25 million in support of relief efforts to mitigate the hard- economic environment triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic, the 
ship caused by COVID-19 and to support those affected by  Group reported a provision for credit losses of CHF 1.1 billion, an 
inequality. This included donations committed by the Executive  increase of CHF 772 million year on year, resulting in reported 
Board of at least 20% of their annual base salary during six  income before taxes of CHF 3.5 billion, 27% lower than the previ-
months in 2020, with the Chairman of the Board of Directors  ous year. Reported results were also negatively impacted by major 
(Board) making a similar commitment; and litigation provisions of CHF 988 million, primarily in connection with 
p  Various well-being initiatives for employees. 92% of employ- legacy mortgage-related cases, and by restructuring expenses. 
ees felt well-supported and informed by management’s  Excluding these as well as real estate gains and expenses related 
response to the COVID-19 pandemic, based on an internal  to real estate disposals, adjusted income before taxes was 6% 
pulse survey in June 2020. lower than the prior year. In assessing the Group’s financial perfor-
mance, the Compensation Committee adopted the same approach 
The above measures were achieved without the use of govern- as in the previous year towards the treatment of significant items 
mental support, and there were no reductions in the workforce  that did not reflect underlying performance. For example, in 2019 
directly attributed to the COVID-19 pandemic.  the gain related to the transfer of the Credit Suisse InvestLab AG 
234 Compensation
   
fund platform (InvestLab) to Allfunds Group and the revaluation  in 	 2020   2019   % change 
gain related to our equity investment in SIX Swiss Exchange Group 
Results (CHF million)            
AG (SIX) were not considered part of underlying performance in 
Income/(loss) before taxes   3,467   4,720 	 (27) 
determining the 2019 variable incentive compensation pool. Simi-
   Total adjustments   1,181   248   376 
larly, in 2020, the gain related to the completed transfer of Invest-
Adjusted income before taxes   4,648   4,968 	 (6) 
Lab to Allfunds Group, the respective revaluation gains related to 
Significant items          
our equity investments in SIX, Pfandbriefbank and Allfunds Group, 
   gain related to InvestLab transfer   268   327   (18) 
and the impairment related to the investment in York Capital Man-
   gain on equity investment in Allfunds Group   127   0  –  
agement (York) were not considered reflective of underlying Group 
   gain on equity investment in SIX Group AG   158   498   (68) 
performance. Taking all of the above into consideration, the Com-
   gain on equity investment in Pfandbriefbank   134   0  –  
pensation Committee noted that the underlying performance of the 
   impairment on York Capital Management   (414)   0  –  
Group, as measured by adjusted income before taxes excluding 
Adjusted income before taxes           
significant items, increased 6% compared with the prior year. It is  excluding significant items 	 4,375 	 4,143 	 6 
important to note, however, that the full impact of these items was 
Adjusted results are non-GAAP financial measures which exclude certain items included in 
taken into account in determining the Executive Board’s 2020 STI  our reported results. Refer to “Reconciliation of adjusted results” in II – Operating and finan-
awards, which in aggregate, were 30% lower year on year.  cial review – Credit Suisse for further information.
Group performance highlights 
Income before taxes   Adjusted income before taxes   Assets under management   Return on tangible equity  
(CHF billion) excluding	significant	items    (CHF billion) (%)
(CHF billion)
-27% +6% +0.3% -2.1pps
4.7 4.4 1,507 1,512 8.7
4.1
3.5 6.6
2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020
Return on tangible equity, a non-GAAP financial measure, is based on tangible shareholders’ equity, a non-GAAP financial measure, which is calculated by deducting goodwill and other 
intangible assets from total shareholders’ equity as presented in our balance sheet. Results excluding items included in our reported results are non-GAAP financial measures. Refer to 
“Reconciliation of adjusted results” in II – Operating and financial review – Credit Suisse for further information.
> 
References to Capital Markets & Advisory mean capital markets revenues and 
In terms of business performance, Wealth Management-related 
advisory and other fees within global investment banking.
businesses delivered resilient performance, driven by stronger 
transaction-based revenues. Net new assets (NNA) in our Wealth  After considering the underlying Group and divisional financial 
Management businesses were CHF 19.4 billion and our assets  performance, relative performance versus peers, market position 
under management (AuM) increased slightly at CHF 1.5 trillion  and market trends, as well as the current social and economic 
with positive market movements and NNA offsetting significant  conditions and risk, control, compliance and conduct and eth-
negative foreign exchange-related effects. In global investment  ics considerations, the Compensation Committee proposed an 
banking, Capital Markets & Advisory revenues increased 31%  overall Group variable incentive compensation pool of CHF 2,949 
compared with the prior year, with IPO activity resulting in a num- million, which was approved by the Board. This amount is 7% 
ber 1 ranking by volume for global IPOs. Our investment banking  lower than the prior year, and reflects a balance between lower 
and capital markets business within APAC was ranked number  reported results impacted by significant items and a 6% increase 
3 in 2020 with increased share of wallet for the fifth consecu- in adjusted income before taxes excluding significant items, as 
tive year, among international banks in APAC excluding Japan  well as a response to the COVID-19 pandemic and resulting eco-
and China onshore. Global Trading Solutions (GTS), our internal  nomic environment. 
collaboration among our four divisions delivering institutional-style 
solutions to our Wealth Management clients, recorded strong rev- Compensation	outcomes	for	2020
enue growth, with revenues up 31% year on year.
> References to our Wealth Management-related businesses mean our Swiss  Executive Board compensation
Universal Bank division, our International Wealth Management division and our  Total aggregate Executive Board compensation for 2020 of 
Asia Pacific division or their combined results.
>  CHF 68.4 million, 12% lower than the prior year, is comprised of: 
References to our Wealth Management businesses mean the Private Clients  p CHF 29.0 million fixed compensation, a portion of which has 
business within Swiss Universal Bank, the Private Banking business within 
International Wealth Management and the Asia Pacific division or their com- been paid from the approved pool for fixed compensation for 
bined results. new and promoted Executive Board members; 
Compensation 235
   
p CHF 15.7 million short-term incentive (STI) award, subject to  The decrease in Executive Board compensation was mainly due 
shareholder approval at the 2021 Annual General Meeting  to the 30% decrease in the amount of STI variable compensation 
(AGM); and  awarded. The average payout on the 2020 STI awards was 48% 
p CHF 23.7 million long-term incentive (LTI) opportunity at fair  of the maximum opportunity compared with 68% for the prior year, 
value at the time of grant.  primarily driven by the higher provision for credit losses, increased 
> Refer to “Executive Board compensation” for further information.  major litigation provisions and the York impairment. 
Executive Board compensation   CEO compensation2   Group variable incentive compen- Board of Directors compensation  
(CHF million) (CHF million) sation awarded (CHF million) (CHF million)
–12% –20% –7% –1%
77.4 10.7 3,168 11.3 11.1
68.4 2,949 0.53 0.33
 
LTI 23.5 LTI 3.9 8.5  
23.7
3.6
STI 22.4
15.7 STI 3.3 10.8 10.8
Group 
2.0 Board
Fixed1 31.5 29.0 Fixed1 3.5 2.9
2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020
Figures above may contain rounding differences.
1 Fixed compensation includes base salary, role-based allowances, dividend equivalents, pension and other benefits.
2 Compensation for former Credit Suisse Group CEO Tidjane Thiam in 2019 and Mr. Gottstein in 2020.
3 Compensation related to subsidiary board membership.
Chief	Executive	Officer	(CEO)	compensation > Refer to “Executive Board compensation” for further information, including a 
Mr. Gottstein’s total compensation granted for 2020 of CHF 8.5 mil- description of RoTE and adjusted TBVPS.
lion was 20% lower than the previous CEO’s compensation for the 
prior year. This decrease was mainly driven by a lower achievement  Group compensation
on the 2020 STI financial performance targets, and also reflects a  As discussed earlier, the Compensation Committee noted the 
lower overall maximum compensation opportunity compared with the  Group’s solid underlying performance, as reflected by the 6% 
previous CEO.  increase in adjusted income before taxes excluding significant items, 
and proposed a Group variable incentive pool of CHF 2,949 million, 
Including deferred compensation that settled in 2020 relating  7% lower compared with the previous year. Differentiation continues 
to his role prior to being appointed CEO, Mr. Gottstein’s realized  to be a focus, with the highest-performing employees rewarded for 
compensation for 2020 was CHF 4.2 million (excluding dividend  their contribution to the Group’s financial performance. 
equivalents, pension and other benefits), compared with CHF 6.9 
million for the prior year for the previous CEO.  With respect to recent reports and announcements regarding the 
> Refer to “Compensation of the CEO and highest paid Executive Board mem- Credit Suisse Asset Management managed supply chain finance 
ber” in Executive Board compensation for further information.  funds, the Compensation Committee is monitoring developments 
closely and will determine, based on investigation results, any 
Vesting	of	the	2018	LTI	(2018-2020	performance	cycle) appropriate actions to be applied, including the application of the 
To align the interests of the Executive Board to those of long- Group’s existing malus and clawback provisions on variable com-
term shareholders, more than half of the Executive Board variable  pensation awards. The payout and vesting of variable compensa-
incentive compensation is in the form of LTI opportunities, subject  tion of a number of senior employees involved in these matters, up 
to challenging performance conditions over a three-year perfor- to and including Executive Board members, has been suspended 
mance period, and further subject to share price performance  as a measure to ensure that we can reconsider the variable com-
until settlement of the award. For the 2018-2020 performance  pensation for 2020 and are able to apply malus or clawback, if 
period, the average return on tangible equity (RoTE), the average  appropriate.
adjusted tangible book value per share (TBVPS) and the relative 
total shareholder return (RTSR) resulted in achievement of 54%  Board of Directors (Board) compensation
of the maximum opportunity after step-downs and departures.  Aggregate compensation to the Board for the Group and subsid-
Based on the share price at the end of 2020, the estimated value  iary boards was CHF 11.1 million, compared with the amount of 
of the 2018 LTI was 35% of the maximum opportunity after step- CHF 12.0 million that was approved prospectively by sharehold-
downs and departures. The final value of the awards at delivery  ers at the 2020 AGM. 
may differ from the value at the end of 2020 due to subsequent  > Refer to “Board of Directors compensation” for further information.
share price movement.
236 Compensation
   
At the 2021 AGM, the Board will propose to shareholders  As part of the Group’s strategy, sustainability is also considered 
the election of António Horta-Osório as the new Chairman  in various stages of the compensation process. For example, in 
of the Board. The current compensation structure will remain  determining the Group variable incentive pool, the Compensa-
unchanged, including fee levels for the Chairman. tion Committee takes into account audit, compliance, disciplinary, 
risk and regulatory-related issues, among other considerations. 
Annual review of our compensation framework  In addition, one of the key drivers of bonus pool development 
and shareholder engagement  at the divisional level is economic contribution, which factors in 
the level of risk taken to achieve profitability. For the Executive 
As part of the annual review, the Compensation Committee  Board’s annual STI awards, ESG factors such as compliance, risk 
assessed whether current practices remain appropriately competi- management, conduct and ethics, talent management, diversity 
tive, in light of regulatory and market developments. During the  and inclusion, and client satisfaction, are included and individually 
year, I also met with many of our key shareholders to discuss our  assessed as part of the overall non-financial performance assess-
compensation design, and I appreciate the open discussions and  ment, which contributes to one-third of the STI award. 
feedback that we received. The Compensation Committee decided  > Refer to “Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) considerations at 
that the current compensation framework for both the Executive  Credit Suisse” for further information.
Board and Group employees continues to be broadly fit for pur-
pose, with some refinements for 2021. The STI structure will be  “Say-on-Pay” compensation proposals at the 
further enhanced by introducing division-specific financial metrics  2021	AGM	
for the heads of the business divisions, in addition to the current 
RoTE, adjusted income before taxes and non-financial assess- At the 2021 AGM, we will be seeking shareholder support for the 
ment. For the 2021 LTI, with respect to the relative total share- following say-on-pay proposals:
holder return (RTSR), we will retain the zero payout for a rank within  p Maximum aggregate amount of fixed compensation for the 
the lowest five and maximum payout for a rank within the top five,  Executive Board for the 2021 AGM to 2022 AGM period 
with smoother payout levels for rankings in between to avoid large  (CHF 31.0 million, unchanged from the prior period); 
movements, positive or negative, based on small differences in TSR  p Aggregate 2020 STI award to be granted to the Executive 
compared with peers. In the ever-changing operating environment,  Board (CHF 15.7 million, 30% lower than the CHF 22.4 mil-
going forward the Compensation Committee will continue to assess  lion for 2019); 
whether the current design can be further improved to better reflect  p Aggregate 2021 LTI opportunity at fair value at the time of 
pay for performance and alignment to the shareholder experience.  grant (CHF 25.1 million), based on a maximum opportunity of 
CHF 47.6 million, compared to the 2020 LTI fair value of CHF 
Environmental, social and governance (ESG)  28.6 million, based on a maximum opportunity of CHF 53.75 
considerations in the compensation process  million); and
p Maximum aggregate amount of compensation for the Board 
In 2020, the Group reviewed its sustainability strategy and  for the 2021 AGM to 2022 AGM period of CHF 12.0 million, 
announced its ambition to become a sustainability leader in the  unchanged from the prior period.
financial services industry. In order to have a meaningful impact, our 
goal is to fully integrate sustainability in the strategy for the Group.  Further information on each of these proposals is contained in the 
This includes striving to be a leader in our core competencies, pro- “Say-on-Pay” brochure that accompanies the AGM invitation and 
viding bespoke advisory services to private and corporate clients,  is also available at credit-suisse.com/agm.
developing proprietary sustainable investment solutions, producing 
thematic industry research and partnering with industry groups and  On behalf of the Compensation Committee, I would like to thank 
non-governmental organizations on sustainability topics.  you for your support and feedback, which we will continue to seek 
as we review and refine our compensation practices to ensure 
The Board has recognized that in order to achieve our aspirations,  that they remain aligned with the interests of our shareholders 
sustainability must be integrated at all levels of the Group, as  and fully compliant with all legal and regulatory requirements.
reflected by the following announcements in 2020: 
p Establishment of SRI as a separate corporate function at the 
Executive Board level, elevating the importance of sustainabil-
ity topics with Executive Board level representation;
p Establishment of the Sustainability Advisory Committee at the  Kai S. Nargolwala
Board level, which will complement the Conduct & Financial  Chair of the Compensation Committee
Crime Control Committee (CFCCC) in supervising all material  Member of the Board 
ESG related topics across the Group; and  March 2021
p Nomination of designated sustainability leaders in each divi-
sion/function across the Group.
Compensation 237
   
Executive Board compensation
Compensation	outcomes	for	2020	
Fixed compensation   STI	awarded  Fair	value	of	2020	LTI	 Total	compensation   Estimated value of the 
(CHF million) (CHF million) o pportunity1   (CHF million) 2018	LTI	awards  
(CHF million) (CHF million)
-8% –30% +1% –12% –65%
31.5 22.4 23.5 23.7 77.4 49.52
29.0 68.4
15.7
17.4
2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 Maximum  Estimated 
opportunity value3
1 The fair value of the LTI awards as of the date of grant is determined using a probabilistic valuation method applied by Deloitte LLP.
2 Based on the maximum opportunity after Executive Board member step-downs and departures, compared with the maximum opportunity of CHF 58.5 million  
approved for the 2018 LTI at the 2018 AGM.
3 Estimated value based on the share price of CHF 11.40 as of December 31, 2020.
Fixed compensation  p Adjusted income before taxes of CHF 4.6 billion was 6% 
The total fixed compensation for the Executive Board was CHF  lower compared with the prior year, mainly due to the 
29.0 million in 2020 compared with CHF 31.5 million in 2019,  increased provision for credit losses and the York impairment, 
reflecting a decrease in the number of Executive Board members  as well as higher revenues from significant items in the prior 
due to the combined Investment Bank division, as well as a lower  year; 
base salary for the CEO compared with the previous CEO for the  p Return on tangible equity (RoTE) of 6.6% decreased by 2.1 
prior year.  percentage points compared with the prior year mainly due to 
the increased provision for credit losses as well as increased 
Annual	short-term	incentive	(STI)	awards litigation provisions, mainly in connection with mortgage-related 
The 2020 STI awards were determined based on performance in  matters, and the York impairment. 
2020 measured against pre-defined financial and non-financial cri-
teria, consistent with the prior year. The average maximum oppor- For the non-financial performance assessment, the Compensa-
tunity for Executive Board members (excluding the CEO) was 1.06  tion Committee evaluated the Executive Board’s performance 
times base salary, compared with 1.23 times for the prior year. The  against four broad categories and determined that on average, 
aggregate STI award amount for the Executive Board of CHF 15.7  they had achieved 79% of the maximum opportunity for the non-
million was 30% lower than the previous year, mainly due to lower  financial component, compared with 76% for 2019. Excluding the 
financial performance compared with the targets set for 2020. As  CEO, the overall non-financial score was 78% of the maximum 
shown in the diagram below, the payouts achieved for the financial  opportunity, compared with 82% for 2019. A summary of the 
metrics were between the threshold and target performance levels  non-financial assessment appears further below. 
and the Compensation Committee concluded that it was not nec-
essary to exercise any discretion (positive or negative) to modify  The 2020 STI compensation will be submitted for shareholder 
the outcomes:  approval at the 2021 AGM on a retrospective basis. 
2020	STI	awards:	performance	against	targets
	 	 	 	 	 2020	 	 Payout	level 
  Weighting    Performance levels    result    (% of maximum opportunity)
  
              Threshold  Target  Maximum 
Performance criteria    Threshold  Target  Maximum    0%  25%  67%  100%
Adjusted income before taxes (CHF billion)  331/3%  4.2  5.5  6.6  4.6 39%
RoTE (%)  331/3%  6.5%  9.5%  11.5%  6.6%  26%
Non-financial criteria (average)  331/3%   See separate description 79%
Total  100% 48%
Adjusted results and RoTE are non-GAAP financial measures and are used in this table for the purposes of defining performance target levels for compensation. Adjusted results exclude 
certain items included in our reported results. Refer to “Reconciliation of adjusted results” in II – Operating and financial review – Credit Suisse for further information. RoTE is calculated as 
net income attributable to shareholders divided by average tangible shareholders’ equity. Tangible shareholders’ equity, a non-GAAP financial measure, is calculated by deducting goodwill 
and other intangible assets from total shareholders’ equity as presented in our balance sheet.
238 Compensation
   
 
2020	STI	awards:	non-financial	performance	assessment	
Category Executive Board assessment 
Strategy/  p Various industry awards acknowledging excellence in client service, including Euromoney Awards for “Global Excellence in 
Client Focus Leadership”, “Switzerland’s Best Bank”, “Switzerland’s Best Investment Bank”, “Asia’s Best Bank for Wealth Management”; The 
Banker “Bank of the Year 2020 in Switzerland”, “Investment Bank of the Year”
p Capital Markets & Advisory: ranked by Dealogic as #1 Global IPOs; #1 Sponsors Leveraged Finance; Top 6 announced M&A based on 
volumes and increased share of wallet based on fees
p Fixed Income Sales & Trading: ranked #1 Structured Credit (Bloomberg) and #1 Asset Finance (Thomson Reuters)
p Successful implementation of strategic connectivity between Investment Bank and Wealth Management businesses evidenced by 31% 
growth in GTS revenues compared with the prior year
p Development of comprehensive ESG strategy, and recognition for the Group’s engagement, including being upgraded to an A rating by 
MSCI 
p Executed 37 Green, Social and Sustainability Bond transactions in 2020 totaling USD 19 billion, an increase of 42% year on year
p Integration of NAB on track with unified coverage, harmonized processes and offering and successful client retention
p Established significant CSX client base with half of clients below 35 years of age
Risk and  p Successfully navigated the COVID-19 pandemic during 2020, managing its impact across risk types
Compliance  p Ensured consistent, tight lending standards, supporting risk-controlled lending growth with an objective to maintain rigorous credit 
standards, consistent with our <10 bps provision for credit losses ratio through the cycle (for the periods 2010-2020)
p Simpler and scalable technology shared by Risk and Compliance, delivering solutions to deploy rapid cross-risk and cross-bank 
modelling and reporting
p Established new global and divisional client risk committees embedding relevant risk types and compliance disciplines for a holistic 
client view
p Introduced environmental objectives to be achieved by 2025, focusing on reducing total greenhouse gas emissions, procuring 
renewable electricity, increasing green office space and reducing paper and water consumption
p Continued investment in climate risk management, establishing a dedicated team with a mandate to set risk appetite and strategic 
trajectories in order to protect the Bank’s portfolio from climate-related risks. This included the appointment of a Chief Sustainability 
Officer and a Group Head of Reputational Risk, Sustainability and Climate Risk 
Conduct and  p Greater focus on leadership and culture for more accountability, transparency and openness
Ethics  p The ratio of severe disciplinary cases remained stable compared with the prior year
People p Strong employee survey results across the board and generally very positive recognition for leadership / support during COVID-19
p Continued progress in addressing the gender pay gaps in the UK, with a ~2% decrease in the average hourly pay rate and bonus 
pay gaps as published in March 2020
p Launched anti-bias and inclusion leadership training for senior leaders, including Executive Board members 
p Renewed strong commitment to Diversity & Inclusion with targets for Black Talent in the UK and US and gender representation set 
p Ensured key talent retention as reflected by lower top performers attrition rates, with voluntary turnover of 7.1% in 2020 compared 
with 9.8% in 2019
p Continued to actively focus on Diversity & Inclusion measures and programs; the proportion of women in senior management positions 
(Managing Director, Directors and Vice Presidents) in 2020 increased to 28% from 27% in the prior year
Category CEO assessment 
Strategy/  p Mr. Gottstein managed a smooth transition into new role at a time of severe disruption due to the COVID-19 pandemic and led the 
Client Focus design and successful implementation of several key initiatives, including: creation of one global Investment Bank; launch of the new 
Sustainability, Research & Investment Solutions function; integration of NAB; launch of CSX and combination of the Risk and Compliance 
functions
p He put forth a strategy to raise pre-tax profitability in Wealth Management-related businesses, a key part of our growth strategy
p He interacted personally with many key clients, often leading to specific business
p He enhanced our sustainability strategy through the creation of SRI, which has announced a goal to provide at least CHF 300 
billion of sustainable financing to support transition strategies (e.g. renewables, Green/Blue/Transition bonds, low-carbon energy 
solutions and UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) aligned financings) over the next 10 years
p He played a key role with respect to the creation and execution of the Swiss government backed COVID-19 lending facilities, 
strengthening the Bank’s standing in its home market 
Risk and  p Mr. Gottstein strengthened the control environment through the combination of the Risk and Compliance functions
Compliance  p He continued to drive the focus on climate risk management, announcing our ambition to align our activities with the Paris 
Agreement objective of limiting global warming to 1.5° C and committing to develop science-based targets in 2021 and 2022, 
including achieving net zero emissions from our operations, supply chain and financing activities by no later than 2050 (with interme-
diate emissions targets to be set for 2030)
p He played a key role in resolving and mitigating a number of historic and other issues, including mortgage-related litigation and the 
York investment impairment
Conduct and  p Mr. Gottstein led the evolution of the Conduct and Ethics standards into a set of cultural values (IMPACT) and launched the Group’s 
Ethics  purpose statement
p He actively communicated and engaged with employees on a regular basis, for example via quarterly townhalls during the year, 
including the first townhall dedicated to Diversity & Inclusion
 People p Mr. Gottstein successfully shifted operations to a mostly digital footprint in a short time period, maintaining employee engagement 
and morale
p He was actively involved in recruitment of key roles and talent development
p He has supported a renewed focus on Diversity & Inclusion, including setting targets for Black Talent representation in the UK and 
the US, and fostering a more LGBT+ inclusive culture
Compensation 239
   
 
2018	LTI	awards	(2018-2020	performance	period) and the RTSR over the three-year period, the number of shares 
earned represents, in aggregate, 54% of the maximum opportu-
As disclosed in the 2017 Compensation Report, the performance of  nity for the Executive Board after step-downs and departures. The 
the 2018 LTI awards is based on RoTE, adjusted TBVPS and RTSR,  impact of share price movements since the grant date is illustrated in 
each weighted equally and measured over a period of three years.  the following diagram, with the value of the 2018 LTI award based 
The 2018 LTI awards had an initial aggregate maximum opportu- on the share price at the end of 2020 being 35% of the maximum 
nity of CHF 58.5 million, and the number of shares granted was  opportunity after step-downs and departures. The LTI award vests 
calculated by dividing the maximum opportunity by the Group share  in three equal tranches on the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of 
price at the time of grant. The share price utilized was based on the  the grant date. The final value of the awards at delivery may differ 
same methodology used for share-based awards granted to Group  from the value at the end of 2020 due to subsequent share price 
employees. Based on the performance against the financial criteria  movements. 
2018	LTI	awards:	performance	against	targets
              Payout level 
  Weighting1    Performance levels    Result    (% of maximum opportunity)
  
              Threshold  Target  Maximum 
Performance criteria    Threshold  Target  Maximum    0%  25%  67%  100%
Three-year average RoTE2 (%)  331/3%  5.0%  7.5%  11.0%  6.9%  57%
Three-year average adjusted TBVPS3 (CHF)  331/3%  15.00  16.00  18.00  16.64 78%
Relative Total Shareholder Return (RTSR)4  331/3%        11th of 19 25%
Total  100% 54%
Note: Three-year average RoTE and three-year average adjusted TBVPS are non-GAAP financial measures and are used in this table for the purposes of defining performance target levels 
for compensation.
1 Due to the nature of the role and inclusion of a qualitative assessment, the weighting of the Group metrics is different for the Executive Board member who is categorized as UK PRA MRT.
2 RoTE, a non-GAAP financial measure, is calculated as net income attributable to shareholders divided by average tangible shareholders’ equity. Tangible shareholders’ equity, a non-GAAP 
financial measure, is calculated by deducting goodwill and other intangible assets from total shareholders’ equity as presented in our balance sheet.
3 Tangible book value, a non-GAAP financial measure, is equal to tangible shareholders’ equity. TBVPS, a non-GAAP financial measure, is calculated by dividing tangible shareholders’ 
equity by the total number of shares outstanding. Adjusted TBVPS, a non-GAAP financial measure, is calculated by dividing tangible shareholders’ equity, excluding the impact of dividends 
paid, own credit movements and foreign exchange movements, by the total number of outstanding shares. The impact of foreign exchange movements references exchange rates in 2018 
at the time the targets were set. 
4	To provide the benchmark for comparison of performance, a group of 18 peers has been chosen by the Compensation Committee based on size, geographic scope and business mix, and 
consists of companies with publicly traded shares where there is positive correlation to Credit Suisse in the relationship of share price movements and how they react to external market 
conditions. For the purposes of the RTSR ranking, the peer group list is unchanged since 2016 when the RTSR criteria was introduced, and consists of Banco Santander, Bank of America, 
Barclays, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, ING Group, Intesa Sanpaolo, JPMorgan Chase, Julius Bär, Morgan Stanley, Nordea Bank, NatWest Group, 
Société Générale, Standard Chartered and UBS. 
Estimated	value	of	the	2018	LTI	awards
2018-2020 performance cycle (in CHF million)
58.5
49.5
-9.0
-12.0
26.7
-10.8 17.4
-9.3
Maximum   Impact of   Maximum   Impact of   Impact of   Achievement   Impact of share   Value based  
opportunity  Executive Board   opportunity post  Relative Total   other performance   of performance   price movement on share price 
step-downs and  step-downs and  Shareholder Return criteria targets of CHF 11.40 
departures departures  
Note: Figures above may contain rounding differences. CHF 11.40 is the share price as of December 31, 2020. The number of shares earned based on the achievement of the performance 
targets over the three-year performance period will vest in three equal tranches on the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the grant date.
240 Compensation
   
2020	LTI	opportunities	(2020-2022	performance	 measured over a period of three years. The LTI opportunities 
period) will continue to vest in three equal tranches on the third, fourth 
and fifth anniversaries of the grant date, and the grant price will 
The fair value of the 2020 LTI at the time of grant was CHF  continue to be based on the same methodology used for share-
28.6 million, as determined by Deloitte LLP (Deloitte) and as  based awards granted to Group employees. In relation to the 
approved by shareholders at the 2020 AGM. The team within  RTSR component, for 2021 and prospective LTIs, there will con-
Deloitte that conducts this valuation is in a department separate  tinue to be zero payout for a ranking within the lowest five and 
from the Deloitte advisor to the Compensation Committee. The  maximum payout for a ranking within the top five, with smoother 
initial number of shares was calculated by dividing the maximum  payout levels for rankings in between to avoid large movements, 
opportunity of CHF 53.75 million by the share price at the time of  positive or negative, based on small differences in TSR com-
grant, whereby the share price for this purpose is calculated using  pared with peers. After taking into consideration the Group’s 
the same methodology used for share-based awards granted to  internal financial plan, prior-year performance, analyst expecta-
Group employees. The amount achieved at the end of the perfor- tions and the Group’s publicly stated ambitions, as well as market 
mance cycle may differ from the fair value at grant, and therefore  developments, the Compensation Committee decided to set the 
the actual performance will be measured and disclosed at the  threshold, target and maximum performance levels for the RoTE 
end of the three-year performance period. The average maximum  component to 6.0%, 10.0% and 12.0%, respectively. The cor-
opportunity for Executive Board members (excluding the CEO)  responding adjusted TBVPS performance levels for the threshold, 
was 1.94 times base salary, compared with 2.20 times base sal- target and maximum have been set at CHF 17.90, CHF 19.30 
ary for the prior year.  and CHF 20.10, respectively, as shown in the table below. The 
> Refer to “Compensation design” and the 2019 Annual Report for further  fair value at grant of the 2021 LTI is 53% of the maximum oppor-
information. tunity, similar to the 2020 LTI fair valuation. At the 2021 AGM, 
shareholders will be asked to approve an aggregate 2021 LTI 
Compensation of the Group CEO and highest paid  amount of CHF 25.1 million, based on the fair value at grant. This 
Executive Board member amount will form part of the 2021 Executive Board compensation 
The annual performance assessment of the Group CEO and the  disclosure. 
highest paid Executive Board member, Thomas Gottstein, takes 
into account the same financial and non-financial criteria applied  Performance	target	levels	for	the	2021	LTI
to other Executive Board members. Based on the STI perfor-         Performance targets 
mance assessment described previously and the fair value of the  Performance criteria   Threshold   Target   Maximum 
2020 LTI, Mr. Gottstein’s total variable incentive compensation  Three-year average RoTE 1  6.0%   10.0%   12.0% 
for 2020 was CHF 5.6 million. Mr. Gottstein’s total compensation  Three-year average adjusted TBVPS (CHF) 2  17.90   19.30   20.10 
for 2020 was CHF 8.5 million, compared with total compensation 
1 RoTE, a non-GAAP financial measure, is calculated as net income attributable to share-
of CHF 10.7 million awarded to the previous CEO in 2019. 
holders divided by average tangible shareholders’ equity. Tangible shareholders’ equity, 
a non-GAAP financial measure, is calculated by deducting goodwill and other intangible 
Mr. Gottstein’s realized compensation for 2020 comprises:  assets from total shareholders’ equity as presented in our balance sheet.
p CHF 2.6 million base salary, of which CHF 270,000 was  2 Adjusted TBVPS is a non-GAAP financial measure. For purposes of the 2021 LTI, it is 
calculated by dividing tangible shareholders’ equity by the total number of outstanding 
committed for donation to COVID-19 related relief efforts;  shares, after excluding the cumulative impact of dividends paid, own credit movements, 
p CHF 1.0 million non-deferred cash component of the 2020  any future corporate developments impacting equity and FX rate movements during the 
performance period.
STI award (paid out in 2021, subject to shareholder approval 
at the 2021 AGM); 
p Group shares with a value at delivery of CHF 0.2 million in  2021	LTI	RTSR	payout	levels
Top	5 
relation to the second vested installment of the 2016 LTI and  100% payout
Group shares with a value at delivery of CHF 0.2 million in  90%
relation to the first vested installment of the 2017 LTI; and  80%
p CHF 0.2 million deferred cash portion of the 2016 STI award.  70%
60%
In addition, Mr. Gottstein received CHF 0.1 million as compensa- 50%
tion for dividend equivalents on vested awards and CHF 0.2 mil- 40%
lion in pension and other benefits.  30%
20%
2021	LTI	opportunities	(2021-2023	performance	 Bottom 5  10%
0% payout
period) 
19th 18th 17th 16th  15th 14th 13th 12th 11th 10th 9th  8th  7th  6th  5th  4th  3rd  2nd 1st
Achievement Level – Ranking vs Peers
The 2021 LTI opportunities will continue to be based on 
RoTE, adjusted TBVPS and RTSR, each weighted equally and 
Compensation 241
   
Supplementary information 
Executive Board compensation (audited)
   Base                             
   salaries       	 Total             	 Total    
   and role-      Pension   fixed   STI awards    	 Total	 	 LTI	awards   variable 	 Total 
   based   Dividend   and other   compen-   (Non-   STI awards 	 STI   fair value   compen-   compen- 
in   allowances 1   equivalents 2   benefits 3   sation   deferred)		4  (Deferred) 5   awards   (Deferred)		6  sation   sation	7	,8
2         020	(CHF	million) 	         	  
13 members   25.70   1.12   2.14   28.96   7.76   7.97   15.73   23.74 	 39.47   68.43 
   % of total compensation 9         	 42%       	 23% 	 35% 	 58%    
of which CEO and                                
highest paid:                                
Thomas Gottstein   2.62   0.08   0.24   2.94   1.00   1.00   2.00   3.59   5.59   8.53 
   % of total compensation          	 34%       	 23% 	 43% 	 66%    
of which joiners                                
and leavers during 2020                               
(3 individuals)   4.86   0.25   0.34 	 5.45   2.29   2.29 	 4.58 	 1.87 	 6.45 	 11.90 
   % of total compensation          	 46%       	 38% 	 16% 	 54%    
2         019	(CHF	million) 	         	  
17 members   27.03   2.06   2.46   31.55   11.04   11.35   22.39   23.49 	 45.88   77.43 
   % of total compensation 9         	 41%       	 29% 	 30% 	 59%    
of which CEO and                                
highest paid:                                
Tidjane Thiam   3.00   0.26   0.25   3.51   1.63   1.63   3.26   3.95 	 7.21   10.72 
   % of total compensation          	 33%       	 30% 	 37% 	 67%    
of which joiners                                
and leavers during 2019                               
(10 individuals)   10.57   0.67   1.08   12.32   3.36   3.36 	 6.72 	 3.56 	 10.28 	 22.60 
   % of total compensation          	 55%       	 30% 	 15% 	 45%    
For the individuals who joined the Executive Board and the individuals who left the Executive Board during 2019 and 2020, compensation relating to the period during which they were 
members of the Executive Board and, for leavers, during their respective notice period is included in the table above.
1 The 2020 base salaries and role-based allowances total reflects the base salary for two Executive Board members that is already reduced by 20% of their annual base salary during six 
months that Executive Board members committed to COVID-19 pandemic relief efforts. For all other Executive Board members their donations to pandemic relief efforts were made post 
payment of salary.
2 Dividend equivalents were paid in cash, consistent with dividends paid on actual shares.
3 Other benefits consist of housing allowances, expense allowances and relocation allowances.
4 STI non-deferred awards for 2020 comprised CHF 7.55 million (for 2019 CHF 10.74 million) cash, with a further CHF 0.21 million (for 2019 CHF 0.30 million) granted as blocked 
shares to Mr. Mathers, to comply with regulatory requirements given that he was categorized as UK PRA MRT during 2020 and 2019.
5 STI deferred awards for 2020 comprised CHF 7.66 million (for 2019 CHF 10.89 million) in deferred cash awards as well as CHF 0.31 million (for 2019 CHF 0.46 million) granted as 
share awards to Mr. Mathers, to comply with regulatory requirements given that he was categorized as UK PRA MRT during 2020 and 2019.
6 The fair value of the LTI awards as of the date of grant was determined using a probabilistic valuation method applied by Deloitte.
7 For the total compensation awarded to the members of the Executive Board, the Group made payments of CHF 2.7 million in 2020 (for 2019 CHF 3.3 million) to cover the mandatory 
employer social security contributions as required under the social security laws applicable to the individual Executive Board members based on their domicile and employment status. 
These contributions do not form part of the Executive Board members’ compensation.
8 No guaranteed bonuses, sign-on or replacement awards were paid to Executive Board members for 2020 and 2019.
9 Variable compensation ranged from 31% to 77% of total compensation in 2020 and from 37% to 82% in 2019.
Former Executive Board members (audited)  base salaries, role-based allowances, dividend equivalents, pen-
For 2020, no compensation payments were made to former  sion and other benefits. In line with the Swiss Ordinance Against 
Executive Board members who left Credit Suisse, which was also  Excessive Compensation with respect to Listed Stock Corpora-
the case for 2019. Further, no payments were made to former  tions (Compensation Ordinance) and as specified in the AoA, if 
Executive Board members pursuant to non-compete arrange- new members join the Executive Board or members of the Exec-
ments. Certain former Executive Board members assumed other  utive Board are promoted during the period for which compensa-
roles within Credit Suisse after stepping down from the Executive  tion has already been approved by shareholders, a further 30% 
Board. of the aggregate amounts already approved may be used for the 
compensation of such members. 
Utilization of Executive Board compensation approved at 
the	2020	AGM For the 2019 AGM to 2020 AGM period, an additional CHF 0.6 
At the 2020 AGM, shareholders approved a maximum aggre- million was utilized, namely CHF 0.5 million for the base salary 
gate amount of fixed compensation to be paid to members of  and pension and benefits of André Helfenstein, a new member 
the Executive Board for the period from the 2020 AGM to the  of the Executive Board, and CHF 0.1 million for the base salary 
2021 AGM of CHF 31.0 million. Fixed compensation includes  of Thomas Gottstein, who was promoted to CEO of the Group. 
242 Compensation
   
By the time of the 2021 AGM, a total of approximately CHF 27.6  compensation and outstanding awards will be forfeited. There are 
million will have been paid to Executive Board members, of which  no other contracts, agreements or arrangements with the mem-
CHF 26.4 million relates to the individuals who were members of  bers of the Executive Board that provide for other types of pay-
the Executive Board at the time of the 2020 AGM. ments or benefits in connection with termination of employment 
that are not generally available to other employees of the Group.
At the 2020 AGM, shareholders also approved LTI compensation 
to be granted to members of the Executive Board for the 2020  In the case of a change in control, the treatment of outstanding 
financial year with a fair value at grant of CHF 28.6 million and a  awards for all employees, including Executive Board members, 
corresponding maximum opportunity of CHF 53.75 million, which  will be determined by the Board upon recommendation of the 
was subsequently awarded to the Executive Board members. The  Compensation Committee with the aim of maximizing shareholder 
amount of the 2020 LTI award earned by each of the Executive  value, subject to circumstances and prevailing market conditions. 
Board members can only be determined after the completion of  There are no provisions in the employment contracts of Executive 
the three-year performance period. Board members or any other pre-determined arrangements that 
require the payment of any type of extraordinary benefits, includ-
Cash settlement of share awards ing special severance awards or transaction premia, in the case of 
The Executive Board members are permitted to elect, subject  a change in control.
to minimum shareholding requirements, at a predefined date in 
advance of settlement, to receive their vested share-based awards  Other outstanding awards 
in the form of shares, cash or 50% in the form of shares and 50%  As of December 31, 2020, the outstanding cash-based deferred 
in cash, in each case based on the Group share price at the time  compensation awards granted to certain Executive Board mem-
of settlement. An election to receive cash is subject to reversal if  bers in prior years comprised of the Capital Opportunity Facility 
at the time of settlement the Group share price is less than 75%  (COF), contingent capital awards (CCA), Deferred Cash Allow-
of the share price at the time of election. The timing and pricing of  ance Plan (DCAP) and deferred STI cash awards. The cumula-
settlement will be the same as under the previous award plan and  tive value of such cash-based awards at their grant dates was 
as under the plans of the non-Executive Board population.  CHF 29.3 million compared with CHF 29.9 million as of Decem-
ber 31, 2020. These amounts also include the cash value of 
Contract lengths, termination and change in control  dividend equivalents related to unvested share awards at their 
provisions  respective grant dates and at December 31, 2020.
All members of the Executive Board have employment contracts 
with the Group that are valid until terminated. The standard notice  Minimum	shareholding	requirements	
period for termination of employment by either the Group or  As of December 31, 2020, the CEO and all Executive Board 
the respective Executive Board member is six months. Execu- members fulfilled the minimum shareholding requirements of 
tive Board members may be held to a non-compete period of  500,000 shares and 300,000 shares, respectively, as mea-
up to one year and may be compensated for this period of time  sured against the number of shares owned plus the number of 
by mutual agreement. In the event of termination, there are no  unvested awards calculated on the basis of actual achievement 
contractual provisions that allow for the payment of severance  level (for awards that have reached the end of their three-year 
awards to Executive Board members beyond the regular compen- performance period) or maximum opportunity (for awards that 
sation awarded during the notice period. Pre-defined conditions  have not reached the end of their three-year performance period). 
for all employees, including Executive Board members, apply  The CEO and Executive Board members are not permitted to sell 
for the payment of outstanding deferred compensation awards,  shares until they have met the minimum shareholding require-
depending on whether the termination of employment was vol- ments, except as necessary to fulfill taxation obligations on the 
untary, involuntary, by mutual agreement or as the result of a  respective shares awarded. 
change in control. In case of a termination for cause, any deferred 
Compensation 243
   
Executive Board holdings and values of deferred share-based awards by individual
               Value (CHF) of 
         Number of   Value (CHF) of   unvested awards  
   Number of    Number of   owned shares and   unvested awards    at year end  
end of   owned shares 1   unvested awards 2   unvested awards   at grant date 3   (at fair value)		4
2    020         
Thomas P. Gottstein   329,945   1,175,386   1,505,331   14,059,196   7,982,209 
Romeo Cerutti   360,449   569,438   929,887   7,134,274   4,108,232 
Brian Chin   568,030   1,790,864   2,358,894   21,951,346   12,474,970 
André Helfenstein   74,229   671,329   745,558   7,523,347   5,899,796 
Lydie Hudson   57,115   421,216   478,331   4,864,351   2,895,168 
David R. Mathers   110,958   1,313,581   1,424,539   14,661,244   10,505,639 
Antoinette Poschung   141,405   207,515   348,920   2,360,009   1,412,321 
Helman Sitohang   365,186   1,344,933   1,710,119   16,773,304   9,612,195 
James B. Walker   143,444   577,046   720,490   6,552,588   5,092,395 
Lara J. Warner  –    1,089,006   1,089,006   13,461,484   7,647,962 
Philipp Wehle   74,542   670,246   744,788   7,652,671   5,095,777 
Total 	 2,225,303 	 9,830,560 	 12,055,863 	 116,993,815 	 72,726,662 
2    019         
Tidjane Thiam   66,422   1,303,823   1,370,245   19,084,599   10,833,091 
Romeo Cerutti   323,165   458,513   781,678   6,750,770   3,820,259 
Brian Chin   494,030   1,430,886   1,924,916   20,368,149   11,843,258 
Thomas P. Gottstein   150,214   672,361   822,575   9,574,478   5,530,279 
Lydie Hudson   26,175   295,386   321,561   3,739,373   2,832,024 
David R. Mathers   84,360   1,029,891   1,114,251   13,509,668   9,392,954 
David Miller  –    734,280   734,280   10,240,437   8,888,164 
Antoinette Poschung   123,318   139,024   262,342   1,693,270   1,302,361 
Helman Sitohang   264,737   1,007,352   1,272,089   14,683,925   8,198,365 
James B. Walker   100,153   317,330   417,483   4,181,205   3,834,492 
Lara J. Warner  –    786,568   786,568   11,361,535   6,138,554 
Philipp Wehle   21,540   364,059   385,599   4,735,987   3,862,390 
Total 	 1,654,114 	 8,539,473 	 10,193,587 	 119,923,396 	 76,476,192 
1 Includes shares that were initially granted as deferred compensation and have vested.
2 Includes unvested shares originating from LTI opportunities calculated on the basis of maximum opportunity for awards that have not reached the end of their three-year performance 
period, given that the actual achievement level and associated number of unvested shares cannot be determined until the end of the performance period. For LTI awards that have 
reached the end of their three-year performance period, the number of unvested shares reflects the actual number of shares earned based on achievement of the performance target 
levels.
3 Determined based on the number of unvested awards multiplied by the share price at grant.
4 Includes the value of unvested LTI opportunities. For LTI awards that have reached the end of their three-year performance period, the value is based on the actual number of shares 
eligible to vest. For LTI opportunities that have not reached the end of their three-year performance period, this is determined based on the number of shares at fair value at the time of 
grant, multiplied by the share price at the end of the year.
244 Compensation
   
Executive Board outstanding deferred compensation awards 
                        % of which 
                        exposed to 
      Total          Ex post   Ex post 	 Total	   ex post 
      outstanding    Granted    Paid out in   explicit   implicit  outstanding    explicit 
in / end      end of 2019   in 2020 1   2020  adjustments  adjustments 	end	of	2020  adjustments 
E        xecutive Board (CHF million)          
CCAs   Cash-based  6    1   (3)  –    0   4   100% 
Deferred cash awards 2  Cash-based   13   7   (1)  –    (1)   18   100% 
Share awards 3  Share-based   86   48   (5)   (8)   (7)   114   100% 
Performance share awards   Share-based   9   3   (3)  –    (2)   7   100% 
Total    	 114   59   (12)   (8) 	 (10) 	 143   – 
1 Includes awards granted to Executive Board members with respect to their previous roles prior to joining the Executive Board.
2 Includes the deferred cash portion of STI awards.
3 Includes the outstanding 2020, 2019 and 2018 LTI opportunities at maximum opportunity.
Executive Board loans (audited) mortgages are granted for periods of up to ten years. Interest rates 
The majority of loans outstanding to Executive Board members  applied are based on refinancing costs plus a margin, and interest 
are mortgages or loans against securities. Such loans are made  rates and other terms are consistent with those applicable to other 
on the same terms available to employees under the Group’s  employees. Loans against securities are granted at interest rates 
employee benefit plans. Pursuant to the AoA, each Executive  and on terms applicable to such loans granted to other employees. 
Board member may be granted individual credit facilities or loans  The same credit approval and risk assessment procedures apply 
up to a maximum of CHF 20 million. As of December 31, 2020,  to Executive Board members as for other employees. Unless oth-
2019 and 2018, outstanding loans to Executive Board mem- erwise noted, all loans to Executive Board members were made 
bers amounted to CHF 13 million, CHF 32 million and CHF 33  in the ordinary course of business and substantially on the same 
million, respectively. The number of individuals with outstanding  terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing 
loans at the beginning and the end of 2020 was 5 and 4, respec- at the time for comparable transactions with other persons and in 
tively, and the highest loan outstanding was CHF 6 million to Mr.  consideration of the terms which apply to all Group employees. 
Gottstein. These loans did not involve more than the normal risk of collectabil-
ity or present other unfavorable features.
All mortgage loans to Executive Board members are granted either  > Refer to “Banking relationships with Board and Executive Board members and 
with variable or fixed interest rates over a certain period. Typically,  related party transactions” in IV – Corporate Governance – Additional informa-
tion for further information.
Compensation 245
   
Group compensation
Compensation	outcomes	for	2020	
Total	compensation	awarded   Variable incentive compensation  Total	compensation	awarded	to	
(CHF million) awarded (CHF million) MRTCs 
(CHF million)
-3% -7% -12%
10,155 9,840 3,168 2,949 1,821
1,607
2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020
Variable incentive compensation awarded Approximately 51% of variable incentive compensation awarded 
Against the backdrop of challenging market and economic con- is deferred and expensed in future periods, and subject to future 
ditions prompted by the COVID-19 pandemic, underlying busi- service, performance and malus criteria and other restrictive 
ness performance was solid, with adjusted income before taxes  covenants.
excluding significant items increasing 6% compared with the prior 
year. The Compensation Committee also considered a range of  Compensation	awarded	to	Material	Risk	Takers	and	
other factors such as relative performance versus peers and mar- Controllers	(MRTCs)
ket position and market trends, as well as risk, control, compli- Total compensation awarded to MRTCs for 2020 was CHF 1,607 
ance and conduct and ethics considerations. Overall, the Com- million, compared with CHF 1,821 million for 2019. Of the CHF 
pensation Committee proposed a Group variable incentive pool of  1,607 million total compensation awarded, 58% was in the form 
CHF 2,949 million, 7% lower compared with the previous year,  of variable compensation, with 75% of the variable compensation 
in the context of lower reported results and to take into account  subject to malus.
the COVID-19 pandemic and resulting economic environment. 
246 Compensation
   
Total	compensation	awarded	
     	 2020        2019 
For   Unrestricted   Deferred 	 Total  Unrestricted   Deferred   Total 
F     ixed compensation (CHF million)          
Salaries   5,158   120   5,278   5,241   108   5,349 
Social security   653  –    653   642  –    642 
Other 1  836  –    836   786  –    786 
Total	fixed	compensation 	 6,647 	 120   6,767 	 6,669 	 108   6,777 
V     ariable incentive compensation (CHF million)          
Cash   1,417  –    1,417   1,433  –    1,433 
Share awards   35   592   627   37   626   663 
Performance share awards  –    493   493  –    553   553 
Contingent Capital Awards  –    253   253  –    268   268 
Deferred cash awards  –    159   159  –    251   251 
Total	variable	incentive	compensation 	 1,452 	 1,497   2,949 	 1,470 	 1,698   3,168 
O      ther variable compensation (CHF million)          
Cash severance   47  –    47   98  –    98 
Retention awards   0   40   40  –    40   40 
Other 2  16   21   37   19   53   72 
Total	other	variable	compensation 	 63 	 61   124 	 117   93   210 
T     otal	compensation	awarded	(CHF	million)          
Total	compensation	awarded 	 8,162 	 1,678   9,840 	 8,256   1,899   10,155 
   of which guaranteed bonuses   10   9   19   26   34   60 
Salaries include role-based allowances.
1 Includes pension and other post-retirement expense of CHF 517 million and CHF 437 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively.
2 Includes replacement awards to compensate employees for the equivalent fair value of deferred awards cancelled by previous employers as well as sign-on payments.
Number of employees awarded variable incentive and other compensation 
     	 2020        2019 
      Other         Other    
   MRTCs 1   employees 	 Total   MRTCs 1   employees   Total 
N       umber of employees awarded variable incentive compensation        
Variable incentive compensation 	 1,413 	 43,531 	 44,944   1,398 	 41,827 	 43,225 
   of which Cash   1,254   43,469   44,723   1,211   41,232   42,443 
   of which Share awards   1,282   5,492   6,774   1,277   5,796   7,073 
   of which Performance share awards   1,297   853   2,150   1,297   823   2,120 
   of which Contingent Capital Awards   1,268   4,509   5,777   1,262   4,644   5,906 
   of which Deferred cash awards   247   412   659   245   796   1,041 
N       umber of employees awarded other variable compensation        
Cash severance   10   599   609   27   764   791 
Retention awards   42   104   146   17   35   52 
Guaranteed bonuses   1   66   67   7   123   130 
Other 2  24 3   573   597   34 3   556   590 
Excluding Executive Board members who were in office on December 31, 2020 or 2019, respectively.
1 Excludes individuals who may have been classified as MRTCs according to regulatory requirements of jurisdictions outside of Switzerland, particularly US-based revenue producers in the 
Investment Bank, who were classified as Covered Employees by the US Federal Reserve.
2 Includes replacement awards to compensate employees for the equivalent fair value of deferred awards cancelled by previous employers as well as sign-on payments.
3 For 2020 and 2019, sign-on payments were paid to 0 and 1 MRTC, respectively.
Compensation 247
   
Compensation	awarded	to	Material	Risk	Takers	and	Controllers	
     	 2020        2019 
For   Unrestricted   Deferred 	 Total  Unrestricted   Deferred   Total 
F     ixed compensation (CHF million)          
Total	fixed	compensation 1  598 	 74 	 672 	 640 	 57 	 697 
V     ariable incentive compensation (CHF million)          
Cash   193  –    193   228  –    228 
Share awards   35   178   213   37   205   242 
Performance share awards  –    299   299  –    357   357 
Contingent Capital Awards  –    119   119  –    136   136 
Deferred cash awards  –    78   78  –    90   90 
Total	variable	incentive	compensation   228   674   902 	 265   788   1,053 
O      ther variable compensation (CHF million)          
Cash severance   4  –    4   9  –    9 
Retention awards   0   17   17  –    37   37 
Other 2  3 3   9   12   2 3   23   25 
Total	other	variable	compensation 	 7 	 26   33   11 	 60 	 71 
T     otal	compensation	(CHF	million)          
Total	compensation   833 	 774   1,607 	 916 	 905   1,821 
   of which guaranteed bonuses   0   0   0   1   5  6  
Excluding Executive Board members who were in office on December 31, 2020 or 2019, respectively. Of the total compensation awarded to MRTCs for 2020 and 2019, 48% and 50%, 
respectively, was deferred. Of the total variable incentive compensation awarded to MRTCs for 2020 and 2019, 75% and 75%, respectively, was deferred.
1 The number of MRTCs receiving fixed compensation for 2020 and 2019 was 1,438 and 1,444, respectively.
2 Includes replacement awards to compensate employees for the equivalent fair value of deferred awards cancelled by previous employers as well as sign-on payments.
3 For 2020 and 2019, sign-on payments paid to MRTCs amounted to CHF 0 million and CHF 3 million, respectively.
Group	compensation	and	benefits	expense	 compensation. Variable compensation expense reflects the vari-
Compensation and benefits expenses recognized in the cur- able cash compensation for the current year and amortization of 
rent year income statement include salaries, role-based allow- deferred compensation awards granted in prior years. 
ances, variable compensation, benefits and employer taxes on 
248 Compensation
   
Group	compensation	and	benefits	expense	
     	 2020        2019 
   Current   Deferred      Current   Deferred    
   compen-   compen-      compen-   compen-    
in   sation   sation 	 Total   sation   sation   Total 
F     ixed compensation expense (CHF million)          
Salaries   5,158   112 1   5,270   5,241   102 1   5,343 
Social security 2  653  –    653   642  –    642 
Other 3  836  –    836   786  –    786 
Total	fixed	compensation	expense 	 6,647   112 	 6,759 	 6,669 	 102 	 6,771 
V     ariable incentive compensation expense (CHF million)          
Cash   1,417  –    1,417   1,433  –    1,433 
Share awards   35   573	4	,5  608   37   589	4	,5  626 
Performance share awards  –    448   448  –    438   438 
Contingent Capital Awards  –    255   255  –    308   308 
Deferred cash awards 6  –   286 5   286  –    318 5   318 
Total	variable	incentive	compensation	expense 	 1,452 	 1,562 	 3,014 	 1,470 	 1,653   3,123 
O      ther variable compensation expense (CHF million)          
Cash severance   47  –    47   98  –    98 
Retention Awards  –    43   43  –    22   22 
Other 7  27  –    27   22  –    22 
Total	other	variable	compensation	expense 	 74 	 43 	 117 	 120   22 	 142 
T     otal	compensation	expense	(CHF	million)          
Total	compensation	expense 	 8,173 	 1,717   9,890   8,259 	 1,777   10,036 
Salaries include role-based allowances. Restructuring expenses in connection with the strategic review of the Group were disclosed separately and were not part of the total compensation 
expenses. In 2020, restructuring expenses included cash severance expenses of CHF 69 million relating to 793 employees.
1 Includes deferred fixed cash compensation expense of CHF 112 million and CHF 102 million related to cash awards for 2020 and 2019, respectively.
2 Represents the Group’s portion of employees’ mandatory social security.
3 Includes pension and other post-retirement expense of CHF 517 million and CHF 437 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively.
4 Includes CHF 6 million and CHF 10 million of compensation expense associated with replacement share awards granted in 2020 and 2019, respectively.
5 In 2020, Contingent Capital share awards are included in the category share awards, and Capital Opportunity Facility awards are included in the category deferred cash awards. Prior 
periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
6 Includes CHF 2 million and CHF 4 million of compensation expense associated with replacement cash awards granted in 2020 and 2019, respectively.
7 Includes sign-on payments.
Group estimated unrecognized compensation expense comparative information for 2019. These estimates are based on 
The following table shows the estimated compensation expense  the fair value of each award on the grant date, taking into account 
that has not yet been recognized through the income statement  the current estimated outcome of relevant performance criteria 
for deferred compensation awards granted for 2020 and prior  and estimated future forfeitures. No estimate has been included 
years that were outstanding as of December 31, 2020, with  for future mark-to-market adjustments.
Group estimated unrecognized compensation expense 
     Deferred compensation 	 2020     Deferred compensation   2019 
      For         For    
   For   prior-year      For   prior-year    
end of   2020   awards 	 Total   2019   awards   Total 
E      stimated unrecognized compensation expense (CHF million)          
Share awards   538   449 1   987   596   477 1   1,073 
Performance share awards   453   194   647   519   193   712 
Contingent Capital Awards   241   151   392   257   165   422 
Deferred cash awards   159   201 2   360   251   181 2   432 
Retention awards  –    40   40  –    48   48 
Total	estimated	unrecognized	compensation	expense   1,391 	 1,035 	 2,426 	 1,623 	 1,064 	 2,687 
1 Includes CHF 10 million and CHF 28 million of estimated unrecognized compensation expense associated with replacement share awards granted to new employees in 2020 and 2019, 
respectively, not related to prior years.
2 Includes CHF 3 million and CHF 11 million of estimated unrecognized compensation expense associated with replacement cash awards granted to new employees in 2020 and 2019, 
respectively, not related to prior years.
Compensation 249
   
Changes to the value of outstanding deferred awards > Refer to “Note 30 – Employee deferred compensation” in VI – Consolidated 
Employees experience changes to the value of their deferred  financial statements – Credit Suisse Group for further information. 
compensation awards during the vesting period due to both 
implicit and explicit value changes. Implicit value changes primarily  The following table provides a comparison of the outstanding 
reflect market-driven effects, such as changes in the Group share  deferred compensation awards at the end of 2019 and 2020, 
price, changes in the value of the CCA and foreign exchange  indicating the value of changes due to ex post implicit and ex 
rate movements. Explicit value changes reflect risk adjustments  post explicit adjustments. For 2020, the change in value for the 
triggered by conditions related to negative performance in the  outstanding deferred compensation awards was mainly due to 
performance-based awards, forfeiture, or the malus provisions in  implicit adjustments driven primarily by changes in the Group 
all deferred awards. The final value of an award will only be deter- share price, foreign exchange rate movements and changes in 
mined at settlement. the value of CCA.
Outstanding deferred compensation awards 
                        % of which 
                        exposed to 
      Total          Ex post   Ex post 	 Total	   ex post 
      outstanding    Granted    Paid out in   explicit   implicit  outstanding    explicit 
in / end      end of 2019   in 2020   2020  adjustments  adjustments 	end	of	2020  adjustments 
G        roup (CHF million) 1          
CCAs   Cash-based   747   269   (183)   (20)   (122)   691   100% 
Deferred cash awards 2  Cash-based   241   104   (123)   (5)   (24)   193   100% 
Share awards 2  Share-based   1,449 3   735   (402)   (74)   (280)   1,428   100% 
Performance share awards   Share-based   948   540   (244)   (25)   (174)   1,045   100% 
Total      3,385 	 1,648 	 (952)		 (124) 	 (600) 	 3,357   – 
M        aterial	Risk	Takers	and	Controllers	(CHF	million) 4          
CCAs   Cash-based   330   137   (82)   (2)   (29)   354   100% 
Deferred cash awards 2  Cash-based   98   46   (55)  –    (9)   80   100% 
Share awards 2  Share-based   496 3   259   (147)   (10)   (94)   504   100% 
Performance share awards   Share-based   560   338   (134)   (4)   (95)   665   100% 
Total    	 1,484		 780 	 (418) 	 (16)		 (227) 	 1,603   – 
1 Includes MRTCs and Executive Board members who were in office on December 31, 2020.
2 Includes retention awards.
3 Contingent Capital share awards are included in the category share awards. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
4 Excludes Executive Board members who were in office on December 31, 2020.
Supplementary information  on shareholders’ equity because the reduction to shareholders’ 
equity from the expense recognition is offset by the obligation to 
Impact of share-based compensation on shareholders’  deliver shares, which is recognized as an increase to equity by a 
equity corresponding amount. Shareholders’ equity includes, as addi-
In general, the income statement expense recognition of  tional paid-in capital, the tax benefits associated with the expens-
share-based awards on a pre-tax basis has a neutral impact  ing and subsequent settlement of share-based awards.
250 Compensation
   
Since 2017, the Group has been fulfilling its share delivery obliga- Role-based allowances
tions by purchasing shares in the market. The Group maintained  Role-based allowances are a component of fixed compensation 
this practice during 2020 and will continue covering future share  awarded to certain employees identified as Prudential Regulation 
delivery obligations through market purchases. Authority (PRA) Material Risk Takers (MRTs) under UK regula-
tory requirements or material risk takers under other EU regula-
Share-based awards outstanding tory requirements. These role-based allowances are determined 
At the end of 2020, there were 218.0 million share-based awards  based on the role and organizational responsibility of the individu-
outstanding, of which 126.3 million were share awards and 91.7  als. Role-based allowances are deemed to be fixed compensation 
million performance share awards.  for the purposes of calculating the cap of variable incentive com-
> Refer to “Note 30 – Employee deferred compensation” in VI – Consolidated  pensation as required by the Capital Requirements Directive IV 
financial statements – Credit Suisse Group for further information. (CRD IV) and Capital Requirements Regulation. DCAP is a form 
of role-based allowance that is used primarily in the Americas.
Subsequent activity
In early 2021, the Group granted approximately 44.6 million new  Variable incentive compensation 
share awards and 37.8 million new performance share awards  For 2020, variable incentive compensation was paid in cash 
with respect to performance in 2020. Further, the Group awarded  unless the total compensation awarded to an employee for 2020 
CHF 253 million of deferred variable incentive compensation in  was greater than or equal to CHF 250,000 or the local currency 
the form of CCA pursuant to the Group’s compensation policy. equivalent or USD 250,000 for employees whose total compen-
sation is denominated in US dollars. In these cases a portion was 
In the first half of 2021, the Group plans to settle 86.8 million  paid in cash and the balance was deferred, vesting at a later date.
deferred awards from prior years, including 52.2 million share 
awards and 34.6 million performance share awards. The Group  Generally, employees receive the cash portion of their variable 
will continue to meet this delivery obligation through market  incentive compensation at a regular payroll settlement date close 
purchases. to the grant date. To comply with CRD IV requirements, employ-
> Refer to “Capital management” in III – Treasury, Risk, Balance sheet and Off- ees who hold material risk taker roles in respect of certain Group 
balance sheet for more information. subsidiaries in the EU receive shares for 50% of the non-deferred 
portion of variable incentive compensation that would have been 
Group compensation framework  paid to them in cash. These shares are vested at the time of 
grant but remain blocked, that is, subject to transfer restrictions, 
The key elements of our current Group employees’ compensation  for a period of time, generally 12 months. 
framework and how they applied to various employee categories 
are described below. For 2020 there was one global deferral table with deferral rates 
that range from 17.5% to 85%. The amount of variable incentive 
Base salaries compensation paid in cash for 2020 was capped at CHF 2 million 
All employees are paid a base salary. Salary levels are based on  or the local currency equivalent (or USD 2 million for employ-
the skills, qualifications and relevant experience of the individ- ees whose total compensation is denominated in US dollars) per 
ual, the responsibilities required by the role and external market  employee.
factors.
Compensation 251
   
Compensation components by employee category 
Total	compensation
Fixed  Variable compensation
compensation
Deferred compensation1
Base   Share  Performance  Contingent 
Employee category Cash
salary awards share awards Capital Awards
Managing	directors	and	directors	who	are	MRTCs 30% 50% 20%
Other directors 80% 20%
Other	MRTCs 50% 50%
Other employees with total compen sation  
100%
of	CHF/USD	250,000	or	higher
Employees with total compensation  
below	CHF/USD	250,000
1 Deferred compensation is applicable to employees with total compensation of CHF/USD 250,000 or higher.
Deferred	compensation:	key	features	
Award Delivery1 Vesting period1 Performance conditions
Share   p One registered share per award p 3 years (ratable vesting) p No additional performance conditions 
awards p Dividend equivalents (payable  p 5 years (ratable vesting) for risk 
upon delivery)  managers2
p 7 years (ratable vesting over 
five years, starting on the third 
anniversary) for senior managers3
Performance  p One registered share per award p 3 years (ratable vesting) p Performance conditions apply to full balance of 
share awards p Dividend equivalents (payable  p 5 years (ratable vesting) for risk  outstanding awards
upon delivery) managers2 p Negative adjustment applies in the event of divisional 
p 7 years (ratable vesting over  loss4 by the division in which the employee worked as 
five years, starting on the third  of December 31, 2020, or a negative return on equity 
anniversary) for senior managers3 (RoE) of the Group, whichever results in a larger 
adjustment 
p For employees in the corporate functions and the 
Corporate Center, the negative adjustment only 
applies in the event of a negative RoE of the Group 
Contingent  p At settlement, contingent capital  p 3 years (cliff vesting) Prior to settlement, the principal amount would be 
Capital Awards instrument or cash payment based  p 5 years (cliff vesting) for risk   written down to zero and forfeited if:
on the fair value of the CCA managers2 p The Group’s reported CET1 ratio falls below 7%; or 
p Prior to settlement, conditional  p 7 years (cliff vesting) for senior  p FINMA determines that cancellation of the CCA 
right to receive semi-annual cash  managers3  and other similar contingent capital instruments is 
payments of interest equivalents  necessary, or that the Group requires public sector 
p Timing and form of distribution  capital support, in either case to prevent it from 
upon settlement is subject to  becoming insolvent or otherwise failing
approval by the Swiss Financial 
Market Supervisory Authority 
FINMA (FINMA)
1 Individuals in certain jurisdictions may be subject to conditions other than those outlined here in order to comply with local legal or regulatory requirements.
2 Risk managers are a subset of the UK PRA MRT population, defined as individuals identified as having responsibility for managing or supervising risk-taking or significant risk functions for 
the Group’s UK entities. 
3 Senior managers are a subset of the UK PRA MRT population, defined as individuals who retain the greatest influence over the strategic direction of the Group’s UK business, and who also 
perform one or more of the PRA and UK Financial Conduct Authority’s designated senior management functions and “prescribed responsibilities” for the relevant UK entities. 
4 Refer to “Potential downward adjustments of performance share awards”. 
 
252 Compensation
   
Potential downward adjustments of performance share  For consideration of European and local practices, the Compen-
awards  sation Committee also references a cross-industry peer group 
As described in the following table, performance share awards  of multinational companies headquartered in Europe selected on 
may be subject to negative adjustments in the event of a divisional  the basis of comparability to Credit Suisse in size, scale, global 
loss. The amount of potential negative adjustment is shown in the  scope of operations and economic influence. In addition to the 
table below.  companies already listed previously and those included as part 
of the Executive Board LTI RTSR peer group, peers considered 
Downward adjustment if division incurs a loss for Executive Board compensation include: ABN AMRO Bank, 
Division loss before taxes   Downward adjustment on  AstraZeneca, Bayer, Commerzbank, Credit Agricole, Danske 
(in CHF billion)   award balance (in %)  Bank, GlaxoSmithKline, HSBC, Lloyds Banking Group, Merck 
1.00   15  KGaA, Natixis, Novartis, Roche, Sanofi and UniCredit. 
2.00   30 
3.00   45  Focus on risk and control
4.00   60  Risk and control considerations are an integral part of the perfor-
5.00   75  mance assessment and compensation processes. This ensures 
6.00   90  that the Group’s approach to compensation includes a focus on 
6.67   100  risk and internal control matters and discourages excessive risk 
taking. Senior management from the Group’s corporate func-
tions, including Risk & Compliance, General Counsel, Human 
Competitive benchmarking Resources, Internal Audit and Product Control, provide the Com-
The assessment of the economic and competitive environment is  pensation Committee with comprehensive feedback on regula-
an important element of the compensation process as the Group  tory, audit, disciplinary and risk-related issues or trends across the 
strives for market-informed, competitive compensation levels.  Group, relevant to the assessment of the Group’s risk and control 
Internal expertise and the services of compensation consulting  culture. Divisions are assessed against risk and conduct mea-
firms are used to benchmark compensation levels against relevant  sures for the year, and the consolidated findings are presented 
peers, taking into account geographical variations. The Com- to the Compensation Committee and the CEO. Based on these 
pensation Committee is provided with regular reports from an  assessments, the Compensation Committee may approve adjust-
independent compensation adviser on industry and market trends,  ments to the divisional pool levels as proposed by the CEO.
including competitor performance and pay trends. The core group 
considered for the purposes of Group peer benchmarking are  Aside from risk considerations, disciplinary events may also impact 
Bank of America, Barclays, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, Goldman  compensation decisions. Conduct and Ethics Boards (CEBs) 
Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, Morgan Stanley and UBS. Specific  review all disciplinary events and decide on disciplinary sanctions 
benchmarking may include other peers, depending on the busi- proposed by the recommendation teams, which include represen-
ness area or geographic location, as appropriate. tatives from the control functions. CEBs have been established at 
the Group-wide level, as well as for each business division and the 
corporate functions overall. The Group CEB meets on a quarterly 
basis to ensure that sanctions applied are in line with the Group’s 
risk appetite, market practice and regulatory requirements.
Compensation 253
   
Malus	and	clawback	provisions 2020, impacting 44 employees. All variable incentive compen-
All deferred compensation awards granted contain malus provi- sation granted to UK PRA MRTs and employees regulated by 
sions that enable the Group to reduce or cancel the awards prior  the Bank of Italy are subject to clawback. Other EU-regulated 
to settlement if the participant engages in certain detrimental  employees are also subject to clawback provisions as required by 
conduct. Malus provisions were enforced during the course of  applicable legal or regulatory requirements. 
Application Scope/Criteria
Malus p Reduction or cancellation of  p Impermissible disclosure or misuse of Group information, or willful engagement in conduct 
outstanding deferred awards  that is materially detrimental to an interest of the Group; 
prior to settlement  p Conduct that evidences serious misbehavior or serious error; 
p Applies to all outstanding  p Conduct that causes, could cause or could have caused the Group or any division or region 
deferred awards granted to suffer a significant downturn in financial performance or regulatory capital base;
p Significant failure of risk management; or 
p Conduct that is reviewed by the Group’s disciplinary conduct, ethics or similar committee
Clawback p Claim back of deferred  For UK PRA MRTs, clawback may be applied in certain situations, including:
and non-deferred variable  p Conduct which resulted in significant losses to the Group; 
compensation after vesting and  p Failure to meet appropriate standards of fitness and propriety;
settlement p Reasonable evidence of misconduct or misbehavior or a material or serious error;
p For UK PRA MRTs, clawback  p The Group or relevant business unit suffers a material failure of risk management; 
may be applied up to seven years  p A regulator mandates a significant increase in regulatory capital for the Group or any division 
from grant date (or such longer  or region; or
period as may be required) p The individual has contributed to any regulatory sanctions imposed on the Group or division 
p The Group will apply clawback  or region
provisions to the extent permitted 
under local laws, as required Similar clawback provisions apply for employees regulated by the Bank of Italy and other EU-
regulated employees who are subject to a clawback requirement. 
Covered	Employees	(including	Material	Risk	Takers	and	Controllers)
Covered employees are subject to a heightened level of scrutiny over the alignment of their compensation with performance and risk 
considerations.
Employee categories Compensation process
Covered  p MRTCs Focus on risk assessment 
Employees  p US-based revenue producers in the Investment Bank division p Covered employees and their 
managers are required to define 
role- specific risk objectives and to 
MRTCs	  p Members of the Executive Board incorporate risk considerations in 
p Employees who report directly to a member of the Executive Board their performance evaluations and 
p Employees, individually or as part of a group, with the ability to put material amounts of the  when setting variable incentive 
Group’s capital at risk compensation
p Top 150 paid employees across the Group based on total compensation  p Types of risks considered vary 
p Any employee identified as taking or controlling material risks on behalf of the Group, as  by role (e.g., reputational, credit, 
prescribed by EU/UK regulators market, operational, liquidity, legal 
p Senior relationship managers in the Wealth Management-related businesses and compliance)
p Other individuals whose roles have been identified as having a potential impact on the  p Both realized and potential risk 
market, reputational and operational risk of the Group outcomes are assessed
254 Compensation
   
Board of Directors compensation
Compensation	outcomes	for	2020
Board of Directors and Chairman compensation Chairman reflects his full-time status and active role in shaping 
the Group’s strategy, governing the Group’s affairs, engaging and 
Board of Directors   Chairman compensation  
compensation (CHF million) (CHF million) maintaining a close working relationship with the CEO and senior 
management, and providing supervision, counsel and support, 
-1% 0% where appropriate. The Chairman coordinates the Board’s activi-
ties, works with the committee chairs to coordinate the tasks of 
11.3 11.1 4.7 4.7
the committees and ensures that Board members are provided 
Shares 4.5 4.6 Shares 1.5 1.5 with sufficient information to perform their duties. The Chair-
man drives the Board agenda on key topics such as the strategic 
development of the Group, corporate culture, succession plan-
Cash1 6.7 6.6 Cash1 3.2 3.2 ning and the structure and organization of the Group. He chairs 
the Board, the Governance and Nominations Committee and the 
shareholder meetings. He takes an active role in representing the 
2019 AGM to  2020 AGM to  2019 AGM to  2020 AGM to 
2020 AGM 2021 AGM 2020 AGM 2021 AGM Group to regulators and supervisors, key shareholders, investors 
Figures above may contain rounding differences. and other external stakeholders. Moreover, he is a member of the 
1 Includes pension and other benefits for the period from the 2019 AGM to the 2020 AGM  boards of several Swiss and international industry associations on 
and from the 2020 AGM to the 2021 AGM.
behalf of the Group, including the Swiss Bankers Association, the 
For the period from the 2020 AGM to the 2021 AGM, aggre- Swiss Finance Council, the Institute of International Finance and 
gate compensation to the Board of CHF 11.1 million consisted of  the European Banking Group.
CHF 10.8 million related to Group Board memberships and CHF 
0.3 million of fees paid to certain Board members for subsidiary  Compensation of the committee chairs 
board memberships. This compares with the amount of CHF 12.0  Committee chair fees are paid for the Audit Committee, the 
million approved prospectively by shareholders at the 2020 AGM.  Compensation Committee, the Risk Committee and the Conduct 
Total Board compensation is 1% lower than the prior period, mainly  and Financial Crime Control Committee. These fees are fixed in 
driven by a reduction in subsidiary board fees.  advance and are not linked to the Group’s financial performance. 
In addition to the greater time commitment required to prepare 
The Board membership and committee fee amounts for the 2020  and lead the committee work, the chair fees reflect the engage-
AGM to 2021 AGM period are consistent with the prior year.  ment of these four committee chairs throughout the year with 
There were two adjustments in the committee chair fee amounts,  regulators, shareholders, the business divisions and corporate 
namely the Audit Committee chair fee was reduced to CHF  functions and other stakeholders. Regulatory developments in the 
400,000 from CHF 480,000 and a chair fee for the Conduct  banking industry in recent years have put increasing demands on 
and Financial Crime Committee of CHF 150,000 was introduced.  the Risk and Audit Committee Chairs, in particular, increasing the 
These changes were made in order to align the fees for the chairs  frequency of interaction with the Group’s main regulators on inter-
of the Audit and Risk Committees and to reflect that Christian  nal control, risk, capital and other matters under the supervision 
Gellerstad assumed the role of chair of the Conduct and Financial  of these committees. Similarly, the greater focus of sharehold-
Crime Control Committee as of the 2020 AGM, succeeding Urs  ers and regulators on compensation has resulted in an increased 
Rohner, who previously did not receive a separate fee for chairing  number of engagements between the Compensation Commit-
this committee.  tee Chair and key shareholders and shareholder proxy advisers, 
> Refer to the table “Board membership fees: 2020 AGM – 2021 AGM” in Com- as well as with regulators. The Compensation Committee held 
pensation Design for further information. 11 meetings and calls, and the Compensation Committee Chair 
personally attended 34 separate meetings with key shareholders 
For the 2021 AGM to 2022 AGM period, the Board intends to  and proxy advisers during 2020. The Audit Committee Chair fee 
introduce a chair fee of CHF 75,000 for the Sustainability Advi- takes into consideration the greater number of meetings required 
sory Committee. All other committee fees will remain unchanged. of the Audit Committee for the review and approval of the quar-
terly financial results and related filings and the Audit Commit-
Compensation of the Chairman tee Chair’s supervisory role over the Internal Audit function. The 
The Chairman’s compensation for the 2020 AGM to 2021 AGM  Audit Committee held 18 meetings and calls during 2020. The 
period remained unchanged compared with the prior period,  Risk Committee Chair fee reflects the regular interaction required 
and he committed to donating 20% of his base chair fee for six  between the Risk Committee Chair and the Group chief risk 
months to COVID-19 pandemic relief efforts. His role is a full- officer and other senior managers in the risk management func-
time appointment, and he may also receive benefits from, and  tion, as well as the oversight role over the Credit Risk Review 
make contributions to, the Group pension fund in line with local  function, which reports directly to the Risk Committee Chair. The 
market practice for the Group. The total compensation paid to the  Risk Committee held 9 meetings during 2020, and in addition, 
Compensation 255
   
the Risk Committee Chair held numerous meetings with regula- the Board. All subsidiary board fees are included in the total 
tors and other stakeholders. With respect to the Conduct and  amount of compensation of the members of the Board proposed 
Financial Crime Control Committee, the Board decided to intro- for approval by shareholders at the AGM. The Chairman does 
duce a chair fee as of the 2020 AGM, following the appointment  not receive separate fees for board memberships in other Group 
of Christian Gellerstad as chair and to reflect the additional time  companies, as these memberships are considered to be included 
commitment of chairing this committee. Urs Rohner chaired the  as part of the Chairman’s compensation. 
Conduct and Financial Crime Committee during the 2019 AGM 
to 2020 AGM period, but did not receive a separate chair fee.  The Board members newly appointed to serve on subsid-
The Conduct and Financial Crime Control Committee held seven  iary boards receive a flat subsidiary board membership fee of 
meetings and calls during 2020, including one meeting of the  CHF 100,000 (or higher amounts if a Board member serves as 
entire committee with FINMA. the chair of the subsidiary board or a committee). This amount 
> Refer to the table “Members of the Board and Board committees” in IV – Cor- is generally less than that received by other external subsidiary 
porate Governance – Board of Directors for further information. board members, given that Board members are already familiar 
> Refer to “Credit risk governance” in III – Treasury, Risk, Balance sheet and Off- with the Group’s entities and activities. Serving on a subsidiary 
balance sheet – Risk management – Risk coverage and management – Credit  board is nevertheless a significant additional commitment for 
risk for further information on the Credit Risk Review function.
these Board members, reflected, for example, in the number of 
subsidiary board meetings held throughout the year as shown in 
Compensation of Board members serving on subsidiary  the following table. 
boards
A number of Board members also serve as members on the  Number of subsidiary board meetings 
boards of Group subsidiary companies. This practice is consistent     Board 1   Committee 2 	 Total 
with the Group’s legal entity governance principles, which aim to 
Subsidiary            
foster a close alignment of the Group’s governance practices and 
Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG   13   16   29 
those of its significant subsidiary companies.
>  Credit Suisse International (CSI) /    22   13   35 
Refer to the “Governance of Group subsidiaries” and “Biographies of the Board  Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. (CSSEL)          
members” in IV – Corporate Governance – Board of Directors for further 
Credit Suisse Holdings (USA), Inc. 3  26   15 	 41 
information.
1 Includes ad hoc meetings and calls.
With the exception of the Chairman, Board members may receive 
2 Includes meetings of the respective subsidiary board’s audit and risk committees.
separate fees paid in cash for serving on subsidiary boards, in  3 Board and committee meetings held jointly with Credit Suisse (USA) Inc. and Credit 
addition to their Board fees. These fees are approved by the  Suisse Securities (USA) LLC.
respective subsidiary boards and are subject to ratification by 
256 Compensation
   
Supplementary information
Board	compensation	from	the	2020	AGM	to	the	2021	AGM	(audited)	
                                      Group       
                                 Of which    	 Total, 
                           Pension      awarded      including 
            CF      Base board   Committee   Chair   and other      in Group   Subsidiary    subsidiary 
   GNC  AC   CC  CCC   RC   fee   fee   fee   benefits 	 Total   shares 1   board fee 2   boards 3 
C            HF                
Urs Rohner, Chairman 4  C         M      3,000,000  –   1,500,000   218,665 	4,718,665  1,500,000     4,718,665 
Iris Bohnet         M         250,000   100,000  –     	 350,000   175,000    	 350,000 
Christian Gellerstad   M      M   C      250,000   150,000   150,000    	 550,000   275,000    	 550,000 
Andreas Gottschling   M   M         C   250,000   200,000   400,000    	 850,000   425,000   100,000 	 950,000 
Michael Klein         M      M   250,000   200,000  –     	 450,000   225,000    	 450,000 
Shan Li               M   250,000   100,000  –     	 350,000   175,000    	 350,000 
Seraina Macia               M   250,000   100,000  –     	 350,000   175,000    	 350,000 
Richard Meddings   M   C      M   M   250,000   225,000   400,000    	 875,000   437,500    	 875,000 
Kai S. Nargolwala   M      C   M      250,000   125,000   300,000    	 675,000   337,500    	 675,000 
Ana Paula Pessoa      M      M      250,000   225,000  –     	 475,000   237,500    	 475,000 
Joaquin J. Ribeiro      M            250,000   150,000  –     	 400,000   200,000    	 400,000 
Severin Schwan   M            M   250,000   150,000  –     	 400,000   200,000    	 400,000 
John Tiner      M            250,000   150,000  –     	 400,000   200,000   198,000 	 598,000 
Total                	 6,000,000 	1,875,000 	2,750,000 	 218,665  10,843,665  4,562,500 	 298,000  11,141,665 
GNC = Governance and Nominations Committee; AC = Audit Committee; CC = Compensation Committee; CFCCC = Conduct and Financial Crime Control Committee;  RC = Risk Com-
mittee; C = Chair; M = Member
1 As of December 31, 2020, one-half of the Board member fees to be awarded in Group shares have been delivered to Board members. The applicable Group share price was CHF 8.62. 
The remaining shares will be delivered to Board members at or around the date of the 2021 AGM, and the share price for this second share delivery will be determined at that time. Group 
shares are subject to a four-year blocking period.
2 Subsidiary board fees were awarded for the following subsidiary board roles: i) Mr. Gottschling serves as non-executive director, member of the risk committee and chair of the advisory 
remuneration committee of the UK subsidiaries Credit Suisse International and Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited and receives annual fees of CHF 100,000 for these roles; ii) Mr. 
Tiner serves as non-executive board member of the US subsidiaries Credit Suisse Holdings (USA), Inc., Credit Suisse (USA) Inc. and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and receives 
annual fees of USD 225,000 for these roles; in the case of Mr. Tiner, these fees were agreed prior to the cap of CHF 100,000 being adopted for Group Board members serving on sub-
sidiary boards.
3 At the 2020 AGM, shareholders approved a maximum amount of total compensation to be awarded to Board members until the 2021 AGM of CHF 12 million. For the total compensation 
awarded to members of the Board, the Group will make estimated payments of CHF 0.7 million for the 2020 / 2021 Board period to cover the mandatory employer social security contri-
butions as required under the social security laws applicable to the individual Board members based on their domicile and employment status. These contributions do not form part of the 
Board members’ compensation.
4 The Chair fee of the Chairman is set at CHF 1.5 million to be awarded as 100% Group shares. The total compensation of the Chairman includes benefits for the period from the 2020 
AGM to the 2021 AGM of CHF 218,665, including pension and health insurance benefits.
Compensation 257
   
Board	compensation	from	the	2019	AGM	to	the	2020	AGM	(audited)	
                                      Group       
                                 Of which    	 Total, 
                           Pension      awarded      including 
            CF      Base board   Committee   Chair   and other      in Group   Subsidiary    subsidiary 
   GNC  AC   CC  CCC   RC   fee   fee   fee   benefits 	 Total   shares 1   board fee 2   boards 3 
C            HF                
Urs Rohner, Chairman 4  C         C      3,000,000     1,500,000   218,665 	4,718,665  1,500,000     4,718,665 
Iris Bohnet         M         250,000   100,000       	 350,000   175,000    	 350,000 
Christian Gellerstad         M   M      250,000   175,000       	 425,000   212,500    	 425,000 
Andreas Gottschling   M   M         C   250,000   200,000   400,000    	 850,000   425,000   100,000 	 950,000 
Alexander Gut      M            250,000   150,000       	 400,000   200,000   150,000 	 550,000 
Michael Klein         M      M   250,000   200,000       	 450,000   225,000    	 450,000 
Shan Li               M   250,000   100,000       	 350,000   175,000    	 350,000 
Seraina Macia               M   250,000   100,000       	 350,000   175,000    	 350,000 
Kai S. Nargolwala   M      C   M      250,000   125,000   300,000    	 675,000   337,500    	 675,000 
Ana Paula Pessoa      M      M      250,000   225,000       	 475,000   237,500    	 475,000 
Joaquin J. Ribeiro      M            250,000   150,000       	 400,000   200,000    	 400,000 
Severin Schwan   M            M   250,000   150,000       	 400,000   200,000    	 400,000 
John Tiner   M   C      M   M   250,000   225,000   480,000    	 955,000   477,500   225,000 	1,180,000 
Total                	 6,000,000 	1,900,000 	2,680,000 	 218,665  10,798,665  4,540,000 	 475,000  11,273,665 
GNC = Governance and Nominations Committee; AC = Audit Committee; CC = Compensation Committee; RC = Risk Committee; C = Chair; M = Member
1 As of December 31, 2019, one-half of the Board member fees to be awarded in Group shares have been delivered to Board members. The applicable Group share price was CHF 12.19. 
The remaining shares were delivered to Board members at or around the date of the 2020 AGM and the share price for this second share delivery was determined at that time. Group 
shares are subject to a four-year blocking period.
2 Subsidiary board fees were awarded for the following subsidiary board roles: i) Mr. Gottschling served as non-executive director, member of the risk committee and chair of the advisory 
remuneration committee of the UK subsidiaries Credit Suisse International and Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited and received annual fees of CHF 100,000 for these roles; ii) 
Mr. Gut served as non-executive director and audit committee chair of the Swiss subsidiary Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG and received annual fees of CHF 100,000 and CHF 50,000 
for these roles, respectively; iii) Mr. Tiner served as non-executive board member of the US subsidiaries Credit Suisse Holdings (USA), Inc., Credit Suisse (USA) Inc. and Credit Suisse 
Securities (USA) LLC; and in the case of Mr. Tiner, these fees were agreed prior to the cap of CHF 100,000 being adopted for Group Board members serving on subsidiary boards.
3 At the 2019 AGM, shareholders approved a maximum amount of total compensation to be awarded to Board members until the 2020 AGM of CHF 12 million. For the total compensa-
tion awarded to members of the Board, the Group made payments of CHF 0.5 million for the 2019 / 2020 Board period to cover the mandatory employer social security contributions 
as required under the social security laws applicable to the individual Board members based on their domicile and employment status. These contributions do not form part of the Board 
members’ compensation.
4 The Chair fee of the Chairman is set at CHF 1.5 million to be awarded as 100% Group shares. The total compensation of the Chairman includes benefits for the period from the 2019 
AGM to the 2020 AGM of CHF 218,665, including pension and health insurance benefits.
258 Compensation
   
Board shareholdings Board members with loans, including the Chairman, do not bene-
The following table discloses the shareholdings of the Board  fit from employee conditions, but are subject to conditions applied 
members, their immediate family and companies in which they  to clients with a comparable credit standing. Unless otherwise 
have a controlling interest. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019,  noted, all loans to Board members are made in the ordinary 
there were no Board members with outstanding options. course of business and substantially on the same terms, includ-
ing interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for 
Board shareholdings by individual  comparable transactions with other persons. Such loans do not 
end of 	 2020   2019  involve more than the normal risk of collectability or present other 
unfavorable features. In addition to the loans listed below, the 
December 31 (shares) 1       
Group or any of its banking subsidiaries may enter into financing 
Urs Rohner   425,783   298,416 
and other banking agreements with companies in which current 
Iris Bohnet   96,328   74,916 
Board members have a significant influence as defined by the US 
Christian Gellerstad   103,991   51,716 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Examples include 
Andreas Gottschling   104,659   51,391 
holding executive and/or board level roles in these companies. 
Michael Klein   49,897   22,369 
Unless otherwise noted, loans extended by the Group to such 
Shan Li   28,590   7,178 
companies are also made in the ordinary course of business and 
Seraina Macia   84,844   63,432 
at prevailing market conditions. As of December 31, 2020, 2019 
Richard Meddings 2  13,774  –  
and 2018, there was no loan exposure to such related party com-
Kai S. Nargolwala   366,334   324,088 
panies that was not made in the ordinary course of business and 
Ana Paula Pessoa   53,816   24,758 
at prevailing market conditions.
Joaquin J. Ribeiro   77,724   53,253  > 
Refer to “Banking relationships with Board and Executive Board members and 
Severin Schwan   169,976   145,505  related party transactions” in IV – Corporate Governance – Additional informa-
John Tiner   335,960   278,188  tion for further information.
Total 	 1,911,676 	1,395,210 3 
1 Includes Group shares that are subject to a blocking period of up to four years; includes  Board loans by individual (audited) 
shareholdings of immediate family members.
2 Richard Meddings was newly elected at the 2020 AGM. end of 	 2020   2019 
3 Excludes 51,455 shares held by Alexander Gut, who did not stand for re-election to the 
December 31 (CHF)       
Board as of April 30, 2020.
Urs Rohner   4,490,000  4,575,000 
Christian Gellerstad   3,495,150  3,533,550 
Board loans
Seraina Macia   944,000   952,000 
The majority of loans outstanding to members of the Board are 
Total   8,929,150  9,060,550 1 
mortgages or loans against securities. Such loans are made to 
Board members on the same terms available to third-party cli- Includes loans to immediate family members and companies, in which the respective Board 
member has an ownership stake of 50% or higher.
ents. Pursuant to the AoA, each member of the Board may be 
1 Excludes a loan of CHF 30,000 held by Alexander Gut, who did not stand for re-election 
granted individual credit facilities or loans up to a maximum of  to the Board as of April 30, 2020.
CHF 20 million at market conditions. As of December 31, 2020, 
2019 and 2018, outstanding loans to Board members amounted 
to CHF 9 million, CHF 9 million and CHF 6 million, respectively. Former members of the Board
One former member of the Board is eligible to receive office 
infrastructure and secretarial support. These services are based 
on existing resources and are not used on a regular basis. No 
additional fees, severance payments or other forms of compensa-
tion were paid to former members of the Board or related parties 
during 2020 and 2019.
Compensation 259
   
Compensation design
Compensation strategy and objectives
Consistent with prior years, our key compensation objectives are to maintain compensation practices that:
p foster a performance culture based on merit that differenti- p create a culture that adheres to high standards of conduct 
ates and rewards excellent performance; and behavior aligned to values, through a system of apply-
p attract and retain employees, and motivate them to achieve  ing both malus and rewards;
results with integrity and fairness; p encourage teamwork and collaboration across the Group; 
p balance the mix of fixed and variable compensation to  p achieve a balanced	distribution	of	profitability	between	
appropriately reflect the value and responsibility of the role per- shareholders and employees over the long term, subject to 
formed, and to influence appropriate behaviors and actions;  Group performance and market conditions; and
p promote effective risk management practices that are  p take into account the long-term performance of the Group, in 
aligned with the Group’s compliance and control cultures; order to create sustainable value for shareholders.
What we do
p  Pay for performance alignment with a significant portion of Executive Board and employee compensation “at risk” and 
 determined by the achievement of performance targets linked to Group financial results and shareholder value creation
p  Majority	of	variable	pay	in	deferred	share-based	awards	with vesting periods of at least three years
p  Risk, compliance and conduct and ethics considerations are factored into the compensation decision-making process
p  Minimum	shareholding	requirements, with Executive Board members restricted from selling shares, or from receiving 
 share-based awards in the form of cash, until they fulfill the requirements
p  Strong malus provisions that enable the cancellation or reduction of unsettled awards in the event of certain detrimental 
conduct
p  Competitive benchmarking against our peer groups to make informed decisions on pay levels and pay practices 
p  Mitigation	of	equity	dilution of existing shareholders by fulfilling the Group’s share delivery obligations through purchasing 
shares in the market
p  Shareholder engagement throughout the year to gather feedback on compensation programs and practices and reflect it in our 
decision-making
What we don’t do
p  No “golden parachute” agreements or any other pre-determined termination agreements including special severance awards 
for employees
p  No special severance provisions to Executive Board members beyond the regular compensation awarded during the notice 
period
p  No hedging of outstanding unvested share-based awards and no pledging of unvested, or vested and undistributed share-
based awards
p  No multi-year guaranteed incentive awards
 
260 Compensation
   
Environmental, social and governance (ESG) considerations at Credit Suisse 
Sustainability in compensation
Financial institutions have a crucial role to play in society, and Credit Suisse is committed to conducting its business in the most sustain-
able manner possible. As a reflection of this commitment, we have established a Sustainability Advisory Committee at the Board level and 
a new Sustainability, Research & Investment Solutions (SRI) function at the Executive Board level. We strengthened our commitments to 
Diversity & Inclusion and launched our first-ever purpose statement to infuse our values into our daily working lives. 
As part of this commitment, ESG aspects are considered in various stages of the compensation process:
p  Group	variable	incentive	pool: the Compensation Commit- nationality, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, 
tee considers audit, disciplinary, risk and regulatory-related  age, marital or family status, pregnancy, disability, or any other 
issues, among other factors, in order to determine appropriate  status that is protected by local law. We recognize and value 
adjustments to the Group, divisional and corporate functions  diversity and inclusion as a driver of success. Our policies 
pools. In addition, one of the key drivers of bonus pool devel- and practices support a culture of fairness, where employ-
opment at the divisional level is economic contribution, which  ment-related decisions, including decisions on compensation, 
factors in the level of risk taken to achieve profitability;  are based on an individual’s qualifications, performance and 
p  Executive	Board	annual	STI	awards: the non-financial  behavior, or other legitimate business considerations, such as 
component of Executive Board annual STI awards includes  the profitability of the Group or the division and department of 
the consideration of ESG factors, particularly the integration  the individual, and the strategic needs of the Group. Consis-
of ESG into investment processes, client satisfaction, corpo- tent with our long-term commitment to fair pay, the Compen-
rate responsibility, talent management, diversity and inclusion,  sation Committee reviews our pay practices on a regular basis 
compliance, risk management, and conduct and ethics; and  to identify potential areas requiring more attention.
p  Equal	pay	policy: Credit Suisse does not tolerate any form of 
discrimination, in particular discrimination based on ethnicity, 
Our	achievements	in	2020
Governance  p Creation of our Sustainability, Research & Investment Solutions function (SRI) at Executive Board level
and leadership p Establishment of a new group entitled Sustainability Strategy, Advisory & Finance (SSAF), to support the creation of a cohesive and 
dedicated bank-wide sustainability offering within SRI
p Creation of a firm-wide Sustainability Leadership Committee responsible for driving the development and implementation of the 
sustainability strategy, and for assessing progress against the Bank’s strategic sustainability objectives and commitments including 
the Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB)
p Launched Credit Suisse purpose statement and refreshed values, all embedded in an updated Code of Conduct
p Trained over 2,300 participants on our sustainability solution in 2020, including on our Credit Suisse Sustainable Investment 
Framework
p Successfully completed globally certified Environmental Management System audit carried out by SGS (according to ISO14001)
Environment  p Played a critical role in the bridging loan solution for Swiss companies, providing approximately CHF 3 billion in loans to over 16,700 
and sustain- Swiss SMEs in 2020
able business  p Enabling Client Transitions – announced goal to provide at least CHF 300 billion of sustainable financing to support transition 
practice 
strategies over the next 10 years
p Intensified ESG integration for all CS Asset Management real estate funds capturing over CHF 30 billion AuM and 14 funds
p Joined global RE100 initiative, with a public commitment to source 100% renewable electricity across our entire global operations 
by 2025
p Commitment to develop science-based targets in 2021 and 2022, including goal of net zero emissions from our operations, supply 
chain and financing activities no later than 2050, and alignment of our financing with the Paris Agreement objective of limiting 
global warming to 1.5°C
p Reduced our greenhouse gas emissions by 88% from our 2010 baseline year
p Improved CDP climate change score from B to A-
Social  p Strong commitment to Diversity & Inclusion, with a refreshed D&I strategy, and new US and UK targets for Black Talent representation 
in the company
p Published research on gender and LGBT+ topics, including the CS Gender 3000 report (linking gender diversity with company perfor-
mance) and the LGBT 350 report (a study of 350 companies and their approach to LGBT+ equality in the workforce, and relationship 
with earnings and share price outperformance)
p Strengthened targeted recruitment campaigns that focus on diverse groups, e.g., Credit Suisse’s Real Returns program and Diversity 
Internship program
p Credit Suisse was recognized with over 50 awards, across recruitment, virtual recruitment, employer attractiveness, employer branding 
and diversity and inclusion categories, from institutions such as Forbes, Universum and eFinancial Careers
p Active engagement in the G20 and International Monetary Fund initiative on debt forgiveness and relief 
p Proactive support to all tenants that were impacted by the decision of the Federal Government to close all non-essential businesses in 
Switzerland, by waiving the rent of their businesses for one month without any conditions 
Ratings and  p Ongoing inclusion in leading sustainability indices, such as Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI)
indices p Upgraded to an A rating in the MSCI ESG Rating
Compensation 261
   
Determination of Group variable incentive compensation pool
The Group variable incentive compensation pool for all employees, including the CEO and the other Executive Board members, is deter-
mined on an annual basis, with accruals made throughout the year. In determining the Group, divisional and corporate function pools, the 
Compensation Committee aims to balance the distribution of the Group’s profits between shareholders and employees. The factors taken 
into consideration at the Group level, as well as at the divisional and functional levels, are shown in the illustration below. The primary driver 
of the initial pool amounts is economic contribution, with non-financial factors taken into consideration to arrive at the final level. 
Other factors used to determine adjustments   Compensation  Board approval  
Initial pool size
to the Group, divisional and corporate function pools Committee review of	final	pool
Consistency with 
Strategic  Relative perfor- Control function  Market position 
Financial drivers compensation 
p Economic  objectives mance vs peers  review  and trend objectives
contribution1
p Revenue growth  
p Income before taxes
p Operating expenses
  Achievement of  Market out- or  Feedback on regu- Maintaining com- Compensation  The Board reviews and 
strategic objectives underperformance latory, audit, dis- petitive compensa- Committee negative  approves the Compensa-
ciplinary and risk- tion levels or positive discre- tion Committee’s recom-
related issues tion in exceptional  mendation on the Group, 
cases divisional and corporate 
functions pools 
1 Economic contribution is measured as income before taxes excluding variable incentive compensation expense, after deducting a capital usage charge that is calculated based on regulatory 
capital. Regulatory capital for compensation purposes is defined for each division as the average of 10% of divisional Basel III risk-weighted assets and 3.5% of divisional leverage 
exposure. This measure of economic contribution considers the profitability of the divisions and the Group and the capital utilized to achieve this profitability.
The Compensation Committee regularly reviews the accruals and related financial information and applies adjustments in exceptional cir-
cumstances to ensure that the overall size of the pools is consistent with the Group’s compensation objectives. 
The total amount of the variable incentive compensation pool for the corporate functions is not linked to the performance of the particular 
divisions that employees of the corporate functions support or oversee, but takes into account the Group-wide financial performance, non-
financial factors and changes in headcount. Therefore, employees working in the corporate functions, including those performing control 
functions, are remunerated independently from the performance of the businesses they oversee or support. As with the business divi-
sions, risk, control, compliance and conduct and ethics considerations and relative performance compared to peers, as well as the market 
and regulatory environment, are taken into account. 
Determination of variable incentive compensation pools
p Compensation  p Board   p Control functions provide feedback which may result in adjustments to divisional 
Committee  approval pools or individual allocations
Governance review  p Conduct and Ethics Boards or the Compensation Committee in the case of 
managing directors (MD) apply malus to deferred compensation and/or variable 
compensation based on disciplinary review in cases of misconduct
Divisional and 
Quarterly  Final Group  Allocation to  Allocation to  Allocation to 
Process corporate func-
accruals pool business areas line managers employees
tion pools
p Economic contribution p Market position and trend p Capital usage p Individual 
Factors p Risk, control, compliance, ethical p Regulatory environment p Risk  and business 
p Relative performance vs peers p Achievement of strategic objectives performance
262 Compensation
   
Executive	Board	compensation	framework	for	2020:	key	elements
There are two main components of Executive Board compensation: fixed compensation in the form of base salary, role-based allowances 
and pension and benefits (~30% of total compensation); and variable compensation in the form of an annual STI award and an LTI opportu-
nity (~70% of total compensation). The base salary and STI/LTI opportunity levels are set at different levels for each Executive Board mem-
ber, depending on factors such as scope of role, experience and market benchmarking. The key features of the STI and LTI are described 
in the following diagrams, including the performance targets for the 2020 STI awards which are disclosed retrospectively, and those for the 
LTI which were disclosed prospectively in the 2019 Compensation Report. In setting the threshold, target and maximum performance lev-
els, the Compensation Committee takes into account the Group’s internal financial plan, prior-year performance, analyst expectations and 
any publicly stated ambitions, in order to set performance targets which are challenging and motivating for the Executive Board.
2020	STI	awards:	key	features
p Rewards achievement of annual objectives of the Group Performance criteria   Weighting   Performance targets
p Each Executive Board member has a maximum oppor-     Threshold  Target  Maximum
tunity that takes into account role, market experience and 
geography: Adjusted income before taxes1 (CHF billion)  331/3%  4.2  5.5  6.6
– Executive Board members: ranges from 0.33 to 2.50  RoTE2 (%)  331/3%  6.5%  9.5%  11.5%
times base salary
– CEO: 1.50 times base salary Non-financial criteria (average)  331/3%   See separate description
p The maximum STI award pool equals the sum of all indi-
vidual maximum opportunities of the Executive Board mem-
Vesting
bers. The	award	pool	amount	is	determined	based	on	
achievement	of	pre-determined	Group	financial	and	 	 2020	 2021	 2022	 2023	 2024
non-financial	metrics
p The STI award amount for each Executive Board member 
is assessed by the CEO based on individualized non-
financial	scorecards. Based on this assessment, the  STI	  50% STI immediate cash  50% STI deferred cash 
Compensation Committee makes proposals to the Board  performance  vest in 1Q213 vest in 1Q243
for the approval of final STI award amounts
measurement 
p Payout levels for Group financial criteria (calculated as a  period
linear percentage of the opportunity between levels):
Below threshold  Threshold  Target  Maximum 
0%  25%  67%  100%
2020	LTI	opportunities	(2020-2022	performance	cycle):	key	features
p Rewards achievement of long-term business plan and  Performance criteria   Weighting   Performance targets
long-term returns for shareholders     Threshold  Target  Maximum
p Each Executive Board member has a maximum oppor-
tunity that takes into account role, market experience and  Three-year average RoTE2  331/3%  7.0%  10.5%  13.0%
geography: Three-year average adjusted TBVPS (CHF)4  331/3%  18.10  19.60  20.90
– Executive Board members: ranges from 0.67 to 4.25 
times base salary Relative Total Shareholder Return (RTSR)  331/3%   See “RTSR payout levels”
– CEO: 2.50 times base salary
p Payout	levels	for	Group	financial	criteria are d etermined 
RTSR	payout	levels
by average performance over three years ( calculated as a 
Top	5	 
linear percentage of the opportunity between levels):
100% payout
Below threshold  Threshold  Target  Maximum
0%  25%  67%  100% 75% payout
p For the RTSR component, zero	payout	for	bottom	five	 50% payout
places and limited payout below median in line with Swiss 
market practice 25% payout
p RTSR peer group of 18 publicly-listed companies, chosen  Bottom 5   10% payout
0% payout
by the Compensation Committee based on size, geographic 
15th to 19th  13th/14th 11th/12th  9th/10th   6th to 8th  1th to 5th 
scope, business mix and positive share price  correlation in  (median)
terms of reaction to external market conditions. The peer  Credit Suisse’s Ranking vs Peers
group is unchanged since 2016 when the RTSR criteria 
was introduced, and consists of Banco Santander, Bank  Vesting
of America, Barclays, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, 
Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, ING Group, Intesa San- 2020  2021  2022  2023  2024  2025
paolo, JPMorgan Chase, Julius Bär, Morgan Stanley, Nor-
dea Bank, NatWest Group, Société Générale, Standard  LTI	three-year	performance	 
Chartered and UBS measurement period
1/3 LTI shares  1/3 LTI shares  1/3 LTI shares 
vest in 1Q23 vest in 1Q24 vest in 1Q25
Note: Individuals in certain jurisdictions may be subject to conditions other than those outlined above in order to comply with local legal or regulatory requirements.
1 Adjusted results are non-GAAP financial measures, which exclude certain items included in our reported results.
2 RoTE, a non-GAAP financial measure, is calculated as net income attributable to shareholders divided by average tangible shareholders’ equity. Tangible shareholders’ equity, a non-GAAP 
financial measure, is calculated by deducting goodwill and other intangible assets from total shareholders’ equity as presented in our balance sheet.
3 For UK PRA MRTs (Material Risk Takers), to comply with regulatory requirements, delivery comprises 20% immediate cash payment, 20% immediate Credit Suisse Group AG registered 
shares, subject to a blocking period of 12 months, and 30% deferred cash and 30% deferred shares, vesting in five equal tranches on the third to seventh anniversaries of the grant date.
4 Tangible book value, a non-GAAP financial measure, is equal to tangible shareholders’ equity. TBVPS, a non-GAAP financial measure, is calculated by dividing tangible shareholders’ 
equity by total number of shares outstanding. Adjusted TBVPS, a non-GAAP financial measure, is calculated by dividing tangible shareholders’ equity, excluding the impact of dividends 
paid, own credit movements and foreign exchange movements, by the total number of outstanding shares. The impact of foreign exchange movements references exchange rates at the 
time the targets were set.
> 
Refer to “Executive Board compensation” for further information. 
Compensation 263
   
Group	employees	compensation	framework	for	2020:	key	elements
The compensation structure for employees not on the Executive Board consists of fixed compensation in the form of base salary, role-
based allowances and pension and benefits, and variable compensation in the form of cash, share awards, performance share awards and 
contingent capital awards, as shown in the diagram below. 
Vesting (year)
Features Design
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
Base   p Based on skills, qualifications, relevant experience, responsibilities and 
Salary external market factors
p Role-based allowances apply to certain MRTCs
d
e
x
Fi Pension   p Pension and benefits consistent with local market practice
and	Benefits	
Cash   p Employees with total compensation below CHF/USD 250,000 receive 
Award their full amount of variable compensation in the form of an immediate 
cash award
Variable SA PSAewwhhraaaafrrorreeddr  mssance  11⁄⁄33 11⁄⁄33 11⁄⁄33 compensation of  D 250,000 or higher: pp  DMwieathfne aprgreeirndfgo s rDhmaiarreenc cateow rcaso r(dnMsd Diwti)oi tnahsn n dao sM  apRdadTriCtt ioosf n ratehlc epeieriv rdefeo dfremerfraeenrdrce ecd o csmohnpadereint isoaanwtsiaornds 
CCA   For total CHF/US p MD and Directors receive loss-absorbing contingent capital awards
Note: Individuals in certain jurisdictions may be subject to conditions other than those outlined above in order to comply with local legal or regulatory requirements.
> 
Refer to “Group compensation” for further information.
Board	of	Directors	compensation	framework	for	2020:	key	elements	
The Board compensation framework for 2020 continues to be based on a fixed fee structure for the period from one AGM to the next 
with pre-defined fees for Board membership, committee membership and chairing a committee. In line with industry practice, Board fees 
are not linked to the financial performance of the Group. Fees for specific Board leadership roles are reviewed periodically and adjusted as 
required. Base Board fees have not changed for over 10 years.
Board	membership	fees:	2020	AGM	–	2021	AGM	(in	CHF)
Governance   Conduct and 
and  Audit  Compensation Financial  Risk  
Form of  Timing	of	
Role Board Nominations  Committee  Committee   Crime Control  Committee  
payment payment
Committee   (AC) (CC) Committee  (RC)
(GNC) (CFCCC)
Base fee/Committee   Two equal 
fee (excluding the  250,000 50,000 150,000 100,000 75,000 100,000 50% cash;   installments in 
Chairman) 50% Group  arrears
shares blocked 
and non-
transferable for  One installment 
Committee Chair fee1 – 2 400,000 300,000 150,000 400,000 four years at end of current 
board period
12 monthly 
Chairman’s base fee 3,000,000 Cash
payments
Group shares 
One installment 
blocked and 
Chairman’s Chair fee 1,500,000 at end of current 
nontransferable 
board period
for four years
Note: The Vice-Chair and Lead Independent Director does not receive additional compensation for these roles.
1 Committee chairs do not receive committee fees in addition to their chair fees.
2 The Chairman does not receive any additional fees for chairing the GNC.
> 
Refer to “Board of Directors compensation” for further information.
264 Compensation
   
Compensation governance 
Corporate Governance, and the listing standards of the New York 
Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the Nasdaq Stock Market (Nas-
The	Compensation	Committee daq), in determining that all of these individuals are independent.
> 
Refer to “Independence” in IV – Corporate Governance – Board of Directors 
The Compensation Committee is the supervisory and governing  for more information on how the Group determines the independence of its 
Board members.
body for compensation policies, practices and plans. In designing 
and setting compensation, the Compensation Committee aims to 
make decisions in the best interests of the Group and to align the  Compensation Committee activities
interests of the Group’s employees to those of shareholders. The 
Compensation Committee reviews proposals regarding Group,  The Chairman and the CEO may attend the Compensation Com-
Executive Board and Board compensation, and makes recom- mittee meetings, and the Compensation Committee Chair deter-
mendations to the Board for approval. Total Executive Board  mines the attendance of other Board members, Executive Board 
compensation and Board compensation are also subject to share- members, senior management, compensation advisers and exter-
holder approval pursuant to the Compensation Ordinance and the  nal legal counsel, as appropriate. The Chairman, CEO, Executive 
AoA. Board members and senior management do not participate in dis-
cussions which relate to their own compensation outcomes.
The Compensation Committee consists of at least three members 
of the Board, all of whom must be independent. The members  In addition to the 34 investor and proxy adviser meetings held by 
during the 2020 AGM to 2021 AGM term were Kai S. Nargol- the Compensation Committee Chair, during 2020, the Compen-
wala (Chair), Iris Bohnet, Christian Gellerstad and Michael Klein.  sation Committee held 11 internal meetings and calls, with an 
The Board has applied the independence criteria of the SIX  overall attendance rate of 100%. The Compensation Committee’s 
Swiss Exchange Directive on Information relating to Corporate  focus areas in 2020 are summarized in the following table: 
Governance, the FINMA, the Swiss Code of Best Practice for 
Compensation	Committee	activities	in	2020	
   Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  Jun  Jul  Aug  Oct  Dec
C     ompensation governance, design and disclosure       
          p    p    p
Review of compensation policy and charter updates 
      p  p        p 
Review of Compensation Report 
  p    p    p    p  p  p
Review and refinement of Executive Board compensation design 
    p  p  p  p    p  p  p
Review of Group compensation structure and award plans 
    p             
Compensation Committee self-assessment and focus areas 
R    isk and regulatory       
  p  p          p  p 
Review of input from control functions 
  p  p    p  p      p  p
Review of any disciplinary events/potential application of malus 
        p  p    p   
Review of regulatory developments 
A    nnual compensation review       
  p  p    p    p    p  p
Accruals and full year forecast of variable incentive compensation pools 
  p  p              p
Performance assessment and overall Group pool recommendation 
    p  p      p    p 
CEO and Executive Board performance objectives and target setting 
  p  p  p  p  p    p    p
CEO and Executive Board performance assessment and awards 
        p          p
Review of Board fees 
E    xternal       
        p  p      p  p
Review of shareholder engagement and feedback 
        p  p    p  p  p
Review of market trends 
        p        p  p
Review of benchmarking data 
Compensation 265
   
Advisers to the Compensation Committee Approval authority
The approval authorities for setting the compensation policy and 
The Compensation Committee is authorized to retain external   compensation for different groups of employees are defined in 
advisers to provide support as it carries out its responsibilities.  the Group’s Organizational Guidelines and Regulations and the 
Deloitte LLP (Deloitte) has been retained to assist the Compen- Compensation Committee charter available at credit-suisse.com/
sation Committee in ensuring that the Group’s compensation pro- governance.
grams remain competitive, responsive to regulatory developments     Compensation    
and in line with the compensation policy. Deloitte has appointed  Action   Committee   Board 
Establish or change the Group’s compensation policy   R   A 
a senior consultant to advise the Compensation Committee. 
Establish or change compensation plans   R   A 
Apart from assisting the Compensation Committee, this senior 
Set variable incentive compensation pools for the        
consultant does not provide any other services to the Group. The 
Group and the divisions   R   A 
Compensation Committee also obtained external legal advice 
Determine Executive Board compensation,        
during 2020 on various matters relating to compensation policy  including for the CEO   R   A 1 
and design. Prior to appointment, the Compensation Committee  Determine Board compensation,        
including for the Chairman   R   A 1 
conducted an independence assessment of its advisers pursuant 
Determine compensation for the Head of Internal Audit   A 2   n/a 
to the rules of the SEC and the listing standards of the NYSE and 
Determine compensation for MRTCs and        
the Nasdaq.
other selected members of management   A   n/a 
Other aspects of compensation governance R = recommendation; A = approval
1 Subject to shareholder approval requirement pursuant to the Compensation Ordinance 
and the AoA.
Compensation policy  2 In consultation with the Audit Committee Chair.
The compensation policy applies to all employees and compensa-
tion plans of the Group. It contains a detailed description of the  Risk and control considerations
Group’s compensation principles and objectives as well as the  During its annual review of the Group’s performance, the Com-
compensation programs. It also sets out the standards and pro- pensation Committee considers input from the Risk Committee 
cesses relating to the development, management, implementa- Chair with respect to risk considerations, and the Audit Commit-
tion and governance of compensation. The compensation policy is  tee Chair with respect to internal control considerations as well 
available at credit-suisse.com/compensationpolicy.  as the CFCCC Chair with respect to matters concerning financial 
crime compliance. The Compensation Committee also considers 
input from various corporate functions including Risk & Compli-
ance, General Counsel, Human Resources, Internal Audit and 
Product Control, regarding control and compliance issues and any 
breaches of relevant rules and regulations or the Group’s Code of 
Conduct. 
To meet regulatory guidelines regarding employees engaged in 
risk-taking activities, the Compensation Committee reviews and 
approves the compensation for employees identified as MRTCs. 
The Risk Committee is involved in the review process for the 
compensation of MRTCs.
> 
Refer to “Focus on risk and control” in Group compensation for further 
information.
266 Compensation
   
 
    
 
 
Report of the statutory auditor 
To the General Meeting of Shareholders of Credit Suisse Group AG, Zurich 
We have audited the accompanying compensation report of Credit Suisse Group AG for the year ended December 31, 
2020. The audit was limited to the information disclosed according to articles 14-16 of the Ordinance against Excessive 
Compensation in Stock Exchange Listed Companies (the “Ordinance”) contained in the sections marked as “(audited)” 
on pages 242 to 259 of the compensation report. 
Board of Directors’ responsibility 
The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and overall fair presentation of the compensation report in 
accordance with Swiss law and the Ordinance. The Board of Directors is also responsible for designing the 
compensation system and defining individual compensation packages. 
Auditor’s responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the accompanying compensation report. We conducted our audit in 
accordance with Swiss Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan 
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the compensation report complies with Swiss law 
and articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. 
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence on the disclosures made in the compensation report 
with regard to compensation, loans and credits in accordance with articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. The procedures 
selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatements in the 
compensation report, whether due to fraud or error. This audit also includes evaluating the reasonableness of the 
methods applied to value components of compensation, as well as assessing the overall presentation of the 
compensation report. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
Opinion 
In our opinion, the compensation report of Credit Suisse Group AG for the year ended December 31, 2020 complies with 
Swiss law and articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Matthew Falconer       Beresford Caloia 
 
Audit expert        Audit expert 
Auditor in charge 
 
Zurich, Switzerland 
March 18, 2021 
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG, Birchstrasse 160, Postfach, CH-8050 Zürich, Switzerland 
Telefon: +41 58 792 44 00, Telefax: +41 58 792 44 10, www.pwc.ch 
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG is a member of the global PricewaterhouseCoopers network of firms, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. 
 
Compensation 267
   
[this page intentionally left blank]
268 Compensation
   
  VI –  Consolidated  
financial statements – 
Credit Suisse Group
Report of the Statutory Auditor  271
Report of the Independent Registered  
Public Accounting Firm  271-IV
Consolidated financial statements  273
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  280
Controls and procedures  426
269
   
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
1  Summary of significant accounting policies ...........................................................................280
2  Recently issued accounting standards...................................................................................289
3   Business developments, significant shareholders and subsequent events ................................290
4  Segment information ...........................................................................................................293
5  Net interest income .............................................................................................................295
6  Commissions and fees.........................................................................................................295
7  Trading revenues .................................................................................................................295
8  Other revenues ...................................................................................................................296
9  Provision for credit losses ....................................................................................................296
10  Compensation and benefits .................................................................................................296
11   General and administrative expenses ....................................................................................296
12  Restructuring expenses .......................................................................................................297
13  Earnings per share ..............................................................................................................297
14  Revenue from contracts with customers ...............................................................................298
15  Securities borrowed, lent and subject to repurchase agreements ............................................300
16  Trading assets and liabilities .................................................................................................300
17  Investment securities ...........................................................................................................301
18  Other investments ...............................................................................................................302
19  Loans.................................................................................................................................303
20   Financial instruments measured at amortized cost and credit losses .......................................304
21  Goodwill .............................................................................................................................316
22  Other intangible assets ........................................................................................................318
23  Other assets and other liabilities ...........................................................................................319
24  Leases ...............................................................................................................................320
25  Deposits .............................................................................................................................322
26  Long-term debt  ..................................................................................................................322
27   Accumulated other comprehensive income and additional share information ............................324
28  Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities ...............................................................326
29  Tax ....................................................................................................................................330
30  Employee deferred compensation .........................................................................................335
31  Related parties....................................................................................................................339
32  Pension and other post-retirement benefits ...........................................................................341
33  Derivatives and hedging activities .........................................................................................351
34  Guarantees and commitments .............................................................................................357
35  Transfers of financial assets and variable interest entities .......................................................361
36  Financial instruments ...........................................................................................................370
37  Assets pledged and collateral ...............................................................................................397
38  Capital adequacy ................................................................................................................397
39  Assets under management ..................................................................................................399
40  Litigation ............................................................................................................................400
41  Significant subsidiaries and equity method investments  .........................................................411
42  Subsidiary guarantee information .........................................................................................414
43  Credit Suisse Group parent company ....................................................................................422
44   Significant valuation and income recognition differences between 
US GAAP and Swiss GAAP banking law (true and fair view) ..................................................423
270 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
Report of the Statutory Auditor   
To the General Meeting of Credit Suisse Group AG, Zurich 
Report on the audit of the consolidated financial statements 
Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Credit Suisse Group AG and its subsidiaries (the 
"Group") as of December 31, 2020, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, 
changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the 
“consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material 
respects, the financial position of the Group as of December 31, 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash 
flows for the year then ended, in conformity with the U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, and comply with 
Swiss law.   
We also have audited the adjustments to reflect the change in the composition of reportable segments as presented in 
Note 4 and described in Note 3. In our opinion, such adjustments are appropriate and have been properly applied. We 
were not engaged to audit, review or apply any procedures to the 2018 and 2019 financial statements of the Group other 
than with respect to the adjustments and, accordingly, we do not express an opinion or any other form of assurance on 
the 2018 and 2019 financial statements taken as a whole. 
Change in Accounting Principle 
As discussed in Note 2 and Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group changed the manner in which it 
accounts for credit losses on certain financial instruments in 2020. 
Basis for Opinions 
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Board of Directors. Our responsibility is to express 
an opinion on the Group's consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm 
registered with the Swiss Federal Audit Oversight Authority and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 
(United States) ("PCAOB") and are required to be independent with respect to the Group in accordance with Swiss law 
and the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Swiss audit profession, the Securities 
and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. 
We conducted our audits in accordance with Swiss law, Swiss Auditing Standards and the standards of the PCAOB. 
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included 
performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether 
due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a 
test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also 
included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made, as well as evaluating the overall 
presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our 
opinion.   
Critical Audit Matters 
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the consolidated 
financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relate 
to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (ii) involved our especially 
challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our 
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG, Birchstrasse 160, Postfach, CH-8050 Zürich, Switzerland 
Telefon: +41 58 792 44 00, Telefax: +41 58 792 44 10, www.pwc.ch 
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG is a member of the global PricewaterhouseCoopers network of firms, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. 
 
Consolidated fi nancial statements – Credit Suisse Group 271
   
opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit 
matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they 
relate. 
Fair Value of Certain Level 3 Financial Instruments 
As described in Note 36 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group carries CHF 16.4 billion of its assets and 
CHF 14.0 billion of its liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis that are classified in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy as 
of December 31, 2020. For these financial instruments, for which no prices are available and which have few or no 
observable inputs, the determination of fair value may require the use of either industry standard models or internally 
developed proprietary models as well as require subjective assessment and judgment, depending on liquidity, pricing 
assumptions, the current economic and competitive environment and the risks affecting the specific instrument. 
Unobservable inputs used by management to value certain of these level 3 financial instruments included adjusted Net 
Asset Value (“NAV”), discount rate, terminal growth rate, credit spread, correlation, volatility, market implied life 
expectancy, mortality rate and market comparable price.  
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the fair value of certain level 3 
financial instruments is a critical audit matter are the significant judgment by management to determine the fair value of 
these financial instruments due to the use of either industry standard models or internally developed proprietary models, 
which included unobservable inputs related to adjusted NAV, discount rate, terminal growth rate, credit spread, 
correlation, volatility, market implied life expectancy, mortality rate and market comparable price. This in turn led to a 
high degree of auditor subjectivity, judgment and effort to evaluate the audit evidence obtained related to the valuation, 
and the audit effort involved the use of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge.  
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our 
overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls 
relating to the fair value of certain level 3 financial instruments, including controls over the Group’s models, significant 
unobservable inputs, and data. These procedures also included, among others (i) the involvement of professionals with 
specialized skill and knowledge to assist in developing an independent range of prices for a sample of financial 
instruments and (ii) comparing the independent estimate to management’s estimate to evaluate the reasonableness of 
management’s estimate. Developing the independent estimate involved (i) testing the completeness and accuracy of 
data provided by management, and as appropriate, (ii) evaluating management’s unobservable inputs and (iii) 
independently developing unobservable inputs related to adjusted NAV, discount rate, terminal growth rate, credit 
spread, correlation, volatility, market implied life expectancy, mortality rate and market comparable price. 
Allowance for Credit Losses - Collectively Evaluated Corporate and Institutional Loans - Investment Bank  
As described in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group’s allowance for credit losses represents 
management’s estimate of expected credit losses on loans held at amortized cost. As of December 31, 2020, the 
collectively evaluated expected credit losses in the Investment Bank of CHF 194 million primarily consist of Corporate 
and Institutional loans with a gross loan balance, excluding those which are held at fair value, of CHF 13,776 million. 
The Group’s credit loss requirements are based on a forward-looking, lifetime current expected credit loss (“CECL”) 
model by incorporating reasonable and supportable forecasts of future economic conditions available at the reporting 
date. Management’s estimation of expected credit losses is based on a discounted probability-weighted estimate that 
considers three future macroeconomic scenarios: a baseline scenario, an upside scenario and a downside scenario. For 
extreme and statistically rare events which cannot be adequately reflected in CECL models, such as the current effects 
of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy, the event becomes the baseline scenario. In the current 
environment, to address circumstances where in management’s judgment the CECL model outputs are overly sensitive 
to the effect of economic inputs that lie significantly outside of their historical range, model overlays are applied. These 
overlays are based on expert judgment and are applied in response to these exceptional circumstances to consider 
historical stressed losses and industry and counterparty credit level reviews. 
The principal consideration for our determination that performing procedures relating to the allowance for credit losses 
on collectively evaluated corporate and institutional loans within the Investment Bank is a critical audit matter are (i) the 
significant judgement by management in evaluating model results and assessing the need for overlays to the CECL 
model output in the current environment, (ii) the significant judgment and estimation by management in determining an 
appropriate methodology for the overlays applied, which both in turn led to a high degree of auditor judgement, 
subjectivity and effort in performing procedures and in evaluating audit evidence obtained relating to the appropriateness 
of overlays to the CECL model output, and (iii) the audit effort involved professionals with specialized skill and 
knowledge. 
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our 
overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls 
relating to management’s expected credit loss process. The procedures also included, among others, testing 
management’s process for estimating expected credit losses, which included (i) evaluating the appropriateness of the 
methodologies used to determine the allowance for credit losses, (ii) testing the completeness and accuracy of data 
used in the estimate, and (iii) evaluating the reasonableness of management’s model overlays. The procedures included 
 
2   Credit Suisse Group AG | Report of the Statutory Auditor 
271-I Consolidated fi nancial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
the use of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge to assist in evaluating the appropriateness of model 
methodologies and assist in evaluating the audit evidence.  
Goodwill Impairment Assessment - Investment Bank Reporting Unit 
As described in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group’s goodwill balance was CHF 4.4 billion as of 
December 31, 2020 of which CHF 1.5 billion was allocated to the Investment Bank reporting unit. Goodwill is reviewed 
for impairment on an annual basis as of December 31 and at any other time that events or circumstances indicate that 
the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s reporting units for the 
purposes of the impairment test. In estimating the fair value of its reporting units, the Group applied a combination of the 
market approach and the income approach. In determining the estimated fair value, the Group relied upon its latest five-
year financial plan which included significant management assumptions and estimates based on its view of current and 
future economic conditions and assumptions regarding the discount rate under the income approach as well as price to 
projected earnings and price to book value multiples (“multiples”) under the market approach.   
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the goodwill impairment 
assessment of the Investment Bank reporting unit is a critical audit matter are (i) the significant judgment by 
management when developing the fair value measurement of the Investment Bank reporting unit, (ii) a high degree of 
auditor judgment, subjectivity, and effort in performing procedures and evaluating management’s significant assumptions 
related to the combination of the market approach and income approach, five-year financial plan, discount rate and 
multiples, and (iii) the audit effort involved the use of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge. 
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our 
overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls 
relating to management’s goodwill impairment assessment. These procedures also included, among others (i) testing 
management’s process for developing the fair value estimate of the Investment Bank reporting unit; (ii) evaluating the 
appropriateness of the combination of the market approach and income approach; (iii) testing the completeness and 
accuracy of underlying data used in the model; and (iv) evaluating the reasonableness of the significant assumptions 
used by management related to the five-year financial plan, discount rate and the multiples. Evaluating management’s 
assumptions related to the five-year financial plan involved evaluating whether the assumptions used by management 
were reasonable considering the current and past performance of the reporting unit. Professionals with specialized skill 
and knowledge were used to assist in the evaluation of the Group’s market approach and income approach as well as 
the discount rate and multiples assumptions. 
Litigation provisions 
As described in Note 40 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group is involved in a number of judicial, 
regulatory and arbitration proceedings concerning matters arising in connection with the conduct of its businesses. The 
Group’s aggregate litigation provisions include estimates of losses, additional losses or ranges of loss for proceedings 
for which such losses are probable and can be reasonably estimated. As of December 31, 2020, the Group has 
recorded litigation provisions of CHF 1.7 billion. Management’s estimate of the aggregate range of reasonably possible 
losses that are not covered by existing provisions for which the Group believes an estimate is possible is zero to CHF 
0.9 billion.   
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the litigation provision is a 
critical audit matter are the significant judgment by management when assessing the likelihood of a loss being incurred 
and when determining a reasonable estimate of the loss, which in turn led to a high degree of auditor judgment, 
subjectivity, and effort in evaluating management’s assessment of the provision for losses and related disclosures.  
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our 
overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls 
relating to management’s estimation of the litigation provisions, including controls over determining whether a loss is 
probable and whether the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, as well as controls over the related financial 
statement disclosures. These procedures also included, among others, obtaining and evaluating the letters of audit 
inquiry with external legal counsel, evaluating the reasonableness of management’s assessment regarding whether an 
unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible or probable and reasonably estimable, and evaluating the sufficiency of the 
Group’s litigation disclosures. 
   
 
3   Credit Suisse Group AG | Report of the Statutory Auditor 
Consolidated fi nancial statements – Credit Suisse Group 271-II
   
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements 
In accordance with article 728a para. 1 item 3 CO and Swiss Auditing Standard 890, we confirm that an internal control 
system exists, which has been designed for the preparation of consolidated financial statements according to the 
instructions of the Board of Directors. 
We recommend that the consolidated financial statements submitted to you be approved. 
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, the Group’s internal control over financial 
reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated 
March 18, 2021 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control over financial 
reporting.  
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG 
Matthew Falconer  Matthew Goldman 
Audit expert  Group audit partner  
Auditor in charge 
 
Zurich, Switzerland 
March 18, 2021 
 
We have served as the Group’s auditor since 2020. 
 
 
 
 
4   Credit Suisse Group AG | Report of the Statutory Auditor 
271-III Consolidated fi nancial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
Report of Independent Registered 
Public Accounting Firm   
To the Board of Directors and shareholders of Credit Suisse Group AG 
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Credit Suisse Group AG and its subsidiaries (the 
“Group”) as of as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  In our opinion, the Group 
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on 
criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO.   
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United 
States) ("PCAOB"), the consolidated balance sheet of the Group as of December 31, 2020, and the related consolidated 
statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended, including 
the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”), and our report dated March 18, 
2021 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. 
Basis for Opinion 
The Group's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its 
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management report on Internal 
Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Group's internal control over financial 
reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be 
independent with respect to the Group in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and 
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and 
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was 
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial 
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures 
as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding 
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies 
and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are 
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of 
management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely 
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on 
the financial statements. 
 
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG, Birchstrasse 160, Postfach, CH-8050 Zürich, Switzerland 
Telefon: +41 58 792 44 00, Telefax: +41 58 792 44 10, www.pwc.ch 
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG is a member of the global PricewaterhouseCoopers network of firms, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. 
 
Consolidated fi nancial statements – Credit Suisse Group 271-IV
   
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. 
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may 
deteriorate. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG 
Matthew Falconer  Matthew Goldman 
Audit expert  Group audit partner  
Auditor in charge 
 
Zurich, Switzerland 
March 18, 2021 
 
 
 
 
 
2   Credit Suisse Group AG | Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
272 Consolidated fi nancial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated statements of operations
in   Note   2020   2019   2018 
C    onsolidated statements of operations (CHF million)        
Interest and dividend income   5   13,919   20,184   19,613 
Interest expense   5   (7,971)   (13,167)   (12,604) 
Net interest income   5   5,948   7,017   7,009 
Commissions and fees   6   11,853   11,158   11,890 
Trading revenues   7   3,295   1,739   624 
Other revenues   8   1,293   2,570   1,397 
Net revenues      22,389   22,484   20,920 
Provision for credit losses   9   1,096   324   245 
Compensation and benefits   10   9,890   10,036   9,620 
General and administrative expenses   11   6,523   6,128   5,798 
Commission expenses      1,256   1,276   1,259 
Restructuring expenses   12   157   –   626 
Total other operating expenses      7,936   7,404   7,683 
Total operating expenses      17,826   17,440   17,303 
Income before taxes      3,467   4,720   3,372 
Income tax expense   29   801   1,295   1,361 
Net income      2,666   3,425   2,011 
Net income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests      (3)   6   (13) 
Net income attributable to shareholders      2,669   3,419   2,024 
E    arnings/(loss) per share (CHF)        
Basic earnings per share   13   1.09   1.35   0.79 
Diluted earnings per share   13   1.06   1.32   0.77 
Consolidated statements of comprehensive income
in   2020   2019   2018 
 C  omprehensive income/(loss) (CHF million)       
Net income   2,666   3,425   2,011 
   Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges   178   100   (10) 
   Foreign currency translation   (3,065)   (1,025)   (325) 
   Unrealized gains/(losses) on securities   (17)   20   (17) 
   Actuarial gains/(losses)   (37)   326   (391) 
   Net prior service credit/(cost)   (148)   217   (135) 
   Gains/(losses) on liabilities related to credit risk   202   (1,860)   1,654 
Other comprehensive income/(loss), net of tax   (2,887)   (2,222)   776 
Comprehensive income/(loss)   (221)   1,203   2,787 
Comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests   (9)   8   (15) 
Comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to shareholders   (212)   1,195   2,802 
 
The accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 273
   
Consolidated balance sheets
end of   Note   2020   2019 
A   ssets (CHF million)     
Cash and due from banks      139,112   101,879 
   of which reported at fair value      525   356 
   of which reported from consolidated VIEs      90   138 
Interest-bearing deposits with banks      1,298   741 
Central bank funds sold, securities purchased under          
resale agreements and securities borrowing transactions   15   79,133   106,997 
   of which reported at fair value      57,994   85,556 
Securities received as collateral, at fair value      50,773   40,219 
   of which encumbered      27,614   20,234 
Trading assets, at fair value   16   157,338   153,797 
   of which encumbered      43,511   38,269 
   of which reported from consolidated VIEs      2,164   2,788 
Investment securities   17   607   1,006 
   of which reported at fair value      607   1,006 
Other investments   18   5,412   5,666 
   of which reported at fair value      3,794   3,550 
   of which reported from consolidated VIEs      1,251   1,412 
Net loans   19   291,908   296,779 
   of which reported at fair value      11,408   12,662 
   of which encumbered      179   293 
   of which reported from consolidated VIEs      900   649 
   allowance for credit losses      (1,536)   (946) 
Goodwill   21   4,426   4,663 
Other intangible assets   22   237   291 
   of which reported at fair value      180   244 
Brokerage receivables      35,941   35,648 
Other assets   23   39,637   39,609 
   of which reported at fair value      8,373   10,402 
   of which encumbered      167   217 
   of which reported from consolidated VIEs      1,876   1,694 
   of which loans held-for-sale (amortized cost base)      650   – 
Total assets      805,822   787,295 
 
The accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
274 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Consolidated balance sheets (continued)
end of   Note   2020   2019 
L  iabilities and equity (CHF million)     
Due to banks   25   16,423   16,744 
   of which reported at fair value      413   322 
Customer deposits   25   390,921   383,783 
   of which reported at fair value      4,343   3,339 
   of which reported from consolidated VIEs      1   0 
Central bank funds purchased, securities sold under          
repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions   15   23,851   27,533 
   of which reported at fair value      13,594   10,715 
Obligation to return securities received as collateral, at fair value      50,773   40,219 
Trading liabilities, at fair value   16   45,871   38,186 
   of which reported from consolidated VIEs      10   8 
Short-term borrowings      20,868   28,385 
   of which reported at fair value      10,740   11,333 
   of which reported from consolidated VIEs      4,178   4,885 
Long-term debt   26   161,087   152,005 
   of which reported at fair value      70,976   70,331 
   of which reported from consolidated VIEs      1,746   1,671 
Brokerage payables      21,653   25,683 
Other liabilities   23   31,434   31,043 
   of which reported at fair value      7,780   7,891 
   of which reported from consolidated VIEs      208   297 
Total liabilities      762,881   743,581 
Common shares      98   102 
Additional paid-in capital      33,323   34,661 
Retained earnings      32,834   30,634 
Treasury shares, at cost      (428)   (1,484) 
Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)   27   (23,150)   (20,269) 
Total shareholders’ equity      42,677   43,644 
Noncontrolling interests      264   70 
Total equity      42,941   43,714 
           
Total liabilities and equity      805,822   787,295 
 
 
end of   Note   2020   2019 
A   dditional share information     
Par value (CHF)      0.04   0.04 
Authorized shares 1     3,100,747,720   3,209,011,720 
Common shares issued   27   2,447,747,720   2,556,011,720 
Treasury shares   27   (41,602,841)   (119,761,811) 
Shares outstanding   27   2,406,144,879   2,436,249,909 
1  Includes issued shares and unissued shares (conditional, conversion and authorized capital).
The accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 275
   
Consolidated statements of changes in equity
                 Attributable to shareholders       
                  Total        
      Additional       Treasury       share-   Non-    
   Common    paid-in    Retained    shares,       holders’    controlling   Total 
   shares   capital   earnings   at cost   AOCI   equity   interests   equity 
2       020 (CHF million)            
Balance at beginning of period   102   34,661   30,634   (1,484)   (20,269)   43,644   70   43,714 
Purchase of subsidiary shares from non-                         
controlling interests, not changing ownership 1, 2  –   –   –   –   –   –   (20)   (20) 
Sale of subsidiary shares to noncontrolling                         
interests, not changing ownership 2  –   –   –   –   –   –   19   19 
Net income/(loss)   –   –   2,669   –   –   2,669   (3)   2,666 
Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of tax   –   –   (132)   –   –   (132)   –   (132) 
Total other comprehensive income/(loss), net of tax   –   –   –   –   (2,881)   (2,881)   (6)   (2,887) 
Cancellation of repurchased shares   (4)   (1,321)   –   1,325   –   –   –   – 
Sale of treasury shares   –   (35)   –   12,399   –   12,364   –   12,364 
Repurchase of treasury shares   –   –   –   (13,253)   –   (13,253)   –   (13,253) 
Share-based compensation, net of tax   –   377   –   585   –   962   –   962 
Dividends paid   –   (379) 3   (337)   –   –   (716)   –   (716) 
Changes in scope of consolidation, net   –   –   –   –   –   –   198   198 
Other   –   20   –   –   –   20   6   26 
Balance at end of period   98   33,323   32,834   (428)   (23,150)   42,677   264   42,941 
       2019 (CHF million)            
Balance at beginning of period   102   34,889   26,973   (61)   (17,981)   43,922   97   44,019 
Purchase of subsidiary shares from non-                         
controlling interests, not changing ownership   –   –   –   –   –   –   (103)   (103) 
Sale of subsidiary shares to noncontrolling                         
interests, not changing ownership   –   –   –   –   –   –   74   74 
Net income/(loss)   –   –   3,419   –   –   3,419   6   3,425 
Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of tax   –   –   242   –   (64)   178   –   178 
Total other comprehensive income/(loss), net of tax   –   –   –   –   (2,224)   (2,224)   2   (2,222) 
Sale of treasury shares   –   11   –   9,613   –   9,624   –   9,624 
Repurchase of treasury shares   –   –   –   (11,536)   –   (11,536)   –   (11,536) 
Share-based compensation, net of tax   –   334   –   500   –   834   –   834 
Financial instruments indexed to own shares   –   122   –   –   –   122   –   122 
Dividends paid   –   (695)   –   –   –   (695)   (1)   (696) 
Changes in scope of consolidation, net   –   –   –   –   –   –   (5)   (5) 
Balance at end of period   102   34,661   30,634   (1,484)   (20,269)   43,644   70   43,714 
1 Distributions to owners in funds include the return of original capital invested and any related dividends.
2 Transactions with and without ownership changes related to fund activity are all displayed under “not changing ownership”.
3 Paid out of capital contribution reserves.
 
The accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
276 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Consolidated statements of changes in equity (continued)
                 Attributable to shareholders  
                  Total        
      Additional       Treasury       share-   Non-    
   Common    paid-in    Retained    shares,       holders’    controlling   Total 
   shares   capital   earnings   at cost   AOCI   equity   interests   equity 
2       018 (CHF million)           
Balance at beginning of period   102   35,668   24,973   (103)   (18,738)   41,902   287   42,189 
Purchase of subsidiary shares from non-                         
controlling interests, not changing ownership   –   –   –   –   –   –   (69)   (69) 
Sale of subsidiary shares to noncontrolling                         
interests, changing ownership   –   2   –   –   –   2   (2)   – 
Sale of subsidiary shares to noncontrolling                         
interests, not changing ownership   –   –   –   –   –   –   30   30 
Net income/(loss)   –   –   2,024   –   –   2,024   (13)   2,011 
Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of tax   –   –   (24)   –   (21)   (45)   –   (45) 
Total other comprehensive income/(loss), net of tax   –   –   –   –   778   778   (2)   776 
Sale of treasury shares   –   (28)   –   11,721   –   11,693   –   11,693 
Repurchase of treasury shares   –   –   –   (12,441)   –   (12,441)   –   (12,441) 
Share-based compensation, net of tax   –   (120)   –   762   –   642   –   642 
Financial instruments indexed to own shares   –   28   –   –   –   28   –   28 
Dividends paid   –   (661)   –   –   –   (661)   (5)   (666) 
Changes in scope of consolidation   –   –   –   –   –   –   (129)   (129) 
Balance at end of period   102   34,889   26,973   (61)   (17,981)   43,922   97   44,019 
 
The accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 277
   
Consolidated statements of cash flows
in   2020   2019   2018 
O   perating activities (CHF million)       
Net income   2,666   3,425   2,011 
 A  djustments to reconcile net income/(loss) to net cash provided by/(used in)       
 o perating activities (CHF million)       
Impairment, depreciation and amortization   1,356   1,275   936 
Provision for credit losses   1,096   324   245 
Deferred tax provision/(benefit)   434   589   800 
Valuation adjustments relating to long-term debt   2,364   10,221   (4,743) 
Share of net income/(loss) from equity method investments   (121)   (79)   (111) 
Trading assets and liabilities, net   (7,130)   (27,892)   25,536 
(Increase)/decrease in other assets   (7,923)   2,808   3,453 
Increase/(decrease) in other liabilities   902   (6,615)   (14,294) 
Other, net   (158)   (2,480)   (950) 
Total adjustments   (9,180)   (21,849)   10,872 
Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities   (6,514)   (18,424)   12,883 
I  nvesting activities (CHF million)       
(Increase)/decrease in interest-bearing deposits with banks   (519)   411   (427) 
(Increase)/decrease in central bank funds sold, securities purchased under          
resale agreements and securities borrowing transactions   19,219   8,386   (1,372) 
Purchase of investment securities   (402)   (557)   (683) 
Proceeds from sale of investment securities   629   6   255 
Maturities of investment securities   184   1,007   567 
Investments in subsidiaries and other investments   (210)   (285)   (547) 
Proceeds from sale of other investments   678   1,158   1,772 
(Increase)/decrease in loans   (5,735)   (15,344)   (12,500) 
Proceeds from sales of loans   3,860   4,612   5,980 
Capital expenditures for premises and equipment and other intangible assets   (1,188)   (1,293)   (1,095) 
Proceeds from sale of premises and equipment and other intangible assets   45   30   30 
Other, net   113   543   342 
Net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities   16,674   (1,326)   (7,678) 
 
The accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
278 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Consolidated statements of cash flows (continued)
in   2020   2019   2018 
F  inancing activities (CHF million)       
Increase/(decrease) in due to banks and customer deposits   21,364   24,853   1,808 
Increase/(decrease) in short-term borrowings   (5,246)   6,919   (2,990) 
Increase/(decrease) in central bank funds purchased, securities sold under          
repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions   (1,464)   3,381   (2,052) 
Issuances of long-term debt   58,009   34,963   33,172 
Repayments of long-term debt   (42,768)   (46,290)   (43,851) 
Sale of treasury shares   12,364   9,624   11,693 
Repurchase of treasury shares   (13,253)   (11,536)   (12,441) 
Dividends paid   (716)   (696)   (666) 
Other, net   1,450   971   344 
Net cash provided by/(used in) financing activities   29,740   22,189   (14,983) 
E   ffect of exchange rate changes on cash and due from banks (CHF million)       
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and due from banks   (2,667)   (607)   10 
N   et increase/(decrease) in cash and due from banks (CHF million)       
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and due from banks   37,233   1,832   (9,768) 
           
Cash and due from banks at beginning of period 1  101,879   100,047   109,815 
Cash and due from banks at end of period 1  139,112   101,879   100,047 
1  Includes restricted cash.
Supplemental cash flow information
in   2020   2019   2018 
C   ash paid for income taxes and interest (CHF million)       
Cash paid for income taxes   757   729   678 
Cash paid for interest   8,376   13,115   12,772 
A   ssets and liabilities sold in business divestitures (CHF million)       
Assets sold   0   38   0 
Liabilities sold   0   8   0 
 
The accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 279
   
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
1  Summary of significant accounting policies
The accompanying consolidated financial statements of Credit  Foreign currency translation 
Suisse Group AG (the Group) are prepared in accordance with 
accounting principles generally accepted in the US (US GAAP)  Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional 
and are stated in Swiss francs (CHF). The financial year for the  currency of the related entity are recorded by remeasuring them 
Group ends on December 31. Certain reclassifications have been  in the functional currency of the related entity using the foreign 
made to the prior year’s consolidated financial statements to  exchange rate on the date of the transaction. As of the dates of 
conform to the current presentation which had no impact on net  the consolidated balance sheets, monetary assets and liabilities 
income/(loss) or total shareholders’ equity. are reported using the year-end spot foreign exchange rates. For-
eign exchange rate differences are recorded in the consolidated 
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management  statements of operations. Non-monetary assets and liabilities are 
is required to make estimates and assumptions including, but not  recorded using the historic exchange rate.
limited to, the fair value measurements of certain financial assets 
and liabilities, the allowance for loan losses, the evaluation of vari- For the purpose of consolidation, the assets and liabilities of 
able interest entities (VIEs), the impairment of assets other than  Group companies with functional currencies other than the Swiss 
loans, recognition of deferred tax assets, tax uncertainties, pen- franc are translated into Swiss franc equivalents using year-end 
sion liabilities and various contingencies. These estimates and  spot foreign exchange rates, whereas revenues and expenses 
assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabili- are translated at weighted average foreign exchange rates for 
ties and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of  the period. Translation adjustments arising from consolidation 
the dates of the consolidated balance sheets and the reported  are included in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) 
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  (AOCI) within total shareholders’ equity. Cumulative translation 
While management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on  adjustments are released from AOCI and recorded in the con-
an ongoing basis, actual results could differ materially from man- solidated statements of operations when the Group disposes and 
agement’s estimates. Market conditions may increase the risk  loses control of a consolidated foreign subsidiary.
and complexity of the judgments applied in these estimates.
Fair value measurement and option
Principles of consolidation
The fair value measurement guidance establishes a single 
The consolidated financial statements include the financial state- authoritative definition of fair value and sets out a framework for 
ments of the Group and its subsidiaries. The Group’s subsidiar- measuring fair value. The fair value option creates an alternative 
ies are entities in which it holds, directly or indirectly, more than  measurement treatment for certain financial assets and financial 
50% of the voting rights or where it exercises control. The Group  liabilities. The fair value option can be elected at initial recogni-
consolidates limited partnerships in cases where it is the general  tion of the eligible item or at the date when the Group enters into 
partner and the limited partners do not have either substantive  an agreement which gives rise to an eligible item (e.g., a firm 
kick out rights and/or substantive participating rights or is a lim- commitment or a written loan commitment). If not elected at ini-
ited partner with substantive rights to kick out the general partner  tial recognition, the fair value option can be applied to an item 
or dissolve the partnership and participate in significant decisions  upon certain triggering events that give rise to a new basis of 
made in the ordinary course of business. The Group also consoli- accounting for that item. The application of the fair value option 
dates VIEs if the Group is the primary beneficiary in accordance  to a financial asset or a financial liability does not change its clas-
with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 810 – Con- sification on the balance sheet and the election is irrevocable. 
solidation. The effects of material intercompany transactions and  Changes in fair value resulting from the election are recorded in 
balances have been eliminated. trading revenues.
> 
Refer to “Fair value option” in Note 36 – Financial instruments for further 
Where a Group subsidiary is determined to be an investment  information.
company as defined by ASC Topic 946 – Financial Services – 
Investment Companies, interests in other entities held by this  Cash and due from banks
Group subsidiary are not consolidated and are carried at fair 
value. Cash and due from banks consists of currency on hand, demand 
deposits with banks or other financial institutions and cash equiv-
Group entities that qualify as broker-dealer entities as defined by  alents. Cash equivalents are defined as short-term, highly liquid 
ASC Topic 940 – Financial Services – Brokers and Dealers do  instruments with original maturities of three months or less, which 
not consolidate investments in voting interest entities that would  are held for cash management purposes. Restricted cash is any 
otherwise qualify for consolidation when the investment is held on  cash or cash equivalent recorded in cash and due from banks 
a temporary basis for trading purposes. In addition, subsidiaries  subject to restrictions imposed by a governmental or other regula-
that are strategic components of a broker-dealer’s operations are  tory agency that require the Group to set aside specified amounts 
consolidated regardless of holding intent. of cash as reserves against transactions and time deposits.
280 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements  Transfers of financial assets
Purchases of securities under agreements to resell (reverse repur- Transfers of financial assets may involve the sale of these assets 
chase agreements) and securities sold under agreements to repur- to special purpose entities (SPEs), which in turn issue securi-
chase (repurchase agreements) do not constitute economic sales;  ties to investors. The Group values its beneficial interests in such 
therefore, they are treated as collateralized financing transactions,  SPEs at fair value using quoted market prices, if such positions 
which are carried in the consolidated balance sheet at the amount  are traded on an active exchange or financial models that incor-
of cash disbursed or received, respectively. Reverse repurchase  porate observable and unobservable inputs.
agreements are recorded as collateralized assets while repurchase  > Refer to “Note 35 – Transfers of financial assets and variable interest entities” 
agreements are recorded as liabilities. The underlying securities  for further information on the Group’s transfer activities.
sold continuing to be recognized in trading assets or investment 
securities. The fair value of securities to be repurchased and resold  Trading assets and liabilities
is monitored on a daily basis, and additional collateral is obtained as 
needed to protect against credit exposure. Trading assets and liabilities include debt securities, marketable 
equity instruments, derivative instruments, certain loans held in 
Assets and liabilities recorded under these agreements are  broker-dealer entities, commodities and precious metals. Items 
accounted for on one of two bases, the accrual basis or the fair  included in the trading portfolio are carried at fair value and clas-
value basis. Under the accrual basis, interest earned on reverse  sified as held for trading purposes based on management’s 
repurchase agreements and interest incurred on repurchase  intent. Regular-way security transactions are recorded on a trade-
agreements are reported in interest and dividend income and  date basis. Unrealized and realized gains and losses on trading 
interest expense, respectively. The Group elects to apply the fair  positions are recorded in trading revenues.
value option to selected agreements pursuant to ASC Topic 825 
– Financial Instruments. Under such circumstances, the change  Derivatives
in fair value is reported in trading revenues. Accrued interest 
income and expense are recorded in the same manner as under  Freestanding derivative contracts are carried at fair value in the 
the accrual method.  consolidated balance sheets regardless of whether these instru-
ments are held for trading or risk management purposes. Com-
Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements may be netted  mitments to originate mortgage loans that will be held for sale are 
if they are with the same counterparty; have the same maturity  considered derivatives for accounting purposes. When derivative 
date; settle through the same qualifying clearing institution and  features embedded in certain contracts that meet the definition of 
subject to a right of offset allowed by a legally enforceable master  a derivative are not considered clearly and closely related to the 
netting agreement or a central counterparty’s clearing rules. host contract, either the embedded feature is accounted for sep-
arately at fair value or the entire contract, including the embedded 
Securities lending and borrowing transactions  feature, is accounted for at fair value. In both cases, changes in 
fair value are recorded in the consolidated statements of opera-
Securities borrowed and securities loaned that are cash-collater- tions. If separated for measurement purposes, the derivative is 
alized are included in the consolidated balance sheets at amounts  recorded in the same line item in the consolidated balance sheets 
equal to the cash advanced or received. If securities received as  as the host contract.
collateral in a securities lending and borrowing transaction may 
be sold or repledged, they are recorded as securities received as  Derivatives classified as trading assets and liabilities include those 
collateral in the consolidated balance sheet and a corresponding  held for trading purposes and those used for risk management 
liability to return the security is recorded. Securities lending trans- purposes that do not qualify for hedge accounting. Derivatives 
actions against non-cash collateral in which the Group has the  held for trading purposes arise from proprietary trading activ-
right to resell or repledge the collateral received are recorded at  ity and from customer-based activity. Realized gains and losses, 
the fair value of the collateral initially received. For securities lend- changes in unrealized gains and losses and interest flows are 
ing transactions, the Group receives cash or securities collateral  included in trading revenues. Derivative contracts designated and 
in an amount generally in excess of the market value of securi- qualifying as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net invest-
ties lent. The Group monitors the fair value of securities borrowed  ment hedges are reported as other assets or other liabilities.
and loaned on a daily basis with additional collateral obtained as 
necessary. The fair value of exchange-traded derivatives is typically derived 
from observable market prices and/or observable market param-
Fees and interest received or paid are recorded in interest and  eters. Fair values for over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives are 
dividend income and interest expense, respectively, on an accrual  determined on the basis of proprietary models using various input 
basis. If the fair value basis of accounting is elected, any result- parameters. Derivative contracts are recorded on a net basis per 
ing change in fair value is reported in trading revenues. Accrued  counterparty where a right to offset exists under an enforceable 
interest income and expense are recorded in the same manner as  master netting agreement or a central counterparty’s clearing rules. 
under the accrual method.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 281
   
Where no such rights exist, fair values are recorded on a gross  When hedge accounting is discontinued on a cash flow hedge, 
basis. the net gain or loss will remain in AOCI and be reclassified into 
the consolidated statements of operations in the same period or 
Where hedge accounting is applied, the Group formally docu- periods during which the formerly hedged transaction is reported 
ments all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged  in the consolidated statements of operations. When the Group 
items, including the risk management objectives and strategy for  discontinues hedge accounting because it is probable that a 
undertaking hedge transactions. At inception of a hedge and on  forecasted transaction will not occur within the specified date or 
an ongoing basis, the hedge relationship is formally assessed to  period plus two months, the derivative will continue to be carried 
determine whether the derivatives that are used in hedging trans- in the consolidated balance sheets at its fair value, and gains and 
actions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or  losses that were previously recorded in AOCI will be recognized 
cash flows of hedged items attributable to the hedged risk. The  immediately in the consolidated statements of operations.
Group discontinues hedge accounting prospectively in the follow-
ing circumstances: For hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, the change 
(i) the derivative is no longer effective in offsetting changes in the  in the fair value of the hedging derivative is recorded in AOCI. The 
fair value or cash flows of a hedged item (including forecasted  Group uses the forward method of determining effectiveness for 
transactions); net investment hedges, which results in the time value portion of 
(ii) the derivative expires or is sold, terminated or exercised; a foreign currency forward being reported in AOCI.
(iii) the derivative is no longer designated as a hedging instrument 
because it is unlikely that the forecasted transaction will occur;  Investment securities
or
(iv) the designation of the derivative as a hedging instrument is  Investment securities include debt securities classified as held-to-
otherwise no longer appropriate. maturity and debt securities classified as available-for-sale. Regu-
lar-way security transactions are recorded on a trade-date basis.
For derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value 
hedges, the carrying values of the underlying hedged items are  Debt securities where the Group has the positive intent and abil-
adjusted to fair value for the risk being hedged. Changes in the  ity to hold such securities to maturity are classified as such and 
fair value of these derivatives are recorded in the same line item  are carried at amortized cost, net of any unamortized premium 
of the consolidated statements of operations used to present the  or discount. Debt securities classified as held-to-maturity require 
changes in the fair value of the hedged item. an assessment of the current expected credit loss (CECL) at the 
reporting date.
When the Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting because 
it determines that the derivative no longer qualifies as an effective  Debt securities classified as available-for-sale are carried at fair 
hedge, the derivative will continue to be carried in the consolidated  value. Unrealized gains and losses, which represent the differ-
balance sheets at its fair value, and the hedged asset or liability  ence between fair value and amortized cost, are recorded in 
will no longer be adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to  AOCI. Amounts reported in AOCI are net of income taxes.
the hedged risk. Interest-related fair value adjustments made to 
the underlying hedged items will be amortized to the consolidated  Debt securities classified as available-for-sale are impaired if 
statements of operations over the remaining life of the hedged  there is a decline in fair value below amortized cost basis. If the 
item. Any unamortized interest-related fair value adjustment is  Group intends to sell an impaired security or more likely than not 
recorded in the consolidated statements of operations upon sale  will be required to sell such a security before recovering its amor-
or extinguishment of the hedged asset or liability, respectively.  tized cost basis, the entire difference between the amortized cost 
Any other fair value hedge adjustments remain part of the carry- basis and fair value is recognized as a credit loss. However, if the 
ing amount of the hedged asset or liability and are recognized in  Group does not intend to sell and is not likely to be required to 
the consolidated statements of operations upon disposition of the  sell, an assessment is made if a decline in fair value of the secu-
hedged item as part of the gain or loss on disposition. rity is due to credit-related factors or non-credit related factors. 
Credit-related impairment is recognized in earnings by recording 
For hedges of the variability of cash flows from forecasted trans- an allowance for credit losses. Any portion of the unrealized loss 
actions and floating rate assets or liabilities, the change in the  that relates to non-credit related factors is recognized in AOCI, 
fair value of a designated derivative is recorded in AOCI. These  net of income taxes.
amounts are reclassified into the line item in the consolidated 
statements of operations in which the hedged item is recorded  Amortization of premiums or discounts for debt securities is 
when the variable cash flow from the hedged item impacts earn- recorded in interest and dividend income using the effective yield 
ings (for example, when periodic settlements on a variable rate  method through the maturity date of the security.
asset or liability are recorded in the consolidated statements of 
operations or when the hedged item is disposed of). 
282 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Other investments Loans
Other investments include equity method investments, equity  Loans held-to-maturity
securities without a readily determinable fair value, such as hedge  Loans which the Group intends to hold until maturity are carried 
funds, private equity securities and certain investments in non- at outstanding principal balances plus accrued interest, net of the 
marketable mutual funds for which the Group has neither sig- following items: unamortized premiums, discounts on purchased 
nificant influence nor control over the investee, and real estate  loans, deferred loan origination fees and direct loan origina-
held-for-investment. tion costs on originated loans. Interest income is accrued on the 
unpaid principal balance and net deferred premiums/discounts 
Equity method investments are investments for which the Group  and fees/costs are amortized as an adjustment to the loan yield 
has the ability to significantly influence the operating and financial  over the term of the related loans.
policies. Significant influence is typically characterized by owner-
ship of 20% to 50% of the voting stock or in-substance common  A loan is classified as non-performing and thus considered credit 
stock of a corporation or 3% to 5% or more of limited partner- impaired no later than when the contractual payments of principal 
ship interests. Equity method investments are accounted for under  and/or interest are more than 90 days past due except for sub-
the equity method of accounting or the fair value option, which the  prime residential loans which are classified as non-performing 
Group has elected to apply for selected equity method investments.  no later than when the contractual payments of principal and/
Under the equity method of accounting, the Group’s proportionate  or interest are more than 120 days past due. The additional 30 
share of the profit or loss, and any impairment on the investee, if  days ensure that these loans are not incorrectly assessed as non-
applicable, is reported in other revenues. Under the fair value option,  performing during the time when servicing of them typically is 
changes in fair value are reported in other revenues.  being transferred. However, management may determine that a 
loan should be classified as non-performing notwithstanding that 
Equity securities without a readily determinable fair value are car- contractual payments of principal and/or interest are less than 90 
ried at fair value, net asset value practical expedient to estimate  days past due or, in the case of subprime residential loans, 120 
fair value or at cost less impairment, adjusted for observable price  days past due. In addition, the Group continues to add accrued 
changes (measurement alternative). Memberships in exchanges are  interest receivable to the loan’s balance for collection purposes; 
reported at cost, less impairment. Equity securities without a read- however, a credit provision is recorded, resulting in no interest 
ily determinable fair value held by the Group’s subsidiaries that are  income recognition.
determined to be investment companies as defined by ASC Topic 
946 – Financial Services – Investment Companies are carried at  A loan can be further downgraded to non-interest-earning when 
fair value, with changes in fair value recorded in other revenues. the collection of interest is considered so doubtful that further 
accrual of interest is deemed inappropriate.
Equity method investments and equity securities without a read-
ily determinable fair value held by subsidiaries that are within  Generally, non-performing loans and non-interest-earning loans 
the scope of ASC Topic 940 – Financial Services – Brokers  may be restored to performing status only when delinquent prin-
and Dealers are measured at fair value and reported in trading  cipal and interest are brought up to date in accordance with the 
assets when the intent of the broker-dealer entity is to hold the  terms of the loan agreement and when certain performance crite-
asset temporarily for trading purposes. Changes in fair value are  ria are met.
reported in trading revenues. Equity securities without a readily 
determinable fair value include investments in entities that regu- Interest collected on non-performing loans and non-interest-earn-
larly calculate net asset value per share or its equivalent, with  ing loans is accounted for using the cash basis or the cost recov-
changes in fair value recorded in other revenue. ery method or a combination of both.
Real estate held-for-investment purposes is carried at cost less  Amortization of deferred fees and premiums and discounts 
accumulated depreciation and is depreciated over its estimated  ceases while a loan is deemed to be non-performing or 
useful life, generally 40 to 67 years. Land that is classified as real  non-interest-earning.
estate held-for-investment purposes is carried at historical cost 
and is not depreciated. Real estate held-for-investment purposes  Loans that are modified in a troubled debt restructuring are 
is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently, if events or  reported as restructured loans. Generally, a restructured loan 
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may  would have been considered credit-impaired prior to the restructur-
not be recoverable. For real estate held-for-investment purposes,  ing. Loans modified in a troubled debt restructuring are no longer 
the fair values were measured based on either discounted cash  considered credit-impaired in the years following the restructuring 
flow analyses or external market appraisals. Recognition of an  if the restructured loan carries an interest rate that is equal to or 
impairment on such assets establishes a new cost base, which is  greater than the rate the Group was willing to accept at the time 
not adjusted for subsequent recoveries in value. of the restructuring for a loan with comparable risk and the loan is 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 283
   
not credit-impaired based on the terms specified by the restructur- For undrawn irrevocable loan commitments, the present value 
ing agreement. Loans that have been restructured in a troubled  is calculated based on the difference between the contractual 
debt restructuring and are performing according to the new terms  cash flows that are due to the Group if the commitment is drawn 
continue to accrue interest. Loan restructurings may include the  and the cash flows that the Group expects to receive, in order to 
receipt of assets in satisfaction of the loan, the modification of loan  estimate the provision for expected credit losses. For credit guar-
terms (e.g., reduction of interest rates, extension of maturity dates  antees, expected credit losses are recognized for the contingency 
at a stated interest rate lower than the current market rate for new  of the credit guarantee. Provisions for off-balance sheet credit 
loans with similar risk, or reduction in principal amounts and/or  exposures are recognized as a provision in other liabilities in the 
accrued interest balances) or a combination of both. consolidated balance sheets.
Potential problem loans are credit-impaired loans where contrac- Write-off of a financial asset occurs when it is considered certain 
tual payments have been received according to schedule, but  that there is no possibility of recovering the outstanding principal. 
where doubt exists as to the collection of future contractual pay- If the amount of loss on write-off is greater than the accumulated 
ments. Potential problem loans continue to accrue interest. allowance for credit losses, the difference results in an additional 
> Refer to “Note 19 – Loans” for further information. credit loss. The additional credit loss is first recognized as an 
addition to the allowance; the allowance is then applied against 
Credit losses on financial instruments measured at  the gross carrying amount. Any repossessed collateral is initially 
amortized cost measured at fair value. The subsequent measurement depends 
The credit loss requirements apply to financial assets measured  on the nature of the collateral. Any uncollectible accrued interest 
at amortized cost including loans held-to-maturity, net invest- receivable is written off by reversing the related interest income.
ments in leases as a lessor as well as off-balance sheet credit 
exposures, such as irrevocable loan commitments, and credit  Expected recoveries on financial assets previously written off 
guarantees. The credit loss requirements are based on a forward- or assessed/planned to be written off have to be reflected in 
looking, lifetime CECL model by incorporating reasonable and  the allowance for credit losses; for this purpose, the amount of 
supportable forecasts of future economic conditions available at  expected recoveries cannot exceed the aggregate amounts previ-
the reporting date. The CECL amounts are estimated over the  ously written off or assessed/planned to be written off. Accord-
contractual term of the financial assets taking into account the  ingly, expected recoveries from financial assets previously writ-
effect of prepayments. This requires considerable judgment over  ten off may result in an overall negative allowance for credit loss 
how changes in macroeconomic factors as well as changes in  balance. Prior to January 2020, the allowance for credit losses 
forward-looking borrower-specific characteristics will affect the  reflected probable incurred credit losses.
CECL amounts. > Refer to “Note 20 – Financial instruments measured at amortized cost and 
credit losses” for further information.
The Group measures expected credit losses of financial assets 
on a collective (pool) basis when similar risk characteristics exist.  Loans held-for-sale
For financial assets that do not share similar risk characteristics,  Loans, which the Group intends to sell in the foreseeable future, 
expected credit losses are evaluated on an individual basis. CECL  are considered held-for-sale and are carried at the lower of 
amounts are probability-weighted estimates of potential credit  amortized cost or market value determined on either an individual 
losses based on historical frequency, current trends and condi- method basis, or in the aggregate for pools of similar loans if sold 
tions as well as forecasted macroeconomic factors, such as gross  or securitized as a pool. Loans held-for-sale are included in other 
domestic product, unemployment rates and interest rates. assets. Adjustments to the lower of amortized cost basis or fair 
value are presented as a valuation allowance and recorded in 
For financial assets that are performing at the reporting date, the  other revenue.
allowance for credit losses is generally measured using a probability 
of default/loss given default approach under which both probability  Purchased impaired loans
of default (PD), loss given default (LGD) and exposure at default  Purchased loans for which it is probable at acquisition that all 
(EAD) are estimated. For financial assets that are credit-impaired  contractually required payments will not be received are recorded 
at the reporting date, the Group generally applies a discounted  at their net purchase price and no allowances are carried over. 
cash flow approach to determine the difference between the gross  The excess of the estimated cash flows to be collected over the 
carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash  amount paid is accreted into interest income over the estimated 
flows.  recovery period when reasonable estimates can be made about 
the timing and amount of recovery. The Group does not consider 
An allowance for credit losses is deducted from the amortized  such loans to be impaired at the time of acquisition. Such loans 
cost basis of the financial asset. Changes in the allowance for  are deemed impaired only if the Group’s estimate of cash to be 
credit losses are recorded in the consolidated statement of opera- received decreases below the estimate at the time of acquisition. 
tions in provision for credit losses or, if related to provisions on  Increases in the estimated expected recovery are recorded as a 
past due interest, in net interest income. reversal of allowances, if any, and then recognized as an adjust-
ment of the effective yield of the loan.
284 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Loans held at fair value under the fair value option period in which changes are approved by the relevant authority. 
Loans and loan commitments for which the fair value option  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented on a net basis for 
is elected are reported at fair value with changes in fair value  the same tax-paying component within the same tax jurisdiction.
reported in trading revenues. The application of the fair value 
option does not change the loan’s classification. Loan commit- The Group follows the guidance in ASC Topic 740 – Income 
ments carried at fair value are recorded in other assets or other  Taxes, which sets out a consistent framework to determine the 
liabilities, respectively. appropriate level of tax reserves to maintain for uncertain tax 
positions. The Group determines whether it is more likely than not 
Goodwill and other intangible assets that an income tax position will be sustained upon examination 
based on the technical merits of the position. Sustainable income 
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and equity  tax positions are then measured to determine the amount of 
method investments. It is measured as the excess of the fair  benefit eligible for recognition in the consolidated financial state-
value of the consideration transferred, the fair value of any non- ments. Each such sustainable income tax position is measured 
controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of any pre- at the largest amount of benefit that is more likely than not to be 
viously held equity interest in the acquired subsidiary, over the  realized upon ultimate settlement.
net of the acquisition-date fair values of the identifiable assets 
acquired and the liabilities assumed. Goodwill is not amortized;  Brokerage receivables and brokerage payables
instead it is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that goodwill may be  The Group recognizes receivables and payables from transactions 
impaired. Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s reporting units for  in financial instruments purchased from and sold to customers, 
the purposes of the impairment test. banks and broker-dealers. The Group is exposed to risk of loss 
resulting from the inability of counterparties to pay for or deliver 
Other intangible assets may be acquired individually or as part  financial instruments purchased or sold, in which case the Group 
of a group of assets assumed in a business combination. Other  would have to sell or purchase, respectively, these financial instru-
intangible assets include but are not limited to: patents, licenses,  ments at prevailing market prices. To the extent an exchange or 
copyrights, trademarks, branch networks, mortgage servicing  clearing organization acts as counterparty to a transaction, credit 
rights, customer base and deposit relationships. Acquired intangible  risk is generally considered to be limited. The Group establishes 
assets are initially measured at the amount of cash disbursed or  credit limits for each customer and requires them to maintain mar-
the fair value of other assets distributed. Other intangible assets  gin collateral in compliance with applicable regulatory and inter-
that have a finite useful life are amortized over that period. Other  nal guidelines. In order to conduct trades with an exchange or a 
intangible assets acquired after January 1, 2002 that are deter- third-party bank, the Group is required to maintain a margin. This 
mined to have an indefinite useful life are not amortized; instead  is usually in the form of cash and deposited in a separate margin 
they are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if events  account with the exchange or broker. If available information indi-
or changes in circumstances indicate that the indefinite intangible  cates that it is probable that a brokerage receivable is impaired, 
asset may be impaired. Mortgage servicing rights are included in  an allowance is established. Write-offs of brokerage receivables 
non-amortizing other intangible assets and are carried at fair value,  occur if the outstanding amounts are considered uncollectible.
with changes in fair value recognized through earnings in the period 
in which they occur. Mortgage servicing rights represent the right  Premises and equipment
to perform specified mortgage servicing activities on behalf of third 
parties. Mortgage servicing rights are either purchased from third  Premises and equipment (including equipment under operating 
parties or retained upon sale of acquired or originated loans. leases where the Group is the lessor), with the exception of land, 
are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Income taxes
Buildings are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for the expected  estimated useful lives, generally 40 to 67 years, and building 
future tax consequences of temporary differences between the  improvements are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at the dates of the con- estimated useful lives, generally not exceeding five to ten years. 
solidated balance sheets and their respective tax bases. Deferred  Land is carried at historical cost and is not depreciated. Lease-
tax assets and liabilities are computed using currently enacted  hold improvements, such as alterations and improvements to rented 
tax rates and are recorded in other assets and other liabilities,  premises, are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter 
respectively. Income tax expense or benefit is recorded in income  of the lease term or estimated useful life, which generally does not 
tax expense/(benefit), except to the extent the tax effect relates  exceed ten years. Equipment, such as computers, machinery, fur-
to transactions recorded directly in total shareholders’ equity.  nishings, vehicles and other tangible non-financial assets, is depre-
Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance, if  ciated using the straight-line method over its estimated useful lives, 
necessary, to the amount that management believes will more  generally three to ten years. Certain leasehold improvements and 
likely than not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are  equipment, such as data center power generators, may have esti-
adjusted for the effect of changes in tax laws and rates in the  mated useful lives greater than ten years.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 285
   
The Group capitalizes costs relating to the acquisition, installa- > Refer to “Note 19 – Loans”, “Note 20 – Financial instruments measured 
tion and development of software with a measurable economic  at amortized cost and credit losses” and “Note 24 – Leases” for further 
information.
benefit, but only if such costs are identifiable and can be reliably 
measured. The Group depreciates capitalized software costs on  For operating leases under lessor arrangements, the Group 
a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the software,  continues to recognize the underlying asset and depreciates the 
generally not exceeding seven years, taking into consideration the  asset over its estimated useful life. Lease income is recognized in 
effects of obsolescence, technology, competition and other eco- other income on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
nomic factors.
Recognition of an impairment on non-financial 
Leases assets
For lessee arrangements, the Group recognizes lease liabilities,  The Group evaluates premises, equipment, right-of-use assets 
which are reported as other liabilities or long-term debt, and right- and finite intangible assets for impairment at least annually and 
of-use assets, which are reported as other assets. Lease liabili- whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
ties are recognized at the lease commencement date based on  carrying amount may not be recoverable. The impairment assess-
the present value of lease payments over the lease term. Right- ment is performed for a group of assets for which largely sepa-
of-use assets are initially measured based on the lease liability,  rate cash flows can be identified. Where the carrying amount for 
adjusted for any initial direct costs, any lease payments made  the group of assets exceeds the recoverable amount, the group 
prior to lease commencement and for any lease incentives. of assets is considered impaired and an impairment is recorded 
> Refer to “Note 23 – Other assets and other liabilities”, “Note 24 – Leases” and  in general and administrative expenses. Recognition of an impair-
“Note 26 – Long-term debt” for further information. ment on such assets establishes a new cost base, which is not 
adjusted for subsequent recoveries in value.
Options that permit the Group to extend or terminate a lease are 
only included in the measurement of right-of-use assets and lease  Customer deposits
liabilities when it is reasonably certain that the Group would exer-
cise the extension option or would not exercise the termination  Customer deposits represent funds held from customers (both 
option. Lease payments, which depend on an index or a referenced  retail and commercial) and banks and consist of interest-bearing 
rate, are considered unavoidable and are included in the lease lia- demand deposits, savings deposits and time deposits. Inter-
bilities using the index or rate as of the lease commencement date.  est is accrued based on the contractual provisions of the deposit 
Other variable lease payments, as well as subsequent changes in  contract.
an index or referenced rate, are excluded from the lease liabilities. 
The Group’s incremental borrowing rate, which is used in determin- Long-term debt
ing the present value of lease payments, is derived from information 
available at the lease commencement date. Total long-term debt is composed of debt issuances that do not 
contain derivative features as well as hybrid debt. Hybrid debt 
Operating lease costs, which include amortization and an interest  includes capital instruments as well as those issued as part of the 
component, are recognized over the remaining lease term on a  Group’s structured product activities. Long-term debt includes 
straight-line basis. Operating and variable lease costs are recog- both Swiss franc and foreign currency denominated fixed and 
nized in general and administrative expenses. variable rate bonds.
For sales-type and direct financing leases under lessor arrange- The Group actively manages interest rate risk and foreign cur-
ments, which are classified as loans, the Group de-recognizes the  rency risk on vanilla debt through the use of derivative contracts, 
underlying assets and recognizes a net investment in the lease.  primarily interest rate and currency swaps. In particular, fixed 
The net investment in the lease is calculated as the lease receiv- rate debt is hedged with receive-fixed, pay-floating interest rate 
able plus the unguaranteed portion of the estimated residual  swaps, and the Group applies hedge accounting per the guidance 
value. The lease receivable is initially measured at the present  of ASC Topic 815 – Derivatives and Hedging.
value of the sum of the future lease payments receivable over 
the lease term and any portion of the estimated residual value at  For capital management purposes, the Group has outstanding 
the end of the lease term that is guaranteed by either the lessee  hybrid capital instruments in the form of low- and high-trigger 
or an unrelated third party. Lease terms may include options that  tier 1 and tier 2 capital notes, with a write-off or contingent share 
permit the lessee to extend or renew these leases. Such options  conversion feature. Typically, these instruments have an embed-
are only included in the measurement of lease receivables for  ded derivative that is bifurcated for accounting purposes. The 
sales-type and direct financing leases when it is reasonably cer- embedded derivative is measured separately and changes in fair 
tain that the lessee would exercise these options. Subsequently,  value are recorded in trading revenue. The host contract is gener-
unearned income is amortized to interest income over the lease  ally accounted for under the amortized cost method unless the 
term using the effective interest method.  fair value option has been elected and the entire instrument is 
carried at fair value.
286 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
The Group’s long-term debt also includes various equity-linked and  Salary increases are determined by reviewing historical practice 
other indexed instruments with embedded derivative features, for  and external market data as well as considering internal projections.
which payments and redemption values are linked to commodities, 
stocks, indices, currencies or other assets. The Group elected to  The interest rate on savings balances is applicable only to the 
account for substantially all of these instruments at fair value. Credit Suisse Swiss pension plan (Swiss pension plan). The 
Board of Trustees of the Swiss pension plan sets the interest rate 
Changes in the fair value of fair-value option elected instruments  to be applied on the accumulated savings balance on an annual 
are recognized as a component of trading revenues, except  basis. Credit Suisse estimates the future interest rate on savings 
for changes in fair value attributed to own credit risk, which is  balances, taking into consideration actions and rates approved 
recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI), net of tax, and  by the Board of Trustees of the Swiss pension plan and expected 
recycled to trading revenue when the debt is de-recognized. future changes in the interest rate environment based on the yield 
curve used for the discount rate.
Guarantees
In cases where the Group acts as a guarantor, the Group recog- The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is deter-
nizes in other liabilities, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability  mined on a plan-by-plan basis, taking into account asset alloca-
for the fair value of the obligations undertaken in issuing such a  tion, historical rate of return, benchmark indices for similar-type 
guarantee, including its ongoing obligation to perform over the  pension plan assets, long-term expectations of future returns and 
term of the guarantee in the event that certain events or conditions  investment strategy.
occur. Contingent obligations under issued guarantees not related 
to a financial obligation such as performance guarantees and non- Mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables 
financial standby letters of credit are assessed for the probability  and standard models and methodologies for projecting future 
of loss on an ongoing basis. Contingent obligations under issued  improvements to mortality as developed and published by external 
guarantees related to a financial obligation such as credit guaran- independent actuarial societies and actuarial organizations.
tees and financial standby letters of credit are assessed for CECL 
at reporting date. Health care cost trend rates are determined by reviewing external 
data and the Group’s own historical trends for health care costs.
Pension and other post-retirement benefits
Credit Suisse sponsors a number of post-employment benefit  The funded status of the Group’s defined benefit post-retirement 
plans for its employees worldwide, which include defined benefit  and pension plans is recognized in the consolidated balance sheets.
pension plans and other post-employment benefits. The major 
plans are located in Switzerland, the UK and the US. Actuarial gains and losses in excess of 10% of the greater of 
the PBO or the market value of plan assets are amortized to net 
The Group uses the projected unit credit actuarial method to deter- periodic pension and other post-retirement benefit costs on a 
mine the present value of its projected benefit obligations (PBO)  straight-line basis over the average remaining service life of active 
and the current and past service costs or credits related to its  employees expected to receive benefits. If all or almost all of the 
defined benefit and other post-retirement benefit plans. The mea- participants are inactive, the amortization period is based on the 
surement date used to perform the actuarial valuation is Decem- average remaining life expectancy of the inactive participants. 
ber 31 and is performed by independent qualified actuaries. Unrecognized prior service costs or credits are amortized over 
the remaining service period of employees affected by a plan 
Certain key assumptions are used in performing the actuarial val- amendment.
uations. These assumptions must be made concerning the future 
events that will determine the amount and timing of the benefit  The Group records pension expense for defined contribution 
payments and thus require significant judgment and estimates  plans when the employee renders service to the company, essen-
by Group management. This includes making assumptions with  tially coinciding with the cash contributions to the plans.
regard to discount rates, salary increases, interest rate on savings 
balances, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and  Share-based compensation
mortality (future life expectancy).
For all share-based awards granted to employees, compensation 
The assumed discount rates reflect the rates at which the pension  expense is measured at grant date or modification date based on 
benefits could be effectively settled. These rates are determined  the fair value of the number of awards for which the requisite ser-
based on yield curves, constructed from high-quality corporate  vice is expected to be rendered and is recognized in the consoli-
bonds currently available and observable in the market and are  dated statements of operations over the required service period.
expected to be available during the period to maturity of the pen-
sion benefits. In countries where there is no deep market in high- The incremental tax effects of the difference between the com-
quality corporate bonds with longer durations, the best available  pensation expense recorded in the US GAAP accounts and the 
market information, including governmental bond yields and risk  tax deduction received, are recorded in the income statement at 
premiums, is used to construct the yield curve. the point in time the deduction for tax purposes is recorded.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 287
   
Compensation expense for share-based awards that vest in their  lower of cost or market are accrued, and any related net deferred 
entirety at the end of the vesting period (cliff vesting) and awards  premiums, discounts, origination fees or costs are amortized as 
that vest in annual installments (graded vesting), which only con- an adjustment to the yield over the life of the related asset and lia-
tain a service condition that affects vesting, is recognized on a  bility. Interest from debt securities and dividends on equity securi-
straight-line basis over the service period for the entire award.  ties carried as trading assets and trading liabilities are recorded in 
However, if awards with graded vesting contain a performance  interest and dividend income.
condition, then each installment is expensed as if it were a sepa- > Refer to “Loans” for further information on interest on loans.
rate award (“front-loaded” expense recognition). Furthermore, 
recognition of compensation expense is accelerated to the date  Commissions and fees
an employee becomes eligible for retirement.
Commissions and fees include revenue from contracts with cus-
Performance share awards contain a performance condition. In  tomers. The Group recognizes revenue when it satisfies a con-
the event of either a negative return on equity (ROE) of the Group  tractual performance obligation. The Group satisfies a perfor-
or a divisional loss, any outstanding performance share awards will  mance obligation when control of the underlying good or services 
be subject to a reduction. The amount of compensation expense  related to the performance obligation is transferred to the cus-
recorded includes an estimate of any expected reductions. For  tomer. Control is the ability to direct the use of, and obtain sub-
each reporting period after the grant date, the expected number  stantially all of the remaining benefits from, the good or service. 
of shares to be ultimately delivered upon vesting is reassessed  The Group must determine whether control of a good or service 
and reflected as an adjustment to the cumulative compensation  is transferred over time. If so, the related revenue is recognized 
expense recorded in the income statement. The basis for the ROE  over time as the good or service is transferred to the customer. If 
calculation may vary from year to year, depending on the Compen- not, control of the good or service is transferred at a point in time. 
sation Committee’s determination for the year in which the perfor- The performance obligations are typically satisfied as the ser-
mance shares are granted. vices in the contract are rendered. Revenue is measured based 
on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer, and 
Certain employees own equity interests in the form of carried  excludes any amounts collected on behalf of third parties. The 
interests in certain funds managed by the Group. Expenses rec- transaction price can be a fixed amount or can vary because of 
ognized under these ownership interests are reflected in the con- performance bonuses or other similar items. Variable consider-
solidated statements of operations in compensation and benefits. ation is only included in the transaction price once it is probable 
that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue 
Own shares, own bonds and financial instruments  recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with 
on own shares the amount of variable consideration is subsequently resolved. 
Generally, no significant judgement is required with respect to 
The Group may buy and sell own shares, own bonds and financial  recording variable consideration.
instruments on own shares within its normal trading and market-
making activities. In addition, the Group may hold its own shares  When another party is involved in providing goods or services 
to satisfy commitments arising from employee share-based com- to a customer, the Group must determine whether the nature of 
pensation awards. Own shares are recorded at cost and reported  its promise is a performance obligation to provide the specified 
as treasury shares, resulting in a reduction to total sharehold- goods or services itself (that is, the Group is a principal) or to 
ers’ equity. Financial instruments on own shares are recorded  arrange for those goods or services to be provided by the other 
as assets or liabilities or as equity when the criteria for equity  party (that is, the Group is an agent). The Group determines 
classification are met. Dividends received by subsidiaries on  whether it is a principal or an agent for each specified good or 
own shares and unrealized and realized gains and losses on own  service promised to the customer. Gross presentation (revenue on 
shares classified in total shareholders’ equity are excluded from  the revenue line and expense on the expense line) is appropriate 
the consolidated statements of operations. when the Group acts as principal in a transaction. Conversely, net 
presentation (revenue and expenses reported net) is appropriate 
Any holdings of bonds issued by any Group entity are eliminated  when the Group acts as an agent in the transaction.
in the consolidated financial statements.
Transaction-related expenses are expensed as incurred. Under-
Net interest income writing expenses are deferred and recognized along with the 
underwriting revenue.
Interest income and interest expense arising from interest-bearing  > Refer to “Note 14 – Revenue from contracts with customers” for further 
assets and liabilities other than those carried at fair value or the  information.
288 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
2  Recently issued accounting standards
Recently adopted accounting standards disclosures to help investors and other financial statement users to 
better understand significant estimates and judgments used in esti-
ASC Topic 326 – Financial Instruments – Credit Losses mating credit losses, as well as the credit quality and underwriting 
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)  standards of an organization’s portfolio.
issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-13, “Measure-
ment of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments” (ASU 2016-13),  In May 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-05, “Financial Instru-
creating ASC Topic 326 – Financial Instruments – Credit Losses.  ments – Credit Losses” (ASU 2019-05), to provide targeted tran-
ASU 2016-13 is intended to improve financial reporting by requir- sition relief upon the adoption of ASU 2016-13. The amendment 
ing timelier recording of credit losses on financial assets mea- provided the option to irrevocably elect the fair value option on cer-
sured at amortized cost basis including, but not limited to loans,  tain financial assets on transition.
net investments in leases and off-balance sheet credit exposures. 
ASU 2016-13 eliminated the probable initial recognition thresh- As the Group is a US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) 
old under the previous incurred loss methodology for recognizing  filer, ASU 2016-13 and its subsequent amendments were effective 
credit losses. Instead, ASU 2016-13 requires the measurement of  for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, 
all expected credit losses for financial assets held at the report- including interim periods within those annual reporting periods. The 
ing date over the remaining contractual life (considering the effect  Group adopted ASU 2016-13 and its subsequent amendments on 
of prepayments) based on historical experience, current conditions  January 1, 2020, applying the modified retrospective approach, 
and reasonable and supportable forecasts. The Group has incor- which resulted in a decrease in retained earnings of CHF 132 mil-
porated forward-looking information and macroeconomic factors  lion, net of tax, with no significant impact on regulatory capital.
into its credit loss estimates. ASU 2016-13 requires enhanced 
Impact from the adoption of ASC Topic 326 – Financial Instruments – Credit Losses
   Carrying         Carrying 
   value as of         value as of  
   December 31,          January 1,  
   2019 (before   Reclass-   Remeasure-  2020 (after 
   adoption)   ifications   ments   adoption) 
A    ssets (CHF million)        
Cash and due from banks, net   101,879   –   (1)   101,878 
   allowance for credit losses   –   –   (1)   (1) 
Interest-bearing deposits with banks, net   741   –   (3)   738 
   allowance for credit losses   –   –   (3)   (3) 
Net loans   296,779   –   (187)   296,592 
   of which reported at fair value   12,662   248 2   (84)   12,826 
   of which reported at amortized cost (amortized cost base)   285,179   (248) 2   –   284,931 
   allowance for credit losses   (946)   –   (103)   (1,049) 
Other assets, net   39,609   –   (8)   39,632 3 
   allowance for credit losses – other assets held at amortized cost   (33) 1   –   (8)   (41) 
L   iabilities        
Other liabilities   31,043   –   (36)   31,007 
   of which reported at fair value   7,891   –   7   7,898 
   of which provisions for expected credit losses on              
   off-balance sheet credit exposures   172   –   (43)   129 
Adoption impact before taxes  –   –    (163)  –  
Income taxes         31    
Adoption impact on retained earnings         (132)    
1 In the Annual Report 2019, the allowance for credit losses was reflected in the carrying value of the respective balance sheet position and was not separately disclosed.
2 Reflects the irrevocable election of the fair value option for selected positions, as applicable, in accordance with ASU 2019-05. Reclassifications are made at amortized cost before 
allowance of credit loss. The related release of the allowance for credit loss as well as the fair value adjustment between the amortized cost basis and the fair value are reflected in the 
remeasurement column.
 3 Includes the adoption impact on deferred tax assets of CHF 31 million, in addition to the CECL pre-tax remeasurements.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 289
   
 
ASC Topic 820 – Fair Value Measurement of ASC Topic 848 to apply certain optional expedients for contract 
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, “Disclo- modifications and hedge accounting provided in ASU 2020-04 to 
sure Framework – Changes to the Disclosure Requirements  derivative instruments that use an interest rate for margining, dis-
for Fair Value Measurement” (ASU 2018-13), an update to  counting, or contract price alignment that is modified for reference 
ASC Topic 820 – Fair Value Measurement. The amendments  rate reform. The guidance also applies to derivatives that do not 
in ASU 2018-13 removed, modified and added certain disclo- reference LIBOR or other reference rates that are expected to be 
sure requirements in ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement.  discontinued.
ASU 2018-13 is effective for annual reporting periods begin-
ning after December 15, 2019 and for the interim periods within  The amendments may be applied as of March 12, 2020 through 
those annual reporting periods. Early adoption was permitted,  December 31, 2022. The Group elected to apply ASU 2020-04 
including in an interim period, for any eliminated or modified  and retrospectively apply ASU 2021-01 during 2020. These elec-
disclosure requirements. The Group early adopted the amend- tions did not have a material impact on the Group’s financial posi-
ments for removing disclosures and the amendments for certain  tion, results of operations and cash flows.
modifying disclosures upon the issuance of ASU 2018-13. The 
Group adopted the remaining amendments on January 1, 2020.  Standards to be adopted in future periods
As these amendments related only to disclosures, there was no 
impact from the adoption of ASU 2018-13 on the Group’s finan- ASC Topic 740 – Income Taxes
cial position, results of operations or cash flows. In December 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-12, “Simplifying 
the Accounting for Income Taxes” (ASU 2019-12), an update to 
ASC Topic 848 – Reference Rate Reform ASC Topic 740 – Income Taxes. The amendments in ASU 2019-
In March 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-04, “Facilitation  12 eliminate certain exceptions related to the approach for intrape-
of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on Financial Report- riod tax allocation, the methodology for calculating income taxes 
ing” (ASU 2020-04), creating ASC Topic 848 – Reference Rate  in an interim period and the accounting for basis differences when 
Reform. The amendments in ASU 2020-04 provide optional  there are changes in foreign ownership. In addition, ASU 2019-
guidance for a limited period of time to ease the potential burden  12 includes clarification and simplification of other aspects of the 
in accounting for (or recognizing the effects of) reference rate  accounting for income taxes. The amendments are effective for 
reform on financial reporting. The amendments are elective and  annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2020 and 
apply to contracts, hedging relationships and other transactions  for the interim periods within those annual reporting periods. Early 
that reference the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or  adoption is permitted, including in an interim period. The adop-
another reference rate expected to be discontinued because of  tion of ASU 2019-12 on January 1, 2021 did not have a material 
reference rate reform. impact on the Group’s financial position, results of operations or 
cash flows. 
In January 2021, the FASB issued ASU 2021-01, “Reference 
Rate Reform, Scope” (ASU 2021-01), which expands the scope 
3   Business developments, significant shareholders and subsequent 
events
Business developments In addition, Global Trading Solutions (GTS) was created within the 
Investment Bank through the combination of the businesses of 
Organizational structure and restatement International Trading Solutions (ITS) and Asia Pacific Solutions. 
Effective August 1, 2020 the Group created a single, globally  GTS is a joint venture among the Investment Bank, International 
integrated Investment Bank division through the combination of its  Wealth Management, Swiss Universal Bank and Asia Pacific divi-
former Global Markets, Investment Banking & Capital Markets and  sions and provides centralized trading and sales services to insti-
Asia Pacific – Markets businesses to achieve critical scale. The  tutional and private clients. The methodology applied to allocate 
Group also launched a new Sustainability, Research & Investment  GTS results across the four divisions reflects the economic contri-
Solutions (SRI) function at the Executive Board level, underlining  bution from the client base that each division provides to GTS, as 
the sharpened focus on sustainability. The Group also combined its  well as the historical performance of the constituting businesses, 
former Risk Management and Compliance functions into a single  and combines a fixed allocation and an additional split to each 
integrated Chief Risk and Compliance Officer function to unlock  division of any GTS outperformance above the fixed allocation.
potential global synergies. The Group also revised its allocations for 
corporate functions and funding costs to align to the new organiza- The Group centrally manages its funding activities. As part of 
tional structure. the process of implementing the Group’s new divisional structure 
290 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
announced on July 30, 2020, the Group recalibrated its method- York Capital Management
ology for allocating funding costs across the Group to incorporate  In the fourth quarter of 2020, York Capital Management (York) 
net stable funding ratio requirements, certain increased HQLA  informed its investors of a significant change in strategy. As a 
requirements, as well as funding maturity profile developments. result, York will focus on longer duration assets such as private 
equity, private debt and collateralized loan obligations, while winding 
Reflecting these updates, the Group’s financial reporting is now  down its European hedge funds business and primarily managing 
presented as four reporting segments plus the Corporate Center.  internal capital in its multi-strategy fund. York’s Asia Pacific busi-
Prior periods have been restated to conform to the current pre- ness is expected to be spun off as a new and separate hedge fund 
sentation. These restatements had no impact on the net income/ in 2021, in which the Group intends to have a continuing interest. 
(loss) or the total shareholders’ equity of the Group. As a result of this announcement, the Group recorded an impair-
ment of CHF 414 million to the valuation of its noncontrolling inter-
Neue Aargauer Bank integration est that it has owned since 2010, recognized in other revenues.
In the fourth quarter of 2020, the Group merged the business of 
its wholly owned subsidiary, Neue Aargauer Bank AG, with Credit  COVID-19 pandemic
Suisse (Schweiz) AG, in order to establish a single brand in the  The COVID-19 pandemic and the consequences for markets and 
Canton of Aargau. The merger was effected on November 27,  the global economy affected the Group’s financial performance in 
2020 under simplified requirements of the Swiss Merger Act with  2020, including significant impacts on provision for credit losses, 
retroactive effect as of July 1, 2020. as well as on trading revenues and net interest income as a result 
of foreign exchange movements and a sharp reduction in US 
Credit Suisse InvestLab AG dollar interest rates. The Group continues to closely monitor the 
Following the completion of the first step of the combination of  COVID-19 pandemic and its effects on its operations and busi-
the Group’s open architecture investment fund platform Credit  nesses. Should current economic conditions persist or continue 
Suisse InvestLab AG (InvestLab) and Allfunds Group in Sep- to deteriorate, the macroeconomic environment may have an 
tember 2019, the Group successfully completed the second and  adverse effect on these and other aspects of the Group’s busi-
final step of the combination in March 2020 with the transfer of  ness, operations and financial performance, including decreased 
related distribution agreements to Allfunds Group. Other revenues  client activity or demand for its products.
in 2020 included CHF 268 million from this second closing, 
reflected in net revenues of the Swiss Universal Bank, Interna- Significant shareholders
tional Wealth Management and Asia Pacific divisions.
Significant shareholders registered in the share register
Credit Suisse Founder Securities Limited The following table includes significant shareholders (including 
In 2020, the Group received approval from the China Securi- nominees) with holdings in Group shares of at least 5% of the 
ties Regulatory Commission and increased its shareholding in the  voting rights, which were registered in the share register as of 
securities joint venture Credit Suisse Founder Securities Limited  December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
to 51% from the previous 33.3% by way of a capital injection and 
related procedures.
Significant shareholders registered in the share register
        2020        2019 
   Number  Total nominal   Share-   Number  Total nominal   Share- 
   of shares   value   holding   of shares   value   holding 
end of   (million)  (CHF million)   (%)   (million)  (CHF million)   (%) 
Direct shareholders 1
Chase Nominees Ltd. 2  323   13   13.21   343   14   13.43 
Nortrust Nominees Ltd. 2  184   7   7.53   163   7   6.37 
1 As registered in the share register of the Group on December 31 of the reporting period; includes shareholders registered as nominees.
2 Nominee holdings exceeding 2% are registered with a right to vote only if the nominee confirms that no individual shareholder holds more than 0.5% of the outstanding share capital or if 
the nominee discloses the identity of any beneficial owner holding more than 0.5% of the outstanding capital.
 
Information received from shareholders not registered in  and Derivatives Trading. These shareholders may hold their 
the share register shareholdings in Group shares through a nominee. The following 
In addition to the shareholdings registered in the share register  shareholder notifications relate to registered voting rights exceed-
of the Group, the Group has obtained and reported to the SIX  ing 5% of all voting rights, which are subject to disclosure in the 
Swiss Exchange information from its shareholders in accordance  notes to the financial statements in accordance with the Swiss 
with the notification requirements of the Swiss Federal Act on  Code of Obligations.
Financial Market Infrastructures and Market Conduct in Securities 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 291
   
In a disclosure notification that the Group published on Novem- Grant Thornton, and with other parties to facilitate this process. 
ber 9, 2013, the Group was notified that as of November 4,  However, there remains considerable uncertainty regarding the 
2013, Harris Associates L.P. held 81.5 million shares, or 5.17%  valuation of a significant part of the remaining assets, including 
of the voting rights, of the registered Group shares issued as of  the fact that the portfolio manager has been informed that certain 
the date of the notified transaction. No further disclosure noti- of the notes underlying the funds will not be repaid when they fall 
fication has been received from Harris Associates L.P. relating  due, and the amounts that ultimately will be distributed to inves-
to holdings of registered Group shares since 2013. This position  tors in respect of the funds.
includes the reportable position of Harris Associates Investment 
Trust (4.97% of the voting rights), as published by the SIX Swiss  Group subsidiaries also have collateralized bridge lending and 
Exchange on August 1, 2018. other direct and indirect exposures to Greensill Capital, including 
exposures relating to certain fund-linked products. With regard 
In a disclosure notification that the Group published on Septem- to the outstanding collateralized bridge loan of USD 140 mil-
ber 6, 2018, the Group was notified that as of August 24, 2018,  lion, USD 50 million was recently repaid by the administrators of 
Qatar Holding LLC held 133.2 million shares, or 5.21% of the  Greensill Capital, reducing the outstanding amount of the loan to 
voting rights, of the registered Group shares issued as of the date  USD 90 million.
of the notified transaction. No further disclosure notification has 
been received from Qatar Holding LLC relating to holdings of  The Group continues to analyze these matters, including with the 
registered Group shares since 2018. assistance of external counsel and other experts. The Board of 
Directors has also initiated an investigation of these matters.
Subsequent event
It has been decided that as of March 10, 2021, three senior 
On March 1, 2021, the boards of the supply chain finance funds  CSAM employees will not be performing their roles for the time 
managed by certain Group subsidiaries decided to suspend  being. The payout and vesting of variable compensation of a 
redemptions and subscriptions of those funds to protect the  number of senior employees involved in these matters, up to and 
interests of the funds’ investors. On March 4, 2021, the boards  including Executive Board members, has been suspended as a 
decided to terminate those funds and proceed to their liquidation.  measure to ensure that the Group can reconsider the variable 
Those decisions were based on concerns that a substantial part  compensation for 2020 and are able to apply malus or clawback, 
of the funds’ assets was subject to considerable valuation uncer- if appropriate.
tainty. Credit Suisse Asset Management (Schweiz) AG (CSAM) 
acts as the portfolio manager of these supply chain finance  A number of regulatory investigations and actions have been initi-
funds. Redemptions and subscriptions of certain other funds  ated or are being considered in respect of these matters, includ-
managed by CSAM or CSAM subsidiaries that invest in part in  ing by FINMA, one of which is the agreement to a Pillar 2 buffer 
these supply chain finance funds have also been suspended. with Credit Suisse. Furthermore, certain investors have already 
threatened litigation and, as this matter develops, Credit Suisse 
The assets held by the supply chain finance funds, largely con- may become subject to litigation, disputes or other actions. 
sisting of notes backed by existing and future receivables, were  The priority for Credit Suisse remains the recovery of funds for 
originated and structured by Greensill Capital (UK) Limited or  CSAM’s investors, and the portfolio manager is working closely 
one of its affiliates (Greensill Capital). The last published net  with the administrators to facilitate this process. Credit Suisse 
asset value of the supply chain finance funds in late February was  notes that it is reasonably possible that Credit Suisse will incur a 
approximately USD 10 billion in the aggregate. Initial redemp- loss in respect of these matters, albeit that given the early stage 
tion payments totaling USD 3.1 billion across the supply chain  of this process, it is not yet possible to estimate the size of such 
finance funds were made to their investors beginning on March 8,  a reasonably possible loss. However, the ultimate cost to the 
2021. The portfolio manager continues to work to liquidate the  Group of resolving these matters may be material to its operating 
remaining assets in the four funds as the receivables compris- results. Credit Suisse might also suffer reputational harm associ-
ing the funds’ assets mature. Greensill Capital filed for insol- ated with these matters that might cause client departures or loss 
vency in the UK on March 8, 2021, and the portfolio manager  of assets under management.
is working closely with the administrators of Greensill Capital, 
292 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
4  Segment information
The Group is a global financial services company domiciled in  and regions as well as advisory, underwriting and financing ser-
Switzerland and serves its clients through three regionally focused  vices. Our range of products and services includes global securi-
divisions: Swiss Universal Bank, International Wealth Manage- ties sales, trading and execution, prime brokerage, capital raising 
ment and Asia Pacific. These regional businesses are supported  and comprehensive corporate advisory services. Additionally, our 
by the Investment Bank division. Beginning in 2019, the Strate- GTS platform provides centralized trading and sales services to 
gic Resolution Unit ceased to exist as a separate division of the  the Group’s other business divisions. Our clients include financial 
Group. The residual portfolio remaining as of December 31, 2018  institutions and sponsors, corporations, governments, ultra-high-
is now managed in an Asset Resolution Unit and is separately dis- net-worth individuals, sovereigns and institutional investors.
closed within our Corporate Center.
Corporate Center includes parent company operations such as 
Effective August 1, 2020 the Group created a single, globally- Group financing, expenses for projects sponsored by the Group 
integrated Investment Bank division through the combination of  and certain expenses and revenues that have not been allocated 
its former Global Markets, Investment Banking & Capital Markets  to the segments. In addition, the Corporate Center includes con-
and Asia Pacific – Markets businesses to achieve critical scale.  solidation and elimination adjustments required to eliminate inter-
The Group also revised its allocations for corporate functions and  company revenues and expenses.
funding costs to align to the new organizational structure.
> Refer to “Organizational structure and restatement” in Note 3 – Business  Revenue sharing and cost allocation
developments, significant shareholders and subsequent events – Business 
developments for further information.
Responsibility for each product is allocated to a specific segment, 
which records all related revenues and expenses. Revenue-
The segment information reflects the Group’s reportable seg- sharing and service level agreements govern the compensation 
ments and the Corporate Center, which are managed and  received by one segment for generating revenue or providing 
reported on a pre-tax basis, as follows: services on behalf of another. These agreements are negotiated 
p The Swiss Universal Bank division offers comprehen- periodically by the relevant segments on a product-by-product 
sive advice and a wide range of financial solutions to private,  basis. The aim of revenue-sharing and service level agree-
corporate and institutional clients primarily domiciled in the  ments is to reflect the pricing structure of unrelated third-party 
Group’s home market Switzerland. The Private Clients busi- transactions.
ness has a leading franchise in the Group’s home market and 
serves ultra-high-net-worth individual, high-net-worth indi- Corporate services and business support in finance, operations, 
vidual, affluent and retail clients. The Corporate & Institutional  human resources, legal, compliance, risk management and IT 
Clients business serves large corporate clients, small and  are provided by corporate functions, and the related costs are 
medium-sized enterprises, institutional clients, external asset  allocated to the segments and Corporate Center based on their 
managers, financial institutions and commodity traders. requirements and other relevant measures.
p  The International Wealth Management division through 
its Private Banking business offers comprehensive advisory  Funding
services and tailored investment and financing solutions to 
wealthy private clients and external asset managers in Europe,  The Group centrally manages its funding activities. New instru-
the Middle East, Africa and Latin America. The Asset Man- ments for funding and capital purposes are primarily issued by 
agement business offers investment solutions and services  Credit Suisse Group AG and are passed on to Credit Suisse AG, 
globally to a broad range of clients, including pension funds,  the direct bank subsidiary of the Group (the Bank). The Bank 
governments, foundations and endowments, corporations and  lends funds to its operating subsidiaries and affiliates on both 
individuals. a senior and subordinated basis, as needed, the latter typically 
p  In the Asia Pacific division delivers an integrated wealth man- to meet capital requirements, or as desired by management to 
agement, financing, underwriting and advisory offering to our tar- capitalize on opportunities. Capital is distributed to the segments 
get ultra-high-net-worth, entrepreneur and corporate clients. We  considering factors such as regulatory capital requirements, uti-
provide a comprehensive suite of wealth management products  lized economic capital and the historic and future potential return 
and services to our clients in Asia Pacific and provide a broad  on capital. 
range of advisory services related to debt and equity underwrit-
ing of public offerings and private placements as well as merg- Transfer pricing, using market rates, is used to record net rev-
ers and acquisitions (M&A). Our close collaboration with the  enues and expenses in each of the segments for this capital and 
Investment Bank supports and enables our wealth management  funding. The Group’s funds transfer pricing system is designed to 
activities in the region through the delivery of holistic, innovative  allocate funding costs to its businesses in a way that incentivizes 
products and tailored advice. their efficient use of funding. The Group’s funds transfer pricing 
p  The Investment Bank division delivers client-centric sales and  system is an essential tool that allocates to the businesses the 
trading products, services and solutions across all asset classes  short-term and long-term costs of funding their balance sheet 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 293
   
usages and off-balance sheet contingencies. The funds transfer  Net revenues and income/(loss) before taxes by 
pricing framework ensures the full funding costs allocation under  geographical location
normal business conditions, but it is of even greater importance  in   2020   2019   2018 
in a stressed capital markets environment where raising funds 
Net revenues (CHF million)            
is more challenging and expensive. Under this framework, the 
Switzerland   7,719   8,434   7,646 
Group’s businesses are also credited to the extent they provide 
EMEA   3,885   1,962   1,686 
long-term stable funding.
Americas   7,614   9,103   8,731 
Asia Pacific   3,171   2,985   2,857 
Net revenues and income/(loss) before taxes
Net revenues   22,389   22,484   20,920 
in   2020   2019   2018 
I ncome/(loss) before taxes (CHF million)          
Net revenues (CHF million)            
Switzerland   1,770   2,985   1,924 
Swiss Universal Bank   5,615   5,905   5,443 
EMEA   (124)   (1,786)   (2,082) 
International Wealth Management   4,837   5,816   5,320 
Americas   1,577   3,409   3,452 
Asia Pacific   3,155   3,029   2,759 
Asia Pacific   244   112   78 
Investment Bank   9,098   8,161   8,004 
Income before taxes   3,467   4,720   3,372 
Strategic Resolution Unit 1  –   –   (708) 
The designation of net revenues and income/(loss) before taxes is based on the location of 
Corporate Center   (316)   (427)   102 
the office recording the transactions. This presentation does not reflect the way the Group 
Net revenues   22,389   22,484   20,920  i s managed.
I ncome/(loss) before taxes (CHF million)          
Swiss Universal Bank   2,104   2,573   1,991  Total assets by geographical location
International Wealth Management   1,052   2,065   1,610 
end of   2020   2019 
Asia Pacific   828   922   632 
Total assets (CHF million)        
Investment Bank   1,655   1,026   818 
Switzerland   262,034   242,991 
Strategic Resolution Unit 1  –   –   (1,381) 
EMEA   159,661   144,888 
Corporate Center   (2,172)   (1,866)   (298) 
Americas   287,619   305,328 
Income before taxes   3,467   4,720   3,372 
Asia Pacific   96,508   94,088 
1 Beginning in 2019, the Strategic Resolution Unit ceased to exist as a separate division of 
Total assets   805,822   787,295 
the Group. The residual portfolio remaining as of December 31, 2018 is now managed in 
  an Asset Resolution Unit and is separately disclosed within the Corporate Center. T he designation of total assets by region is based upon customer domicile.
Total assets
end of   2020   2019 
Total assets (CHF million)        
Swiss Universal Bank   261,465   249,829 
International Wealth Management   95,206   91,277 
Asia Pacific   67,356   73,719 
Investment Bank   270,488   266,257 
Corporate Center   111,307   106,213 
Total assets   805,822   787,295 
 
294 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
5  Net interest income 6  Commissions and fees
in   2020   2019   2018  in   2020   2019   2018 
N  et interes t income (CHF million)          C  ommissions and fees (CHF million)          
Loans   5,733   7,179   6,770  Lending business   1,631   1,687   1,931 
Investment securities   3   9   80  Investment and portfolio management   3,187   3,438   3,582 
Trading assets   5,816   7,340   7,131  Other securities business   66   63   48 
Central bank funds sold, securities            Fiduciary business   3,253   3,501   3,630 
purchased under resale agreements           
Underwriting   2,255   1,564   1,718 
and securities borrowing transactions   1,596   2,926   2,856 
Brokerage   3,244   2,893   2,813 
Other   771   2,730   2,776 
Underwriting and brokerage   5,499   4,457   4,531 
Interest and dividend income   13,919   20,184   19,613 
Other services   1,470   1,513   1,798 
Deposits   (1,113)   (3,055)   (2,287) 
Commissions and fees   11,853   11,158   11,890 
Short-term borrowings   (166)   (409)   (359) 
 
Trading liabilities   (2,658)   (3,513)   (3,453) 
Central bank funds purchased, securities           
sold under repurchase agreements and           
securities lending transactions   (907)   (1,668)   (1,877) 
Long-term debt   (2,753)   (3,412)   (3,816) 
Other   (374)   (1,110)   (812) 
Interest expense   (7,971)   (13,167)   (12,604) 
Net interest income   5,948   7,017   7,009 
 
7  Trading revenues
in   2020   2019   2018  Trading revenues also include changes in the fair value of finan-
Trading revenues (CHF million)            cial assets and liabilities elected to fair value under US GAAP. The 
Interest rate products   (1)   96   757  main components include certain instruments from the following 
Foreign exchange products   2,473   668   367  categories:
Equity/index-related products   422   1,071   (307)  p  Central bank funds purchased/sold;
Credit products   192   (513)   (97)  p  Securities purchased/sold under resale/repurchase 
Commodity and energy products   132   144   102  agreements;
Other products   77   273   (198)  p  Securities borrowing/lending transactions;
Trading revenues   3,295   1,739   624  p  Loans and loan commitments; and
p Customer deposits, short-term borrowings and long-term debt.
Represents revenues on a product basis which are not representative of business results 
within segments, as segment results utilize financial instruments across various product 
t ypes. Managing the risks
Trading revenues include revenues from trading financial assets 
and liabilities as follows: As a result of the Group’s broad involvement in financial products 
p  Equities; and markets, its trading strategies are correspondingly diverse and 
p  Commodities; exposures are generally spread across a diversified range of risk 
p  Listed and OTC derivatives; factors and locations. The Group uses an economic capital limit 
p  Derivatives linked to funds of hedge funds and providing  structure to limit overall risk taking. The level of risk incurred by 
financing facilities to funds of hedge funds; its divisions is further managed by a variety of factors and specific 
p  Market making in the government bond and associated OTC  risk constraints, including consolidated controls over trading expo-
derivative swap markets; sures. Also, as part of its overall risk management, the Group holds 
p  Domestic, corporate and sovereign debt, convertible and non- a portfolio of economic hedges. Hedges are impacted by market 
convertible preferred stock and short-term securities such as  movements, similar to trading securities, and may result in gains or 
floating rate notes and commercial paper (CP); losses on the hedges which offset losses or gains on the portfolios 
p  Market making and positioning in foreign exchange products; they were designed to economically hedge. The Group manages its 
p  Credit derivatives on investment grade and high yield credits; trading risk with regard to both market and credit risk. The Group 
p  Trading and securitizing all forms of securities that are based  uses market risk measurement and management methods capable 
on underlying pools of assets; and of calculating comparable exposures across its many activities and 
p  Life settlement contracts.
 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 295
   
9  Provision for credit losses
employs focused tools that can model unique characteristics of 
certain instruments or portfolios.
in   2020   2019   2018 
The principal risk measurement methodology for trading book expo- P  rovision for credit losses (CHF million)          
sures is value-at-risk. Macroeconomic and specific hedging strate- Loans held at amortized cost   863   284   201 
gies are in place to manage and mitigate the market and credit risk  Other financial assets held at amortized cost   24   11   0 
in the trading book. Off-balance sheet credit exposures   209   29   44 
Provision for credit losses   1,096   324   245 
 
8  Other revenues
in   2020   2019   2018  10  Compensation and benefits
Other revenues (CHF million)            
Noncontrolling interests without SEI   0   0   (2)  in   2020   2019   2018 
Loans held-for-sale   (34)   (14)   (4)  C  ompensation and benefits (CHF million)         
Long-lived assets held-for-sale   26   252   39  Salaries and variable compensation   8,401   8,608   8,220 
Equity method investments   (254)   232   228  Social security   653   642   652 
Other investments   769   1,141   337  Other 1  836   786   748 
Other   786   959   799  Compensation and benefits   9,890   10,036   9,620 
Other revenues   1,293   2,570   1,397 
1 Includes pension-related expenses of CHF 517 million, CHF 437 million and CHF 411 
  million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, relating to service costs for defined benefit 
Negative other revenues from equity method investments of    pension plans and employer contributions for defined contribution plans.
CHF 254 million primarily reflected an impairment of CHF 414 
million relating to the Group’s equity investment in York. It also 
included a gain of CHF 268 million from the second and final 
11   General and administrative 
step of the combination of InvestLab and Allfunds Group in the 
first quarter of 2020 as well as a revaluation gain of CHF 127  expenses
million from the Group’s equity investment in Allfunds Group in 
the fourth quarter of 2020.  in   2020   2019   2018 
G  eneral an d administrative expenses (CHF million)        
Other revenues from other investments in 2020 of CHF 769 
Occupancy expenses   982   1,090   964 
million included a revaluation gain of CHF 158 million from the 
IT, machinery and equipment   1,428   1,343   1,174 
Group’s equity investment in SIX Swiss Exchange (SIX) Group 
Provisions and losses   1,261   640   425 
AG as well as a revaluation gain of CHF 134 million from the 
Travel and entertainment   152   337   338 
Group’s equity investment in Pfandbriefbank. In 2019 other 
Professional services   1,546   1,712   1,803 
investments of CHF 1,141 million included a revaluation gain of 
Amortization and impairment of          
CHF 498 million from the Group’s equity investment in SIX Group  other intangible assets   8   10   9 
AG as well as CHF 327 million from the first closing of the trans- Other 1  1,146   996   1,085 
fer of InvestLab to Allfunds Group. General and administrative expenses   6,523   6,128   5,798 
> 
Refer to “Note 18 – Other investments” for further information.
1 Includes pension-related expenses/(credits) of CHF (159) million, CHF (204) million and 
CHF (208) million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, relating to certain components 
  of net periodic benefit costs for defined benefit plans.
296 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
12  Restructuring expenses
In connection with the key strategic growth initiatives announced  Restructuring expenses by type
in July 2020, restructuring expenses of CHF 157 million were  in   2020   2019   2018 
recognized in 2020. Restructuring expenses may include sever-
Restructuring expenses by type (CHF million)    
ance expenses, expenses in connection with the acceleration of 
Compensation and benefits-related expenses   107   –   246 
certain deferred compensation awards, pension expenses and 
   of which severance expenses   69   –   169 
real estate contract termination costs.
   of which accelerated deferred compensation   38   –   77 
General and administrative-related expenses   50   –   380 
   of which pension expenses   38   –   74 
Total restructuring expenses   157   –   626 
 
Restructuring liabilities
        2020        2019        2018 
   Compen-  General and       Compen-  General and       Compen-  General and     
   sation and   administrative      sation and   administrative      sation and   administrative    
in   benefits   expenses   Total   benefits   expenses   Total   benefits   expenses   Total 
Restructuring liabilities (CHF million)            
Balance at beginning of period   –   –   –   156   190   346   196   110   306 
Net additional charges 1  69   6   75   –   –   –   169   219   388 
Reclassifications   –   –   –   (156) 2   (190) 3   (346)   –   –   – 
Utilization   (19)   (4)   (23)   –   –   –   (209)   (139)   (348) 
Balance at end of period   50   2   52   –   –   –   156   190   346 
1 The following items for which expense accretion was accelerated in 2020 and 2018 due to the restructuring of the Group are not included in the restructuring liabilities: unsettled share-
based compensation of CHF 27 million and CHF 56 million, respectively; unsettled pension obligations of CHF 38 million and CHF 74 million, respectively, which remain classified as 
pension provisions; unsettled cash-based deferred compensation of CHF 11 million and CHF 21 million, respectively, which remain classified as compensation liabilities; and accelerated 
accumulated depreciation and impairment of CHF 6 million and CHF 87 million, respectively, which remain classified as premises and equipment. The settlement date for the unsettled 
share-based compensation remains unchanged at three years.
2 In 2019, CHF 97 million was transferred to litigation provisions and CHF 59 million was transferred to other liabilities.
3 In 2019, CHF 167 million was transferred to right-of-use assets in accordance with ASU 2016-02 and CHF 23 million to other liabilities.
 
13  Earnings per share
in   2020   2019   2018 
B   asic net income/(loss) attributable to shareholders (CHF million)       
Net income attributable to shareholders for basic earnings per share   2,669   3,419   2,024 
Net income attributable to shareholders for diluted earnings per share   2,669   3,419   2,024 
W   eighted-average shares outstanding (million)       
For basic earnings per share available for common shares   2,457.0   2,524.2   2,574.2 
Dilutive share options and warrants   1.8   2.7   3.0 
Dilutive share awards   67.6   59.9   53.8 
For diluted earnings per share available for common shares 1  2,526.4   2,586.8   2,631.0 
E   arnings/(loss) per share available for common shares (CHF)       
Basic earnings per share available for common shares   1.09   1.35   0.79 
Diluted earnings per share available for common shares   1.06   1.32   0.77 
1 Weighted-average potential common shares relating to instruments that were not dilutive for the respective periods (and therefore not included in the diluted earnings per share calcula-
tion above) but could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future were 6.2 million, 7.9 million and 8.7 million for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 297
   
14  Revenue from contracts with customers
Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a  services such as brokerage and sales and trading services and 
contract with a customer, and excludes any amounts collected on  the offer of client-tailored financing products. The services are 
behalf of third parties. Taxes assessed by a governmental author- provided as requested by Credit Suisse’s clients, and the fee for 
ity that are collected by the Group from a customer and both  the service requested is recognized once the service is provided. 
imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue-producing 
transaction are excluded from revenue. The Group recognizes  The Group’s asset management businesses offer investment solu-
revenue when it satisfies a contractual performance obligation.  tions and services globally to a broad range of clients, including 
Variable consideration is only included in the transaction price  pension funds, governments, foundations and endowments, corpo-
once it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of  rations and individuals. Fund managers typically enter into a variety 
cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncer- of contracts to provide investment management and other services. 
tainty associated with the amount of variable consideration is sub- A fund manager may satisfy its performance obligation indepen-
sequently resolved. Generally no significant judgement is required  dently or may engage a third party to satisfy some or all of a perfor-
with respect to recording variable consideration. mance obligation on the fund manager’s behalf. Although the fund 
manager may have engaged a third party to provide inputs to the 
If a fee is a fixed percentage of a variable account value at con- overall investment management services, the contractual obligation 
tract inception, recognition of the fee revenue is constrained as  to provide investment management services to a customer remains 
the contractual consideration is highly susceptible to change due  the primary responsibility of the fund manager. As such, the fund 
to factors outside of the Group’s influence. However, at each  manager is acting as a principal in the transaction. As a fund man-
performance measurement period end (e.g., end-of-day, end-of- ager, the Group typically receives base management fees and may 
month, end-of-quarter), recognition of the cumulative amount of  additionally receive performance-based management fees which 
the consideration to which the Group is entitled is no longer con- are both recognized as “Investment and portfolio management” rev-
strained because it is calculated based on a known account value  enues in the table “Contracts with customers and disaggregation of 
and the fee revenue is no longer variable. revenues” below. Base management fees are generally calculated 
based on the net asset value (NAV) of the customer’s investment, 
Nature of services which can change during the performance period. Performance-
based management fees are variable consideration received by 
The following is a description of the principal activities from which  the Group depending on the financial performance of the underly-
the Group generates its revenues from contracts with customers.  ing fund. As both the base management fees and performance-
based management fees are variable, the Group recognizes the 
The performance obligations are typically satisfied as the services  fees once it is probable that a significant reversal of the revenue 
in the contract are rendered. The contract terms are generally such  recognized will not occur and when the uncertainty of the amount 
that they do not result in any contract assets. The contracts gener- is resolved. The estimate of these variable fees is constrained until 
ally do not include a significant financing component or obligations  the end of the performance measurement period. Generally, the 
for refunds or other similar obligations. Any variable consideration  uncertainty is resolved at the end of the performance measure-
included in the transaction price is only recognized when the uncer- ment period and therefore no significant judgement is necessary 
tainty of the amount is resolved and it is probable that a significant  when recording variable consideration. Under a clawback obligation 
reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur. provision, a fund manager may be required to return certain distri-
butions received from a fund if a specific performance threshold, 
Credit Suisse’s wealth management businesses provide invest- i.e., benchmark, is not achieved at the end of the lifetime of the 
ment services and solutions for clients, including asset man- fund. The contractual clawback obligation is an additional factor of 
agement, investment advisory and investment management,  uncertainty which is considered in the constraint assessment. If the 
wealth planning, and origination and structuring of sophisticated  performance-based management fee is earned but the clawback 
financing transactions. The Group receives for these services  provision has not lapsed, the clawback obligation is accounted for 
investment advisory and investment management fees which are  as a refund liability.
generally reflected in the line item “Investment and portfolio man-
agement” in the table “Contracts with customers and disaggre- The Group’s capital markets businesses underwrite and sell secu-
gation of revenues” below. Generally, the fee for the service pro- rities on behalf of customers. Typically, the fees in these busi-
vided is recognized over the period of time the service is provided. nesses are recognized at a single point in time once the transac-
tion is complete, i.e., when the securities have been placed with 
The wealth management businesses also provide comprehensive  investors, and recognized as underwriting revenue. All expenses 
advisory services and tailored investment and financing solutions  incurred in satisfying the performance obligation are deferred and 
to private, corporate and institutional clients. The nature of the  recognized once the transaction is complete. Generally Credit 
services range from investment and wealth management activi- Suisse and other banks form a syndicate group to underwrite 
ties, which are services rendered over a period of time according  and place the securities for a customer. The Group may act as 
to the contract with the customer, to more transaction-specific  the lead or a participating member in the syndicate group. Each 
298 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
member of the syndicate group, including the lead and partici- Contract balances
pating underwriters, is acting as principal for their proportionate  end of   2020   2019 
share of the syndication. As a result, the individual underwrit-
Contract balances (CHF million)        
ers reflect their proportionate share of underwriting revenue and 
Contract receivables   1,001   880 
underwriting costs on a gross basis.
Contract liabilities   48   53 
The Group also offers brokerage services in its investment banking   
businesses, including global securities sales, trading and execution, 
prime brokerage and investment research. For the services pro- Contract balances
vided, such as the execution of client trades in securities or deriva- in   4Q20   3Q20   2Q20   1Q20 
tives, the Group typically earns a brokerage commission when the 
R evenue re cognized ( CHF million )         
trade is executed. The Group generally acts as an agent when buy-
Revenue recognized in the              
ing or selling exchange-traded cash securities, exchange-traded  reporting period included             
derivatives or centrally cleared OTC derivatives on behalf of clients. in the contract liabilities balance             
at the beginning of period   7   12   12   11 
Credit Suisse’s investment banking businesses provide services   
that include advisory services to clients in connection with corpo- The Group did not recognize any revenues in the reporting period 
rate finance activities. The term “advisory” includes any type of  from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods.
service the Group provides in an advisory capacity. For these types 
of services, the Group typically receives a non-refundable retainer  There were no material net impairment losses on contract receiv-
fee and/or a success fee which usually represents a percentage of  ables in 2020, 2019 or 2018. The Group did not recognize any 
the transaction proceeds if and when the corporate finance activ- contract assets during 2020, 2019 or 2018.
ity is completed. Additionally, the contract may contain a milestone 
fee such as an “announcement fee” that is payable upon the public  Capitalized costs
announcement of the corporate finance activity. Typically the fees 
in the investment banking business are recognized at a specific  The Group has not incurred costs to obtain a contract nor costs 
point in time once it is determined that the performance obligation  to fulfill a contract that are eligible for capitalization.
related to the transaction has been completed. A contract liability 
will be recorded if the Group receives a payment such as a retainer  Remaining performance obligations
fee or announcement fee for an advisory service prior to satisfying 
the performance obligation. Advisory fees are recognized ratably  ASC Topic 606’s practical expedient allows the Group to exclude 
over time in scenarios where the contracted service of the Group is  from its remaining performance obligations disclosure any per-
to act as an advisor over a specified period not related to or depen- formance obligations which are part of a contract with an original 
dent on the successful completion of a transaction. Revenues  expected duration of one year or less. Additionally any variable 
recognized from these services are reflected in the line item “Other  consideration, for which it is probable that a significant reversal 
Services” in the table below. in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized will occur when 
the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is sub-
Contracts with customers and disaggregation of revenues  sequently resolved, is not subject to the remaining performance 
in   2020   2019   2018  obligations disclosure because such variable consideration is 
not included in the transaction price (e.g., investment manage-
C  ontracts with customers (CHF million)          
ment fees). Upon review, the Group determined that no material 
Investment and portfolio management   3,187   3,438   3,582 
remaining performance obligations are in scope of the remaining 
Other securities business   66   63   48 
performance obligations disclosure.
Underwriting   2,255   1,564   1,718 
Brokerage   3,242   2,891   2,829 
Other services   1,475   1,521   1,902 
Total revenues from           
contracts with customers   10,225   9,477   10,079 
 
The table above differs from “Note 6 – Commissions and fees” as 
it includes only those contracts with customers that are in scope 
o f ASC Topic 606 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 299
   
 
15  Securities borrowed, lent and subject to repurchase agreements
end of   2020   2019 
S  ecurities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell (CHF million)      
Central bank funds sold and securities purchased under       
resale agreements   53,910   78,835 
Deposits paid for securities borrowed   25,223   28,162 
Central bank funds sold, securities purchased under resale agreements and securities borrowing transactions   79,133   106,997 
S  ecurities lent or sold under agreements to repurchase (CHF million)      
Central bank funds purchased and securities sold under       
repurchase agreements   19,736   21,741 
Deposits received for securities lent   4,115   5,792 
Central bank funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions   23,851   27,533 
 
Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements represent collat- In the event of counterparty default, the reverse repurchase 
eralized financing transactions used to earn net interest income,  agreement or securities lending agreement provides the Group 
increase liquidity or facilitate trading activity. These instruments  with the right to liquidate the collateral held. In the Group’s normal 
are collateralized principally by government securities, money  course of business, a significant portion of the collateral received 
market instruments and corporate bonds and have terms ranging  that may be sold or repledged has been sold or repledged as of 
from overnight to a longer or unspecified period of time.  December 31, 2020 and 2019.
16  Trading assets and liabilities
end of   2020   2019  end of   2020   2019 
Trading assets (CHF million)         C  ash collat eral on derivatives instruments – netted (CHF million) 1   
Debt securities   64,395   66,994  Cash collateral paid   26,815   20,695 
Equity securities   63,237   64,542  Cash collateral received   16,795   14,633 
Derivative instruments 1  25,531   17,731 
C  ash collat eral on derivatives instruments – not netted (CHF million) 2   
Other   4,175   4,530 
Cash collateral paid   7,741   4,570 
Trading assets   157,338   153,797 
Cash collateral received   7,831   7,457 
Trading liabilities (CHF million)       
1 Recorded as cash collateral netting on derivative instruments in Note 28 – Offsetting of 
Short positions   28,126   24,714  financial assets and financial liabilities.
Derivative instruments 1  17,745   13,472  2 Recorded as cash collateral on derivative instruments in Note 23 – Other assets and 
other liabilities.
Trading liabilities   45,871   38,186 
 
1  Amounts shown after counterparty and cash collateral netting.
300 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
17  Investment securities
end of   2020   2019 
Investment securities (CHF million)       
Debt securities available-for-sale   607   1,006 
Total investment securities   607   1,006 
 
Investment securities by type
          2020          2019 
      Gross   Gross         Gross   Gross    
   Amortized   unrealized   unrealized   Fair   Amortized   unrealized   unrealized   Fair 
end of   cost   gains   losses   value   cost   gains   losses   value 
I   nvestment securities by type (CHF million)                
Swiss federal, cantonal or local government entities   3   0   0   3   2   0   0   2 
Foreign governments   0   0   0   0   163   8   0   171 
Corporate debt securities   593   11   0   604   807   28   2   833 
Debt securities available-for-sale   596   11   0   607   972   36   2   1,006 
 
Gross unrealized losses on debt securities and the related fair value
      Less than 12 months     12 months or more     Total 
      Gross      Gross      Gross 
   Fair   unrealized   Fair   unrealized   Fair   unrealized 
end of   value   losses   value   losses   value   losses 
2     019 (CHF million)          
Corporate debt securities   204   2   0   0   204   2 
Debt securities available-for-sale   204   2   0   0   204   2 
 
Proceeds from sales, realized gains and realized losses  Allowance for credit losses on debt securities 
from debt securities available-for-sale available-for-sale
in   2020   2019   2018 
A credit loss exists if there is a decline in fair value of the security 
S  ales of de bt securitie s available-for-sale (CHF million)      
below the amortized cost as a result of the non-collectability of 
Proceeds from sales   629   6   255 
the amounts due in accordance with the contractual terms.
Realized gains   42   0   8 
  An allowance for expected credit losses is recorded in the con-
solidated statement of operations in provision for credit losses 
Amortized cost, fair value and average yield of debt  and the non-credit-related losses are recorded in AOCI. Subse-
securities quent improvements in the estimated credit losses are immedi-
         Average  ately recorded in the consolidated statement of operations as 
   Amortized   Fair   yield  a reduction in allowance and credit loss expense. A security is 
end of   cost   value   (in %) 
written off if it is considered certain that there is no possibility 
2 020 (CHF  million, except where indicated)         of recovering the outstanding principal. As of the end of 2020, 
Due within 1 year   149   149   0.26  the Group had no allowance for credit losses on debt securities 
Due from 1 to 5 years   2   2   3.75  available-for-sale.
Due from 5 to 10 years   445   456   (0.01) 
Debt securities available-for-sale   596   607   0.07 
  
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 301
   
 
18  Other investments
end of   2020   2019  In the second quarter of 2020, as a result of a corporate action 
Other investments (CHF million)         by Pfandbriefbank, the Group has revalued the shares it holds in 
Equity method investments   2,631   2,367  Pfandbriefbank under the measurement alternative principle in 
Equity securities (without a readily determinable fair value) 1  1,779   2,148  accordance with US GAAP in respect of this equity investment.
   of which at net asset value   113   409 
   of which at measurement alternative   359   274  Following the completion of the first step of the combination 
   of which at fair value   1,278   1,434  of our open architecture investment fund platform InvestLab 
   of which at cost less impairment   29   31  and Allfunds Group in September 2019, the Group success-
Real estate held-for-investment 2  82   99  fully completed the second and final step of the combination in 
Life finance instruments 3  920   1,052  March 2020 with the transfer of related distribution agreements 
Total other investments   5,412   5,666  to Allfunds Group. The investment is accounted for as an equity 
method investment.
1 Includes private equity, hedge funds and restricted stock investments as well as certain 
investments in non-marketable mutual funds for which the Group has neither significant 
influence nor control over the investee. In December 2019, Credit Suisse completed a review of the 
2 As of the end of 2020 and 2019, real estate held for investment included foreclosed or  accounting treatment of the shares that it holds in SIX Group AG 
repossessed real estate of CHF 16 million and CHF 24 million, respectively, of which 
and elected fair value accounting under US GAAP in respect of 
CHF 13 million and CHF 10 million, respectively, were related to residential real estate.
3  Includes single premium immediate annuity contracts. this equity investment.
Accumulated depreciation related to real estate held-for-invest- In the fourth quarter of 2020, York informed its investors of a 
ment amounted to CHF 35 million, CHF 34 million and CHF 31  significant change in strategy. As a result, York will focus on 
million for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. longer duration assets such as private equity, private debt and 
collateralized loan obligations, while winding down its European 
An impairment of CHF 1 million was recorded on real estate held- hedge funds business and primarily managing internal capital in 
for-investments in 2020. No impairments were recorded on real  its multi-strategy fund. York’s Asia Pacific business is expected to 
estate held-for-investments in 2019 and 2018, respectively. be spun off as a new and separate hedge fund in 2021, in which 
the Group intends to have a continuing interest. As a result of this 
Equity securities at measurement alternative announcement, the Group recorded an impairment of CHF 414 
in / end of   2020  Cumulative   2019  million to the valuation of its equity method investment.
I mpairment s and adjustments (CHF million)        
Impairments and downward adjustments   (17)   (25)   (1) 
Upward adjustments   137   147   11 
 
> 
Refer to “Note 36 – Financial instruments” for further information on such 
  investments.
302 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
19  Loans
The Group’s loan portfolio is classified into two portfolio seg- For financial reporting purposes, the carrying values of loans and 
ments, consumer loans and corporate & institutional loans. Con- related allowance for loan losses are presented in accordance 
sumer loans are disaggregated into the classes of mortgages,  with US GAAP and are not comparable with the regulatory credit 
loans collateralized by securities and consumer finance. Corporate  risk exposures presented in our disclosures required under Pillar 3 
& institutional loans are disaggregated into the classes of real  of the Basel framework.
estate, commercial and industrial loans, financial institutions, and 
governments and public institutions.
Loans
end of   2020   2019 
L oans (CHF million)      
Mortgages 1  111,270   109,671 
Loans collateralized by securities 1  51,789   56,425 
Consumer finance   4,888   4,401 
Consumer   167,947   170,497 
Real estate   29,045   29,220 
Commercial and industrial loans 1  74,097   73,495 
Financial institutions   19,072   20,367 
Governments and public institutions   3,378   4,262 
Corporate & institutional   125,592   127,344 
Gross loans   293,539   297,841 
   of which held at amortized cost   282,131   285,179 
   of which held at fair value   11,408   12,662 
Net (unearned income)/deferred expenses   (95)   (116) 
Allowance for credit losses   (1,536)   (946) 
Net loans   291,908   296,779 
G  ross loans by location      
Switzerland   168,589   163,133 
Foreign   124,950   134,708 
Gross loans   293,539   297,841 
I mpaired loans      
Non-performing loans   1,666   1,250 
Non-interest-earning loans   375   260 
Non-accrual loans   2,041   1,510 
Restructured loans   313   350 
Potential problem loans   843   266 
Other impaired loans   1,156   616 
Gross impaired loans 2  3,197   2,126 
1 Certain corporate & institutional loans have been reclassified to consumer loans following the application of a look-through approach with regard to beneficial owners. The prior period 
has been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
2 As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, CHF 180 million and CHF 208 million, respectively, were related to consumer mortgages secured by residential real estate for which formal fore-
  closure proceedings according to local requirements of the applicable jurisdiction were in process.
In accordance with Group policies, impaired loans include non- > Refer to “Loans” in Note 1 – Summary of significant accounting policies for 
accrual loans, comprised of non-performing loans and non-inter- further information on loans and categories of impaired loans.
est-earning loans, as well as restructured loans and potential  > Refer to “Note 20 – Financial instruments measured at amortized cost and 
problem loans. credit losses” for further information on loans held at amortized cost.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 303
   
 
20   Financial instruments measured at amortized cost and credit 
losses
This disclosure provides an overview of the Group’s balance sheet  p  Non-accrual financial assets;
positions that include financial assets carried at amortized cost  p  Collateral-dependent financial assets;
that are subject to the CECL accounting guidance, effective since  p  Off-balance sheet credit exposure; and
January 1, 2020. It includes the following sections: p  Troubled debt restructurings and modifications.
p  Allowance for credit losses (including the methodology for esti-
mating expected credit losses in non-impaired and impaired  As of December 31, 2020, the Group had no notable balances 
financial assets and current-period estimates); of purchased financial assets with more than insignificant credit 
p  Credit quality information (including monitoring of credit quality  deterioration since origination.
and internal ratings); > Refer to “Note 1 – Summary of significant accounting policies” for further 
p  Past due financial assets; information on the accounting of financial assets and off-balance sheet credit 
exposure subject to the CECL accounting guidance.
Overview of financial instruments measured at amortized cost – by balance sheet position
      Allowance   Net  
   Amortized   for credit   carrying  
end of   cost basis 1   losses   value 
2  020 (CHF million)       
Cash and due from banks   138,593   (6)   138,587 
Interest-bearing deposits with banks   1,303 2   (5)   1,298 
Securities purchased under resale agreements and securities borrowing transactions   21,139   0   21,139 
Loans   282,036 2 ,3  (1,536)   280,500 
Brokerage receivables   35,942 2   (1)   35,941 
Other assets   15,394   (43)   15,351 
Total   494,407   (1,591)   492,816 
1 Net of unearned income/deferred expenses, as applicable.
2 Excludes accrued interest in the total amount of CHF 351 million, with no related allowance for credit losses. Of the accrued interest balance, CHF 1 million relates to interest-bearing 
deposits with banks, CHF 334 million to loans and CHF 16 million to brokerage receivables. These accrued interest balances are reported in other assets.
3 Includes endangered interest of CHF 88 million on non-accrual loans which are reported as part of the loans’ amortized cost balance.
 
Allowance for credit losses Lifetime PDs are estimated considering the expected macroeco-
nomic environment and the contractual maturities of exposures, 
Estimating expected credit losses – overview adjusted for estimated prepayment rates where applicable.
The following key elements and processes of estimating expected 
credit losses apply to the Group’s major classes of financial  LGD estimates the size of the expected loss that may arise on 
assets held at amortized cost. a credit exposure in the event of a default. The Group estimates 
LGD based on the history of recovery rates of claims against 
Expected credit losses on non-impaired credit exposures defaulted counterparties, considering, as appropriate, factors 
Expected credit loss models for non-impaired credit exposures  such as differences in product structure, collateral type, senior-
have three main inputs: (i) probability of default (PD), (ii) loss  ity of the claim, counterparty industry and recovery costs of any 
given default (LGD) and (iii) exposure at default (EAD). These  collateral that is integral to the financial asset. Certain LGD val-
parameters are derived from internally developed statistical  ues are also calibrated to reflect the expected macroeconomic 
models which are based on historical data and leverage regula- environment.
tory models under the advanced internal rating-based approach. 
Expected credit loss models use forward-looking information to  EAD represents the expected amount of credit exposure in the 
derive point-in-time estimates of forward-looking term structures. event of a default. It reflects the current drawn exposure with a 
counterparty and an expectation regarding the future evolution of 
PD estimates are based on statistical rating models and tailored  the credit exposure under the contract or facility, including amorti-
to various categories of counterparties and exposures. These  zation and prepayments. The EAD of a financial asset is the gross 
statistical rating models are based on internally and externally  carrying amount at default, which is modeled based on historical 
compiled data comprising both quantitative and qualitative factors.  data by applying a term structure and considering portfolio-spe-
A migration of a counterparty or exposure between rating classes  cific factors such as the drawn amount as of the reporting date, 
generally leads to a change in the estimate of the associated PD.  the facility limit, amortization schedules, financial collateral and 
304 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
product type. For certain financial assets, the Group determines  For all classes of financial assets, the trigger to detect an 
EAD by modeling the range of possible exposure outcomes at  impaired credit exposure is non-payment of interest, principal 
various points in time using scenario and statistical techniques. amounts or other contractual payment obligations, or when, for 
example, the Group may become aware of specific adverse infor-
Where a relationship to macroeconomic indicators is statistically  mation relating to a counterparty’s ability to meet its contractual 
sound and in line with economic expectations, the parameters are  obligations, despite the current repayment status of its particular 
modeled accordingly, incorporating the Group’s forward looking  credit facility. For credit exposures where repayment is dependent 
forecasts and applying regional segmentations where appropriate. on collateral, a decrease in collateral values can be an additional 
trigger to detect an impairment. Additional procedures may apply 
The Group’s macroeconomic and market variable forecasts for  to specific classes of financial assets as described further below.
the CECL scenarios cover a five-year time horizon. For periods 
beyond that reasonable and supportable forecast period, the  Troubled debt restructurings, also referred to as restructured 
Group immediately reverts to average economic environment vari- loans, are considered impaired credit exposures in line with the 
ables as model input factors. Group’s policies and subject to individual assessment and provi-
sioning for expected credit losses by the Group’s recovery func-
Alternative qualitative estimation approaches are used for certain  tions. Restructured loans that defaulted again within 12 months 
products. For lombard loans (including share-backed loans), the  from the last restructuring remain impaired or are impaired if they 
PD/LGD approach used does not consider the Group’s forward  were considered non-impaired at the time of the subsequent 
looking forecasts as these are not meaningful for the estimate of  default.
expected credit losses in light of the short time-frame considered 
for closing out positions under daily margining arrangements. For  Macroeconomic scenarios
international private residential mortgages and securitizations, the  The estimation and application of forward-looking information 
Group applies qualitative approaches where credit specialists fol- requires quantitative analysis and significant expert judgment. 
low a structured process and use their expertise and judgment to  The Group’s estimation of expected credit losses is based on a 
determine the CECL amounts. discounted probability-weighted estimate that considers three 
future macroeconomic scenarios: a baseline scenario, an upside 
The Group measures expected credit losses considering the risk  scenario and a downside scenario. The baseline scenario repre-
of default over the maximum contractual period (including any  sents the most likely outcome. The two other scenarios represent 
borrower’s extension options) during which it is exposed to credit  more optimistic and more pessimistic outcomes with the down-
risk, even if the Group considers a longer period for risk manage- side scenario being more severe than the upside scenario. The 
ment purposes. The maximum contractual period extends to the  scenarios are probability-weighted according to the Group’s best 
date at which the Group has the right to require repayment of an  estimate of their relative likelihood based on historical frequency, 
advance or terminate an irrevocable loan commitment or a credit  an assessment of the current business and credit cycles as well 
guarantee. as the macroeconomic factor (MEF) trends.
Expected credit losses on impaired credit exposures The scenario design team within the Group’s Enterprise Risk 
Expected credit losses for individually impaired credit exposures  Management (ERM) function determines the MEFs and mar-
are measured by performing an in-depth review and analysis  ket projections that are relevant for the Group’s three scenarios 
of these exposures, considering factors such as recovery and  across the global credit portfolio. The scenario design team for-
exit options as well as collateral and the risk profile of the bor- mulates the baseline scenario projections used for the CECL cal-
rower. The individual measurement of expected credit losses for  culation from the Group’s global chief investment office in-house 
impaired financial assets also considers reasonable and support- economic research forecasts and, where deemed appropriate, 
able forward-looking information that is relevant to the individual  from external sources such as the Bloomberg consensus of econ-
counterparty (idiosyncratic information) and reflective of the mac- omist forecasts (covering the views of other investment banks 
roeconomic environment that the borrower is exposed to, apart  and external economic consultancies), forecasts from nonparti-
from any historical loss information and current conditions. If there  san think tanks, major central banks and multilateral institutions, 
are different scenarios relevant for the individual expected credit  such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Organisation 
loss measurement, they are considered on a probability-weighted  for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the 
basis. The related allowance for credit losses is revalued by Credit  World Bank. For factors where no in-house or credible external 
Risk, at least annually or more frequently, depending on the risk  forecasts are available, an internal model is used to calibrate the 
profile of the borrower or credit-relevant events. baseline scenario projections. The downside and upside scenarios 
are derived from these baseline scenario projections. These 
For credit-impaired financial assets, the expected credit losses  three scenario projections are subject to a review and challenge 
are measured using the present value of estimated future cash  process and any feedback from this process is incorporated into 
flows (unless a practical expedient for collateral-dependent finan- the scenario projections by the ERM scenario design team. The 
cial assets is applied) and the impaired credit exposures and  CECL scenario design working group is the governance forum. 
related allowance are revalued to reflect the passage of time. The working group performs an additional review and challenge 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 305
   
and subsequently recommends approval of the MEFs and related  Interest income attributable to passage of time
market projections as well as the occurrence probability weights  For financial assets held at amortized cost for which the Group 
that are allocated to the baseline, downside and upside scenarios.  measures expected credit losses based on the discounted cash 
MEFs and related market projections as well as the scenario  flow methodology the entire change in present value is reported in 
occurrence probability weights used for the calculation of CECL  provision for credit losses.
are approved by the Senior Management Approval Committee.
Methodology changes
Current-period estimate of expected credit losses The probability of default model for commodity trade finance 
The key MEFs used in each of the macroeconomic scenarios for  exposures was adjusted during the reporting period to reflect the 
the calculation of the expected credit losses include, but are not  latest model development analysis and expert feedback. This 
limited to, GDP and unemployment rates. These MEFs have been  change has been supported by backtesting results. The impact 
selected based on the portfolios that are most material to the  from this model change has been reflected in the table “Allow-
estimation of CECL from a longer term perspective. ance for credit losses – loans held at amortized cost”.
As of December 31, 2020, the forecast macroeconomic sce- Loans held at amortized cost
narios were weighted 50% for the baseline, 40% for the down- The Group’s loan portfolio is classified into two portfolio seg-
side and 10% for the upside scenario. The forecast range for  ments, consumer loans and corporate & institutional loans. The 
the increase in Swiss real GDP was 0.1% to 5.4% for 2021 and  main risk characteristics are described by individual class of 
0.8% to 4.5% for 2022. The forecast in the baseline scenario for  financing receivable for each of these portfolio segments:
the timing of the recovery of quarterly Swiss real GDP to return 
to pre-pandemic levels (i.e., the fourth quarter of 2019) was the  Consumer loans:
third quarter of 2021. The forecast range of the increase in the  p  Mortgages: includes lending instruments secured by residen-
eurozone real GDP was 0.3% to 7.8% for 2021 and 2.8% to  tial real estate; such credit exposure is sensitive to the level 
3.9% for 2022. The forecast in the baseline scenario for the tim- of interest rates and unemployment as well as real estate 
ing of the recovery of the quarterly eurozone real GDP to return  valuation.
to pre-pandemic levels was the first quarter of 2023. The fore- p  Loans collateralized by securities: includes lending secured by 
cast range for the increase in US real GDP was 0.5% to 5.2%  marketable financial collateral (e.g., equities, bonds, invest-
for 2021 and 2.0% to 5.1% for 2022. The forecast in the base- ment funds and precious metals); such credit exposure is sen-
line scenario for the timing of the recovery of the quarterly US  sitive to market prices for securities which impact the value of 
real GDP to return to pre-pandemic levels was the fourth quarter  financial collateral.
of 2021. The forecast range for the increase in world industrial  p  Consumer finance: includes lending to private individuals such 
production was 2.4% to 8.6% for 2021 and 2.9% to 5.9% for  as credit cards, personal loans and leases; such credit expo-
2022. The MEF projections incorporate adjustments to reflect  sure is sensitive to MEFs including economic growth, unem-
the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic related economic support  ployment and interest rates.
programs provided by national governments and by central banks. 
While GDP and industrial production are significant inputs to the  Corporate & institutional loans:
forecast models, a range of other inputs are also incorporated  p  Real estate: includes lending backed by commercial or 
for all three scenarios to provide projections for future economic  income-producing real estate; such credit exposure is sensitive 
and market conditions. Given the complex nature of the forecast- to MEFs including economic growth, unemployment, interest 
ing process, no single economic variable is viewed in isolation or  rates and industrial production as well as real estate valuation.
independently of other inputs. p  Commercial and industrial loans: includes lending to corporate 
clients including small and medium-sized enterprises, large 
For extreme and statistically rare events which cannot be ade- corporates and multinational clients; such credit exposure is 
quately reflected in CECL models, such as the effects of the  sensitive to MEFs including economic growth, unemployment 
COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy, the event becomes  and industrial production.
the baseline scenario. In the current environment, to address cir- p  Financial institutions: includes lending to financial institutions 
cumstances where in management’s judgment the CECL model  such as banks and insurance companies; such credit exposure 
outputs are overly sensitive to the effect of economic inputs that  is sensitive to MEFs including economic growth and interest 
lie significantly outside of their historical range, model overlays  rates.
are applied. These overlays are based on expert judgment and  p  Governments and public institutions: includes lending to central 
are applied in response to these exceptional circumstances to  government and state-owned enterprises; such credit expo-
consider historical stressed losses and industry and counterparty  sure is sensitive to MEFs including economic growth.
credit level reviews. Overlays have also been used to capture 
judgment on the economic uncertainty from the lockdowns and  Expected credit losses on impaired loans
other actions directed towards managing the pandemic. As a  In addition to the triggers described further above, loans man-
result of these overlays, provisions for credit losses are not pri- aged on the Swiss platform are reviewed depending on event-
marily derived from MEF projections. driven developments. All corporate and institutional loans are 
306 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
reviewed at least annually based on the borrower’s financial state- they should be released, remain on the watch list or be moved to 
ments and any indications of difficulties they may experience.  recovery management. For loans in recovery management from 
Loans that are not impaired, but which are of special concern  the Swiss platform, larger positions are reviewed on a quarterly 
due to changes in covenants, downgrades, negative financial  basis for any event-driven changes. Otherwise, these loans are 
news and other adverse developments, are either transferred to  reviewed at least annually. All loans in recovery management on 
recovery management or included on a watch list. All loans on the  international platforms are reviewed on at least a monthly basis.
watch list are reviewed at least quarterly to determine whether 
Allowance for credit losses – loans held at amortized cost
        2020        2019 1       2018 1 
     Corporate &        Corporate &        Corporate &    
   Consumer   institutional   Total   Consumer   institutional   Total   Consumer   institutional   Total 
A    llowance for credit losses (CHF million)                  
Balance at beginning of period   241   808   1,049 2   187   715   902   220   662   882 
Current-period provision for expected credit losses   191   709   900   63   221   284   19   182   201 
   of which methodology changes   0   (19)   (19)   –   –   –   –   –   – 
   of which provisions for interest 3  22   15   37   –   –   –   –   –   – 
Gross write-offs   (87)   (238)   (325)   (86)   (213)   (299)   (85)   (184)   (269) 
Recoveries   8   5   13   9   16   25   21   37   58 
Net write-offs   (79)   (233)   (312)   (77)   (197)   (274)   (64)   (147)   (211) 
Provisions for interest   –   –   –   14   28   42   11   19   30 
Foreign currency translation impact                             
and other adjustments, net   (35)   (66)   (101)   (1)   (7)   (8)   1   (1)   0 
Balance at end of period   318   1,218   1,536   186   760   946   187   715   902 
   of which individually evaluated   230   636   866   145   464   609   146   462   608 
   of which collectively evaluated   88   582   670   41   296   337   41   253   294 
1 Measured under the previous accounting guidance (incurred loss model).
2 Includes a net impact of CHF 103 million from the adoption of the new CECL guidance and the related election of the fair value option for certain loans on January 1, 2020, of which 
CHF 55 million is reflected in consumer loans and CHF 48 million in corporate & institutional loans.
3 Represents the current-period net provision for accrued interest on non-accrual loans and lease financing transactions which is recognized as a reversal of interest income.
 
Gross write-offs of CHF 325 million in 2020 compared to  to consumer finance and a share-backed loan. In 2019, gross 
gross write-offs of CHF 299 million in 2019 and were primarily  write-offs in corporate & institutional loans were mainly related to 
related to corporate & institutional loans in both years. In 2020,  the commodity trade finance, the large Swiss corporates and the 
gross write-offs in corporate & institutional loans were mainly  small and medium-sized enterprises business areas, the super-
related to the oil and gas, ship finance, lombard lending, small  market sector in Europe, lombard loans and an infrastructure 
and medium-sized enterprises, health care and commodity trade  development company. Write-offs in consumer loans were mainly 
finance sectors. Write-offs in consumer loans were mainly related  related to consumer finance and lombard loans.
Purchases, reclassifications and sales – loans held at amortized cost
        2020        2019        2018 
     Corporate &        Corporate &        Corporate &    
in   Consumer   institutional   Total   Consumer   institutional   Total   Consumer   institutional   Total 
C         HF million             
Purchases 1  45   2,756   2,801   18   2,478   2,496   0   2,163   2,163 
Reclassifications from loans held-for-sale 2  0   6   6   0   11   11   0   1   1 
Reclassifications to loans held-for-sale 3  18   2,007   2,025   0   3,138   3,138   1   2,351   2,352 
Sales 3  18   1,626   1,644   0   3,001   3,001   1   2,267   2,268 
1 Includes drawdowns under purchased loan commitments.
2 Includes loans previously reclassified to held-for-sale that were not sold and were reclassified back to loans held-to-maturity.
3 All loans held at amortized cost which are sold are reclassified to loans held-for-sale on or prior to the date of the sale.
 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 307
   
 
Other financial assets p  Credit limits: establishment of credit limits, subject to approval 
The Group’s other financial assets include certain balance sheet  by delegated authority holders, to serve as primary risk con-
positions held at amortized cost, each representing its own port- trols on exposures and to prevent undue risk concentrations;
folio segment; they have the following risk characteristics: p  Credit monitoring, impairments and provisions: processes to 
p  Cash and due from banks and interest-bearing deposits with  support the ongoing monitoring and management of credit 
banks: includes balances held with banks, primarily cash bal- exposures, supporting the early identification of deterioration 
ances with central banks and nostro accounts; such credit  and any subsequent impact; and
exposure is sensitive to the credit rating and profile of the bank  p  Risk mitigation: active management of risk mitigation provided 
or central bank. in relation to credit exposures, including through the use of 
p  Reverse repurchase agreements and securities borrowing  cash sales, participations, collateral or guarantees or hedging 
transactions: includes lending and borrowing of securities  instruments.
against cash or other financial collateral; such credit exposure 
is sensitive to the credit rating and profile of the counterparty  The Group evaluates and assesses counterparties and clients to 
and relative changes in the valuation of securities and financial  whom it has credit exposures, primarily using internal rating mod-
collateral. els. The Group uses these models to determine internal credit rat-
p  Brokerage receivables: includes mainly settlement accounts  ings which are intended to reflect the PD of each counterparty. 
with brokers and margin accounts; such credit exposure is 
sensitive to the credit rating and profile of the counterparty. For a majority of counterparties and clients, internal ratings are 
p  Other assets: includes mainly cash collateral, accrued inter- based on internally developed statistical models that have been 
est, fees receivable, mortgage servicing advances and failed  backtested against internal experience and validated by a func-
purchases; such credit exposure is sensitive to the credit rating  tion independent of model development. Findings from back-
and profile of the related counterparty. testing serve as a key input for any future rating model develop-
ments. The Group’s internally developed statistical rating models 
Allowance for credit losses – other financial assets held at  are based on a combination of quantitative factors (e.g., financial 
amortized cost fundamentals, such as balance sheet information for corporates 
   2020  and loan-to-value (LTV) ratio and the borrower’s income level 
for mortgage lending, and market data) and qualitative factors 
CHF million    
(e.g., credit histories from credit reporting bureaus and economic 
Balance at beginning of period   45 
trends). 
Current-period provision for expected credit losses   24 
Gross write-offs   (12) 
For the remaining counterparties where statistical rating models 
Recoveries   2 
are not used, internal credit ratings are assigned on the basis of a 
Net write-offs   (10) 
structured expert approach using a variety of inputs, such as peer 
Foreign currency translation impact     
and other adjustments, net   (4)  analyses, industry comparisons, external ratings and research as 
Balance at end of period   55  well as the judgment of senior credit officers.
   of which individually evaluated   17 
   of which collectively evaluated   38  In addition to counterparty ratings, Credit Risk also assesses the 
  risk profile of individual transactions and assigns transaction rat-
ings which reflect specific contractual terms such as seniority, 
Credit quality information security and collateral.
Monitoring of credit quality and internal ratings – Overview Internal credit ratings may differ from external credit ratings, 
The Group monitors the credit quality of financial assets held at  where available, and are subject to periodic review depend-
amortized cost through its credit risk management framework,  ing on exposure type, client segment, collateral or event-driven 
which provides for the consistent evaluation, measurement and  developments. The Group’s internal ratings are mapped to a PD 
management of credit risk across the Group. Assessments of  band associated with each rating which is calibrated to historical 
credit risk exposures for internal risk estimates and risk-weighted  default experience using internal data and external data sources. 
assets are calculated based on PD, LGD and EAD models. The Group’s internal rating bands are reviewed on an annual 
> Refer to “Expected credit losses on non-impaired credit exposures” for further  basis with reference to extended historical default data and are 
information on PD, LGD and EAD. therefore based on stable long-run averages. Adjustments to PD 
bands are only made where significant deviations to existing val-
The credit risk management framework incorporates the following  ues are detected. The last update was made in 2012 and since 
core elements: then no significant changes to the robust long-run averages have 
p  Counterparty and transaction assessments: application of  been detected.
internal credit ratings (using PD), assignment of LGD and EAD 
values in relation to counterparties and transactions; For the purpose of the credit quality disclosures included in these 
financial statements, an equivalent rating based on the Standard 
308 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
& Poor’s rating scale is assigned to the Group’s internal ratings  economic and industry studies. Credit Risk maintains regularly 
based on the PD band associated with each rating. These inter- updated watch lists and holds review meetings to re-assess coun-
nal ratings are used consistently across all classes of financial  terparties that could be subject to adverse changes in creditwor-
assets and are aggregated to the credit quality indicators “invest- thiness. The review of the credit quality of clients and counterpar-
ment grade” and “non-investment grade”. ties does not depend on the accounting treatment of the asset or 
commitment.
The Group uses internal rating methodologies consistently for the  > Refer to “Expected credit losses on impaired loans” for further information on 
purposes of approval, establishment and monitoring of credit lim- credit monitoring.
its and credit portfolio management, credit policy, management 
reporting, risk-adjusted performance measurement, economic  Credit quality of loans held at amortized cost
risk capital measurement and allocation and financial accounting. The following table presents the Group’s carrying value of loans 
held at amortized cost by aggregated internal counterparty credit 
A rigorous credit quality monitoring process is performed to pro- ratings “investment grade” and “non-investment grade” that are 
vide for early identification of possible changes in the creditwor- used as credit quality indicators for the purpose of this disclosure, 
thiness of clients and includes regular asset and collateral quality  by year of origination.
reviews, business and financial statement analysis and relevant 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 309
   
Consumer loans held at amortized cost by internal counterparty rating
   Investment      Non-investment    
   grade     grade    
end of   AAA to BBB   BB to C   D   Total 
2   020 (CHF million)        
Mortgages             
2020   18,765   1,664   3   20,432 
2019   14,072   1,511   26   15,609 
2018   10,242   932   58   11,232 
2017   7,087   857   44   7,988 
2016   10,951   914   76   11,941 
Prior years   39,918   2,854   216   42,988 
Total term loans   101,035   8,732   423   110,190 
Revolving loans   528   548   4   1,080 
Total   101,563   9,280   427   111,270 
Loans collateralized by securities             
2020   1,682   1,547   149   3,378 
2019   1,019   324   0   1,343 
2018   499   64   0   563 
2017   61   41   0   102 
2016   200   127   0   327 
Prior years   563   622   0   1,185 
Total term loans   4,024   2,725   149   6,898 
Revolving loans 1  41,749   3,038   104   44,891 
Total   45,773   5,763   253   51,789 
Consumer finance             
2020   1,297   903   5   2,205 
2019   519   505   22   1,046 
2018   279   237   23   539 
2017   81   154   17   252 
2016   16   57   10   83 
Prior years   48   92   41   181 
Total term loans   2,240   1,948   118   4,306 
Revolving loans   328   88   81   497 
Total   2,568   2,036   199   4,803 
Consumer – total             
2020   21,744   4,114   157   26,015 
2019   15,610   2,340   48   17,998 
2018   11,020   1,233   81   12,334 
2017   7,229   1,052   61   8,342 
2016   11,167   1,098   86   12,351 
Prior years   40,529   3,568   257   44,354 
Total term loans   107,299   13,405   690   121,394 
Revolving loans   42,605   3,674   189   46,468 
Total   149,904   17,079   879   167,862 
1  Lombard loans are generally classified as revolving loans.
310 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Corporate & institutional loans held at amortized cost by internal counterparty rating
   Investment      Non-investment    
   grade     grade    
end of   AAA to BBB   BB to C   D   Total 
2   020 (CHF million)        
Real estate             
2020   6,054   2,792   106   8,952 
2019   2,902   1,611   0   4,513 
2018   1,849   1,133   24   3,006 
2017   1,033   346   72   1,451 
2016   1,591   285   25   1,901 
Prior years   5,982   1,105   33   7,120 
Total term loans   19,411   7,272   260   26,943 
Revolving loans   1,027   172   69   1,268 
Total   20,438   7,444   329   28,211 
Commercial and industrial loans             
2020   7,724   11,621   310   19,655 
2019   3,851   6,411   133   10,395 
2018   1,781   4,321   247   6,349 
2017   964   1,981   60   3,005 
2016   809   1,248   22   2,079 
Prior years   2,830   3,837   128   6,795 
Total term loans   17,959   29,419   900   48,278 
Revolving loans   12,913   8,908   464   22,285 
Total   30,872   38,327   1,364   70,563 
Financial institutions             
2020   3,386   697   43   4,126 
2019   1,973   132   39   2,144 
2018   960   432   9   1,401 
2017   97   92   0   189 
2016   37   102   20   159 
Prior years   288   38   2   328 
Total term loans   6,741   1,493   113   8,347 
Revolving loans   5,718   419   1   6,138 
Total   12,459   1,912   114   14,485 
Governments and public institutions             
2020   174   33   0   207 
2019   135   20   10   165 
2018   80   0   0   80 
2017   35   0   0   35 
2016   74   1   0   75 
Prior years   388   41   0   429 
Total term loans   886   95   10   991 
Revolving loans   19   0   0   19 
Total   905   95   10   1,010 
Corporate & institutional – total             
2020   17,338   15,143   459   32,940 
2019   8,861   8,174   182   17,217 
2018   4,670   5,886   280   10,836 
2017   2,129   2,419   132   4,680 
2016   2,511   1,636   67   4,214 
Prior years   9,488   5,021   163   14,672 
Total term loans   44,997   38,279   1,283   84,559 
Revolving loans   19,677   9,499   534   29,710 
Total   64,674   47,778   1,817   114,269 
 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 311
   
Total loans held at amortized cost by internal counterparty rating
   Investment      Non-investment    
   grade     grade    
end of   AAA to BBB   BB to C   D   Total 
2   020 (CHF million)        
Loans held at amortized cost – total             
2020   39,082   19,257   616   58,955 
2019   24,471   10,514   230   35,215 
2018   15,690   7,119   361   23,170 
2017   9,358   3,471   193   13,022 
2016   13,678   2,734   153   16,565 
Prior years   50,017   8,589   420   59,026 
Total term loans   152,296   51,684   1,973   205,953 
Revolving loans   62,282   13,173   723   76,178 
Total   214,578   64,857   2,696   282,131 1 
1  Excludes accrued interest on loans held at amortized cost of CHF 334 million.
2019 Gross loans held at amortized cost by internal counterparty rating
   Investment      Non-investment    
   grade     grade    
end of   AAA to BBB   BB to C   D   Total 
2   019 (CHF million)        
Mortgages 1  99,677   9,629   365   109,671 
Loans collateralized by securities 1  50,766   5,531   128   56,425 
Consumer finance   1,527   2,677   167   4,371 
Consumer   151,970   17,837   660   170,467 
Real estate   20,524   7,674   125   28,323 
Commercial and industrial loans 1  30,090   38,522   1,108   69,720 
Financial institutions   13,267   2,122   47   15,436 
Governments and public institutions   1,166   67   0   1,233 
Corporate & institutional   65,047   48,385   1,280   114,712 
Gross loans held at amortized cost   217,017   66,222   1,940   285,179 
1 Certain corporate & institutional loans have been reclassified to consumer loans following the application of a look-through approach with regard to beneficial owners. The prior period 
  has been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
Credit quality of other financial assets held at amortized  counterparty credit ratings investment grade and non-investment 
cost grade, by year of origination.
The following table presents the Group’s carrying value of other 
financial assets held at amortized cost by aggregated internal 
Other financial assets held at amortized cost by internal counterparty rating
   Investment      Non-investment    
   grade     grade    
end of   AAA to BBB   BB to C   D   Total 
2   020 (CHF million)        
Other financial assets held at amortized cost             
2018   0   70   0   70 
2017   0   2   0   2 
2016   0   4   0   4 
Total term positions   0   76   0   76 
Revolving positions   0   934   0   934 
Total   0   1,010   0   1,010 
Includes primarily mortgage servicing advances and failed purchases.
 
312 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
Past due financial assets
Generally, a financial asset is deemed past due if the principal 
and/or interest payment has not been received on its due date.
Loans held at amortized cost – past due
   Current               Past due    
      Up to    31 – 60   61 – 90   More than       
end of      30 days   days   days   90 days   Total   Total 
2      020 (CHF million)           
Mortgages   110,747   63   68   34   358   523   111,270 
Loans collateralized by securities   51,668   17   0   0   104   121   51,789 
Consumer finance   4,361   156   68   47   171   442   4,803 
Consumer   166,776   236   136   81   633   1,086   167,862 
Real estate   28,070   50   3   11   77   141   28,211 
Commercial and industrial loans   69,060   630   54   137   682   1,503   70,563 
Financial institutions   14,311   41   15   72   46   174   14,485 
Governments and public institutions   969   37   4   0   0   41   1,010 
Corporate & institutional   112,410   758   76   220   805   1,859   114,269 
Total loans held at amortized cost   279,186   994   212   301   1,438   2,945   282,131 1 
2      019 (CHF million)           
Mortgages 2  109,279   83   16   9   284   392   109,671 
Loans collateralized by securities 2  56,287   79   0   2   57   138   56,425 
Consumer finance   3,826   283   61   43   158   545   4,371 
Consumer   169,392   445   77   54   499   1,075   170,467 
Real estate   28,094   95   10   2   122   229   28,323 
Commercial and industrial loans 2  68,462   528   62   71   597   1,258   69,720 
Financial institutions   15,300   85   1   3   47   136   15,436 
Governments and public institutions   1,207   26   0   0   0   26   1,233 
Corporate & institutional   113,063   734   73   76   766   1,649   114,712 
Total loans held at amortized cost   282,455   1,179   150   130   1,265   2,724   285,179 
1 Excludes accrued interest on loans held at amortized cost of CHF 334 million.
2 Certain corporate & institutional loans have been reclassified to consumer loans following the application of a look-through approach with regard to beneficial owners. The prior period 
has been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
 
As of December 31, 2020, the Group did not have any loans that  Payments collected on non-accrual financial assets are 
were more than 90 days past due and still accruing interest. Also,  accounted for using the cash basis or the cost recovery method 
the Group did not have any other financial assets held at amor- or a combination of both.
tized cost that were past due.
Generally, non-accrual financial assets may be restored to per-
Non-accrual financial assets forming status only when delinquent principal and interest are 
brought up to date in accordance with the terms of the contrac-
Overview tual arrangement and when certain performance criteria are met.
Generally, a financial asset is deemed non-accrual and recogni- > Refer to “Note 1 – Summary of significant accounting policies” for further 
tion of any interest in the statement of operations is discontinued  information on the recognition of write-offs of financial assets and related 
recoveries.
when the contractual payments of principal and/or interest are 
more than 90 days past due. For loans held at amortized cost, non-accrual loans are comprised 
of non-performing loans and non-interest-earning loans.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 313
   
Non-accrual loans held at amortized cost
          2020 
            Amortized  
            cost of  
           non-accrual  
   Amortized    Amortized       assets   
   cost of    cost of       with no  
   non-accrual   non-accrual       specific 
   assets at    assets at    Interest   allowance 
   beginning    end    income   at end of 
   of period   of period   recognized   period 
C    HF million        
Mortgages   337   418   3   60 
Loans collateralized by securities   122   105   1   0 
Consumer finance   168   201   3   1 
Consumer   627   724   7   61 
Real estate   155   324   8   27 
Commercial and industrial loans   682   925   38   4 
Financial institutions   46   68   0   8 
Corporate & institutional   883   1,317   46   39 
Total loans held at amortized cost   1,510   2,041   53   100 
 
In the Group’s recovery management international function, a  mainly cash, inventory, oil and gas reserves and receivables. 
position is written down to its net carrying value once the credit  Securities borrowing exposures are mainly secured by pledged 
provision is greater than 90% of the notional amount, unless  shares, bonds, investment fund units and money market instru-
repayment is anticipated to occur within the next three months.  ments. Trade finance exposures are secured by cash and guar-
Following the expiration of this three-month period the position is  antees. For lombard loans, the Group holds collateral in the form 
written off unless it can be demonstrated that any delay in pay- of pledged shares, bonds, investment fund units and money 
ment is an operational matter that is expected to be resolved  market instruments as well as cash and life insurance policies. As 
within a ten-day grace period. For the Group’s Swiss-based  of December 31, 2020, the overall collateral coverage ratio was 
recovery functions, write-offs are made based on an individual  171% of the Group’s collateral-dependent financial asset expo-
counterparty assessment. An evaluation is performed on the  sure managed by the recovery management international func-
need for write-offs on impaired loans individually and on an ongo- tion, compared to 217% as of December 31, 2019. The decrease 
ing basis, if it is certain that parts of a loan or the entire loan  in the overall collateral coverage ratio was mainly driven by the 
will not be recoverable. Write-offs of a remaining loan balance  upgrading of an over-collateralized exposure to a company in the 
are executed once available debt enforcement procedures are  oil and gas sector to non-impaired status.
exhausted.
Collateral-dependent financial assets managed by the recov-
Collateral-dependent financial assets ery management function for International Wealth Management 
mainly include ship finance exposures, commercial loans, lom-
Collateral-dependent financial assets are assets for which repay- bard loans, residential mortgages and aviation finance expo-
ment is expected to be provided substantially through the opera- sures. Ship finance exposures are collateralized by vessel mort-
tion or sale of the collateral when the borrower, based on the  gages, corporate guarantees, insurance assignments as well as 
Group’s assessment, is experiencing financial difficulty as of the  cash balances, securities deposits or other assets held with the 
reporting date. Qualitative factors that were relevant to the Group  Group. Collateral held against commercial loans include primarily 
as of the reporting date were considered and due diligence was  guarantees issued by export credit agencies, other guarantees, 
conducted for determining when a loan is collateral-dependent. private risk insurance, asset pledges and assets held with the 
Group (e.g., cash, securities deposits and others). Lombard loans 
The Group’s collateral-dependent financial assets are managed  are collateralized by pledged financial assets mainly in the form 
by a global recovery management function which is divisionally  of cash, shares, bonds, investment fund units and money market 
aligned to Investment Bank/Asia Pacific, International Wealth  instruments as well as life insurance policies and bank guaran-
Management and Swiss Universal Bank. tees. Residential mortgages are secured by mortgage notes on 
residential real estate, life insurance policies as well as cash bal-
Collateral-dependent financial assets managed by the recovery  ances, securities deposits or other assets held with the Group. 
management function for Investment Bank/Asia Pacific mainly  Aircraft finance exposures are collateralized by aircraft mortgages 
include mortgages, revolving corporate loans, securities borrow- of business jets as well as corporate and/or personal guaran-
ing, trade finance exposures and lombard loans. For mortgages,  tees, cash balances, securities deposits or other assets held with 
property, guarantees and life insurance policies are the main col- the Group. Collateral-dependent loans increased in 2020 mainly 
lateral types. For revolving corporate loans, collateral includes  driven by increases in aviation finance, export finance, residential 
314 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
mortgages and lombard loans, partially offset by reductions in  p  Irrevocable commitments are primarily commitments made to 
ship finance. The overall collateral coverage decreased from 92%  corporate and institutional borrowers to provide loans under 
as of December 31, 2019 to 89% as of December 31, 2020,  approved, but undrawn, credit facilities. In addition, the Group 
mainly due to decreased collateral coverage ratios in ship finance  has irrevocable commitments under documentary credits for 
and mortgages, partially offset by an improved ratio in lombard  corporate and institutional clients that facilitate international 
loans. trade. The related credit risk exposure is to corporate clients, 
including small and medium-sized enterprises, large corporates 
Collateral-dependent financial assets managed by the recovery  and multinational clients who are impacted by macroeconomic 
management function for Swiss Universal Bank mainly include  and industry-specific factors such as economic growth, unem-
residential mortgages and commercial mortgages. Collateral held  ployment and industrial production.
against residential mortgages includes mainly mortgage notes on  p  Guarantees are provided to third parties which contingently 
residential real estate, pledged capital awards in retirement plans  obligate the Group to make payments in the event that the 
and life insurance policies. For commercial mortgages, collateral  underlying counterparty fails to fulfill its obligation under a 
held includes primarily mortgage notes on commercial real estate  borrowing or other contractual arrangement. The credit risk 
and cash balances, securities deposits or other assets held with  associated with guarantees is primarily to corporate and insti-
the Group. The overall collateral coverage ratio in relation to the  tutional clients and financial institutions, which are sensitive to 
collateral-dependent financial assets decreased from 90% as of  MEFs including economic growth and interest rates.
December 31, 2019 to 88% as of December 31, 2020 both for 
residential and commercial mortgages, reflecting repayments of  For off-balance sheet credit exposures, methodology, scenar-
mortgages with higher collateral coverage ratios and decreases in  ios and MEFs used to estimate the provision for expected credit 
collateral values on the remaining portfolio. losses are the same as those used to estimate the allowance for 
credit losses for financial assets held at amortized cost. For the 
Off-balance sheet credit exposures EAD models, a credit conversion factor or similar methodology is 
applied to off-balance sheet credit exposures in order to project 
The Group portfolio comprises off-balance sheet exposures with  the additional drawn amount between current utilization and the 
credit risk in the form of irrevocable commitments, guarantees  committed facility amount.
and similar instruments which are in the scope of CECL measure- > Refer to “Allowance for credit losses” for further information on methodology, 
ment. The main risk characteristics are as follows: scenarios and MEFs used to estimate expected credit losses.
Troubled debt restructurings and modifications
Restructured financing receivables held at amortized cost
        2020        2019        2018 
      Recorded    Recorded       Recorded    Recorded       Recorded    Recorded  
     investment –   investment –      investment –   investment –      investment –   investment –  
   Number of    pre-   post-   Number of    pre-   post-   Number of    pre-   post- 
in   contracts  modification  modification   contracts  modification  modification   contracts  modification  modification 
C    HF million, except where indicated                  
Mortgages   0   0   0   1   7   7   5   29   29 
Loans collateralized by securities   3   165   165   0   0   0   0   0   0 
Commercial and industrial loans   17   127   95   25   172   161   13   182   160 
Total loans   20   292   260   26   179   168   18   211   189 
 
Restructured financing receivables held at amortized cost that defaulted within 12 months from restructuring
      2020     2019     2018 
   Number of    Recorded    Number of    Recorded    Number of    Recorded  
in   contracts   investment   contracts   investment   contracts   investment 
C   HF million, except where indicated             
Mortgages   0   0   1   13   1   8 
Commercial and industrial loans   4   13   1   2   8   76 
Total loans   4   13   2   15   9   84 
 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 315
   
In 2020, the loan modifications of the Group included waivers of  Interagency Statement, short-term modifications made on a good 
interest, principal or other claims, extended loan repayment terms,  faith basis in response to the COVID-19 crisis to borrowers that 
including postponed or reduced loan amortizations, extended pay- were otherwise current prior to the relief being granted would not 
back period or maturity date, partly in combination with changes  be considered to be troubled debt restructurings. This includes 
in covenants. short-term modifications such as payment deferrals, fee waivers, 
repayment term extensions or payment delays that are insignifi-
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Group did not have  cant. The Interagency Statement was developed in consultation 
any commitments to lend additional funds to debtors whose loan  with the FASB and the Group has applied this guidance. The 
terms had been modified in troubled debt restructurings. Group has granted short-term modifications to certain borrowers 
due to the COVID-19 crisis in the form of deferrals of capital and 
In March 2020, US federal banking regulators issued the “Inter- interest payments that are within the scope of this guidance and 
agency Statement on Loan Modifications and Reporting for  the loans subject to those deferrals have not been reported as 
Financial Institutions Working with Customers Affected by the  troubled debt restructurings in restructured loans.
Coronavirus (Revised)” (Interagency Statement). According to the 
21  Goodwill
   Swiss  International         Credit 
   Universal   Wealth   Asia   Investment   Suisse 
2020   Bank  Management   Pacific   Bank   Group 1 
G     ross amount of goodwill (CHF million)         
Balance at beginning of period   607   1,494   995   5,446   8,554 
Goodwill acquired during the year   0   9   98   24   131 
Foreign currency translation impact   (29)   (112)   (62)   (113)   (316) 
Other   (3)   (39)   (10)   0   (52) 
Balance at end of period   575   1,352   1,021   5,357   8,317 
A     ccumulated impairment (CHF million)         
Balance at beginning of period   0   0   0   3,879   3,891 
Balance at end of period   0   0   0   3,879   3,891 
 N    et book value (CHF million)         
Net book value   575   1,352   1,021   1,478   4,426 
 
 2019                
 G    ross amount of goodwill (CHF million)         
Balance at beginning of period   615   1,544   1,018   5,468   8,657 
Foreign currency translation impact   (5)   (22)   (13)   (22)   (62) 
Other   (3)   (28)   (10)   0   (41) 
Balance at end of period   607   1,494   995   5,446   8,554 
A     ccumulated impairment (CHF million)         
Balance at beginning of period   0   0   0   3,879   3,891 
Balance at end of period   0   0   0   3,879   3,891 
 N    et book value (CHF million)         
Net book value   607   1,494   995   1,567   4,663 
1 Gross amount of goodwill and accumulated impairment include CHF 12 million related to legacy business transferred to the former Strategic Resolution Unit in 4Q15 and fully written off 
  at the time of transfer, in addition to the divisions disclosed.
316 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
In accordance with US GAAP, the Group continually assesses  common equity tier 1 (CET1) capital relevant adjustments. Any 
whether or not there has been a triggering event requiring a  residual equity, after considering the total of these elements, is 
review of goodwill.  allocated to the reporting units on a pro-rata basis.
The Group determined in the first quarter of 2020 that a goodwill  In estimating the fair value of its reporting units, the Group applied 
triggering event occurred for its former Investment Banking &  a combination of the market approach and the income approach. 
Capital Markets reporting unit. Based on its goodwill impairment  Under the market approach, consideration was given to price to pro-
analysis performed, the Group concluded that the estimated fair  jected earnings multiples or price to book value multiples for similarly 
value for all of the reporting units with goodwill exceeded their  traded companies and prices paid in recent transactions that have 
related carrying values and no impairments were necessary as of  occurred in its industry or in related industries. Under the income 
March 31, 2020.  approach, a discount rate was applied that reflects the risk and 
uncertainty related to the reporting unit’s projected cash flows, which 
The Group also determined in the second quarter of 2020 that  were determined from the Group’s financial plan.
a goodwill triggering event occurred for its former Asia Pacific 
– Markets, Global Markets and Investment Banking & Capital  In determining the estimated fair value, the Group relied upon its 
Markets reporting units. Goodwill has to be tested for impairment  latest five-year financial plan which included significant manage-
before and immediately after a reorganization of reporting units.  ment assumptions and estimates based on its view of current and 
Based on this goodwill impairment analysis, the Group concluded  future economic conditions and regulatory changes. 
that there would be no impairment necessary for its Global Mar-
kets, Investment Banking & Capital Markets and Asia Pacific  The Group engaged the services of an independent valuation 
– Markets reporting units under the prior reporting structure as  specialist to assist in the valuation of the International Wealth 
the estimated fair value of these reporting units exceeded their  Management – Asset Management, Asia Pacific and the Invest-
related carrying values by 11%, 13% and 6%, respectively. The  ment Bank reporting units as of December 31, 2020. The valua-
goodwill allocated to these reporting units became more sensitive  tions were performed using a combination of the market approach 
to an impairment due to the higher implied costs of equity due to  and income approach.
the greater economic uncertainty resulting from the COVID-19 
pandemic. The Group concluded that no impairment was neces- The results of the impairment evaluation of each reporting unit’s 
sary for its new reporting unit named Investment Bank as the  goodwill would be significantly impacted by adverse changes in 
estimated fair value substantially exceeded its related carrying  the underlying parameters used in the valuation process. If actual 
value.  outcomes or the future outlook adversely differ from manage-
ment’s best estimates of the key economic assumptions and 
The approach for determining the carrying value and estimating  associated cash flows applied in the valuation of the report-
the fair values of the reporting units was applied consistently for  ing unit, the Group could potentially incur material impairment 
both the prior reporting structure and the new reporting structure. charges in the future.
The carrying value of each reporting unit for the purpose of  As a result of acquisitions, the Group has recorded goodwill as 
the goodwill impairment test is determined by considering the  an asset in its consolidated balance sheets, the most significant 
reporting units’ risk-weighted assets usage, leverage ratio expo- component of which arose from the acquisition of Donaldson, 
sure, deferred tax assets, goodwill, intangible assets and other  Lufkin & Jenrette Inc. in 2000.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 317
   
22  Other intangible assets
        2020        2019 
      Accumu-         Accumu-    
   Gross   lated   Net   Gross   lated   Net 
   carrying   amorti-   carrying   carrying   amorti-   carrying 
end of   amount   zation   amount   amount   zation   amount 
O      ther intangible assets (CHF million)          
Trade names/trademarks   24   (24)   0   27   (26)   1 
Client relationships   30   0   30   20   (2)   18 
Other   (3)   4   1   (3)   4   1 
Total amortizing other intangible assets   51   (20)   31   44   (24)   20 
Non-amortizing other intangible assets   206   –   206   271   –   271 
   of which mortgage servicing rights, at fair value   180   –   180   244   –   244 
Total other intangible assets   257   (20)   237   315   (24)   291 
 
Additional information Estimated amortization
in   2020   2019   2018  Estimated amortization (CHF million)    
A  ggregate  amortizatio n and impairment (CHF million)       2021   2 
Aggregate amortization   6   5   8  2022   2 
Impairment   2   5   1  2023   2 
2024   1 
 
2025   1 
 
318 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
23  Other assets and other liabilities
end of   2020   2019  end of   2020   2019 
Other assets (CHF million)         Other liabilities (CHF million)        
Cash collateral on derivative instruments   7,741   4,570  Cash collateral on derivative instruments   7,831   7,457 
Cash collateral on non-derivative transactions   635   428  Cash collateral on non-derivative transactions   174   516 
Derivative instruments used for hedging   131   183  Derivative instruments used for hedging   45   48 
Assets held-for-sale   7,077   8,971  Operating leases liabilities   2,759   3,213 
   of which loans 1  7,046   8,886  Provisions   2,080   1,179 
      allowance for loans held-for-sale   (48)   0     of which expected credit losses on        
   off-balance sheet credit exposure   311   172 
   of which real estate 2  27   38 
Restructuring liabilities   52   – 
   of which long-lived assets   4   47 
Liabilities held for separate accounts   102   111 
Premises and equipment and right-of-use assets   7,376   7,832 
Interest and fees payable   4,297   5,101 
Assets held for separate accounts   102   111 
Current tax liabilities   555   678 
Interest and fees receivable   4,255   4,688 
Deferred tax liabilities   530   523 
Deferred tax assets   3,667   4,399 
Failed sales   1,120   936 
Prepaid expenses   448   431 
Defined benefit pension and post-retirement       
   of which cloud computing arrangement       
plan liabilities   410   455 
   implementation costs   38   27 
Other   11,479   10,826 
Failed purchases   1,451   1,643 
Other liabilities   31,434   31,043 
Defined benefit pension and post-retirement plan assets   2,872   2,878 
Other   3,882   3,475   
Other assets   39,637   39,609 
1 Included as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 were CHF 262 million and CHF 800 mil-
lion, respectively, in restricted loans, which represented collateral on secured borrowings.
2 As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, real estate held-for-sale included foreclosed or 
repossessed real estate of CHF 8 million and CHF 9 million, respectively, of which CHF 8 
million and CHF 9 million, respectively, were related to residential real estate.
 
Premises, equipment and right-of-use assets 
end of   2020   2019 
Premises and equipment (CHF million)
Buildings and improvements  1,425   1,436 
Land  291   294 
Leasehold improvements  1,775   1,855 
Software  7,038   6,478 
Equipment  1,874   1,887 
Premises and equipment  12,403   11,950 
Accumulated depreciation  (7,627)   (7,153) 
Total premises and equipment, net  4,776   4,797 
Right-of-use assets (CHF million) 
Right-of-use assets-operating leases  2,600   3,035 
Total premises and equipment and right-of-use assets   7,376   7,832 
 
 
Depreciation, amortization and impairment
end of   2020   2019   2018 
C   HF million       
Depreciation on premises and equipment   964   939   830 
Impairment on premises and equipment   10   3   8 
Amortization and impairment on right-of-use assets   331   324   – 
 
> 
Refer to “Note 24 – Leases” for further information on right-of-use assets.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 319
   
 
24  Leases
The Group enters into both lessee and lessor arrangements. The weighted average remaining lease terms and discount rates 
> Refer to “Note 1 – Summary of significant accounting policies” and “Note 23 –  are based on all outstanding operating leases as well as their 
Other assets and other liabilities” for further information. respective lease terms and remaining lease obligations.
Lessee arrangements Weighted average remaining lease term and discount rate
end of   2020   2019 
The Group primarily enters into operating leases. When a real 
Operating leases        
estate lease has both lease and non-lease components, the 
Remaining lease term (years)   11.9   12.2 
Group allocates the consideration in the contract based on the 
Discount rate (%)   2.6   2.8 
relative standalone selling price. For all leases other than real 
estate leases, the Group does not separate lease and non-lease   
components. The Group’s finance leases are not material. The following table reflects the undiscounted cash flows from 
leases for the next five years and thereafter, based on the 
The Group has entered into leases for real estate, equipment and  expected lease term.
vehicles.
Maturities relating to operating lease arrangements
Certain equipment and real estate have subsequently been sub- end of   2020   2019 
leased. Sublease income is recognized in other revenues. 
Maturity (CHF million)        
Due within 1 year   385   468 
Lease costs
Due between 1 and 2 years   364   387 
end of   2020   2019  Due between 2 and 3 years   323   371 
Lease costs (CHF million)         Due between 3 and 4 years   278   336 
Operating lease costs   369   388  Due between 4 and 5 years   249   286 
Variable lease costs   50   40  Thereafter   1,642   1,963 
Sublease income   (71)   (78)  Operating lease obligations   3,241   3,811 
Net lease costs   348   350  Future interest payable   (482)   (598) 
Operating lease liabilities   2,759   3,213 
 
From time to time, the Group enters into sale-leaseback transac-  
tions in which an asset is sold and immediately leased back. If 
specific criteria are met, the asset is derecognized from the bal- Lessor arrangements
ance sheet and an operating lease is recognized. 
The Group enters into sales-type, direct financing and operat-
During 2020, the Group entered into one sale-leaseback trans- ing leases for real estate, equipment and vehicles. When a real 
action, with a lease term of one year. During 2019, the Group  estate lease has both lease and non-lease components, the 
entered into 4 sale-leaseback transactions, with lease terms  Group allocates the consideration in the contract based on the 
ranging from 5 to 10 years. During 2018, the Group entered into  relative standalone selling price. For all leases other than real 
one sale-leaseback transaction with a lease term of ten years.  estate leases, the Group does not separate lease and non-lease 
components.
Other information
end of   2020   2019  As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Group had approxi-
mately CHF 0.9 billion and CHF 0.8 billion, respectively, of resid-
Other information (CHF million)       
ual value guarantees associated with lessor arrangements.
Gains/(losses) on sale and leaseback transactions   15   274 
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement        
of operating lease liabilities recorded in operating cash flows   (403)   (464)  The Group’s risk of loss relating to the residual value of leased 
Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange of new        assets is mitigated through contractual arrangements with manu-
operating lease liabilities 1  32   102  factures or suppliers. Leased assets are also monitored through 
Changes to right-of-use assets due to lease         projections of the residual values at lease origination and periodic 
modifications for operating leases   32   221 
reviews of residual values.
1 Includes right-of-use assets relating to changes in classification of scope of variable inter-
est entities.
 
320 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Net investments
      2020     2019 
      Direct      Direct 
   Sales-type   financing   Sales-type   financing 
end of   leases   leases   leases   leases 
N  et investm ents (CHF million)            
Lease receivables   862   2,299   526   2,573 
Unguaranteed residual values   43   188   28   440 
Valuation allowances   (6)   (23)   (3)   (15) 
Total net investments   899   2,464   551   2,998 
 
Maturities relating to lessor arrangements
        2020        2019 
      Direct         Direct    
   Sales-type   financing   Operating   Sales-type   financing   Operating 
end of   leases   leases   leases   leases   leases   leases 
M      aturity (CHF million)          
Due within 1 year   359   755   48   221   917   54 
Due between 1 and 2 years   213   620   41   129   689   47 
Due between 2 and 3 years   142   514   37   90   550   42 
Due between 3 and 4 years   84   402   36   53   391   39 
Due between 4 and 5 years   43   125   34   25   136   38 
Thereafter   66   48   63   37   110   103 
Total   907   2,464   259   555   2,793   323 
Future interest receivable   (45)   (165)   –   (29)   (220)   – 
Lease receivables   862   2,299   –   526   2,573   – 
 
The Group elected the practical expedient to not evaluate  Certain leases include i) termination options that allow lessees to 
whether certain sales taxes and other similar taxes are lessor  terminate the leases within three months of the commencement 
cost or lessee cost and excludes these costs from being reported  date, with a notice period of 30 days; ii) termination options that 
as lease income with an associated expense. allow the Group to terminate the lease but do not provide the les-
see with the same option; iii) termination penalties; iv) options to 
The Group enters into leases with fixed or variable lease pay- prepay the payments for the remaining lease term; or v) options 
ments, or with lease payments that depend on an index or a  that permit the lessee to purchase the leased asset at market 
referenced rate which are included in the net investment in the  value or at the greater of market value and the net present value 
lease at lease commencement, as such payments are considered  of the remaining payments.
unavoidable. Other variable lease payments, as well as subse-
quent changes in an index or referenced rate, are excluded from  The Group may enter into vehicle leases as a lessor with mem-
the net investment in the lease. Lease payments are recorded  bers of the Board of Directors or the Executive Board. The terms 
when due and payable by the lessee. of such leases with members of the Board of Directors are 
similar to those with third parties and the terms of such leases 
Lease income with members of the Executive Board reflect standard employee 
end of   2020   2019  conditions.
Lease income (CHF million)        
Interest income on sales-type leases   19   13 
Interest income on direct financing leases   74   97 
Lease income from operating leases   93   103 
Variable lease income   0   3 
Total lease income   186   216 
 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 321
   
25  Deposits
        2020        2019 
   Switzer-         Switzer-       
end of   land   Foreign   Total   land   Foreign   Total 
D      eposits (CHF million)          
Non-interest-bearing demand deposits   3,231   3,085   6,316   2,665   1,744   4,409 
Interest-bearing demand deposits   144,709   41,995   186,704   118,566   30,552   149,118 
Savings deposits   62,769   8,764   71,533   64,304   46   64,350 
Time deposits   26,864   115,927   142,791 1   27,539   155,111   182,650 1 
Total deposits   237,573   169,771   407,344 2   213,074   187,453   400,527 2 
   of which due to banks   –   –   16,423   –   –   16,744 
   of which customer deposits   –   –   390,921   –   –   383,783 
The designation of deposits in Switzerland versus foreign deposits is based upon the location of the office where the deposit is recorded.
1 Included CHF 142,698 million and CHF 182,036 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, of the Swiss franc equivalent of individual time deposits greater than 
USD 100,000 in Switzerland and foreign offices.
2 Not included as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 were CHF 106 million and CHF 116 million, respectively, of overdrawn deposits reclassified as loans.
 
26  Long-term debt 
end of   2020   2019  below as these coupons are dependent upon the embedded deriv-
ative and prevailing market conditions at the time each coupon is 
Long-term debt (CHF million)         
Senior   133,056   108,667  paid. In addition, the effects of derivatives used for hedging are not 
Subordinated   26,285   41,667  included in the interest rate ranges on the associated debt.
Non-recourse liabilities from consolidated VIEs   1,746   1,671 
Long-term debt   161,087   152,005  Group-internal funding related to loss-absorbing instruments has 
   of which reported at fair value   70,976   70,331  been aligned to international standards for internal total loss-
   of which structured notes   47,039   49,435  absorbing capacity (TLAC) instruments and to the new article 
  126b of the Swiss Capital Adequacy Ordinance, effective January 
end of   2020   2019 
1, 2020. Due to this alignment, the bail-in debt instruments issued 
Structured notes by product (CHF million)        by Credit Suisse AG to Credit Suisse Group Funding (Guernsey) 
Equity   29,907   31,666  Limited, a non-consolidated funding entity, have been permanently 
Fixed income   13,882   13,558  subordinated in 2019. 
Credit   2,881   3,734 
Other   369   477  Effective November 3, 2020, Credit Suisse Group AG and Credit 
Total structured notes   47,039   49,435  Suisse Group Funding (Guernsey) Limited exercised the voluntary 
  issuer substitution clause included in the terms of senior unse-
Total long-term debt includes debt issuances managed by Trea- cured notes issued by Credit Suisse Group Funding (Guernsey) 
sury that do not contain derivative features (vanilla debt), as well  Limited with a maturity date post December 31, 2022. As a result 
as hybrid debt instruments with embedded derivatives, which  of the substitution, Credit Suisse Group AG succeeded to, and 
are issued as part of the Group’s structured product activities.  was substituted for, and became bound by every obligation of, 
Long-term debt includes both Swiss franc and foreign exchange  Credit Suisse Group Funding (Guernsey) Limited as principal obli-
denominated fixed and variable rate bonds. gor under these notes, which qualify as TLAC debt instruments. In 
addition, the related subordinated internal TLAC notes issued by 
The interest rate ranges presented in the table below are based  Credit Suisse AG and held by Credit Suisse Group Funding (Guern-
on the contractual terms of the Group’s vanilla debt. Interest rate  sey) Limited have been transferred to Credit Suisse Group AG. 
ranges for future coupon payments on structured products for  This resulted in a decrease in subordinated long-term debt and a 
which fair value has been elected are not included in the table  respective increase in senior long-term debt. 
322 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Long-term debt by maturities 
end of   2021   2022   2023   2024   2025   Thereafter   Total 
G              roup parent company (CHF million)               
Senior debt                      
   Fixed rate   0   0   5,608   1,258   7,431   21,707   36,004 
   Variable rate   0   53   528   1,708   0   0   2,289 
   Interest rate (range in %) 1  –   0.8   0.6–3.8   1.0–4.2   1.3–3.8   0.7–5.4   – 
Subordinated debt                      
   Fixed rate   0   1,394   4,309   3,208   2,000   5,322   16,233 
   Interest rates (range in %) 1  –   7.1   3.9–7.5   3.5–6.3   3.0–7.3   4.5–6.4   – 
Subtotal – Group parent company   0   1,447   10,445   6,174   9,431   27,029   54,526 
S             ubsidiaries (CHF million)               
Senior debt                      
   Fixed rate   9,364   4,581   1,873   3,856   2,398   13,931   36,003 
   Variable rate   13,380   12,615   8,274   4,131   6,117   14,243   58,760 
   Interest rates (range in %) 1  0.1–4.0   0.1–8.2   0.1–2.2   0.1–3.6   0.1–3.5   0.1–7.1   – 
Subordinated debt                      
   Fixed rate   1,342   5,069   2,394   23   9   131   8,968 
   Variable rate   881   195   0   0   4   4   1,084 
   Interest rates (range in %) 1  2.5–4.7   0.1–3.8   0.6–6.5   3.5–5.7   0.4–5.9   0.9–7.2   – 
Non-recourse liabilities from consolidated VIEs                      
   Fixed rate   7   128   0   0   208   0   343 
   Variable rate   9   22   17 2   25 2   14   1,316   1,403 
   Interest rates (range in %) 1  6.7–10.3   1.3–2.9   –   –   1.9   0.0–10.7   – 
Subtotal – Subsidiaries   24,983   22,610   12,558   8,035   8,750   29,625   106,561 
Total long-term debt   24,983   24,057   23,003   14,209   18,181   56,654   161,087 
   of which structured notes   12,299   8,788   5,132   3,508   3,956   13,356   47,039 
The maturity of perpetual debt is based on the earliest callable date. The maturity of all other debt is based on contractual maturity and includes certain structured notes that have manda-
tory early redemption features based on stipulated movements in markets or the occurrence of a market event. Within this population there are approximately CHF 3.4 billion of such notes 
with a contractual maturity of greater than one year that have an observable likelihood of redemption occurring within one year based on a modelling assessment. 
1 Excludes structured notes for which fair value has been elected as the related coupons are dependent upon the embedded derivatives and prevailing market conditions at the time each 
coupon is paid.
2  Reflects equity linked notes, where the payout is not fixed.
The Group and the Bank maintain a shelf registration statement  The Group maintains three senior debt programs that allow the 
with the SEC, which allows each entity to issue, from time to time,  Group to issue senior debt securities with certain features that 
senior and subordinated debt securities, warrants and guarantees. are designed to allow for statutory bail-in by the Swiss Financial 
> Refer to “Note 42 – Subsidiary guarantee information” for further information  Market Supervisory Authority FINMA (FINMA) under the Swiss 
on subsidiary guarantees. banking laws and regulations.
The Group maintains a euro medium-term note program that  The Bank maintains a JPY 500 billion Samurai shelf registration 
allows the Bank to issue senior debt securities. statement that allows it to issue, from time to time, senior and 
subordinated debt securities.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 323
   
27   Accumulated other comprehensive income and additional share 
information
Accumulated other comprehensive income
                  Gains/    
   Gains/      Unrealized      Net prior   (losses) on    
   (losses)   Cumulative   gains/   Actuarial   service   liabilities    
   on cash   translation   (losses) on   gains/   credit/   relating to    
   flow hedges  adjustments   securities 1   (losses)   (cost)   credit risk   AOCI 
2      020 (CHF million)           
Balance at beginning of period   28   (14,469)   30   (3,690)   604   (2,772)   (20,269) 
Increase/(decrease)   91   (3,076)   (49)   (327)   (5)   45   (3,321) 
Reclassification adjustments, included in net income/(loss)   87   17   32   290   (143)   157   440 
Total increase/(decrease)   178   (3,059)   (17)   (37)   (148)   202   (2,881) 
Balance at end of period   206   (17,528)   13   (3,727)   456   (2,570)   (23,150) 
2      019 (CHF million)           
Balance at beginning of period   (72)   (13,442)   10   (3,974)   387   (890)   (17,981) 
Increase/(decrease)   65   (1,015)   20   44   338   (2,053)   (2,601) 
Increase/(decrease) due to equity method investments   10   (18)   0   0   0   0   (8) 
Reclassification adjustments, included in net income/(loss)   25   6   0   282   (121)   193   385 
Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of tax   0   0   0   (42)   0   (22)   (64) 
Total increase/(decrease)   100   (1,027)   20   284   217   (1,882)   (2,288) 
Balance at end of period   28   (14,469)   30   (3,690)   604   (2,772)   (20,269) 
2      018 (CHF million)           
Balance at beginning of period   (62)   (13,119)   48   (3,583)   522   (2,544)   (18,738) 
Increase/(decrease)   (114)   (342)   (10)   (710)   (26)   1,605   403 
Increase/(decrease) due to equity method investments   (10)   0   0   0   0   0   (10) 
Reclassification adjustments, included in net income/(loss)   114   19   (7)   319   (109)   49   385 
Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of tax   0   0   (21)   0   0   0   (21) 
Total increase/(decrease)   (10)   (323)   (38)   (391)   (135)   1,654   757 
Balance at end of period   (72)   (13,442)   10   (3,974)   387   (890)   (17,981) 
1 No impairments on available-for-sale debt securities were recognized in net income/(loss) in 2020, 2019 and 2018.
 
> 
Refer to “Note 29 – Tax” and “Note 32 – Pension and other post-retirement 
benefits” for income tax expense/(benefit) on the movements of accumulated 
other comprehensive income/(loss).
324 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
Details of significant reclassification adjustments
in   2020   2019   2018 
R   eclassification adjustments, included in net income/(loss) (CHF million)       
Cumulative translation adjustments          
   Reclassification adjustments 1  17   6   19 
Actuarial gains/(losses)          
   Amortization of recognized actuarial losses 2  355   355   396 
   Tax expense/(benefit)   (65)   (73)   (77) 
   Net of tax   290   282   319 
Net prior service credit/(cost)          
   Amortization of recognized prior service credit/(cost) 2  (176)   (153)   (138) 
   Tax expense/(benefit)   33   32   29 
   Net of tax   (143)   (121)   (109) 
1 Includes net releases of CHF 21 million on the liquidation of Credit Suisse Securities (Johannesburg) Proprietary Limited in 2018. These were reclassified from cumulative translation 
adjustments and included in net income in other revenues.
 2 These components are included in the computation of total benefit costs. Refer to “Note 32 – Pension and other post-retirement benefits” for further information.
Additional share information
   2020   2019   2018 
C   ommon shares issued       
Balance at beginning of period   2,556,011,720   2,556,011,720   2,556,011,720 
Cancellation of repurchased shares   (108,264,000)   0   0 
Balance at end of period   2,447,747,720   2,556,011,720   2,556,011,720 
T  reasury shares       
Balance at beginning of period   (119,761,811)   (5,427,691)   (5,757,666) 
Sale of treasury shares   1,222,417,138   795,576,688   770,559,108 
Repurchase of treasury shares   (1,303,331,434)   (951,743,509)   (816,841,331) 
Cancellation of repurchased shares   108,264,000   0   0 
Share-based compensation   50,809,266   41,832,701   46,612,198 
Balance at end of period   (41,602,841)   (119,761,811)   (5,427,691) 
C   ommon shares outstanding       
Balance at end of period   2,406,144,879 1   2,436,249,909 1   2,550,584,029 
1 At par value CHF 0.04 each, fully paid. In addition to the treasury shares, a maximum of 653,000,000 unissued shares (conditional, conversion and authorized capital) were available for 
  issuance without further approval of the shareholders. 111,193,477 of these shares were reserved for capital instruments.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 325
   
 
28  Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities
The disclosures set out in the tables below include derivatives,  derivatives), positive and negative replacement values (PRV/NRV) 
reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements, and securities  and related cash collateral may be offset if the terms of the rules 
lending and borrowing transactions that: and regulations governing these exchanges and central clearing 
p  are offset in the Group’s consolidated balance sheets; or counterparties permit such netting and offset.
p  are subject to an enforceable master netting agreement or 
similar agreement (enforceable master netting agreements),  Where no such agreements or terms exist, fair values are 
irrespective of whether they are offset in the Group’s consoli- recorded on a gross basis.
dated balance sheets.
Exchange-traded derivatives or OTC-cleared derivatives, which 
Similar agreements include derivative clearing agreements, global  are fully margined and for which the daily margin payments con-
master repurchase agreements and global master securities lend- stitute settlement of the outstanding exposure, are not included 
ing agreements.  in the offsetting disclosures because they are not subject to off-
setting due to the daily settlement. The daily margin payments, 
Derivatives which are not settled until the next settlement cycle is conducted, 
are presented in brokerage receivables or brokerage payables. 
The Group transacts bilateral OTC derivatives (OTC derivatives)  The notional amount for these daily settled derivatives is included 
mainly under International Swaps and Derivatives Association  in the fair value of derivative instruments table in “Note 33 – 
(ISDA) Master Agreements and Swiss Master Agreements for  Derivatives and hedging activities”.
OTC derivative instruments. These agreements provide for the 
net settlement of all transactions under the agreement through  Under US GAAP, the Group elected to account for substantially 
a single payment in the event of default or termination under the  all financial instruments with an embedded derivative that is not 
agreement. They allow the Group to offset balances from deriva- considered clearly and closely related to the host contract at fair 
tive assets and liabilities as well as the receivables and payables  value. There is an exception for certain bifurcatable hybrid debt 
to related cash collateral transacted with the same counterparty.  instruments which the Group did not elect to account for at fair 
Collateral for OTC derivatives is received and provided in the form  value. However, these bifurcated embedded derivatives are gen-
of cash and marketable securities. Such collateral may be subject  erally not subject to enforceable master netting agreements and 
to the standard industry terms of an ISDA Credit Support Annex.  are not recorded as derivative instruments under trading assets 
The terms of an ISDA Credit Support Annex provide that securi- and liabilities or other assets and other liabilities. Information on 
ties received or provided as collateral may be pledged or sold  bifurcated embedded derivatives has therefore not been included 
during the term of the transactions and must be returned upon  in the offsetting disclosures.
maturity of the transaction. These terms also give each coun-
terparty the right to terminate the related transactions upon the  The following table presents the gross amount of derivatives sub-
other counterparty’s failure to post collateral. Financial collateral  ject to enforceable master netting agreements by contract and 
received or pledged for OTC derivatives may also be subject to  transaction type, the amount of offsetting, the amount of deriva-
collateral agreements which restrict the use of financial collateral. tives not subject to enforceable master netting agreements and 
the net amount presented in the consolidated balance sheets. 
For derivatives transacted with exchanges (exchange-traded 
derivatives) and central clearing counterparties (OTC-cleared 
326 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Offsetting of derivatives
      2020     2019 
   Derivative   Derivative   Derivative   Derivative 
end of   assets   liabilities   assets   liabilities 
G    ross derivatives subject to enforceable master netting agreements (CHF billion)        
OTC-cleared   6.1   4.6   3.8   3.0 
OTC   68.2   65.7   63.7   61.9 
Exchange-traded   0.5   0.6   0.3   0.2 
Interest rate products   74.8   70.9   67.8   65.1 
OTC-cleared   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.2 
OTC   23.1   27.7   21.0   25.4 
Foreign exchange products   23.3   27.9   21.1   25.6 
OTC   10.7   15.1   10.1   10.4 
Exchange-traded   19.9   20.4   5.3   5.0 
Equity/index-related products   30.6   35.5   15.4   15.4 
OTC-cleared   0.7   0.7   2.8   3.0 
OTC   3.9   4.9   3.1   4.0 
Credit derivatives   4.6   5.6   5.9   7.0 
OTC   1.6   0.7   1.2   0.5 
Exchange-traded   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0 
Other products 1  1.7   0.8   1.2   0.5 
OTC-cleared   7.0   5.5   6.7   6.2 
OTC   107.5   114.1   99.1   102.2 
Exchange-traded   20.5   21.1   5.6   5.2 
Total gross derivatives subject to enforceable master netting agreements   135.0   140.7   111.4   113.6 
   Offsetting (CHF billion)        
OTC-cleared   (6.2)   (5.4)   (6.0)   (5.3) 
OTC   (94.4)   (104.3)   (87.0)   (93.6) 
Exchange-traded   (20.0)   (20.3)   (4.9)   (4.9) 
Offsetting   (120.6)   (130.0)   (97.9)   (103.8) 
   of which counterparty netting   (103.2)   (103.2)   (83.2)   (83.2) 
   of which cash collateral netting   (17.4)   (26.8)   (14.7)   (20.6) 
   Net derivatives presented in the consolidated balance sheets (CHF billion)        
OTC-cleared   0.8   0.1   0.7   0.9 
OTC   13.1   9.8   12.1   8.6 
Exchange-traded   0.5   0.8   0.7   0.3 
Total net derivatives subject to enforceable master netting agreements   14.4   10.7   13.5   9.8 
Total derivatives not subject to enforceable master netting agreements 2  11.2   6.8   4.4   3.7 
Total net derivatives presented in the consolidated balance sheets   25.6   17.5   17.9   13.5 
   of which recorded in trading assets and trading liabilities   25.5   17.5   17.7   13.5 
   of which recorded in other assets and other liabilities   0.1   0.0   0.2   0.0 
1 Primarily precious metals, commodity and energy products.
2 Represents derivatives where a legal opinion supporting the enforceability of netting in the event of default or termination under the agreement is not in place.
 
Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements  As permitted by US GAAP the Group has elected to net transac-
and securities lending and borrowing transactions tions under such agreements in the consolidated balance sheet 
when specific conditions are met. Transactions are netted if, 
Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements are generally  among other conditions, they are executed with the same coun-
covered by master repurchase agreements. In certain situations,  terparty, have the same explicit settlement date specified at the 
for example, in the event of default, all contracts under the agree- inception of the transactions, are settled through the same secu-
ments are terminated and are settled net in one single payment.  rities transfer system and are subject to the same enforceable 
Master repurchase agreements also include payment or settle- master netting agreement. The amounts offset are measured on 
ment netting provisions in the normal course of business that  the same basis as the underlying transaction (i.e., on an accrual 
state that all amounts in the same currency payable by each party  basis or fair value basis).
to the other under any transaction or otherwise under the master 
repurchase agreement on the same date shall be set off. Securities lending and borrowing transactions are generally exe-
cuted under master securities lending agreements with netting 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 327
   
terms similar to ISDA Master Agreements. In certain situations,  default, the reverse repurchase agreement or securities lend-
for example in the event of default, all contracts under the agree- ing agreement provides the Group with the right to liquidate the 
ment are terminated and are settled net in one single payment.  collateral held. As is the case in the Group’s normal course of 
Transactions under these agreements are netted in the consoli- business, a significant portion of the collateral received that may 
dated balance sheets if they meet the same right of offset criteria  be sold or repledged was sold or repledged as of December 31, 
as for reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements. In gen- 2020 and December 31, 2019. In certain circumstances, finan-
eral, most securities lending and borrowing transactions do not  cial collateral received may be restricted during the term of the 
meet the criterion of having the same settlement date specified at  agreement (e.g., in tri-party arrangements).
inception of the transaction, and therefore they are not eligible for 
netting in the consolidated balance sheets. However, securities  The following table presents the gross amount of securities pur-
lending and borrowing transactions with explicit maturity dates  chased under resale agreements and securities borrowing trans-
may be eligible for netting in the consolidated balance sheets. actions subject to enforceable master netting agreements, the 
amount of offsetting, the amount of securities purchased under 
Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements are collateralized  resale agreements and securities borrowing transactions not 
principally by government securities, money market instruments  subject to enforceable master netting agreements and the net 
and corporate bonds and have terms ranging from overnight to a  amount presented in the consolidated balance sheets.
longer or unspecified period of time. In the event of counterparty 
Offsetting of securities purchased under resale agreements and securities borrowing transactions
        2020        2019 
         Net         Net 
end of   Gross   Offsetting  book value   Gross   Offsetting  book value 
S      ecurities purchased under resale agreements and          
 s    ecurities borrowing transactions (CHF billion)          
Securities purchased under resale agreements   55.8   (7.5)   48.3   80.6   (10.9)   69.7 
Securities borrowing transactions   11.9   (0.4)   11.5   12.3   (0.5)   11.8 
Total subject to enforceable master netting agreements   67.7   (7.9)   59.8   92.9   (11.4)   81.5 
Total not subject to enforceable master netting agreements 1  19.3  –    19.3   25.5  –    25.5 
Total   87.0   (7.9)   79.1 2   118.4   (11.4)   107.0 2 
1 Represents securities purchased under resale agreements and securities borrowing transactions where a legal opinion supporting the enforceability of netting in the event of default or 
termination under the agreement is not in place.
2 CHF 57,994 million and CHF 85,556 million of the total net amount as of the end of 2020 and 2019, respectively, are reported at fair value.
 
The following table presents the gross amount of securities sold  agreements and securities lending transactions not subject to 
under repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions  enforceable master netting agreements and the net amount pre-
subject to enforceable master netting agreements, the amount  sented in the consolidated balance sheets.
of offsetting, the amount of securities sold under repurchase 
Offsetting of securities sold under repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions
        2020        2019 
         Net         Net 
end of   Gross   Offsetting  book value   Gross   Offsetting  book value 
S      ecurities sold under repurchase agreements and          
 s    ecurities lending transactions (CHF billion)          
Securities sold under repurchase agreements   26.0   (7.9)   18.1   28.0   (11.4)   16.6 
Securities lending transactions   3.5   0.0   3.5   5.5   0.0   5.5 
Obligation to return securities received as collateral, at fair value   49.9   0.0   49.9   39.0   0.0   39.0 
Total subject to enforceable master netting agreements   79.4   (7.9)   71.5   72.5   (11.4)   61.1 
Total not subject to enforceable master netting agreements 1  3.1  –    3.1   2.0  –    2.0 
Total   82.5   (7.9)   74.6   74.5   (11.4)   63.1 
   of which securities sold under repurchase agreements and securities                  
   lending transactions  31.7   (7.9)   23.8 2   34.3   (11.4)   22.9 2 
   of which obligation to return securities received as collateral, at fair value  50.8   0.0   50.8   40.2   0.0   40.2
1 Represents securities sold under repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions where a legal opinion supporting the enforceability of netting in the event of default or termi-
nation under the agreement is not in place.
 2 CHF 13,594 million and CHF 10,715 million of the total net amount as of the end of 2020 and 2019, respectively, are reported at fair value.
328 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
The following table presents the net amount presented in the  lending and borrowing transactions not subject to enforceable 
consolidated balance sheets of financial assets and liabilities  master netting agreements where a legal opinion supporting the 
subject to enforceable master netting agreements and the gross  enforceability of netting in the event of default or termination 
amount of financial instruments and cash collateral not offset in  under the agreement is not in place. Net exposure reflects risk 
the consolidated balance sheets. The table excludes derivatives,  mitigation in the form of collateral.
reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements and securities 
Amounts not offset in the consolidated balance sheets
          2020          2019 
         Cash            Cash    
         collateral            collateral    
   Net   Financial   received/   Net   Net   Financial   received/   Net 
end of   book value   instruments 1   pledged 1   exposure   book value   instruments 1   pledged 1   exposure 
F       inancial assets subject to enforceable master            
n       etting agreements (CHF billion)            
Derivatives   14.4   5.5   0.1   8.8   13.5   4.4   0.0   9.1 
Securities purchased under resale agreements   48.3   48.3   0.0   0.0   69.7   69.7   0.0   0.0 
Securities borrowing transactions   11.5   11.1   0.0   0.4   11.8   11.2   0.0   0.6 
Total financial assets subject to enforceable                         
master netting agreements   74.2   64.9   0.1   9.2   95.0   85.3   0.0   9.7 
F       inancial liabilities subject to enforceable master            
 n      etting agreements (CHF billion)            
Derivatives   10.7   2.2   0.0   8.5   9.8   1.7   0.0   8.1 
Securities sold under repurchase agreements   18.1   18.1   0.0   0.0   16.6   16.6   0.0   0.0 
Securities lending transactions   3.5   3.2   0.0   0.3   5.5   4.5   0.0   1.0 
Obligation to return securities received as collateral, at fair value   49.9   43.4   0.0   6.5   39.0   33.0   0.0   6.0 
Total financial liabilities subject to enforceable                         
master netting agreements   82.2   66.9   0.0   15.3   70.9   55.8   0.0   15.1 
1 The total amount reported in financial instruments (recognized financial assets and financial liabilities and non-cash financial collateral) and cash collateral is limited to the amount of the 
related instruments presented in the consolidated balance sheets and therefore any over-collateralization of these positions is not included.
 
Net exposure is subject to further credit mitigation through the  Therefore the net exposure presented in the table above is not 
transfer of the exposure to other market counterparties by the  representative of the Group’s counterparty exposure.
use of credit default swaps (CDS) and credit insurance contracts. 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 329
   
 
29  Tax
Details of current and deferred taxes
in   2020   2019   2018 
C   urrent and deferred taxes (CHF million)       
Switzerland   163   175   135 
Foreign   204   531   426 
Current income tax expense   367   706   561 
Switzerland   450   171   479 
Foreign   (16)   418   321 
Deferred income tax expense   434   589   800 
Income tax expense   801   1,295   1,361 
Income tax expense/(benefit) reported in shareholders’ equity related to:          
   Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges   25   13   (28) 
   Cumulative translation adjustment   0   (4)   (7) 
   Unrealized gains/(losses) on debt securities   (6)   7   (5) 
   Actuarial gains/(losses)   (18)   99   (102) 
   Net prior service credit/(cost)   (33)   58   (33) 
   Share-based compensation and treasury shares   (4)   (5)   1 
 
Reconciliation of taxes computed at the Swiss statutory rate
in   2020   2019   2018 
I  ncome/(loss) before taxes (CHF million)       
Switzerland   1,770   2,985   1,924 
Foreign   1,697   1,735   1,448 
Income before taxes   3,467   4,720   3,372 
R   econciliation of taxes computed at the Swiss statutory rate (CHF million)       
Income tax expense/(benefit) computed at the statutory tax rate 1  693   1,038   742 
Increase/(decrease) in income taxes resulting from          
   Foreign tax rate differential   (62)   (101)   107 
   Non-deductible amortization of other intangible assets and goodwill impairment   0   1   3 
   Other non-deductible expenses   254   371   457 
   Additional taxable income   8   7   5 
   Lower taxed income   (234)   (325)   (190) 
   (Income)/loss taxable to noncontrolling interests   18   8   12 
   Changes in tax law and rates   (6)   (28)   (2) 
   Changes in deferred tax valuation allowance   322   116   (106) 
   Change in recognition of outside basis difference   (9)   4   (32) 
   Tax deductible impairments of Swiss subsidiary investments   0   0   (65) 
   (Windfall tax benefits) /shortfall tax charges on share-based compensation   76   39   10 
   Other   (259)   165   420 
Income tax expense   801   1,295   1,361 
1  The statutory tax rate was 20% in 2020 and 22% in 2019 and 2018.
2020 Other non-deductible expenses of CHF 254 million included 
Foreign tax rate differential of CHF 62 million reflected a  the impact of CHF 117 million relating to non-deductible interest 
foreign tax benefit primarily driven by losses in higher tax juris- expenses and non-deductible costs related to funding and capital 
dictions, mainly in the UK, and profits incurred in lower tax juris- (including the impact of a previously unrecognized tax benefit of 
dictions, mainly in Singapore, partially offset by profits made in  CHF 157 million relating to the resolution of interest cost deduct-
higher tax jurisdictions, such as the US. The foreign tax rate  ibility with and between international tax authorities, partially off-
expense of CHF 188 million comprised not only the foreign tax  set by a contingency accrual of CHF 41 million), CHF 68 million 
expense based on statutory tax rates but also the tax impacts  relating to non-deductible bank levy costs and other non-deduct-
related to the following reconciling items. ible compensation expenses and management costs, CHF 46 
million relating to non-deductible legacy litigation provisions and 
CHF 23 million relating to other non-deductible expenses.
330 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Lower taxed income of CHF 234 million included a tax benefit  financial statements and resulted in a change of accounting esti-
of CHF 79 million related to the revaluations of the equity invest- mate reflected in 2020.
ments in SIX Group AG, Allfunds Group and Pfandbriefbank in 
Switzerland, CHF 67 million related to concessionary and lower  2019
taxed income, CHF 67 million related to non-taxable life insur- Foreign tax rate differential of CHF 101 million reflected a for-
ance income, CHF 19 million related to the transfer of the Invest- eign tax benefit mainly driven by losses in higher tax jurisdictions, 
lab fund platform to Allfunds Group and various smaller items. mainly in the UK, and profits incurred in lower tax jurisdictions, 
mainly in Singapore, partially offset by profits made in higher 
Changes in deferred tax valuation allowances of CHF 322  tax jurisdictions, such as Brazil. The foreign tax rate expense 
million included a tax charge from the increase in valuation  of CHF 949 million comprised not only the foreign tax expense 
allowances on deferred tax assets of CHF 353 million, mainly  based on statutory tax rates but also the tax impacts related to 
in respect of the re-assessment of deferred tax assets reflect- the following reconciling items.
ing changes in the forecasted future profitability of two of the 
Group’s operating entities in Switzerland of CHF 252 million, and  Other non-deductible expenses of CHF 371 million included 
also in respect of one of the Group’s operating entities in the  the impact of CHF 274 million relating to non-deductible interest 
UK. Also included was the net impact of the release of valuation  expenses (including a contingency accrual of CHF 28 million), 
allowances on deferred tax assets of CHF 31 million, mainly in  CHF 56 million relating to non-deductible bank levy costs and 
respect of one of the Group’s operating entities in Hong Kong  other non-deductible compensation expenses and management 
and another of the Group’s operating entities in the UK. costs, CHF 34 million relating to non-deductible fines and various 
smaller non-deductible expenses.
Other of CHF 259 million included an income tax benefit from 
the re-assessment of the US base erosion and anti-abuse tax  Lower taxed income of CHF 325 million included a tax benefit 
(BEAT) provision for 2019 of CHF 180 million and the impact of  of CHF 160 million related to the transfer of the InvestLab fund 
a change in US tax rules relating to federal net operating losses  platform to Allfunds Group and SIX Group AG equity investment 
(NOLs), where federal NOLs generated in tax years 2018, 2019  revaluation gain in Switzerland, CHF 73 million related to non-tax-
or 2020 can be carried back for five years instead of no carry  able life insurance income, CHF 45 million related to non-taxable 
back before and also the deductible interest expense limitations  dividend income, CHF 26 million related to concessionary and 
for the years 2019 and 2020 have been increased from 30% to  lower taxed income, CHF 14 million related to exempt income and 
50% of adjusted taxable income for the year, which in aggregate  various smaller items.
resulted in a benefit of CHF 141 million. Additionally, this included 
an income tax benefit of CHF 82 million relating to prior years’  Changes in deferred tax valuation allowances of CHF 116 
adjustments and a tax benefit of CHF 34 million relating to the  million included a tax charge from the increase in valuation allow-
beneficial earnings mix of one of the Group’s operating entities  ances on deferred tax assets of CHF 273 million, mainly in 
in Switzerland. These benefits were partially offset by CHF 78  respect of three of the Group’s operating entities in Japan, the 
million relating to the tax impact of an accounting standard  UK and the US. Also included was the net impact of the release 
implementation transition adjustment for own credit movements,  of valuation allowances on deferred tax assets of CHF 157 mil-
CHF 61 million relating to withholding taxes, CHF 26 million  lion, mainly in respect of one of the Group’s operating entities in 
relating to the current year BEAT provision and CHF 14 million  the UK.
relating to own credit valuation movements. The remaining bal-
ance included various smaller items. Other of CHF 165 million included CHF 165 million relating 
to BEAT and CHF 123 million relating to the tax impact of an 
The US tax reform enacted in December 2017 introduced the  accounting standard implementation transition adjustment for 
BEAT tax regime, effective as of January 1, 2018, for which final  own credit movements. This was partially offset by CHF 58 mil-
regulations were issued by the US Department of Treasury on  lion from own credit valuation gains, CHF 53 million relating to 
December 2, 2019. Following the publication of the 2019 finan- agreements reached with tax authorities relating to an advanced 
cial statements, Credit Suisse continued its analysis of the final  pricing agreement and the closure of a tax audit and CHF 20 
regulations, resulting in a revision to the technical application of  million relating to a prior year adjustment. The remaining balance 
the prior BEAT estimate. This new information was not available  included various smaller items.
or reasonably knowable at the time of the publication of the 2019 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 331
   
 
2018 Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
Foreign tax rate differential of CHF 107 million reflected a for- end  of   2020   2019 
eign tax expense mainly driven by profits made in higher tax juris-
Deferred tax assets and liabilities (CHF million)        
dictions, such as the US, partially offset by foreign tax rate dif-
Compensation and benefits   931   956 
ferential related to profits incurred in lower tax jurisdictions, mainly 
Loans   653   598 
in Singapore. The foreign tax rate expense of CHF 747 million 
Investment securities   1,347   1,437 
comprised not only the foreign tax expense based on statutory 
Provisions   999   769 
tax rates but also the tax impacts related to the following recon-
Leases   384   439 
ciling items.
Derivatives   53   72 
Real estate   175   189 
Other non-deductible expenses of CHF 457 million included 
Net operating loss carry-forwards   5,425   5,753 
the impact of CHF 325 million relating to non-deductible interest 
Goodwill and intangible assets   209   405 
expenses (including a contingency accrual of CHF 92 million), 
Other   119   78 
CHF 49 million related to non-deductible bank levy costs and 
Gross deferred tax assets        
other non-deductible compensation expenses and management  before valuation allowance   10,295   10,696 
costs, CHF 15 million related to non-deductible fines and various  Less valuation allowance   (4,465)   (4,136) 
smaller non-deductible expenses. Gross deferred tax assets        
net of valuation allowance   5,830   6,560 
Lower taxed income of CHF 190 million included a tax ben- Compensation and benefits   (666)   (650) 
efit of CHF 66 million related to non-taxable dividend income,  Loans   (352)   (348) 
CHF 48 million related to non-taxable life insurance income,  Investment securities   (523)   (503) 
CHF 33 million related to concessionary and lower taxed income,  Provisions   (333)   (337) 
CHF 23 million related to exempt income and various smaller  Leases   (365)   (405) 
items. Derivatives   (231)   (224) 
Real estate   (36)   (35) 
Changes in deferred tax valuation allowances of CHF 106  Other   (187)   (182) 
million included a tax benefit from the release of valuation allow- Gross deferred tax liabilities   (2,693)   (2,684) 
ances of CHF 191 million, mainly in respect of two of the Group’s  Net deferred tax assets   3,137   3,876 
operating entities in the UK. Also included was the net impact     of which deferred tax assets   3,667   4,399 
of the increase in valuation allowances on deferred tax assets of        of which net operating losses   1,070   1,465 
CHF 85 million, mainly in respect of one of the Group’s operating        of which deductible temporary differences   2,597   2,934 
entities in Switzerland.    of which deferred tax liabilities   (530)   (523) 
 
Other of CHF 420 million included CHF 202 million relating to  Net deferred tax assets of CHF 3,137 million decreased CHF 739 
the tax impact of an accounting standard implementation transi- million from 2019 to 2020, primarily due to the impact of for-
tion adjustment for own credit movements, CHF 130 million from  eign exchange translation losses of CHF 348 million, which were 
own credit valuation gains, CHF 65 million relating to BEAT,  included within the currency translation adjustments recorded in 
CHF 56 million relating to the net re-assessment of deferred tax  AOCI, CHF 252 million from the re-assessment of deferred tax 
balances in respect of one of the Group’s operating entities in  balances in Switzerland and CHF 177 million related to current 
Switzerland, CHF 26 million relating to the increase of tax con- year earnings. These decreases were partially offset by the tax 
tingency accruals and other smaller balances. This was partially  impacts directly recorded in equity and OCI of CHF 38 million, 
offset by prior year adjustments of CHF 76 million. mainly related to own credit movements.
As of December 31, 2020, the Group had accumulated undistrib- In 2019, the US and Switzerland contributed the majority of the 
uted earnings from foreign subsidiaries of CHF 20.1 billion com- net deferred tax assets, CHF 3,855 million, net of a valuation 
pared to CHF 17.8 billion as of December 31, 2019. The increase  allowance of CHF 606 million. In 2020, following the deferred 
compared to the end of 2019 reflected a reserve transfer in one  tax asset re-assessment in Switzerland, the US contributed the 
of the Group’s entities. No deferred tax liability was recorded in  majority of the net deferred tax assets, CHF 3,040 million. No 
respect of those amounts as these earnings are considered indefi- valuation allowance was required on the US deferred tax assets 
nitely reinvested. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of  as of the end of 2020.
unrecognized deferred tax liabilities for these undistributed foreign 
earnings. Due to uncertainty concerning its ability to generate the neces-
sary amount and mix of taxable income in future periods, the 
Group recorded a valuation allowance against gross deferred 
tax assets in the amount of CHF 4.5 billion as of December 31, 
2020 compared to CHF 4.1 billion as of December 31, 2019.
332 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Amounts and expiration dates of net operating loss  on the expected future results in the Bank parent company and 
carry-forwards  given that Swiss tax law allows for a seven-year carry-forward 
end of 2020   Total  period for NOLs, a valuation allowance was recorded on the 
deferred tax assets of this entity.
Net operating loss carry-forwards (CHF million)    
Due to expire within 1 year   17 
Tax benefits associated with share-based compensation
Due to expire within 2 to 5 years   4,774 
Due to expire within 6 to 10 years   4,145  in   2020   2019   2018 
Due to expire within 11 to 20 years   5,303  Tax benefits (CHF million)            
Amount due to expire   14,239  Tax benefits recorded in the consolidated           
statements of operations 1  264   263   242 
Amount not due to expire   16,162 
Total net operating loss carry-forwards   30,401  1 Calculated at the statutory tax rate before valuation allowance considerations.
 
  > Refer to “Note 30 – Employee deferred compensation” for further information 
on share-based compensation.
Movements in the valuation allowance 
in   2020   2019   2018  If, upon settlement of share-based compensation, the tax deduc-
tion exceeds the cumulative compensation cost that the Group 
Movements (CHF million)            
has recognized in the consolidated financial statements, the 
Balance at beginning of period   4,136   4,021   4,279 
utilized tax benefit associated with any excess deduction is con-
Net changes   329   115   (258) 
sidered a “windfall” and recognized in the consolidated state-
Balance at end of period   4,465   4,136   4,021 
ments of operations and reflected as an operating cash inflow in 
  the consolidated statements of cash flows. If, upon settlement, 
As part of its normal practice, the Group conducted a detailed  the tax deduction is lower than the cumulative compensation cost 
evaluation of its expected future results. This evaluation was  that the Group has recognized in the consolidated financial state-
dependent on management estimates and assumptions in devel- ments, the tax charge associated with the lower deduction is 
oping the expected future results, which were based on a stra- considered a “shortfall”. Tax charges arising on shortfalls are rec-
tegic business planning process influenced by current economic  ognized in the consolidated statements of operations.
conditions and assumptions of future economic conditions that 
are subject to change. This evaluation took into account both  Uncertain tax positions
positive and negative evidence related to expected future taxable  US GAAP requires a two-step process in evaluating uncertain 
income and also considered stress scenarios. This evaluation has  income tax positions. In the first step, an enterprise determines 
indicated the expected future results that are likely to be earned  whether it is more likely than not that an income tax position will 
in jurisdictions where the Group has significant gross deferred tax  be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related 
assets, primarily in the US, Switzerland and the UK. The Group  appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits 
then compared those expected future results with the applicable  of the position. Income tax positions meeting the more-likely-
law governing the utilization of deferred tax assets. US tax law  than-not recognition threshold are then measured to determine 
allowed for a 20-year carry-forward period for existing NOLs as  the amount of benefit eligible for recognition in the consolidated 
of the end of 2017, federal NOLs generated in tax years 2018,  financial statements. Each income tax position is measured at 
2019 and 2020 can be carried back for five years and any new  the largest amount of tax benefit that is more likely than not to be 
NOLs will have an unlimited carry-forward period. UK tax law  realized upon ultimate settlement. 
allows for an unlimited carry-forward period for NOLs. Based 
Reconciliation of gross unrecognized tax benefits
   2020   2019   2018 
M   ovements in gross unrecognized tax benefits (CHF million)       
Balance at beginning of period   595   574   481 
Increases in unrecognized tax benefits as a result of tax positions taken during a prior period   14   27   10 
Decreases in unrecognized tax benefits as a result of tax positions taken during a prior period   (249)   (64)   (2) 
Increases in unrecognized tax benefits as a result of tax positions taken during the current period   90   105   112 
Decreases in unrecognized tax benefits relating to settlements with tax authorities   (3)   0   0 
Reductions to unrecognized tax benefits as a result of a lapse of the applicable statute of limitations   (17)   (35)   (4) 
Other (including foreign currency translation)   (48)   (12)   (23) 
Balance at end of period   382   595   574 
   of which, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate   382   595   574 
 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 333
   
Interest and penalties timing of completion is uncertain, it is reasonably possible that 
in   2020   2019   2018  some of these will be resolved within 12 months of the report-
ing date. It is reasonably possible that there will be a decrease of 
I nterest and penalties (CHF million)          
between zero and CHF 40 million in unrecognized tax benefits 
Interest and penalties recognized in the           
consolidated statements of operations   (16)   (10)   (28)  within 12 months of the reporting date.
Interest and penalties recognized in the           
consolidated balance sheets   61   77   87  The Group remains open to examination from federal, state, pro-
  vincial or similar local jurisdictions from the following years onward 
Interest and penalties are reported as tax expense. The Group is  in these major countries: Brazil – 2016; Switzerland – 2015 (fed-
currently subject to ongoing tax audits, inquiries and litigation with  eral and Zurich cantonal level); the UK – 2012; the US – 2010; 
the tax authorities in a number of jurisdictions, including Brazil,  and the Netherlands – 2010.
the Netherlands, the US, the UK and Switzerland. Although the 
334 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
30  Employee deferred compensation
Payment of deferred compensation to employees is determined  Deferred compensation expense
by the nature of the business, role, location and performance of  in   2020   2019   2018 
the employee. Unless there is a contractual obligation, granting 
D  eferred co mpensation expense (CHF million)        
deferred compensation is solely at the discretion of the Com-
Share awards   573   589   516 
pensation Committee and senior management. Special deferred 
Performance share awards   448   438   382 
compensation granted as part of a contractual obligation is typi-
Contingent Capital Awards   255   308   154 
cally used to compensate new senior employees for forfeited 
Deferred cash awards   398   420   233 
awards from previous employers upon joining the Group. It is the 
Retention awards   43   22   54 
Group’s policy not to make multi-year guarantees.
 T otal deferr ed compen sation exp ense     1,717     1,777   1,339 
Compensation expense recognized in the consolidated statement  Total shares delivered (million)           
of operations for share-based and other awards that were granted  Total shares delivered   50.7   41.8   46.6 
as deferred compensation is recognized in accordance with the 
In 2020, Contingent Capital share awards are included in the category share awards, and 
specific terms and conditions of each respective award and is  Capital Opportunity Facility awards are included in the category deferred cash awards. Prior 
primarily recognized over the future requisite service and vesting  p eriods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
period, which is determined by the plan, retirement eligibility of 
employees and certain other terms. All deferred compensation  Estimated unrecognized deferred compensation
plans are subject to restrictive covenants, which generally include  end of   2020 
non-compete and non-solicit provisions. Compensation expense 
Estimated unrecognized compensation expense (CHF million)    
for share-based and other awards that were granted as deferred 
Share awards   449 
compensation also includes the current estimated outcome of 
Performance share awards   194 
applicable performance criteria, estimated future forfeitures and 
Contingent Capital Awards   151 
mark-to-market adjustments for certain cash awards that are still 
Deferred cash awards   201 
outstanding.
Retention awards   40 
 T otal     1,035 
The following tables show the compensation expense for deferred 
compensation awards granted in 2020 and prior years that was  Aggregate remaining weighted-average requisite service period (years)    
recognized in the consolidated statements of operations during  Aggregate remaining weighted-average requisite service period   1.2 
2020, 2019 and 2018, the total shares delivered, the estimated 
Does not include the estimated unrecognized compensation expense relating to grants 
unrecognized compensation expense for deferred compensa- m ade in 2021 for 2020.
tion awards granted in 2020 and prior years outstanding as of 
December 31, 2020 and the remaining requisite service period  Share awards
over which the estimated unrecognized compensation expense 
will be recognized. The estimated unrecognized compensation  Share awards granted in February 2021 are similar to those 
expense was based on the fair value of each award on the grant  granted in February 2020. Each share award granted entitles the 
date and included the current estimated outcome of relevant per- holder of the award to receive one Group share, subject to ser-
formance criteria and estimated future forfeitures but no estimate  vice conditions. Share awards vest over three years with one third 
for future mark-to-market adjustments. The recognition of com- of the share awards vesting on each of the three anniversaries 
pensation expense for the deferred compensation awards granted  of the grant date (ratable vesting), with the exception of awards 
in February 2021 began in 2021 and thus had no impact on the  granted to individuals classified as risk managers or senior man-
2020 consolidated financial statements. agers under the UK PRA Remuneration Code or similar regula-
tions in other jurisdictions. Share awards granted to risk managers 
Deferred compensation awards for 2020 vest over five years with one fifth of the award vesting on each 
of the five anniversaries of the grant date, while share awards 
In February 2021, the Group granted share awards, performance  granted to senior managers vest over five years commencing on 
share awards and Contingent Capital Awards (CCA) as deferred  the third anniversary of the grant date, with one fifth of the award 
compensation. Deferred compensation was awarded to employ- vesting on each of the third to seventh anniversaries of the grant 
ees with total compensation of CHF/USD 250,000 or the local  date. Share awards are expensed over the service period of the 
currency equivalent or higher. awards. The value of the share awards is solely dependent on the 
Group share price at the time of delivery.
The Group’s share awards include other awards, such as blocked 
shares and special awards, which may be granted to new employ-
ees. Other share awards entitle the holder to receive one Group 
share and are generally subject to continued employment with the 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 335
   
Group, contain restrictive covenants and cancellation provisions  In order to comply with Capital Requirements Directive IV require-
and generally vest between zero and five years. ments, employees who hold key roles in respect of certain Group 
subsidiaries receive shares that are subject to transfer restric-
On February 19, 2021, the Group granted 44.6 million share  tions for 50% of the amount that would have been paid to them 
awards with a total value of CHF 592 million. The number of  in cash. These shares are vested at the time of grant but remain 
share awards granted to employees was generally determined by  blocked, that is, subject to transfer restrictions, for six months to 
dividing the deferred component of variable compensation being  one year from the date of grant, depending on the location. 
granted as share awards by the average price of a Group share 
over the ten consecutive trading days which ended on March 4,  On February 19, 2021, the Group granted 2.6 million blocked 
2021. The fair value of each share award was CHF 12.59,  shares with a total value of CHF 35 million that vested immedi-
the Group share price on the grant date. The majority of share  ately upon grant, have no future service requirements and were 
awards granted include the right to receive dividend equivalents  attributed to services performed in 2020.
on vested shares. The estimated unrecognized compensation 
expense of CHF 538 million was determined based on the fair  Blocked share awards granted for previous years
value of the awards on the grant date, includes the current esti- For compensation year   2020   2019   2018 
mated future forfeitures and will be recognized over the vesting  Blocked shares awarded (million)   2.6   3.2   3.0 
period, subject to early retirement rules. Value of shares awarded (CHF million)   35   37   35 
 
Share awards granted for previous years
For compensation year   2020   2019   2018 
Shares awarded (million)   44.6   57.9   55.6 
Value of shares awarded (CHF million)   592   626   638 
Fair value of each share awarded (CHF) 1  12.59   10.81   11.75 
1 Based on the Group’s share price on the grant date.
 
Share award activities
      2020     2019     2018 
      Weighted-      Weighted-      Weighted- 
   Number of   average   Number of   average   Number of   average 
   share   grant-date   share   grant-date   share   grant-date 
   awards   fair value   awards   fair value   awards   fair value 
   in million   in CHF   in million   in CHF   in million   in CHF 
S      hare awards          
Balance at beginning of period   110.5   13.46   83.2   16.15   84.9   15.73 
Granted   69.1   10.61   69.3   11.68   43.8   16.91 
Settled   (47.9)   13.76   (36.9)   16.15   (40.7)   16.09 
Forfeited   (5.4)   11.72   (5.1)   13.83   (4.8)   16.24 
Balance at end of period   126.3   11.86   110.5   13.46   83.2   16.15 
   of which vested   13.5   –   11.9   –   8.6   – 
   of which unvested   112.8   –   98.6   –   74.6   – 
 
336 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
Performance share awards number of performance share awards granted to employees was 
generally determined by dividing the deferred component of vari-
Managing directors and all material risk takers and controllers  able compensation being granted as performance share awards 
(employees whose activities are considered to have a potentially  by the average price of a Group share over the ten consecu-
material impact on the Group’s risk profile) received a portion of  tive trading days which ended on March 4, 2021. The fair value 
their deferred variable compensation in the form of performance  of each performance share award was CHF 12.59, the Group 
share awards. Performance share awards are similar to share  share price on the grant date. The majority of performance share 
awards, except that the full balance of outstanding performance  awards granted include the right to receive dividend equiva-
share awards, including those awarded in prior years, are subject  lents on vested shares. The estimated unrecognized compensa-
to performance-based malus provisions. tion expense of CHF 453 million was determined based on the 
fair value of the awards on the grant date, includes the current 
Performance share awards are subject to a negative adjust- estimated outcome of the relevant performance criteria and esti-
ment in the event of a divisional loss by the division in which the  mated future forfeitures and will be recognized over the vesting 
employees worked as of December 31, 2020, or a negative  period, subject to early retirement rules. 
ROE of the Group, whichever results in a larger adjustment. For 
employees in corporate functions and the Asset Resolution Unit,  Performance share awards granted for previous years
the negative adjustment only applies in the event of a negative  For compensation year   2020   2019   2018 
ROE of the Group and is not linked to the performance of the  Performance shares awarded (million)   37.8   50.7   46.1 
divisions. The basis for the ROE calculation may vary from year to  Value of performance shares           
year, depending on the Compensation Committee’s determination  awarded (CHF million)   493   553   532 
for the year in which the performance shares are granted. Fair value of each performance          
share awarded (CHF) 1  12.59   10.81   11.75 
On February 19, 2021, the Group granted 37.8 million perfor- 1  Based on the Group’s share price on the grant date.
mance share awards with a total value of CHF 493 million. The 
Performance share award activities
      2020     2019     2018 
   Number of   Weighted-   Number of   Weighted-   Number of   Weighted- 
   performance   average  performance   average  performance   average 
   share   grant-date   share   grant-date   share   grant-date 
   awards   fair value   awards   fair value   awards   fair value 
   in million   in CHF   in million   in CHF   in million   in CHF 
P      erformance share awards          
Balance at beginning of period   72.4   13.38   51.7   16.33   54.2   15.88 
Granted   50.9   10.63   45.4   11.60   26.5   16.98 
Settled   (29.0)   14.13   (22.8)   16.51   (26.3)   16.07 
Forfeited   (2.6)   11.62   (1.9)   13.67   (2.7)   16.26 
Balance at end of period   91.7   11.66   72.4   13.38   51.7   16.33 
   of which vested   10.4   –   6.7   –   5.4   – 
   of which unvested   81.3   –   65.7   –   46.3   – 
 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 337
   
 
Contingent Capital Awards CCA have loss-absorbing features such that prior to settlement, 
the principal amount of the CCA would be written down to zero 
CCA were granted in February 2021, 2020 and 2019 to manag- and forfeited if any of the following trigger events were to occur:
ing directors and directors as part of the 2020, 2019 and 2018  p the Group’s reported common equity tier 1 (CET1) ratio falls 
deferred variable compensation and have rights and risks similar  below 7%; or
to those of certain contingent capital instruments issued by the  p  FINMA determines that cancellation of the CCA and other 
Group in the market. CCA are scheduled to vest on the third anni- similar contingent capital instruments is necessary, or that the 
versary of the grant date, other than those granted to individu- Group requires public sector capital support, in either case to 
als classified as risk managers or senior managers under the UK  prevent it from becoming insolvent or otherwise failing.
PRA Remuneration Code or similar regulations in other jurisdic-
tions, where CCA vest on the fifth and seventh anniversaries of  On February 19, 2021, the Group awarded CHF 253 million of 
the grant date, respectively, and will be expensed over the vest- CCA that will be expensed over the vesting period. The estimated 
ing period. CCA generally provide a conditional right to receive  unrecognized compensation expense of CHF 241 million was 
semi-annual cash payments of interest equivalents until settled,  determined based on the fair value of the awards on the grant 
with rates being dependent upon the vesting period and currency  date, including the current estimated outcome of the relevant per-
of denomination. CCA granted in 2021, 2020 and 2019 that  formance criteria and estimated future forfeitures. This will be rec-
vest five or seven years from the date of grant are not eligible for  ognized over the vesting period, subject to early retirement rules.
semi-annual cash payments of interest equivalents. CCA granted 
to certain regulated employees that vest over three years are not  Contingent Capital Awards granted for previous years
eligible for semi-annual cash payments of interest equivalents. For compensation year   2020   2019   2018 
p CCA granted in 2021 that are denominated in US dollars  CCA awarded (CHF million)   253   268   299 
and vest three years from the date of grant receive inter-  
est equivalents at a rate of 3.60%, per annum plus the daily 
compounded (spread exclusive) US dollar Secured Overnight  Deferred cash awards
Financing Rate (SOFR);
p CCA granted in 2020 and 2019 that are denominated in US  Deferred cash awards include certain special awards as well as 
dollars and vest three years from the date of grant receive  voluntary deferred compensation plans and employee investment 
interest equivalents at a rate of 3.77% and 4.46% respec- plans. For certain special awards, compensation expense was 
tively, per annum over the six-month US dollar LIBOR; primarily driven by their vesting schedule; for other deferred cash 
p CCA granted in 2021 that are denominated in Swiss francs  awards, compensation expense was driven by mark to market and 
and vest three years from the date of grant receive interest  performance adjustments, as the majority of the awards are fully 
equivalents at a rate of 3.06%, per annum plus the daily com- vested.
pounded (spread exclusive) Swiss franc Swiss Average Rate 
Overnight (SARON);  Deferred fixed cash awards
p CCA granted in 2020 and 2019 that are denominated in Swiss  The Group granted deferred fixed cash compensation during 
francs and vest three years from the date of grant receive  2020, 2019 and 2018 of CHF 120 million, CHF 108 million 
interest equivalents at a rate of 3.29% and 3.73%, respec- and CHF 98 million, respectively, to certain employees in the 
tively, per annum over the six-month Swiss franc LIBOR; and Americas. This compensation has been expensed in the Invest-
p The semi-annual interest equivalent cash payments calcula- ment Bank and International Wealth Management divisions over a 
tion cycle with effect from February 2021 will be based on the  three-year vesting period from the grant date. Amortization of this 
SOFR for CCA denominated in US dollars and the SARON for  compensation in 2020 totaled CHF 112 million, of which CHF 65 
CCA denominated in Swiss francs. million was related to awards granted in 2020. 
The rates were set in line with market conditions at the time of  Upfront cash awards
grant and existing high-trigger and low-trigger contingent capi- In February 2021, certain managing directors and directors in 
tal instruments that the Group has issued. For CCA granted in  International Wealth Management were granted CHF 59 million 
February 2021, employees who received compensation in Swiss  of upfront cash awards as part of the cash component of their 
francs received CCA denominated in Swiss francs and all other  2020 variable compensation. During 2020 and 2019, the Group 
employees received CCA denominated in US dollars. granted upfront cash awards of CHF 146 million and CHF 47 
million, respectively. These awards are subject to repayment 
As CCA qualify as going concern loss-absorbing capital of the  (clawback) by the employee in the event of voluntary resigna-
Group, the timing and form of distribution upon settlement is sub- tion, termination for cause or in connection with other specified 
ject to approval by FINMA. At settlement, employees will receive  events or conditions within three years of the award grant. The 
either a contingent capital instrument or a cash payment based  amount subject to repayment is reduced in equal monthly install-
on the fair value of the CCA. The fair value will be determined by  ments during the three-year period following the grant date. The 
the Group. In the case of a cash settlement, the CCA award will  expense recognition will occur over the three-year vesting period, 
be converted into the local currency of each respective employee.
338 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
subject to service conditions. Amortization of this compensation in  the applicable vesting period from the grant date. Amortization of 
2020 totaled CHF 79 million. these awards in 2020 totaled CHF 43 million, of which CHF 13 
million was related to awards granted in 2020.
Retention awards
Delivered shares
The Group granted deferred cash and stock retention awards dur-
ing 2020, 2019 and 2018 of CHF 40 million, CHF 40 million and  The Group fully covered its share delivery obligations through 
CHF 25 million, respectively. These awards are expensed over  market purchases in 2020, 2019 and 2018.
31  Related parties
Parties are considered to be related if one party has the ability  there were no loan exposures to such related parties that were 
to control the other party or exercise significant influence over  not made in the ordinary course of business and at prevailing 
the other party in making financial or operational decisions, or if  market conditions.
another party controls both. The Group’s related parties include 
key management personnel, close family members of key man- Related party loans
agement personnel and entities that are controlled, significantly 
influenced, or for which significant voting power is held, by key  Executive Board and Board of Directors loans
management personnel or their close family members. Key man- The majority of loans outstanding to members of the Executive 
agement personnel are those individuals having authority and  Board and the Board of Directors are mortgages or loans against 
responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities  securities.
of the Group, that is, members of the Executive Board and the 
Board of Directors. All mortgage loans to members of the Executive Board are 
granted either with variable or fixed interest rates over a certain 
Banking relationships period. Typically, mortgages are granted for periods of up to ten 
years. Interest rates applied are based on refinancing costs plus 
The Group is a global financial services provider. Many of the  a margin, and interest rates and other terms are consistent with 
members of the Executive Board and the Board of Directors, their  those applicable to other employees. Loans against securities 
close family members or companies associated with them main- are granted at interest rates and on terms applicable to such 
tain banking relationships with the Group. The Group or any of its  loans granted to other employees. The same credit approval and 
banking subsidiaries may from time to time enter into financing  risk assessment procedures apply to members of the Executive 
and other banking agreements with companies in which current  Board as for other employees. The highest loan outstanding to an 
members of the Executive Board or the Board of Directors have  Executive Board member was CHF 6 million to Thomas Gottstein 
a significant influence as defined by the SEC, such as holding  as of December 31, 2020.
executive and/or board level roles in these companies. With the 
exception of the transactions described below, relationships with  Members of the Board of Directors with loans, including the 
members of the Executive Board or the Board of Directors and  Chairman of the Board of Directors, do not benefit from employee 
such companies are in the ordinary course of business and are  conditions, but are subject to conditions applied to clients with a 
entered into on an arm’s length basis. Also, unless otherwise  comparable credit standing.
noted, all loans to members of the Executive Board, members of 
the Board of Directors, their close family members or compa- Unless otherwise noted, all loans to members of the Execu-
nies associated with them were made in the ordinary course of  tive Board and the Board of Directors were made in the ordinary 
business, were made on substantially the same terms, including  course of business and substantially on the same terms, includ-
interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for  ing interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for 
comparable transactions with other persons and did not involve  comparable transactions with other persons. These loans did not 
more than the normal risk of collectability or present other unfa- involve more than the normal risk of collectability or present other 
vorable features. As of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018,  unfavorable features.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 339
   
Executive Board and Board of Directors loans Loans made by the Group or any subsidiaries to equity 
in   2020   2019   2018  method investees
E  xecutive Board loans (CHF million)           in   2020   2019   2018 
Balance at beginning of period   32 1   33   26  L oans to eq uity method investees (CHF million)        
Additions   5   13   8  Balance at beginning of period   299   253   173 
Reductions   (24)   (14)   (1)  Net borrowings/(repayments)   115   46   80 
Balance at end of period   13 1   32   33  Balance at end of period   414   299   253 
B  oard of Directors loans (CHF million)            
Balance at beginning of period   9 2   10   11 
Additions   0   3   0  Other related party transaction
Reductions   0   (4)   (1) 
Balance at end of period   9 2   9   10  In December 2018, a subsidiary of the Group executed a transac-
tion with an affiliate to sell a minority interest in a trading platform 
1 The number of individuals with outstanding loans was five at the beginning of the year 
and four at the end of the year. for a gain of approximately USD 80 million.
2 The number of individuals with outstanding loans was four at the beginning of the year 
and three at the end of the year.
  Liabilities due to own pension plans
Equity method investees loans Liabilities due to the Group’s own defined benefit pension plans 
as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 of CHF 643 million and 
The Group or its subsidiaries grant loans to equity method invest- CHF 703 million, respectively, were reflected in various liability 
ees in the normal course of business. accounts in the Group’s consolidated balance sheets.
> 
Refer to “Note 41 – Significant subsidiaries and equity method investments” for 
a list of equity method investments.
340 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
32  Pension and other post-retirement benefits
The Group sponsors defined contribution pension plans, defined  Swiss pension plan comprised 66% and 71%, respectively, of all 
benefit pension plans and other post-retirement defined benefit  the Group’s employees participating in defined benefit plans, 81% 
plans. and 81%, respectively, of the fair value of plan assets, and 82% 
and 82%, respectively, of the pension benefit obligation of the 
Defined contribution pension plans Group’s defined benefit plans.
Defined contribution plans provide each participant with an  Employee contributions in the savings section depend on their 
individual account. The benefits to be provided to a participant  age and are determined as a percentage of the pensionable sal-
are solely based on the contributions made to that employee’s  ary. The employees can select between three different levels of 
account and are affected by income, expenses and gains and  contributions which vary between 5% and 14% depending on 
losses allocated to the account. As such, there are no stipulations  their age. The Group’s contribution varies between 7.5% and 
of a defined annuity benefit at retirement and the participants  25% of the pensionable salary depending on the employee’s age.
bear the full actuarial as well as investment risk.
The Swiss Federal council sets the minimum statutory interest 
The Group contributes to various defined contribution pension  rate on savings balances on an annual basis that applies to the 
plans primarily in Switzerland, the US and the UK as well as other  BVG minimum pensionable salary (1.0% as of January 1, 2021 
countries throughout the world. During 2020, 2019 and 2018,  and 2020). The statutory interest rate on savings balances does 
the Group contributed to these plans and recognized as expense  not apply to extra mandatory benefits. The Board of Trustees of 
CHF 299 million, CHF 167 million and CHF 153 million, respec- the Swiss pension fund sets the interest rate to be applied on the 
tively. This included expenses of CHF 143 million in 2020 related  accumulated savings balance on an annual basis.
to the new Swiss defined contribution pension plan which took 
effect on January 1, 2020. When employees retire, their savings balance is converted into an 
annuity and the conversion rate is the percentage used to convert 
Defined benefit pension and other post-retirement  the assets accrued in the Swiss pension plan to an annual lifetime 
defined benefit plans retirement pension. The level of the conversion rate depends on 
the life expectancy of future retirees and on the long-term poten-
Defined benefit pension plans tial for returns in the capital markets. The Board of Trustees of 
Defined benefit pension plans are pension plans that define spe- the Swiss pension plan has the responsibility to set the conver-
cific benefits for an employee upon that employee’s retirement.  sion rates for the plan. Decisions on conversion rates are to be 
These benefits are usually determined by taking into account the  set for a planning horizon of at least seven years.
employee’s salary, years of service and age of retirement. Retir-
ees bear neither the actuarial risk (for example, the risk that the  International pension plans
retirees of the plan live longer than expected), nor the investment  Various defined benefit pension plans cover the Group’s employ-
risk (that is, that plan assets invested and associated returns will  ees outside Switzerland. These plans provide benefits in the 
be insufficient to meet the expected benefits due to low or nega- event of retirement, death, disability or termination of employ-
tive returns on contributions). The Group’s funding policy for these  ment. Retirement benefits under the international pension plans 
plans is in accordance with local laws and tax requirements. depend on age, contributions and salary. The Group’s principal 
defined benefit pension plans outside Switzerland are located in 
Swiss pension plan the US and in the UK. Both of these plans are funded, closed to 
The Group’s most significant defined benefit pension plan, the  new participants and have ceased accruing new benefits. Smaller 
Credit Suisse Swiss Pension Plan (Swiss pension plan), is located  defined benefit pension plans, both funded and unfunded, are 
and covers its employees in Switzerland and is set up as a trust  operated in other locations.
domiciled in Zurich. The Swiss pension plan provides benefits in 
the event of retirement, death and disability and meets or exceeds  Other post-retirement defined benefit plan
the minimum benefits required under the Swiss Federal Law on  In the US, the Group has a defined benefit plan that provides 
Occupational Retirement, Survivors’ and Disability Pension Plans  post-retirement benefits other than pension benefits that pri-
(BVG). Benefits in the Swiss pension plan are determined on the  marily focus on health and welfare benefits for certain retired 
basis of the accumulated employer and employee contributions  employees. In exchange for the current services provided by the 
and accumulated interest credited. Although the Swiss pension  employee, the Group promises to provide health and welfare ben-
plan is largely defined contribution in nature, it is treated as a  efits after the employee retires. The Group’s obligation for that 
defined benefit plan under US GAAP, mainly due to a guaran- compensation is incurred as employees render the services nec-
teed minimum return on contributions and guaranteed payment  essary to earn their post-retirement benefits.
of lifetime pensions. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 341
   
Components of net periodic benefit costs
              Defined benefit        Other post-retirement  
              pension plans        defined benefit plan 
        Switzerland        International        International 
in   2020   2019   2018   2020   2019   2018   2020   2019   2018 
N         et periodic benefit costs (CHF million)             
Service costs on benefit obligation   203   256   242   15   14   16   0   0   0 
Interest costs on benefit obligation   20   52   63   68   90   86   4   6   5 
Expected return on plan assets   (352)   (394)   (483)   (85)   (108)   (114)   0   0   0 
Amortization of recognized prior service cost/(credit)   (167)   (155)   (126)   1   1   0   0   0   0 
Amortization of recognized actuarial losses/(gains)   334   293   306   13   19   47   1   3   8 
Settlement losses/(gains)   8   41   35   (1)   0   0   0   0   0 
Curtailment losses/(gains)   (10)   0   (12)   0   0   (1)   0   0   0 
Special termination benefits   8   14   38   0   0   0   0   0   0 
Net periodic benefit costs/(credits)   44   107   63   11   16   34   5   9   13 
Service costs on benefit obligation are reflected in compensation and benefits. Other components of net periodic benefit costs are reflected in general and administrative expenses or, 
e xcept for 2019, in restructuring expenses.
Net periodic benefit costs of defined benefit plans Benefit obligation
The net periodic benefit costs for defined benefit pension and  The benefit obligation is expressed as either accumulated benefit 
other post-retirement defined benefit plans are the costs of the  obligation (ABO) or PBO. While the ABO refers to the actuarial pres-
respective plan for a period during which an employee renders  ent value based on employee services rendered prior to that date and 
services. The actual amount to be recognized is determined using  takes into account current and past compensation levels, the PBO 
the standard actuarial methodology which considers, among other  also applies an assumption as to future compensation levels.
factors, current service cost, interest cost, expected return on 
plan assets and the amortization of both prior service costs/(cred- The “Obligations and funded status of the plans” table shows the 
its) and actuarial losses/(gains) recognized in AOCI. changes in the PBO, the ABO, the fair value of plan assets and 
the amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets for 
Service costs on benefit obligation reflected in compensation and  the defined benefit pension and other post-retirement defined 
benefits – other for 2020, 2019 and 2018 were CHF 218 million,  benefit plans.
CHF 270 million and CHF 258 million, respectively.
US GAAP requires an employer to recognize the funded status 
As part of its strategic plan, the Group has launched a num- of the defined benefit pension and other post-retirement defined 
ber of cost efficiency measures, including headcount reduction.  benefit plans on the balance sheet. The funded status of these 
This resulted in curtailment gains of CHF 10 million and CHF 12  plans is determined as the difference between the fair value of 
million in 2020 and 2018, respectively, reflecting the immedi- plan assets and the PBO. The funded status may vary from year 
ate recognition of a credit relating to the years of service no lon- to year due to changes in the fair value of plan assets and varia-
ger expected to be rendered. Additional costs of CHF 8 million,  tions of the PBO following changes in the underlying assump-
CHF 41 million and CHF 35 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018,  tions and membership data used to determine the PBO. In 2020 
respectively, related to the settlement of the pension obligation for  and 2019, the curtailments, settlements and special termina-
employees in Switzerland whose employment has effectively been  tion benefits in Switzerland, which impacted the PBO, related 
terminated or who have left the Group due to a sale of their busi- to the headcount reduction in the context of the cost efficiency 
ness. Special termination benefit costs of CHF 8 million, CHF 14  measures.
million and CHF 38 million have been recognized in 2020, 2019 
and 2018, respectively, relating to early retirements in Switzerland 
in the context of the cost efficiency measures.
342 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Obligations and funded status of the plans
           Defined benefit      Other post-retirement 
           pension plans      defined benefit plan 
      Switzerland     International     International 
in / end of   2020   2019   2020   2019   2020   2019 
P      BO (CHF million) 1         
Beginning of the measurement period   15,979   15,432   3,325   2,951   164   160 
Plan participant contributions   143   205   0   0   0   0 
Service cost   203   256   15   14   0   0 
Interest cost   20   52   68   90   4   6 
Plan amendments   0   (428)   5   0   0   0 
Settlements   (28)   (152)   (23)   0   0   0 
Curtailments   (17)   0   0   0   0   0 
Special termination benefits   8   14   0   0   0   0 
Actuarial losses/(gains)   857   1,262   456   410   13   13 
Benefit payments   (1,063)   (662)   (156)   (149)   (11)   (12) 
Exchange rate losses/(gains)   0   0   (208)   9   (14)   (3) 
End of the measurement period   16,102   15,979   3,482   3,325   156   164 
F     air value of plan assets (CHF million)          
Beginning of the measurement period   17,790   16,225   4,111   3,604   0   0 
Actual return on plan assets   860   1,767   476   487   0   0 
Employer contributions   298   407   61   130   11   12 
Plan participant contributions   143   205   0   0   0   0 
Settlements   (28)   (152)   (23)   0   0   0 
Benefit payments   (1,063)   (662)   (156)   (149)   (11)   (12) 
Exchange rate gains/(losses)   0   0   (257)   39   0   0 
End of the measurement period   18,000   17,790   4,212   4,111   0   0 
F     unded status recognized (CHF million)          
Funded status of the plan – overfunded/(underfunded)   1,898   1,811   730   786   (156)   (164) 
Funded status recognized in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31   1,898   1,811   730   786   (156)   (164) 
     T otal amount recognized (CHF million)        
Noncurrent assets   1,898   1,811   975   1,068   0   0 
Current liabilities   0   0   (8)   (6)   (11)   (11) 
Noncurrent liabilities   0   0   (237)   (276)   (145)   (153) 
Net amount recognized in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31   1,898   1,811   730   786   (156)   (164) 
A      BO (CHF million) 2         
End of the measurement period   15,637   15,459   3,449   3,294   156   164 
1 Including estimated future salary increases.
2 Excluding estimated future salary increases.
 
The net amount recognized in the consolidated balance sheets as  financial and demographic assumptions, primarily a decrease in 
of December 31, 2020 and 2019 for the defined benefit pension  the discount rate and updates on the membership data.
plans was an overfunding of CHF 2,628 million and CHF 2,597 
million, respectively. The remeasurement loss on the international pension plans 
recorded as of December 31, 2020 consisted of losses on the 
The remeasurement loss on the Swiss pension plan recorded  PBO of CHF 456 million due to changes in financial and demo-
as of December 31, 2020 consisted of losses on the PBO of  graphic assumptions, primarily a decrease in the discount rate 
CHF 857 million due to changes in financial and demographic  and updates on the membership data, partially offset by gains on 
assumptions, primarily a decrease in the discount rate, an  the asset portfolio of CHF 391 million. The remeasurement loss 
increase in the interest rate on savings balances and updates on  on the international pension plans recorded as of December 31, 
the membership data, partially offset by gains on the asset port- 2019 consisted of losses on the PBO of CHF 410 million due 
folio of CHF 508 million. The remeasurement gain on the Swiss  to changes in financial and demographic assumptions, primarily 
pension plan recorded as of December 31, 2019 consisted of  a decrease in the discount rate and updates on the membership 
gains on the asset portfolio of CHF 1,373 million, partially offset  data, partially offset by gains on the asset portfolio of CHF 379 
by losses on the PBO of CHF 1,262 million due to changes in  million.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 343
   
In 2020, there was a special cash contribution made to the  PBO or ABO in excess of plan assets
defined benefit pension plan in the US of CHF 43 million. In  The following table shows the aggregate PBO and ABO, as 
2019, a special cash contribution was made to the defined ben- well as the aggregate fair value of plan assets for those plans 
efit pension plan in Germany of CHF 111 million. In 2021, the  with PBO in excess of plan assets and those plans with ABO 
Group expects to contribute CHF 296 million to the Swiss pen- in excess of plan assets as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, 
sion plan, CHF 16 million to the international defined benefit pen- respectively.
sion plans and CHF 11 million to other post-retirement defined 
benefit plans.
Defined benefit pension plans in which PBO or ABO exceeded plan assets 
          International 
      PBO exceeds      ABO exceeds  
      fair value of plan assets 1     fair value of plan assets 1 
December 31   2020   2019   2020   2019 
P    BO/ABO exceeded plan assets (CHF million)        
PBO   1,404   1,455   1,393   1,443 
ABO   1,377   1,431   1,369   1,422 
Fair value of plan assets   1,159   1,174   1,150   1,163 
1 Includes only those defined benefit pension plans where the PBO/ABO exceeded the fair value of plan assets.
 
There were no defined benefit pension plans in Switzerland in  Amounts recognized in AOCI and OCI
which the PBO or the ABO exceeded the plan assets. The following table shows the actuarial gains/(losses), the prior 
service credits/(costs) and the cumulative effect of accounting 
changes, which were recorded in AOCI and subsequently recog-
nized as components of net periodic benefit costs.
Amounts recognized in AOCI, net of tax
      Defined benefit     Other post-retirement      
      pension plans     defined benefit plan     Total 
end of   2020   2019   2020   2019   2020   2019 
A      mounts recognized in AOCI (CHF million)          
Actuarial gains/(losses)   (3,688)   (3,618)   (39)   (30)   (3,727)   (3,648) 
Prior service credits/(costs)   453   601   3   3   456   604 
Cumulative effect of accounting changes   0   (42)   0   0   0   (42) 
Total   (3,235)   (3,059)   (36)   (27)   (3,271)   (3,086) 
 
The following table shows the changes in OCI due to actuarial 
gains/(losses), the prior service credits/(costs) recognized in 
AOCI during 2020 and 2019, the amortization of the aforemen-
tioned items as components of net periodic benefit costs for 
these periods and the cumulative effect of accounting changes.
344 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Amounts recognized in OCI
        Defined benefit        Other post-retirement    
        pension plans        defined benefit plan    
in   Gross   Tax   Net   Gross   Tax   Net   Total net 
2      020 (CHF million)           
Actuarial gains/(losses)   (414)   83   (331)   (13)   3   (10)   (341) 
Prior service credits/(costs)   (5)   0   (5)   0   0   0   (5) 
Amortization of actuarial losses/(gains)   347   (64)   283   1   0   1   284 
Amortization of prior service costs/(credits)   (166)   31   (135)   0   0   0   (135) 
Immediate recognition due to curtailment/settlement   14   (2)   12   0   0   0   12 
Total   (224)   48   (176)   (12)   3   (9)   (185) 
 2     019 (CHF million)           
Actuarial gains/(losses)   82   (29)   53   (12)   3   (9)   44 
Prior service credits/(costs)   428   (90)   338   0   0   0   338 
Amortization of actuarial losses/(gains)   312   (65)   247   3   (1)   2   249 
Amortization of prior service costs/(credits)   (154)   33   (121)   0   0   0   (121) 
Immediate recognition due to curtailment/settlement   41   (8)   33   0   0   0   33 
Cumulative effect of accounting changes   0   (42)   (42)   0   0   0   (42) 
Total   709   (201)   508   (9)   2   (7)   501 
 
Assumptions of which individually represents the best estimate of a particular 
The measurement of both the net periodic benefit costs and the  future event.
benefit obligation is determined using explicit assumptions, each 
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit costs and benefit obligation
              Defined benefit        Other post-retirement 
              pension plans        defined benefit plan 
        Switzerland        International        International 
December 31   2020   2019   2018   2020   2019   2018   2020   2019   2018 
       N  et periodic benefit cost (%)            
Discount rate – service costs   0.69   1.19   1.02   3.04   3.28   2.96   –   4.38   3.86 
Discount rate – interest costs   0.13   0.57   0.41   2.39   3.28   2.77   2.77   3.95   3.28 
Salary increases   1.50   0.75   0.50   2.84   2.92   2.97   –   –   – 
Interest rate on savings balances   0.45   1.03   0.86   –   –   –   –   –   – 
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets   2.10   2.40   3.00   2.37   3.00   3.22   –   –   – 
B         enefit obligation (%)             
Discount rate   0.40   0.45   1.03   1.67   2.38   3.30   2.55   3.23   4.37 
Salary increases   1.50   1.50   0.75   2.98   2.84   2.90   –   –   – 
Interest rate on savings balances   1.25   0.45   1.03   –   –   –   –   –   – 
 
Net periodic benefit cost and benefit obligation  valuations, whereby individual spot rates on the yield curve are 
assumptions applied to each year’s cash flow in measuring the plan’s benefit 
The assumptions used to determine the benefit obligation as of  obligation as well as future service costs and interest costs.
the measurement date are also used to calculate the net periodic 
benefit costs for the 12-month period following this date.  The assumption pertaining to salary increases is used to calculate 
the PBO, which is measured using an assumption as to future 
The discount rates are determined based on yield curves, con- compensation levels.
structed from high-quality corporate bonds currently available and 
observable in the market and are expected to be available during  Credit Suisse estimates the future interest rate on savings bal-
the period to maturity of the pension benefits. In countries where  ances taking into consideration actions and rates approved by the 
there is no deep market in high-quality corporate bonds with  Board of Trustees of the Swiss pension plan and expected future 
longer durations, the best available market information, including  changes in the interest rate environment. In prior years, Credit 
governmental bond yields and risk premiums, is used to construct  Suisse used the cash flow weighted-average of the yield curve 
the yield curve. Credit Suisse uses the spot rate approach for  used for the discount rate as the best estimate for the interest 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 345
   
rate on savings balances for these long-term projections. Due  The expected long-term rate of ROE securities is based on a 
to the higher actual interest rate on savings balances payments  two-stage dividend discount model which considers economic 
over prior years, the interest rate on savings balances has been  and market forecasts to compute a market-implied equity risk 
updated to 1.25% for 2020. This resulted in an increase to the  premium. Dividends are estimated using market consensus earn-
PBO of approximately CHF 450 million. ings and the historical payout ratio. A subsequent scenario analy-
sis is used to stress test the level of the return.
The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption 
is applied to the market-related value of assets to calculate the  The expected long-term rate of return on real estate is based 
expected return on plan assets as a component of the net peri- on economic models that reflect both the rental and the capital 
odic benefit costs. It reflects the average rate of returns expected  market side of the direct real estate market. This allows for a rep-
on the funds invested or to be invested to provide for the benefits  licable and robust forecasting methodology for expected returns 
included in the PBO. In estimating that rate, appropriate consider- on real estate equity, fund and direct market indices.
ation is given to the returns being earned by the plan assets and 
the rates of return expected to be available for reinvestment. The  The expected long-term rate of return on private equity and 
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on total  hedge funds is estimated by determining the key factors in their 
return forecasts, expected volatility and correlation estimates,  historical performance using private equity and hedge fund 
reflecting interrelationships between and within asset classes  benchmarks and indices. To capture these factors, multiple linear 
held. Where possible, similar, if not related, approaches are fol- regression models with lagged returns are used.
lowed to forecast returns for the various asset classes.
Mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables 
The expected long-term rate of return on debt securities reflects  and standard models and methodologies for projecting future 
both accruing interest and price returns. The probable long-term  improvements to mortality as developed and published by external 
relationship between the total return and certain exogenous vari- independent actuarial societies and actuarial organizations.
ables is used, which links the total return forecasts on debt secu-
rities to forecasts of the macroeconomic environment.
Mortality tables and life expectancies for major plans
                  Life expectancy at age 65          Life expectancy at age 65  
                  for a male member currently         for a female member currently 
         aged 65      aged 45      aged 65      aged 45 
December 31      2020   2019   2020   2019   2020   2019   2020   2019 
        Life expectancy (years)            
Switzerland   BVG 2015 tables 1  21.7   21.6   23.3   23.2   23.7   23.6   25.3   25.2 
UK   SAPS S2 light tables 2  23.3   23.2   24.9   24.8   24.5   24.3   26.3   26.1 
US   Pri-2012 mortality tables 3  21.1   21.1   22.3   22.2   22.8   22.7   23.9   23.8 
1 The BVG 2015 tables were used, which included final 2016 CMI projections, with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per annum.
2 95% of Self-Administered Pension Scheme (SAPS) S2 light tables were used, which included final CMI projections, with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.5% per annum.
 3 The Private retirement plan 2012 (Pri-2012) mortality tables were used, with projections based on the Social Security Administration’s intermediate improvement scale.
Under US GAAP, the assumptions used to value the PBO should 
always represent the best estimate as of the measurement date. 
Credit Suisse regularly reviews the actuarial assumptions used 
to value and measure the defined benefit obligation on a periodic 
basis as required by US GAAP.
346 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
Health care cost assumptions The following table provides an overview of the assumed health 
The health care cost trend is used to determine the appropriate  care cost trend rates.
other post-retirement defined benefit costs. In determining those 
costs, an annual weighted-average rate is assumed in the cost of 
covered health care benefits.
Health care cost trend rates
in / end of   2020   2019   2018 
  Health care cost trend rate (%)      
Annual weighted-average health care cost trend rate 1  7.0   8.0   8.7 
1  The annual health care cost trend rate is assumed to decrease gradually to achieve the long-term health care cost trend rate of 5% by 2025.
The annual health care cost trend rate used to determine the net  exposure, but are not used to leverage the portfolio beyond the 
periodic defined benefit costs for 2021 is 7.0%. market value of the underlying investments. Investment risk is 
measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through periodic 
Plan assets and investment strategy asset/liability studies and quarterly investment portfolio reviews. 
Plan assets, which are assets that have been segregated and  To limit investment risk, the Group pension plans follow defined 
restricted to provide for plan benefits, are measured at their fair  strategic asset allocation guidelines. At times of major mar-
value as of the measurement date. ket uncertainties and stress, these guidelines may be further 
restricted.
The Group’s defined benefit pension plans employ a total return 
investment approach, whereby a diversified mix of debt and equity  As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the total fair value of Group 
securities and alternative investments, specifically hedge funds  equity securities and options was CHF 77 million and CHF 89 
and private equity, are used to maximize the long-term return of  million, respectively.
plan assets while incurring a prudent level of risk. The intent of 
this strategy is to meet or outperform plan liabilities over the long  Fair value hierarchy of plan assets
term. Risk tolerance is established through careful consider- > Refer to “Fair value measurement” in Note 36 – Financial instruments for dis-
ation of plan liabilities, plan funded status and corporate financial  cussion of the fair value hierarchy.
condition. Furthermore, equity securities are diversified across 
different geographic regions as well as across growth, value and  Fair value of plan assets
small and large capitalization stocks. Real estate and alternative  The following tables present the plan assets measured at fair 
investments, such as private equity and hedge funds, are used  value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 
to enhance long-term returns while improving portfolio diversi- for the Group’s defined benefit pension plans.
fication. Derivatives may be used to hedge or increase market 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 347
   
Plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis
end of               2020               2019 
            Assets               Assets    
            measured               measured    
            at net asset               at net asset    
            value               value    
   Level 1   Level 2   Level 3   per share   Total   Level 1   Level 2   Level 3   per share   Total 
P          lan assets at fair value (CHF million)              
Cash and cash equivalents   458   0   0   0   458   703   0   0   0   703 
Debt securities   5,224   222   0   438   5,884   6,448   199   0   303   6,950 
   of which corporates   5,224   222   0   438   5,884   6,448   199   0   303   6,950 
Equity securities   5,320   0   0   0   5,320   5,015   0   0   0   5,015 
Real estate   0   1,795   1,444   0   3,239   0   1,277   1,351   0   2,628 
   of which direct   0   0   1,444   0   1,444   0   0   1,351   0   1,351 
   of which indirect   0   1,795   0   0   1,795   0   1,277 1   0   0   1,277 
Alternative investments   433   514   0   2,152   3,099   0   424   0   2,070   2,494 
   of which private equity   0   0   0   1,794   1,794   0   0   0   1,561   1,561 
   of which hedge funds   0   413   0   1   414   0   385   0   126   511 
   of which other   433   101   0   357   891   0   39   0   383   422 
Switzerland   11,435   2,531   1,444   2,590   18,000   12,166   1,900   1,351   2,373   17,790 
Cash and cash equivalents   17   247   0   0   264   14   104   0   0   118 
Debt securities   2,519   872   0   422   3,813   2,277   1,016   0   430   3,723 
   of which governments   2,169   7   0   0   2,176   1,904   9   0   0   1,913 
   of which corporates   350   865   0   422   1,637   373   1,007   0   430   1,810 
Equity securities   33   0   0   52   85   58   0   0   91   149 
Real estate – indirect   0   0   0   20   20   0   0   0   29   29 
Alternative investments   0   (47)   0   0   (47)   0   (37)   0   45   8 
   of which hedge funds   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   45   45 
   of which other   0   (47) 2   0   0   (47)   0   (37) 2   0   0   (37) 
Other investments   0   77   0   0   77   0   84   0   0   84 
International   2,569   1,149   0   494   4,212   2,349   1,167   0   595   4,111 
Total plan assets at fair value   14,004   3,680   1,444   3,084   22,212   14,515   3,067   1,351   2,968   21,901 
The Swiss pension fund uses exchange-traded futures to manage the economic exposure of the portfolio. Under US GAAP, these futures are not carried at fair value as they are settled on 
a daily basis and are considered brokerage receivables and payables. Consequently, they are excluded from this table. These futures increased/(decreased) the economic exposure to cash 
and cash equivalents by CHF 462 million and CHF (685) million in 2020 and 2019, respectively, and (increased)/decreased the economic exposure to equity securities by CHF 462 million 
and CHF (685) million in 2020 and 2019, respectively.
1 Prior period has been corrected to reclassify the leveling of certain plan assets.
2 Primarily related to derivative instruments.
 
Plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis for level 3
               Actual return          
               on plan assets          
            On assets         Foreign    
   Balance at         still held at   On assets   Purchases,   currency   Balance 
   beginning   Transfers   Transfers   reporting   sold during   sales,   translation   at end 
   of period   in   out   date   the period   settlements   impact   of period 
2      020 (CHF million)             
Real estate   1,351   0   0   69   0   24   0   1,444 
   of which direct   1,351   0   0   69   0   24   0   1,444 
Total plan assets at fair value   1,351   0   0   69   0   24   0   1,444 
   of which Switzerland   1,351   0   0   69   0   24   0   1,444 
       2019 (CHF million)            
Debt securities – corporates   34   0   (34)   0   0   0   0   0 
Real estate   1,345   0   (48)   54   0   0   0   1,351 
   of which direct   1,297   0   0   54   0   0   0   1,351 
   of which indirect   48   0   (48)   0   0   0   0   0 
Total plan assets at fair value   1,379   0   (82)   54   0   0   0   1,351 
   of which Switzerland   1,379   0   (82)   54   0   0   0   1,351 
 
348 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Qualitative disclosures of valuation techniques used to  private securities. Publicly traded investments that are restricted 
measure fair value or that are not quoted in active markets are valued based on pub-
Cash and cash equivalents licly available quotes with appropriate adjustments for liquidity or 
Cash and cash equivalents includes money market instruments  trading restrictions. Private equity is valued taking into account 
such as bankers’ acceptances, certificates of deposit, CP, book  a number of factors, such as the most recent round of financ-
claims, treasury bills, other rights and commingled funds. Valu- ing involving unrelated new investors, earnings multiple analyses 
ations of money market instruments and commingled funds are  using comparable companies or discounted cash flow analyses. 
generally based on observable inputs. Private equity for which a fair value is not readily determinable is 
measured at fair value using NAV provided by the general partner.
Debt securities
Debt securities include government and corporate bonds which  Hedge funds that are not directly quoted on a public stock 
are generally quoted in active markets or as units in mutual funds.  exchange and/or for which a fair value is not readily determin-
Debt securities for which market prices are not available, are  able are measured at fair value using NAV provided by the fund 
valued based on yields reflecting the perceived risk of the issuer  administrator.
and the maturity of the security, recent disposals in the market 
or other modeling techniques, which may involve judgment. Units  Derivatives
in mutual funds which are not directly quoted on a public stock  Derivatives include both OTC and exchange-traded derivatives. 
exchange and/or for which a fair value is not readily determinable  The fair value of OTC derivatives is determined on the basis of 
are measured at fair value using NAV. inputs that include those characteristics of the derivative that have 
a bearing on the economics of the instrument. The determination 
Equity securities of the fair value of many derivatives involves only a limited degree 
Equity securities held include common equity shares, convertible  of subjectivity since the required inputs are generally observ-
bonds and shares in investment companies and units in mutual  able in the marketplace. Other more complex derivatives may 
funds. The common equity shares are generally traded on public  use unobservable inputs. Such inputs include long-dated volatil-
stock exchanges for which quoted prices are regularly available.  ity assumptions on OTC option transactions and recovery rate 
Convertible bonds are generally valued using observable pricing  assumptions for credit derivative transactions. The fair value of 
sources. Shares in investment companies and units in mutual  exchange-traded derivatives is typically derived from the observ-
funds, which are not directly quoted on a public stock exchange  able exchange prices and/or observable inputs.
and/or for which a fair value is not readily determinable, are mea-
sured at fair value using NAV. Plan asset allocation
The following table shows the plan asset allocation as of the 
Real estate measurement date calculated based on the fair value at that date 
Real estate includes direct real estate as well as investments in  including the performance of each asset class.
real estate investment companies, trusts or mutual funds. Direct 
real estate is initially measured at its transaction price, which is  Plan asset allocation
the best estimate of fair value. Thereafter, direct real estate is        Switzerland     International 
individually measured at fair value based on a number of factors  December 31   2020   2019   2020   2019 
that include any recent rounds of financing involving third-party 
W  eighted-a verage (%)            
investors, comparable company transactions, multiple analyses of 
Cash and cash equivalents   2.5   3.9   6.3   2.9 
cash flows or book values, or discounted cash flow analyses. The 
Debt securities   32.7   39.1   90.5   90.6 
availability of information used in these modeling techniques is 
Equity securities   29.6   28.2   2.0   3.6 
often limited and involves significant judgment in evaluating these 
Real estate   18.0   14.8   0.5   0.7 
different factors over time. Real estate investment companies, 
Alternative investments   17.2   14.0   (1.1)   0.2 
trusts and mutual funds which are not directly quoted on a public 
Insurance   0.0   0.0   1.8   2.0 
stock exchange and/or for which a fair value is not readily deter-
Total   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0 
minable are measured at fair value using NAV.
 
Alternative investments The following table shows the target plan asset allocation for 
Private equity includes direct investments, investments in partner- 2021 in accordance with the Group’s investment strategy. The 
ships that make private equity and related investments in various  target plan asset allocation is used to determine the expected 
portfolio companies and funds and fund of funds partnerships.  return on plan assets to be considered in the net periodic benefit 
Private equity consists of both publicly traded securities and  costs for 2021.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 349
   
2021 target plan asset allocation Estimated future benefit payments
   Switzerland  International     Defined benefit   Other post-retirement 
   pension plans   defined benefit plan 
Weighted-average (%)        
Payments (CHF million)        
Cash and cash equivalents   7.0   0.3 
2021   1,082   11 
Debt securities   32.0   94.0 
2022   903   10 
Equity securities   25.0   2.1 
2023   904   10 
Real estate   21.0   0.6 
2024   903   10 
Alternative investments   15.0   1.2 
2025   887   9 
Insurance   0.0   1.8 
For five years thereafter   4,409   40 
Total   100.0   100.0 
 
 
Estimated future benefit payments
The following table shows the estimated future benefit payments 
for defined benefit pension and other post-retirement defined 
benefit plans.
350 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
33  Derivatives and hedging activities
Derivatives are generally either privately negotiated OTC contracts  p credit derivatives to manage credit risk on certain loan 
or standard contracts transacted through regulated exchanges.  portfolios; 
The Group’s most frequently used freestanding derivative prod- p futures to manage risk on equity positions including convertible 
ucts, entered into for trading and risk management purposes,  bonds; and
include interest rate, credit default and cross-currency swaps,  p equity derivatives to manage equity/index risks on certain 
interest rate and foreign exchange options, interest rate and for- structured products.
eign exchange forward contracts and foreign exchange and inter-
est rate futures. Derivatives used in economic hedges are included as trading 
assets or trading liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.
The Group also enters into contracts that are not considered 
derivatives in their entirety but include embedded derivative fea- Hedge accounting
tures. Such transactions primarily include issued and purchased 
structured debt instruments where the return may be calculated  Fair value hedges
by reference to an equity security, index or third-party credit risk,  The Group designates fair value hedges as part of an overall 
or that have non-standard interest or foreign exchange terms. interest rate risk management strategy that incorporates the use 
of derivative instruments to minimize fluctuations in earnings that 
On the date a derivative contract is entered into, the Group desig- are caused by interest rate volatility. The Group uses derivatives 
nates it as belonging to one of the following categories: to hedge for changes in fair value as a result of the interest rate 
p  trading activities; risk associated with loans, debt securities held as available-for-
p  a risk management transaction that does not qualify as a  sale and long-term debt instruments.
hedge under accounting standards (referred to as an economic 
hedge); Cash flow hedges
p  a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability; The Group hedges the variability in interest cash flows on mort-
p  a hedge of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid  gages and loans by using interest rate swaps to convert variable 
relating to a recognized asset or liability or a forecasted trans- rate assets to fixed rates. Further, the Group uses foreign cur-
action; or rency forwards to hedge the foreign currency risk associated with 
p  a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation. certain forecasted transactions. As of the end of 2020, the maxi-
mum length of time over which the Group hedged its exposure 
Trading activities to the variability in future cash flows for forecasted transactions, 
excluding those forecasted transactions related to the payment of 
The Group is active in most of the principal trading markets and  variable interest on existing financial instruments, was 12 months.
transacts in many trading and hedging products. As noted above, 
this includes the use of swaps, futures, options and structured  Net investment hedges 
products, such as custom transactions using combinations of  The Group designates net investment hedges as part of its strat-
derivatives, in connection with its sales and trading activities.  egy to hedge selected net investments in foreign operations 
Trading activities include market making, positioning and arbitrage  against adverse movements in foreign exchange rates, typically 
activities. The majority of the Group’s derivatives were used for  using forward foreign exchange contracts.
trading activities.
Hedge effectiveness assessment
Economic hedges The Group assesses the effectiveness of hedging relationships 
both prospectively and retrospectively. The prospective assess-
Economic hedges arise when the Group enters into derivative  ment is made both at the inception of a hedging relationship and 
contracts for its own risk management purposes, but the con- on an ongoing basis, and requires the Group to justify its expec-
tracts entered into do not qualify for hedge accounting under US  tation that the relationship will be highly effective over future peri-
GAAP. These economic hedges include the following types: ods. The retrospective assessment is also performed on an ongo-
p interest rate derivatives to manage net interest rate risk on  ing basis and requires the Group to determine whether or not the 
certain core banking business assets and liabilities; hedging relationship has actually been effective.
p foreign exchange derivatives to manage foreign exchange risk 
on certain core banking business revenue and expense items, 
as well as on core banking business assets and liabilities;
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 351
   
 
Fair value of derivative instruments Information on bifurcated embedded derivatives has not been 
included in these tables. Under US GAAP, the Group elected to 
The tables below present gross derivative replacement values by  account for substantially all financial instruments with an embed-
type of contract and whether the derivative is used for trading  ded derivative that is not considered clearly and closely related to 
purposes or in a qualifying hedging relationship. Notional amounts  the host contract at fair value.
have also been provided as an indication of the volume of deriva- > Refer to “Note 36 – Financial instruments” for further information.
tive activity within the Group.
Fair value of derivative instruments
        Trading        Hedging 1 
      Positive   Negative      Positive   Negative 
   Notional  replacement  replacement   Notional  replacement  replacement 
end of 2020   amount  value (PRV)  value (NRV)   amount  value (PRV)  value (NRV) 
D      erivative instruments (CHF billion)          
Forwards and forward rate agreements   5,221.5   2.7   2.8   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Swaps   8,087.8   53.5   50.2   126.1   0.9   0.1 
Options bought and sold (OTC)   968.6   18.2   18.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Futures   296.6   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Options bought and sold (exchange-traded)   116.1   0.5   0.6   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Interest rate products   14,690.6   74.9   71.6   126.1   0.9   0.1 
Forwards   928.4   10.1   11.8   13.9   0.1   0.1 
Swaps   345.8   10.9   13.4   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Options bought and sold (OTC)   236.3   3.4   3.7   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Futures   8.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Options bought and sold (exchange-traded)   1.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Foreign exchange products   1,520.3   24.4   28.9   13.9   0.1   0.1 
Forwards   1.0   0.0   0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Swaps   167.6   4.3   8.8   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Options bought and sold (OTC)   218.3   14.9   10.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Futures   23.5   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Options bought and sold (exchange-traded)   454.0   20.0   20.7   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Equity/index-related products   864.4   39.2   39.8   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Credit derivatives 2  467.8   4.9   6.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Forwards   12.2   0.3   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Swaps   9.8   1.1   0.5   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Options bought and sold (OTC)   14.8   0.3   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Futures   4.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Options bought and sold (exchange-traded)   11.6   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Other products 3  52.6   1.8   1.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Total derivative instruments   17,595.7   145.2   147.3   140.0   1.0   0.2 
The notional amount, PRV and NRV (trading and hedging) was CHF 17,735.7 billion, CHF 146.2 billion and CHF 147.5 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2020.
1 Relates to derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting under US GAAP.
2 Primarily credit default swaps.
3 Primarily precious metals, commodity and energy products.
 
352 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Fair value of derivative instruments (continued)
        Trading        Hedging 1 
      Positive   Negative      Positive   Negative 
   Notional  replacement  replacement   Notional  replacement  replacement 
end of 2019   amount  value (PRV)  value (NRV)   amount  value (PRV)  value (NRV) 
D      erivative instruments (CHF billion)          
Forwards and forward rate agreements   6,226.5   0.9   0.9   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Swaps   9,183.5   50.8   48.4   113.2   0.5   0.1 
Options bought and sold (OTC)   1,355.4   16.3   16.4   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Futures   264.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Options bought and sold (exchange-traded)   103.4   0.3   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Interest rate products   17,133.0   68.3   65.9   113.2   0.5   0.1 
Forwards   1,073.5   8.0   9.1   14.1   0.1   0.1 
Swaps   389.5   10.9   13.7   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Options bought and sold (OTC)   270.8   3.0   3.5   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Futures   9.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Options bought and sold (exchange-traded)   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Foreign exchange products   1,743.0   21.9   26.3   14.1   0.1   0.1 
Forwards   1.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Swaps   175.2   4.3   4.6   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Options bought and sold (OTC)   213.6   7.7   7.3   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Futures   41.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Options bought and sold (exchange-traded)   427.2   5.4   5.1   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Equity/index-related products   858.2   17.4   17.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Credit derivatives 2  538.1   6.2   7.2   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Forwards   13.2   0.2   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Swaps   11.6   1.0   0.5   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Options bought and sold (OTC)   15.5   0.2   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Futures   14.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Options bought and sold (exchange-traded)   1.7   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Other products 3  56.8   1.4   0.7   0.0   0.0   0.0 
Total derivative instruments   20,329.1   115.2   117.1   127.3   0.6   0.2 
The notional amount, PRV and NRV (trading and hedging) was CHF 20,456.4 billion, CHF 115.8 billion and CHF 117.3 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2019.
1 Relates to derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting under US GAAP.
2 Primarily credit default swaps.
3 Primarily precious metals, commodity and energy products.
 
Gains or (losses) on fair value hedges
   2020   2019   2018 
   Net interest   Net interest   Trading 
in   income   income   revenues 
I  nterest rate products (CHF million)       
Hedged items   (1,679)   (1,721)   423 
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments   1,564   1,550   (415) 
Net gains/(losses) on the ineffective portion   –   –   8 
As a result of the adoption of ASU 2017-12 on January 1, 2019, the gains/(losses) on interest rate risk hedges are included in net interest income since 2019, while in 2018 they were 
recorded in trading revenue. Additionally, the gains/(losses) on the ineffective portion are no longer separately measured and reported. The accrued interest on fair value hedges is 
r ecorded in net interest income and is excluded from this table.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 353
   
Hedged items in fair value hedges
        2020        2019 
      Hedged items        Hedged items    
   Carrying   Hedging  Discontinued    Carrying    Hedging  Discontinued  
end of   amount   adjustments 1   hedges 2   amount   adjustments 1   hedges 2 
Assets and liabilities (CHF billion)         
Investment securities   0.4   0.0   0.0   –   –   – 
Net loans   20.5   0.2   0.5   15.2   0.1   0.7 
Long-term debt  65.8   1.9   0.8   65.8   1.2   0.3 
1 Relates to the cumulative amount of fair value hedging adjustments included in the carrying amount.
2 Relates to the cumulative amount of fair value hedging adjustments remaining for any hedged items for which hedge accounting has been discontinued.
 
Cash flow hedges > Refer to “Note 7 – Trading revenues” for gains and losses on trading activities 
by product type.
in   2020   2019   2018 
I nterest rate products (CHF million)           Disclosures relating to contingent credit risk
Gains/(losses) recognized in AOCI on derivatives   134   85   (76) 
Gains/(losses) reclassified from AOCI into           
interest and dividend income   (70)   3   (85)  Certain of the Group’s derivative instruments contain provisions 
that require it to maintain a specified credit rating from each of 
F oreign exchange products (CHF million)          
the major credit rating agencies. If the ratings fall below the level 
Gains/(losses) recognized in AOCI on derivatives   (33)   4   (95) 
specified in the contract, the counterparties to the agreements 
Trading revenues   (30)   (7)   (37) 
could request payment of additional collateral on those derivative 
Other revenues   0   (4)   (6) 
instruments that are in a net liability position. Certain of the deriv-
Total other operating expenses   (2)   (16)   (5) 
ative contracts also provide for termination of the contract, gener-
Gains/(losses) reclassified from AOCI into income   (32)   (27)   (48) 
ally upon a downgrade of either the Group or the counterparty. 
Gains/(losses) excluded from the assessment of           
effectiveness reported in trading revenues 1  1   (20)   –  Such derivative contracts are reflected at close-out costs.
1 Related to the forward points of a foreign currency forward.
  The following table provides the Group’s current net exposure 
from contingent credit risk relating to derivative contracts with 
The net gain associated with cash flow hedges expected to be  bilateral counterparties and SPEs that include credit support 
reclassified from AOCI within the next 12 months was CHF 119  agreements, the related collateral posted and the additional col-
million. lateral required in a one-notch, two-notch and a three-notch 
downgrade event, respectively. The table also includes deriva-
Net investment hedges tive contracts with contingent credit risk features without credit 
in   2020   2019   2018  support agreements that have accelerated termination event 
conditions. The current net exposure for derivative contracts with 
F oreign exchange products (CHF million)          
bilateral counterparties and contracts with accelerated termination 
Gains/(losses) recognized in the cumulative           
translation adjustments section of AOCI   458   (138)   133  event conditions is the aggregate fair value of derivative instru-
Gains/(losses) reclassified from the cumulative           ments that were in a net liability position. For SPEs, the current 
translation adjustments section of AOCI into           net exposure is the contractual amount that is used to determine 
other revenues  10   0   (2) 
the collateral payable in the event of a downgrade. The contrac-
  tual amount could include both the NRV and a percentage of the 
The Group includes all derivative instruments not included in  notional value of the derivative.
hedge accounting relationships in its trading activities.
354 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Contingent credit risk
          2020          2019 
      Special            Special       
   Bilateral   purpose  Accelerated       Bilateral   purpose  Accelerated     
end of   counterparties   entities  terminations   Total  counterparties   entities  terminations   Total 
C    ontingent credit risk (CHF billion)                
Current net exposure   3.0   0.0   0.4   3.4   3.1   0.0   0.3   3.4 
Collateral posted   2.4   0.0   –   2.4   2.7   0.1   –   2.8 
Impact of a one-notch downgrade event   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.1 
Impact of a two-notch downgrade event   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.2 
Impact of a three-notch downgrade event   0.5   0.0   0.2   0.7   0.7   0.1   0.1   0.9 
The impact of a downgrade event reflects the amount of additional collateral required for bilateral counterparties and special purpose entities and the amount of additional termination 
e xpenses for accelerated terminations, respectively.
Credit derivatives counterparty basis and cannot be allocated to a particular deriva-
tive contract.
Credit derivatives are contractual agreements in which the buyer  > Refer to “Note 28 – Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities” for 
generally pays a fee in exchange for a contingent payment by the  further information on netting.
seller if there is a credit event on the underlying referenced entity 
or asset. They are generally privately negotiated OTC contracts,  Credit protection sold
with numerous settlement and payment terms, and most are  Credit protection sold is the maximum potential payout, which 
structured so that they specify the occurrence of an identifiable  is based on the notional value of derivatives and represents the 
credit event, which can include bankruptcy, insolvency, receiver- amount of future payments that the Group would be required to 
ship, material adverse restructuring of debt or failure to meet obli- make as a result of credit risk-related events. The Group believes 
gations when due. that the maximum potential payout is not representative of the 
actual loss exposure based on historical experience. This amount 
The Group enters into credit derivative contracts in the normal  has not been reduced by the Group’s rights to the underlying 
course of business, buying and selling protection to facilitate cli- assets and the related cash flows. In accordance with most credit 
ent transactions and as a market maker. This includes providing  derivative contracts, should a credit event (or settlement trigger) 
structured credit products for its clients to enable them to hedge  occur, the Group is usually liable for the difference between the 
their credit risk. The referenced instruments of these structured  credit protection sold and the recourse it holds in the value of 
credit products are both investment grade and non-investment  the underlying assets. The maximum potential amount of future 
grade and could include corporate bonds, sovereign debt, asset- payments has not been reduced for any cash collateral paid to a 
backed securities (ABS) and loans. These instruments can be  given counterparty as such payments would be calculated after 
formed as single items (single-named instruments) or combined  netting all derivative exposures, including any credit derivatives 
on a portfolio basis (multi-named instruments). The Group pur- with that counterparty in accordance with a related master net-
chases protection to economically hedge various forms of credit  ting agreement. Due to such netting processes, determining the 
exposure, for example, the economic hedging of loan portfolios  amount of collateral that corresponds to credit derivative expo-
or other cash positions. Finally, the Group also takes proprietary  sures only is not possible.
positions which can take the form of either purchased or sold 
protection. To reflect the quality of the payment risk on credit protection sold, 
the Group assigns an internally generated rating to those instru-
The credit derivatives most commonly transacted by the Group  ments referenced in the contracts. Internal ratings are assigned 
are CDS and credit swaptions. CDSs are contractual agreements  by experienced credit analysts based on expert judgment that 
in which the buyer of the swap pays an upfront and/or a periodic  incorporates analysis and evaluation of both quantitative and 
fee in return for a contingent payment by the seller of the swap  qualitative factors. The specific factors analyzed, and their rela-
following a credit event of the referenced entity or asset. Credit  tive importance, are dependent on the type of counterparty. The 
swaptions are options with a specified maturity to buy or sell pro- analysis emphasizes a forward-looking approach, concentrat-
tection under a CDS on a specific referenced credit event. ing on economic trends and financial fundamentals, and making 
use of peer analysis, industry comparisons and other quantitative 
In addition, to reduce its credit risk, the Group enters into legally  tools. External ratings and market information are also used in the 
enforceable netting agreements with its derivative counterparties.  analysis process where available.
Collateral on these derivative contracts is usually posted on a net 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 355
   
 
Credit protection purchased Fair value of credit protection sold
Credit protection purchased represents those instruments where  The fair values of the credit protection sold give an indication of 
the underlying reference instrument is identical to the reference  the amount of payment risk, as the negative fair values increase 
instrument of the credit protection sold. The maximum potential  when the potential payment under the derivative contracts 
payout amount of credit protection purchased for each individual  becomes more probable.
identical underlying reference instrument may be greater or lower 
than the notional amount of protection sold. Credit protection sold/purchased
The following tables do not include all credit derivatives and dif-
The Group also considers estimated recoveries that it would  fer from the credit derivatives in the “Fair value of derivative 
receive if the specified credit event occurred, including both the  instruments” table. This is due to the exclusion of certain credit 
anticipated value of the underlying referenced asset that would,  derivative instruments under US GAAP, which defines a credit 
in most instances, be transferred to the Group and the impact of  derivative as a derivative instrument (a) in which one or more of its 
any purchased protection with an identical reference instrument  underlyings are related to the credit risk of a specified entity (or a 
and product type. group of entities) or an index based on the credit risk of a group 
of entities and (b) that exposes the seller to potential loss from 
Other protection purchased credit risk-related events specified in the contract. 
In the normal course of business, the Group purchases protection 
to offset the risk of credit protection sold that may have similar,  Total return swaps (TRS) of CHF 14.4 billion and CHF 16.7 bil-
but not identical, reference instruments, and may use similar, but  lion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, were also 
not identical, products, which reduces the total credit derivative  excluded because a TRS does not expose the seller to potential 
exposure. Other protection purchased is based on the notional  loss from credit risk-related events specified in the contract. A 
value of the instruments. TRS only provides protection against a loss in asset value and not 
against additional amounts as a result of specific credit events.
The Group purchases its protection from banks and broker deal-
ers, other financial institutions and other counterparties.
Credit protection sold/purchased
               2020               2019 
         Net credit      Fair value         Net credit      Fair value 
   Credit   Credit   protection   Other   of credit   Credit   Credit   protection   Other   of credit 
   protection   protection   (sold)/   protection   protection    protection   protection   (sold)/   protection   protection  
end of   sold   purchased 1  purchased   purchased   sold   sold   purchased 1  purchased   purchased   sold 
S          ingle-name instruments (CHF billion)              
Investment grade 2  (52.5)   47.8   (4.7)   13.0   0.5   (52.6)   47.9   (4.7)   11.5   0.5 
Non-investment grade   (28.5)   26.5   (2.0)   11.8   0.4   (32.1)   29.5   (2.6)   16.1   0.9 
Total single-name instruments   (81.0)   74.3   (6.7)   24.8   0.9   (84.7)   77.4   (7.3)   27.6   1.4 
   of which sovereign   (12.5)   11.6   (0.9)   5.3   0.0   (17.2)   15.4   (1.8)   4.1   0.0 
   of which non-sovereign   (68.5)   62.7   (5.8)   19.5   0.9   (67.5)   62.0   (5.5)   23.5   1.4 
M          ulti-name instruments (CHF billion)              
Investment grade 2  (99.5)   95.2   (4.3)   23.1   (0.7)   (109.5)   108.9   (0.6)   44.0   0.7 
Non-investment grade   (24.3)   19.9   (4.4)   11.3 3   0.2   (27.7)   24.5   (3.2)   17.1 3   1.0 
Total multi-name instruments   (123.8)   115.1   (8.7)   34.4   (0.5)   (137.2)   133.4   (3.8)   61.1   1.7 
   of which non-sovereign   (123.8)   115.1   (8.7)   34.4   (0.5)   (137.2)   133.4   (3.8)   61.1   1.7 
T         otal instruments (CHF billion)              
Investment grade 2  (152.0)   143.0   (9.0)   36.1   (0.2)   (162.1)   156.8   (5.3)   55.5   1.2 
Non-investment grade   (52.8)   46.4   (6.4)   23.1   0.6   (59.8)   54.0   (5.8)   33.2   1.9 
Total instruments   (204.8)   189.4   (15.4)   59.2   0.4   (221.9)   210.8   (11.1)   88.7   3.1 
   of which sovereign   (12.5)   11.6   (0.9)   5.3   0.0   (17.2)   15.4   (1.8)   4.1   0.0 
   of which non-sovereign   (192.3)   177.8   (14.5)   53.9   0.4   (204.7)   195.4   (9.3)   84.6   3.1 
1 Represents credit protection purchased with identical underlyings and recoveries.
2 Based on internal ratings of BBB and above.
3 Includes synthetic securitized loan portfolios.
 
356 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
The following table reconciles the notional amount of credit deriv- Maturity of credit protection sold
atives included in the table “Fair value of derivative instruments” to     Maturity   Maturity   Maturity    
the table “Credit protection sold/purchased”.    less   between   greater    
   than   1 to 5   than    
end of   1 year   years   5 years   Total 
Credit derivatives
2 020 (CHF billion)              
end of   2020   2019  Single-name instruments   14.0   62.7   4.3   81.0 
Credit derivatives (CHF billion)        Multi-name instruments   29.6   82.6   11.6   123.8 
Credit protection sold   204.8   221.9  Total instruments   43.6   145.3   15.9   204.8 
Credit protection purchased   189.4   210.8 
2 019 (CHF billion)              
Other protection purchased   59.2   88.7 
Single-name instruments   19.2   60.6   4.9   84.7 
Other instruments 1  14.4   16.7 
Multi-name instruments   41.9   79.8   15.5   137.2 
Total credit derivatives   467.8   538.1 
Total instruments   61.1   140.4   20.4   221.9 
1  Consists of total return swaps and other derivative instruments.  
The segregation of the future payments by maturity range and 
underlying risk gives an indication of the current status of the 
potential for performance under the derivative contracts.
34  Guarantees and commitments
Guarantees higher of the initial fair value (generally the related fee received 
or receivable) less cumulative amortization and the Group’s cur-
In the ordinary course of business, guarantees are provided that  rent best estimate of payments that will be required under existing 
contingently obligate the Group to make payments to third parties  guarantee arrangements.
if the counterparty fails to fulfill its obligation under a borrowing or 
other contractual arrangement. The total gross amount disclosed  Guarantees provided by the Group are classified as follows: credit 
within the Guarantees table reflects the maximum potential pay- guarantees and similar instruments, performance guarantees and 
ment under the guarantees. The carrying value represents the  similar instruments, derivatives and other guarantees.
Guarantees 
   Maturity   Maturity   Maturity   Maturity             
   less   between   between   greater   Total   Total       
   than   1 to 3   3 to 5   than   gross   net   Carrying    Collateral  
end of   1 year 1   years   years   5 years 1   amount   amount 2   value   received 
2       020 (CHF million)            
Credit guarantees and similar instruments   1,645   649   203   582   3,079   3,016   27   1,637 
Performance guarantees and similar instruments   3,607   1,885   526   514   6,532   5,601   30   2,535 
Derivatives 3  10,531   3,921   698   1,423   16,573   16,573   380   – 4 
Other guarantees   3,555   996   421   1,171   6,143   6,130   85   3,725 
Total guarantees   19,338   7,451   1,848   3,690   32,327   31,320   522   7,897 
 2      019 (CHF million)            
Credit guarantees and similar instruments   1,813   252   185   864   3,114   3,061   10   1,655 
Performance guarantees and similar instruments   4,407   3,059   668   723   8,857   7,833   31   2,793 
Derivatives 3  13,194   2,665   695   690   17,244   17,244   295   – 4 
Other guarantees   3,507   1,386   367   1,243   6,503   6,457   64   4,003 
Total guarantees   22,921   7,362   1,915   3,520   35,718   34,595   400   8,451 
1 Prior period has been corrected.
2 Total net amount is computed as the gross amount less any participations.
3 Excludes derivative contracts with certain active commercial and investment banks and certain other counterparties, as such contracts can be cash settled and the Group had no basis to 
conclude it was probable that the counterparties held, at inception, the underlying instruments.
4  Collateral for derivatives accounted for as guarantees is not significant.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 357
   
 
Credit guarantees and similar instruments Further, as part of the Group’s residential mortgage securitiza-
Credit guarantees and similar instruments are contracts that  tion activities in the US, the Group may guarantee the collection 
require the Group to make payments should a third party fail to  by the servicer and remittance to the securitization trust of pre-
do so under a specified existing credit obligation. The position  payment penalties. The Group will have to perform under these 
includes standby letters of credit, commercial and residential  guarantees in the event the servicer fails to remit the prepayment 
mortgage guarantees, credit guarantees to clearing and settle- penalties.
ment networks and exchanges and other guarantees associated 
with VIEs. Derivatives
Derivatives which may also have the characteristics of a guaran-
Standby letters of credit are made in connection with the cor- tee are issued in the ordinary course of business, generally in the 
porate lending business and other corporate activities, where  form of written put options. Such derivative contracts do not meet 
the Group provides guarantees to counterparties in the form of  the characteristics of a guarantee if they are cash settled and the 
standby letters of credit, which represent obligations to make  Group has no basis to conclude it is probable that the counter-
payments to third parties if the counterparties fail to fulfill their  parties held, at inception, the underlying instruments related to 
obligations under a borrowing arrangement or other contractual  the derivative contracts. The Group has concluded that these 
obligation. conditions were met for certain active commercial and invest-
ment banks and certain other counterparties, and accordingly, the 
Commercial and residential mortgage guarantees are made in  Group has reported such contracts as derivatives only.
connection with the Group’s commercial mortgage activities in 
the US, where the Group sells certain commercial and residen- The Group manages its exposure to these derivatives by engag-
tial mortgages to Fannie Mae and agrees to bear a percentage  ing in various hedging strategies to reduce its exposure. For some 
of the losses triggered by the borrowers failing to perform on the  contracts, such as written interest rate caps or foreign exchange 
mortgage. The Group also issues guarantees that require it to  options, the maximum payout is not determinable as interest rates 
reimburse Fannie Mae for losses on certain whole loans underly- or exchange rates could theoretically rise without limit. For these 
ing mortgage-backed securities issued by Fannie Mae, which  contracts, notional amounts were disclosed in the table above 
are triggered by borrowers failing to perform on the underlying  in order to provide an indication of the underlying exposure. In 
mortgages. addition, the Group carries all derivatives at fair value in the con-
solidated balance sheets and has considered the performance 
The Group also provides guarantees to VIEs and other counter- triggers and probabilities of payment when determining those fair 
parties under which it may be required to buy assets from such  values. It is more likely than not that written put options that are 
entities upon the occurrence of certain triggering events such as  in-the-money to the counterparty will be exercised, for which the 
rating downgrades and/or substantial decreases in the fair value  Group’s exposure was limited to the carrying value reflected in the 
of those assets. table.
Performance guarantees and similar instruments Other guarantees
Performance guarantees and similar instruments are arrange- Other guarantees include bankers’ acceptances, residual value 
ments that require contingent payments to be made when certain  guarantees, deposit insurance, contingent considerations in busi-
performance-related targets or covenants are not met. Such  ness combinations, the minimum value of an investment in mutual 
covenants may include a customer’s obligation to deliver certain  funds or private equity funds and all other guarantees that were 
products and services or to perform under a construction con- not allocated to one of the categories above.
tract. Performance guarantees are frequently executed as part of 
project finance transactions. The position includes private equity  Deposit-taking banks and securities dealers in Switzerland and 
fund guarantees and guarantees related to residential mortgage  certain other European countries are required to ensure the 
securitization activities. payout of privileged deposits in case of specified restrictions or 
compulsory liquidation of a deposit-taking bank. In Switzerland, 
For private equity fund guarantees, the Group has provided inves- deposit-taking banks and securities dealers jointly guarantee 
tors in private equity funds sponsored by a Group entity guaran- an amount of up to CHF 6 billion. Upon occurrence of a payout 
tees on potential obligations of certain general partners to return  event triggered by a specified restriction of business imposed 
amounts previously paid as carried interest to those general part- by FINMA or by the compulsory liquidation of another deposit-
ners if the performance of the remaining investments declines. To  taking bank, the Group’s contribution will be calculated based 
manage its exposure, the Group generally withholds a portion of  on its share of privileged deposits in proportion to total privileged 
carried interest distributions to cover any repayment obligations.  deposits. Based on F INMA’s estimate for the Group’s banking 
In addition, pursuant to certain contractual arrangements, the  subsidiaries in Switzerland, the Group’s share in the deposit insur-
Group is obligated to make cash payments to certain investors in  ance guarantee program for the period July 1, 2020 to June 30, 
certain private equity funds if specified performance thresholds  2021 is CHF 0.5 billion. These deposit insurance guarantees 
are not met. were reflected in other guarantees.
358 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Representations and warranties on residential  in scope and duration and depend upon the type of assets or 
mortgage loans sold businesses sold. They are designed to transfer the potential risk 
of certain unquantifiable and unknowable loss contingencies, 
In connection with the Investment Bank division’s sale of US  such as litigation, tax and intellectual property matters, from the 
residential mortgage loans, the Group has provided certain  acquirer to the seller. The Group closely monitors all such con-
representations and warranties relating to the loans sold. The  tractual agreements in order to ensure that indemnification pro-
Group has provided these representations and warranties relat- visions are adequately provided for in the Group’s consolidated 
ing to sales of loans to institutional investors, primarily banks, and  financial statements.
non-agency, or private label, securitizations. The loans sold are 
primarily loans that the Group has purchased from other parties.  Other indemnifications
The scope of representations and warranties, if any, depends  The Group provides indemnifications to certain counterparties 
on the transaction, but can include: ownership of the mortgage  in connection with its normal operating activities for which it is 
loans and legal capacity to sell the loans; loan-to-value ratios and  not possible to estimate the maximum amount that it could be 
other characteristics of the property, the borrower and the loan;  obligated to pay. As a normal part of issuing its own securities, 
validity of the liens securing the loans and absence of delinquent  the Group typically agrees to reimburse holders for additional tax 
taxes or related liens; conformity to underwriting standards and  withholding charges or assessments resulting from changes in 
completeness of documentation; and origination in compliance  applicable tax laws or the interpretation of those laws. Securi-
with law. If it is determined that representations and warranties  ties that include these agreements to pay additional amounts 
were breached, the Group may be required to repurchase the  generally also include a related redemption or call provision if the 
related loans or indemnify the investors to make them whole for  obligation to pay the additional amounts results from a change in 
losses. Whether the Group will incur a loss in connection with  law or its interpretation and the obligation cannot be avoided by 
repurchases and make whole payments depends on: the extent  the issuer taking reasonable steps to avoid the payment of addi-
to which claims are made; the validity of such claims made within  tional amounts. Since such potential obligations are dependent 
the statute of limitations (including the likelihood and ability to  on future changes in tax laws, the related liabilities the Group 
enforce claims); whether the Group can successfully claim against  may incur as a result of such changes cannot be reasonably esti-
parties that sold loans to the Group and made representations  mated. In light of the related call provisions typically included, the 
and warranties to the Group; the residential real estate market,  Group does not expect any potential liabilities in respect of tax 
including the number of defaults; and whether the obligations of  gross-ups to be material.
the securitization vehicles were guaranteed or insured by third 
parties. The Group is a member of numerous securities exchanges and 
clearing houses and may, as a result of its membership arrange-
Repurchase claims on residential mortgage loans sold that are  ments, be required to perform if another member defaults and 
subject to arbitration or litigation proceedings, or become so  available amounts as defined in the relevant exchange’s or clear-
during the reporting period, are not included in this Guarantees  ing house’s default waterfalls are not sufficient to cover losses of 
and commitments disclosure but are addressed in litigation and  another member’s default. The exchange’s or clearing house’s 
related loss contingencies and provisions. The Group is involved in  default management procedures may provide for cash calls to 
litigation relating to representations and warranties on residential  non-defaulting members which may be limited to the amount (or a 
mortgages sold.  multiple of the amount) of the Group’s contribution to the guaran-
> Refer to “Note 40 – Litigation” for further information. tee fund. However, if these cash calls are not sufficient to cover 
losses, the default waterfall and default management procedures 
may foresee further loss allocation. Furthermore, some clearing 
Disposal-related contingencies and other  house arrangements require members to assume a proportion-
indemnifications ate share of non-default losses, if such losses exceed the speci-
fied resources allocated for such purpose by the clearing house. 
The Group has certain guarantees for which its maximum con- Non-default losses result from the clearing house’s investment of 
tingent liability cannot be quantified. These guarantees are not  guarantee fund contributions and initial margin or are other losses 
reflected in the “Guarantees” table and are discussed below. unrelated to the default of a clearing member. The Group has 
determined that it is not possible to reasonably estimate the maxi-
Disposal-related contingencies mum potential amount of future payments due under the mem-
In connection with the sale of assets or businesses, the Group  bership arrangements. In addition, the Group believes that any 
sometimes provides the acquirer with certain indemnification  potential requirement to make payments under these membership 
provisions. These indemnification provisions vary by counterparty  arrangements is remote.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 359
   
Other commitments Forward reverse repurchase agreements
Forward reverse repurchase agreements represent transactions in 
Irrevocable commitments under documentary credits which the initial cash exchange of the reverse repurchase trans-
Irrevocable commitments under documentary credits include  actions takes place on specified future dates. The Group enters 
exposures from trade finance related to commercial letters of  into forward reverse repurchase agreements with counterparties 
credit under which the Group guarantees payments to exporters  that may have existing funded reverse repurchase agreements. 
against presentation of shipping and other documents. Depending on the details of the counterparty contract with Credit 
Suisse, both a counterparty’s existing funded reverse repurchase 
Irrevocable loan commitments agreement and any forward reverse repurchase agreements 
Irrevocable loan commitments are irrevocable credit facilities  under contract with the same counterparty are considered.
extended to clients and include fully or partially undrawn commit-
ments that are legally binding and cannot be unconditionally can- Other commitments
celled by the Group. Commitments to originate mortgage loans  Other commitments include private equity commitments, firm 
that will be held for sale are considered derivatives for accounting  commitments in underwriting securities, commitments arising 
purposes and are not included in this disclosure. Such commit- from deferred payment letters of credit and from acceptances in 
ments are reflected as derivatives in the consolidated balance  circulation and liabilities for call and put options on shares and 
sheets. other equity instruments.
Other commitments 
   Maturity   Maturity   Maturity   Maturity          
   less   between   between   greater   Total   Total    
   than   1 to 3   3 to 5   than   gross   net   Collateral 
end of   1 year   years   years   5 years   amount   amount 1   received 
2    020 (CHF million)             
Irrevocable commitments under documentary credits   3,915   97   0   0   4,012   3,963   2,404 
Irrevocable loan commitments 2  19,813   48,855   39,605   10,749   119,022   115,116   53,039 
Forward reverse repurchase agreements   17   0   0   0   17   17   17 
Other commitments   135   1,418   9   381   1,943   1,943   19 
Total other commitments   23,880   50,370   39,614   11,130   124,994   121,039   55,479 
2    019 (CHF million)             
Irrevocable commitments under documentary credits   4,434   163   0   0   4,597   4,518   3,077 
Irrevocable loan commitments 2  27,145   38,974   48,856   10,152   125,127   120,436   60,118 
Forward reverse repurchase agreements   41   0   0   0   41   41   41 
Other commitments   630   121   121   58   930   930   127 
Total other commitments   32,250   39,258   48,977   10,210   130,695   125,925   63,363 
1 Total net amount is computed as the gross amount less any participations.
2 Irrevocable loan commitments do not include a total gross amount of CHF 130,877 million and CHF 128,294 million of unused credit limits as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respec-
tively, which were revocable at the Group’s sole discretion upon notice to the client.
 
360 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
35  Transfers of financial assets and variable interest entities
In the normal course of business, the Group enters into transac- The Group also uses SPEs for other asset-backed financings 
tions with, and makes use of, SPEs. An SPE is an entity in the  relating to client-driven activity and for Group tax or regulatory 
form of a trust or other legal structure designed to fulfill a specific  purposes. Types of structures included in this category include 
limited need of the company that organized it and is generally  managed collateralized loan obligations (CLOs), CLOs, lever-
structured to isolate the SPE’s assets from creditors of other  aged finance, repack and other types of transactions, includ-
entities, including the Group. The principal uses of SPEs are to  ing life insurance structures, emerging market structures set up 
assist the Group and its clients in securitizing financial assets  for financing, loan participation or loan origination purposes, and 
and creating investment products. The Group also uses SPEs for  other alternative structures created for the purpose of invest-
other client-driven activity, such as to facilitate financings, and for  ing in venture capital-like investments. CLOs are collateralized by 
Group tax or regulatory purposes. loans transferred to the CLO vehicle and pay a return based on 
the returns on the loans. Leveraged finance structures are used 
to assist in the syndication of certain loans held by the Group, 
Transfers of financial assets
while repack structures are designed to give a client collateralized 
exposure to specific cash flows or credit risk backed by collat-
Securitizations eral purchased from the Group. In these asset-backed financing 
structures, investors typically only have recourse to the collateral 
The majority of the Group’s securitization activities involve mort- of the SPE and do not have recourse to the Group’s assets.
gages and mortgage-related securities and are predominantly 
transacted using SPEs. In a typical securitization, the SPE pur- When the Group transfers assets into an SPE, it must assess 
chases assets financed by proceeds received from the SPE’s  whether that transfer is accounted for as a sale of the assets. 
issuance of debt and equity instruments, certificates, CP and  Transfers of assets may not meet sale requirements if the assets 
other notes of indebtedness. These assets and liabilities are  have not been legally isolated from the Group and/or if the 
recorded on the balance sheet of the SPE and not reflected on  Group’s continuing involvement is deemed to give it effective 
the Group’s consolidated balance sheet, unless either the Group  control over the assets. If the transfer is not deemed a sale, it is 
sold the assets to the entity and the accounting requirements for  instead accounted for as a secured borrowing, with the trans-
sale were not met or the Group consolidates the SPE. ferred assets as collateral.
The Group purchases commercial and residential mortgages for  Gains and losses on securitization transactions depend, in part, 
the purpose of securitization and sells these mortgage loans to  on the carrying values of mortgages and loans involved in the 
SPEs. These SPEs issue commercial mortgage-backed securi- transfer and are allocated between the assets sold and any ben-
ties (CMBS), residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS)  eficial interests retained according to the relative fair values at the 
and ABS that are collateralized by the assets transferred to the  date of sale.
SPE and that pay a return based on the returns on those assets. 
Investors in these mortgage-backed securities or ABS typically  The Group does not retain material servicing responsibilities from 
have recourse to the assets in the SPEs. Third-party guaran- securitization activities.
tees may further enhance the creditworthiness of the assets. The 
investors and the SPEs have no recourse to the Group’s assets.  The following table provides the gains or losses and proceeds 
The Group is typically an underwriter of, and makes a market in,  from the transfer of assets relating to 2020, 2019 and 2018 
these securities. securitizations of financial assets that qualify for sale account-
ing and subsequent derecognition, along with the cash flows 
The Group also transacts in re-securitizations of previously issued  between the Group and the SPEs used in any securitizations in 
RMBS securities. Typically, certificates issued out of an existing  which the Group still has continuing involvement, regardless of 
securitization vehicle are sold into a newly created and separate  when the securitization occurred.
securitization vehicle. Often, these re-securitizations are initiated 
in order to re-securitize an existing security to give the investor an 
investment with different risk ratings or characteristics.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 361
   
Securitizations Investors usually have recourse to the assets in the SPE and 
in   2020   2019   2018  often benefit from other credit enhancements, such as collat-
eral accounts, or from liquidity facilities, such as lines of credit or 
G  ains/(loss es) and cash flows (CHF million)        
liquidity put option of asset purchase agreements. The SPE may 
CMBS          
also enter into a derivative contract in order to convert the yield or 
Net gain 1  85   10   10 
currency of the underlying assets to match the needs of the SPE 
Proceeds from transfer of assets   9,209   7,757   5,861 
investors, or to limit or change the credit risk of the SPE. The 
Cash received on interests           
that continue to be held   52   162   41  Group may be the provider of certain credit enhancements as well 
RMBS           as the counterparty to any related derivative contract.
Net gain/(loss) 1  32   2   (1) 
Proceeds from transfer of assets   23,358   21,566   22,536  The following table provides the outstanding principal balance 
Purchases of previously transferred            of assets to which the Group continued to be exposed after the 
financial assets or its underlying collateral   0   (1)   0  transfer of the financial assets to any SPE and the total assets 
Servicing fees   2   2   3  of the SPE as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, regardless of 
Cash received on interests            when the transfer of assets occurred.
that continue to be held   864   312   576 
Other asset-backed financings          
Principal amounts outstanding and total assets of SPEs 
Net gain 1  105   101   77 
resulting from continuing involvement
Proceeds from transfer of assets   9,564   11,702   6,422 
Purchases of previously transferred            end of   2020   2019 
financial assets or its underlying collateral   (1,606)   (763)   (318) 
CHF million        
Fees 2  148   151   142 
CMBS       
Cash received on interests           
Principal amount outstanding   17,421   21,079 
that continue to be held   17   6   3 
Total assets of SPE   24,455   28,748 
1 Includes underwriting revenues, deferred origination fees, gains or losses on the sale of 
RMBS       
collateral to the SPE and gains or losses on the sale of newly issued securities to third 
parties, but excludes net interest income on assets prior to the securitization. The gains  Principal amount outstanding   47,324   54,001 
or losses on the sale of the collateral is the difference between the fair value on the day  Total assets of SPE   47,863   55,595 
prior to the securitization pricing date and the sale price of the loans.
Other asset-backed financings       
2 Represents management fees and performance fees earned for investment management 
  services provided to managed CLOs. Principal amount outstanding   24,968   27,982 
Total assets of SPE   50,817   54,974 
Continuing involvement in transferred financial assets Principal amount outstanding relates to assets transferred from the Group and does not 
include principal amounts for assets transferred from third parties.
The Group may have continuing involvement in the financial   
assets that are transferred to an SPE, which may take sev-
eral forms, including, but not limited to, servicing, recourse and  Fair value of beneficial interests
guarantee arrangements, agreements to purchase or redeem  The fair value measurement of the beneficial interests held at the 
transferred assets, derivative instruments, pledges of collateral  time of transfer and as of the reporting date that result from any 
and beneficial interests in the transferred assets. Beneficial inter- continuing involvement is determined using fair value estimation 
ests, which are valued at fair value, include rights to receive all or  techniques, such as the present value of estimated future cash 
portions of specified cash inflows received by an SPE, includ- flows that incorporate assumptions that market participants cus-
ing, but not limited to, senior and subordinated shares of interest,  tomarily use in these valuation techniques. The fair value of the 
principal, or other cash inflows to be “passed through” or “paid  assets or liabilities that result from any continuing involvement 
through”, premiums due to guarantors, CP obligations, and resid- does not include any benefits from financial instruments that the 
ual interests, whether in the form of debt or equity. Group may utilize to hedge the inherent risks.
The Group’s exposure resulting from continuing involvement in  Key economic assumptions at the time of transfer
transferred financial assets is generally limited to beneficial inter- > Refer to “Fair value measurement” in Note 36 – Financial instruments for fur-
ests typically held by the Group in the form of instruments issued  ther information on the fair value hierarchy.
by SPEs that are senior, subordinated or residual tranches. These 
instruments are held by the Group typically in connection with 
underwriting or market-making activities and are included in trad-
ing assets in the consolidated balance sheets. Any changes in the 
fair value of these beneficial interests are recognized in the con-
solidated statements of operations.
362 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Key economic assumptions used in measuring fair value of beneficial interests at time of transfer
     2020     2019     2018 
at time of transfer, in   CMBS   RMBS   CMBS   RMBS   CMBS   RMBS 
C             HF million, except where indicated              
Fair value of beneficial interests   342   2,692   549   3,171   662   3,613 
   of which level 2   305   2,398   455   2,978   640   3,509 
   of which level 3   37   294   94   193   22   103 
Weighted-average life, in years   6.4   3.8   5.5   5.5   6.6   7.8 
Prepayment speed assumption (rate per annum), in % 1  – 2   1.0–47.0   – 2   2.0–37.3   – 2   5.0–13.5 
Cash flow discount rate (rate per annum), in % 3  1.4–20.9   0.2–40.8   2.5–8.3   1.5–15.7   3.6–9.8   3.0–13.6 
Expected credit losses (rate per annum), in % 4  1.9–8.6   1.6–22.9   1.3–1.9   1.5–7.6   1.8–3.1   2.3–7.2 
Transfers of assets in which the Group does not have beneficial interests are not included in this table.
1 Prepayment speed assumption (PSA) is an industry standard prepayment speed metric used for projecting prepayments over the life of a residential mortgage loan. PSA utilizes the con-
stant prepayment rate (CPR) assumptions. A 100% prepayment assumption assumes a prepayment rate of 0.2% per annum of the outstanding principal balance of mortgage loans in 
the first month. This increases by 0.2 percentage points thereafter during the term of the mortgage loan, leveling off to a CPR of 6% per annum beginning in the 30th month and each 
month thereafter during the term of the mortgage loan. 100 PSA equals 6 CPR.
2 To deter prepayment, commercial mortgage loans typically have prepayment protection in the form of prepayment lockouts and yield maintenances.
3 The rate is based on the weighted-average yield on the beneficial interests.
4  The range of expected credit losses only reflects instruments with an expected credit loss greater than zero unless all of the instruments have an expected credit loss of zero.
Key economic assumptions as of the reporting date
The following table provides the sensitivity analysis of key eco-
nomic assumptions used in measuring the fair value of beneficial 
interests held in SPEs as of December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Key economic assumptions used in measuring fair value of beneficial interests held in SPEs
        2020        2019 
        Other asset-        Other asset- 
         backed         backed 
         financing         financing 
end of   CMBS 1   RMBS   activities 2   CMBS 1   RMBS   activities 2 
C             HF million, except where indicated              
Fair value of beneficial interests   296   1,851   350   399   2,282   751 
   of which non-investment grade   36   631   23   46   711   15 
Weighted-average life, in years   5.6   4.0   4.8   6.4   5.7   1.6 
Prepayment speed assumption (rate per annum), in % 3  –   4.0–50.1   –   –   3.0–35.7   – 
Impact on fair value from 10% adverse change   –   (43.7)   –   –   (38.1)   – 
Impact on fair value from 20% adverse change   –   (92.1)   –   –   (72.6)   – 
Cash flow discount rate (rate per annum), in % 4  0.6–38.2   0.3–39.7   0.7–27.7   2.2–15.2   1.5–36.2   0.7–13.1 
Impact on fair value from 10% adverse change   (4.9)   (22.4)   (4.2)   (6.8)   (38.3)   (2.1) 
Impact on fair value from 20% adverse change   (9.6)   (43.5)   (8.2)   (13.4)   (74.7)   (4.2) 
Expected credit losses (rate per annum), in % 5  0.4–14.7   0.6–39.6   0.7–26.8   0.5–8.5   1.1–34.5   0.7–12.8 
Impact on fair value from 10% adverse change   (4.3)   (20.2)   (4.5)   (4.1)   (24.1)   (2.0) 
Impact on fair value from 20% adverse change   (8.5)   (39.2)   (8.9)   (8.1)   (47.3)   (4.0) 
1 To deter prepayment, commercial mortgage loans typically have prepayment protection in the form of prepayment lockouts and yield maintenances.
2 CDOs and CLOs within this category are generally structured to be protected from prepayment risk.
3 PSA is an industry standard prepayment speed metric used for projecting prepayments over the life of a residential mortgage loan. PSA utilizes the CPR assumptions. A 100% prepay-
ment assumption assumes a prepayment rate of 0.2% per annum of the outstanding principal balance of mortgage loans in the first month. This increases by 0.2 percentage points 
thereafter during the term of the mortgage loan, leveling off to a CPR of 6% per annum beginning in the 30th month and each month thereafter during the term of the mortgage loan. 
100 PSA equals 6 CPR.
4 The rate is based on the weighted-average yield on the beneficial interests.
5 The range of expected credit losses only reflects instruments with an expected credit loss greater than zero unless all of the instruments have an expected credit loss of zero.
 
These sensitivities are hypothetical and do not reflect economic  interests is calculated without changing any other assumption. 
hedging activities. Changes in fair value based on a 10% or  In practice, changes in one assumption may result in changes in 
20% variation in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated  other assumptions (for example, increases in market interest rates 
because the relationship of the change in assumption to the  may result in lower prepayments and increased credit losses), 
change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of a varia- which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities.
tion in a particular assumption on the fair value of the beneficial 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 363
   
Transfers of financial assets where sale treatment was not  In the event of the Group’s default or a decline in fair value of col-
achieved lateral pledged, the repurchase agreement provides the counter-
The following table provides the carrying amounts of transferred  party with the right to liquidate the collateral held or request addi-
financial assets and the related liabilities where sale treatment  tional collateral. Similarly, in the event of the Group’s default, the 
was not achieved as of December 31, 2020 and 2019. securities lending transaction provides the counterparty the right 
> Refer to “Note 37 – Assets pledged and collateral” for further information. to liquidate the securities borrowed.
The following tables provide the gross obligation relating to secu-
Carrying amounts of transferred financial assets and  rities sold under repurchase agreements, securities lending trans-
liabilities where sale treatment was not achieved actions and obligation to return securities received as collateral by 
end of   2020   2019  the class of collateral pledged and by remaining contractual matu-
rity as of December 31, 2020 and 2019.
CHF million        
Other asset-backed financings       
Securities sold under repurchase agreements, securities 
Trading assets   496   279 
lending transactions and obligation to return securities 
Other assets   246   0 
received as collateral – by class of collateral pledged
Liability to SPE, included in other liabilities   (742)   (279) 
end of   2020   2019 
Securities sold under repurchase agreements  CHF billion        
and securities lending transactions accounted for  Government debt securities 1  12.1   16.4 
as secured borrowings Corporate debt securities 1  7.7   8.6 
Asset-backed securities   6.0   2.5 
Equity securities   0.0   0.7 
For securities sold under repurchase agreements and securities 
Other   1.9   0.2 
lending transactions accounted for as secured borrowings, US 
Securities sold under repurchase agreements   27.7   28.4 
GAAP requires the disclosure of the collateral pledged and the 
Government debt securities   0.4   0.1 
associated risks to which a transferor continues to be exposed 
Corporate debt securities   0.1   0.1 
after the transfer. This provides an understanding of the nature 
Equity securities   3.5   5.4 
and risks of short-term collateralized financing obtained through 
Other   0.1   0.1 
these types of transactions.
Securities lending transactions   4.1   5.7 
Government debt securities   5.8   5.3 
Securities sold under repurchase agreements and securities lend-
Corporate debt securities   5.6   1.8 
ing transactions represent collateralized financing transactions 
Asset-backed securities   0.0   0.1 
used to earn net interest income, increase liquidity or facilitate 
Equity securities   39.3   33.0 
trading activities. These transactions are collateralized principally 
Other   0.1   0.0 
by government debt securities, corporate debt securities, asset-
Obligation to return securities received        
backed securities, equity securities and other collateral and have  as collateral, at fair value   50.8   40.2 
terms ranging from on demand to a longer period of time. Total   82.6   74.3 
1 Prior period has been corrected.
 
364 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Securities sold under repurchase agreements, securities lending transactions and obligation to return securities 
received as collateral – by remaining contractual maturity
          Remaining contractual maturities    
   No stated   Up to    31 – 90   More than    
end of   maturity 1   30 days 2   days   90 days   Total 
2    020 (CHF billion)         
Securities sold under repurchase agreements   5.8   11.8   5.9   4.2   27.7 
Securities lending transactions   4.0   0.0   0.1   0.0   4.1 
Obligation to return securities received as collateral, at fair value   50.2   0.3   0.3   0.0   50.8 
Total   60.0   12.1   6.3   4.2   82.6 
2    019 (CHF billion)         
Securities sold under repurchase agreements   5.2   15.1   5.9   2.2   28.4 
Securities lending transactions   5.7   0.0   0.0   0.0   5.7 
Obligation to return securities received as collateral, at fair value   40.0   0.1   0.1   0.0   40.2 
Total   50.9   15.2   6.0   2.2   74.3 
1 Includes contracts with no contractual maturity that may contain termination arrangements subject to a notice period.
2 Includes overnight transactions.
 
> Refer to “Note 28 – Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities” for  Securitization-related transactions with VIEs involve selling or 
further information on the gross amount of securities sold under repurchase  purchasing assets as well as possibly entering into related deriva-
agreements, securities lending transactions and obligation to return securities 
tives with those VIEs, providing liquidity, credit or other support. 
received as collateral and the net amounts disclosed in the consolidated bal-
ance sheets. Other transactions with VIEs include derivative transactions in 
the Group’s capacity as the prime broker. The Group also enters 
into lending arrangements with VIEs for the purpose of financing 
Variable interest entities
projects or the acquisition of assets. Typically, the VIE’s assets 
are restricted in nature in that they are held primarily to satisfy the 
As a normal part of its business, the Group engages in various  obligations of the entity. Further, the Group is involved with VIEs 
transactions that include entities that are considered VIEs and are  which were formed for the purpose of offering alternative invest-
grouped into three primary categories: collateralized debt obliga- ment solutions to clients. Such VIEs relate primarily to private 
tions (CDOs)/CLOs, CP conduits and financial intermediation.  equity investments, fund-linked vehicles or funds of funds, where 
VIEs are SPEs that typically either lack sufficient equity to finance  the Group acts as structurer, manager, distributor, broker, market 
their activities without additional subordinated financial support  maker or liquidity provider.
or are structured such that the holders of the voting rights do not 
substantively participate in the gains and losses of the entity. VIEs  As a consequence of these activities, the Group holds vari-
may be sponsored by the Group or third parties. Such entities are  able interests in VIEs. Such variable interests consist of financial 
required to be assessed for consolidation, compelling the primary  instruments issued by VIEs and which are held by the Group, 
beneficiary to consolidate the VIE. The consolidation assess- certain derivatives with VIEs or loans to VIEs. Guarantees issued 
ment requires an entity to determine whether it has the power to  by the Group to or on behalf of VIEs may also qualify as variable 
direct the activities that most significantly affect the economics  interests. For such guarantees, including derivatives that act as 
of the VIE as well as whether the reporting entity has potentially  guarantees, the notional amount of the respective guarantees is 
significant benefits or losses in the VIE. The primary beneficiary  presented to represent the exposure. In general, investors in con-
assessment must be re-evaluated on an ongoing basis. solidated VIEs do not have recourse to the Group in the event of 
a default, except where a guarantee was provided to the investors 
Application of the requirements for consolidation of VIEs may  or where the Group is the counterparty to a derivative transaction 
require the exercise of significant judgment. In the event consoli- involving VIEs.
dation of a VIE is required, the exposure to the Group is limited to 
that portion of the VIE’s assets attributable to any variable inter- Total assets of consolidated and non-consolidated VIEs for which 
est held by the Group prior to any risk management activities to  the Group has involvement represent the total assets of the VIEs 
hedge the Group’s net exposure. Any interests held in the VIE by  even though the Group’s involvement may be significantly less 
third parties, even though consolidated by the Group, will not typi- due to interests held by third-party investors. The asset bal-
cally impact its results of operations. ances for non-consolidated VIEs where the Group has significant 
involvement represent the most current information available to 
Transactions with VIEs are generally executed to facilitate  the Group regarding the remaining principal balance of assets 
securitization activities or to meet specific client needs, such  owned. In most cases, the asset balances represent an amortized 
as providing liquidity or investing opportunities, and, as part  cost basis without regards to impairments in fair value, unless fair 
of these activities, the Group may hold interests in the VIEs.  value information is readily available.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 365
   
The Group’s maximum exposure to loss is different from the car- and does not consolidate the entity. The Group’s maximum expo-
rying value of the assets of the VIE. This maximum exposure to  sure to loss does not include any effects from financial instru-
loss consists of the carrying value of the Group variable interests  ments used to economically hedge the risks of the VIEs.
held as trading assets, derivatives and loans, the notional amount 
of guarantees and off-balance sheet commitments to VIEs, rather  Commercial paper conduit
than the amount of total assets of the VIEs. The maximum expo-
sure to loss does not reflect the Group’s risk management activi- The Group acts as the administrator and provider of liquidity and 
ties, including effects from financial instruments that the Group  credit enhancement facilities for Alpine Securitization Ltd (Alpine), 
may utilize to economically hedge the risks inherent in these VIEs.  a multi-seller asset-backed CP conduit used for client and Group 
The economic risks associated with VIE exposures held by the  financing purposes. Alpine discloses to CP investors certain port-
Group, together with all relevant risk mitigation initiatives, are  folio and asset data and submits its portfolio to rating agencies 
included in the Group’s risk management framework. for public ratings on its CP. This CP conduit purchases assets 
such as loans and receivables or enters into reverse repurchase 
The Group has not provided financial or other support to con- agreements and finances such activities through the issuance of 
solidated or non-consolidated VIEs that it was not contractually  CP backed by these assets. In addition to CP, Alpine may also 
required to provide. issue term notes with maturities up to 30 months. The Group 
(including Alpine) can enter into liquidity facilities with third-party 
Collateralized debt and loan obligations entities pursuant to which it may be required to purchase assets 
from these entities to provide them with liquidity and credit sup-
The Group engages in CDO/CLO transactions to meet client and  port. The financing transactions are structured to provide credit 
investor needs, earn fees and sell financial assets and, for CLOs,  support in the form of over-collateralization and other asset-spe-
loans. The Group may act as underwriter, placement agent or  cific enhancements. Alpine is a separate legal entity that is wholly 
asset manager and may warehouse assets prior to the closing  owned by the Group. However, its assets are available to satisfy 
of a transaction. As part of its structured finance business, the  only the claims of its creditors. In addition, the Group, as adminis-
Group purchases loans and other debt obligations from and on  trator and liquidity facility provider, has significant exposure to and 
behalf of clients for the purpose of securitization. The loans and  power over the activities of Alpine. Alpine is considered a VIE for 
other debt obligations are sold to VIEs, which in turn issue CDO/ accounting purposes and the Group is deemed the primary ben-
CLOs to fund the purchase of assets such as investment grade  eficiary and consolidates this entity.
and high yield corporate debt instruments.
The overall average maturity of Alpine’s outstanding CP was 
Typically, the collateral manager in a managed CDO/CLO is  approximately 209 days as of December 31, 2020. Alpine’s CP 
deemed to be the entity that has the power to direct the activi- was rated A-1(sf) by Standard & Poor’s and P-1(sf) by Moody’s 
ties that most affect the economics of the entity. In a static CDO/ and had exposures mainly in reverse repurchase agreements with 
CLO this “power” role is more difficult to analyze and may be the  a Group entity, solar loans and leases, consumer loans, aircraft 
sponsor of the entity or the CDS counterparty. loans and leases and car loans and leases.
CDO/CLOs provide credit risk exposure to a portfolio of ABS or  The Group’s financial commitment to this CP conduit consists of 
loans (cash CDO/CLOs) or a reference portfolio of securities or  obligations under liquidity agreements. The liquidity agreements 
loans (synthetic CDO/CLOs). Cash CDO/CLO transactions hold  are asset-specific arrangements, which require the Group to pro-
actual securities or loans whereas synthetic CDO/CLO transac- vide short-term financing to the CP conduit or to purchase assets 
tions use CDS to exchange the underlying credit risk instead of  from the CP conduit in certain circumstances, including, but not 
using cash assets. The Group may also act as a derivative coun- limited to, a lack of liquidity in the CP market such that the CP 
terparty to the VIEs, which are typically not variable interests, and  conduit cannot refinance its obligations or a default of an underly-
may invest in portions of the notes or equity issued by the VIEs.  ing asset. The asset-specific credit enhancements provided by 
The CDO/CLO entities may have actively managed portfolios or  the client seller of the assets remain unchanged as a result of 
static portfolios. such a purchase. In entering into such agreements, the Group 
reviews the credit risk associated with these transactions on the 
The securities issued by these VIEs are payable solely from the  same basis that would apply to other extensions of credit.
cash flows of the related collateral, and third-party creditors of 
these VIEs do not have recourse to the Group in the event of  The Group enters into liquidity facilities with CP conduits admin-
default. istrated and sponsored by third parties. These third-party CP 
conduits are considered to be VIEs for accounting purposes. The 
The Group’s exposure in CDO/CLO transactions is typically lim- Group is not the primary beneficiary and does not consolidate 
ited to interests retained in connection with its underwriting or  these third-party CP conduits. The Group’s financial commitment 
market-making activities. Unless the Group has been deemed to  to these third-party CP conduits consists of obligations under 
have “power” over the entity and these interests are potentially  liquidity agreements. The liquidity agreements are asset-specific 
significant, the Group is not the primary beneficiary of the vehicle  arrangements, which require the Group to provide short-term 
366 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
financing to the third-party CP conduits or to purchase assets  economic interest that has the potential to absorb a significant 
from these CP conduits in certain circumstances, including, but  portion of the gains and/or losses, it will be deemed the primary 
not limited to, a lack of liquidity in the CP market such that the  beneficiary and consolidate the vehicle. If the Group determines 
CP conduits cannot refinance their obligations or a default of an  that it controls the relevant servicing, it then determines if it 
underlying asset. The asset-specific credit enhancements, if any,  has the obligation to absorb losses from, or the right to receive 
provided by the client seller of the assets remain unchanged as a  benefits of, the securitization vehicle that could potentially be 
result of such a purchase. In entering into such agreements, the  significant to the vehicle, primarily by evaluating the amount and 
Group reviews the credit risk associated with these transactions  nature of securities issued by the vehicle that it holds. Factors 
on the same basis that would apply to other extensions of credit.  considered in this analysis include the level of subordination of the 
In some situations, the Group can enter into liquidity facilities with  securities held as well as the size of the position, based on the 
these third-party CP conduits through Alpine. percentage of the class of securities and the total deal classes 
of securities issued. The more subordinated the level of securi-
The Group’s economic risks associated with the Alpine CP con- ties held, the more likely it is that the Group will be the primary 
duit and the third-party CP conduits are included in the Group’s  beneficiary. This consolidation analysis is performed each report-
risk management framework including counterparty, economic  ing period based on changes in inventory and the levels of assets 
risk capital and scenario analysis. remaining in the securitization. The Group typically consolidates 
securitization vehicles when it is the servicer and has holdings 
Financial intermediation stemming from its role as underwriter. Short-term market making 
holdings in vehicles are not typically considered to be potentially 
The Group has significant involvement with VIEs in its role as a  significant for the purposes of this assessment.
financial intermediary on behalf of clients.
In the case of re-securitizations of previously issued RMBS secu-
The Group considers the likelihood of incurring a loss equal to  rities, the re-securitization vehicles are passive in nature and do 
the maximum exposure to be remote because of the Group’s risk  not have any significant ongoing activities that require manage-
mitigation efforts, including, but not limited to, economic hedging  ment, and decisions relating to the design of the securitization 
strategies and collateral arrangements. The Group’s economic  transaction at its inception are the key power relating to the vehi-
risks associated with consolidated and non-consolidated VIE  cle. Activities at inception include selecting the assets and deter-
exposures arising from financial intermediation, together with all  mining the capital structure. The power over a re-securitization 
relevant risk mitigation initiatives, are included in the Group’s risk  vehicle is typically shared between the Group and the investor(s) 
management framework. involved in the design and creation of the vehicle. The Group 
concludes that it is the primary beneficiary of a re-securitization 
Financial intermediation consists of securitizations, funds, loans,  vehicle when it owns substantially all of the bonds issued from the 
and other vehicles.  vehicle.
Securitizations Funds
Securitizations are primarily CMBS, RMBS and ABS vehicles.  Funds include investment structures such as mutual funds, funds 
The Group acts as an underwriter, market maker, liquidity pro- of funds, private equity funds and fund-linked products where 
vider, derivative counterparty and/or provider of credit enhance- the investors’ interest is typically in the form of debt rather than 
ments to VIEs related to certain securitization transactions.  equity, thereby making them VIEs. The Group may have various 
relationships with such VIEs in the form of structurer, investment 
The maximum exposure to loss is the carrying value of the loan  advisor, investment manager, administrator, custodian, under-
securities and derivative positions that are variable interests, if  writer, placement agent, market maker and/or as prime broker. 
any, plus the exposure arising from any credit enhancements the  These activities include the use of VIEs in structuring fund-linked 
Group provided. The Group’s maximum exposure to loss does not  products, hedge funds of funds or private equity investments to 
include any effects from financial instruments used to economi- provide clients with investment opportunities in alternative invest-
cally hedge the risks of the VIEs. ments. In such transactions, a VIE holds underlying investments 
and issues securities that provide the investors with a return 
The activities that have the most significant impact on the securi- based on the performance of those investments.
tization vehicle are the decisions relating to defaulted loans, which 
are controlled by the servicer. The party that controls the servic- The maximum exposure to loss consists of the fair value of instru-
ing has the ability to make decisions that significantly affect the  ments issued by such structures that are held by the Group as 
result of the activities of the securitization vehicle. If a securitiza- a result of underwriting or market-making activities, financing 
tion vehicle has multiple parties that control servicing over specific  provided to the vehicles and the Group’s exposure resulting from 
assets, the Group determines it has power when it has control  principal protection and redemptions features. The investors typi-
over the servicing of greater than 50% of the assets in the secu- cally retain the risk of loss on such transactions, but for certain 
ritization vehicle. When a servicer or its related party also has an  fund types, the Group may provide principal protection on the 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 367
   
securities to limit the investors’ exposure to downside market risk.  The third-party sponsor of the VIE will typically have control over 
The Group’s maximum exposure to loss does not include any  the assets during the life of the structure and have the potential 
effects from financial instruments used to economically hedge the  to absorb significant gains and losses; the Group is typically not 
risk of the VIEs. the primary beneficiary of these structures and will not have to 
consolidate them. However, a change in the structure, such as 
Another model is used to assess funds for consolidation under  a default of the sponsor, may result in the Group gaining control 
US GAAP. Rather than the consolidation model which incor- over the assets. If the Group’s lending is significant, it may then 
porates power and the potential to absorb significant risk and  be required to consolidate the entity.
rewards, a previous consolidation model is used which results in 
the Group being the primary beneficiary and consolidating the  Other
funds if it holds more than 50% of their outstanding issuances. Other includes additional vehicles where the Group provides 
financing and trust preferred issuance vehicles. Trust preferred 
Loans issuance vehicles are utilized to assist the Group in raising cap-
The Group provides loans to financing vehicles owned or spon- ital-efficient financing. The VIE issues preference shares which 
sored by clients or third-parties. These tailored lending arrange- are guaranteed by the Group and uses the proceeds to purchase 
ments are established to purchase, lease or otherwise finance  the debt of the Group. The Group’s guarantee of its own debt 
and manage clients’ assets and include financing of specified cli- is not considered a variable interest and, as it has no holdings 
ent assets, of an individual single-asset used by the client or busi- in these vehicles, the Group has no maximum exposure to loss. 
ness ventures. The respective owner of the assets or manager of  Non-consolidated VIEs include only the total assets of trust pre-
the businesses provides the equity in the vehicle. ferred issuance vehicles, as the Group has no variable interests 
with these entities.
The maximum exposure to loss is the carrying value of the 
Group’s loan exposure, which is subject to the same credit risk  Consolidated VIEs
management procedures as loans issued directly to clients. The 
clients’ creditworthiness is carefully reviewed, loan-to-value ratios  The Group has significant involvement with VIEs in its role as a 
are strictly set and, in addition, clients provide equity, additional  financial intermediary on behalf of clients. The Group consolidates 
collateral or guarantees, all of which significantly reduce the  all VIEs related to financial intermediation for which it is the pri-
Group’s exposure. The Group considers the likelihood of incurring  mary beneficiary.
a loss equal to the maximum exposure to be remote because of 
the Group’s risk mitigation efforts, which includes over-collateral- The consolidated VIEs table provides the carrying amounts and 
ization and effective monitoring to ensure that a sufficient loan-to- classifications of the assets and liabilities of consolidated VIEs as 
value ratio is maintained. of December 31, 2020 and 2019.
368 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Consolidated VIEs in which the Group was the primary beneficiary
               Financial intermediation    
   CDO/   CP   Securi-             
end of   CLO   Conduit   tizations   Funds   Loans   Other   Total 
2      020 (CHF million)           
Cash and due from banks   0   0   23   22   37   8   90 
Trading assets   0   0   1,255   50   840   19   2,164 
Other investments   0   0   0   129   920   202   1,251 
Net loans   0   653   0   51   29   167   900 
Other assets   0   21   979   15   82   779   1,876 
   of which loans held-for-sale   0   0   462   10   0   0   472 
   of which premises and equipment   0   0   0   0   30   4   34 
Total assets of consolidated VIEs   0   674   2,257   267   1,908   1,175   6,281 
Customer deposits   0   0   0   0   0   1   1 
Trading liabilities   0   0   0   0   10   0   10 
Short-term borrowings   0   4,178   0   0   0   0   4,178 
Long-term debt   0   0   1,701   0   10   35   1,746 
Other liabilities   0   53   1   3   73   78   208 
Total liabilities of consolidated VIEs   0   4,231   1,702   3   93   114   6,143 
2      019 (CHF million)           
Cash and due from banks   6   1   71   11   39   10   138 
Trading assets   75   0   1,554   82   1,063   14   2,788 
Other investments   0   0   0   113   1,052   247   1,412 
Net loans   0   325   53   1   29   241   649 
Other assets   1   21   638   4   87   943   1,694 
   of which loans held-for-sale   0   0   93   0   0   0   93 
   of which premises and equipment   0   0   0   0   36   8   44 
Total assets of consolidated VIEs   82   347   2,316   211   2,270   1,455   6,681 
Trading liabilities   0   0   0   0   8   0   8 
Short-term borrowings   0   4,885   0   0   0   0   4,885 
Long-term debt   7   0   1,614   1   13   36   1,671 
Other liabilities   0   54   1   4   92   146   297 
Total liabilities of consolidated VIEs   7   4,939   1,615   5   113   182   6,861 
 
Non-consolidated VIEs consideration the effect of collateral, recoveries or the probability 
of loss. In addition, they exclude the effect of offsetting financial 
The non-consolidated VIEs table provides the carrying amounts  instruments that are held to mitigate these risks and have not 
and classification of the assets of variable interests recorded in  been reduced by unrealized losses previously recorded by the 
the Group’s consolidated balance sheets, maximum exposure to  Group in connection with guarantees, off-balance sheet commit-
loss and total assets of the non-consolidated VIEs. ments or derivatives.
Total variable interest assets for which the company has involve- Total assets of non-consolidated VIEs are the assets of the non-
ment represent the carrying value of the variable interests in non- consolidated VIEs themselves and are typically unrelated to the 
consolidated VIEs that are recorded in the consolidated balance  exposures the Group has with these entities due to variable inter-
sheet of the Group (for example, direct holdings in investment  ests held by third-party investors. Accordingly, these amounts are 
funds, loans and other receivables).  not considered for risk management purposes.
Maximum exposure to loss represents the carrying value of  Certain VIEs have not been included in the following table, includ-
total variable interest assets in non-consolidated VIEs of the  ing VIEs structured by third parties in which the Group’s interest 
Group and the notional amounts of guarantees and off-balance  is in the form of securities held in the Group’s inventory, cer-
sheet commitments which are variable interests that have been  tain repurchase financings to funds and single-asset financing 
extended to non-consolidated VIEs. Such amounts, particu- vehicles not sponsored by the Group to which the Group provides 
larly notional amounts of derivatives, guarantees and off-balance  financing but has very little risk of loss due to over-collateralization 
sheet commitments, do not represent the anticipated losses  and/or guarantees, failed sales where the Group does not have 
in connection with these transactions as they do not take into  any other holdings and other entities out of scope.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 369
   
Non-consolidated VIEs
               Financial intermediation    
   CDO/   CP   Securi-             
end of   CLO   Conduit 1   tizations   Funds   Loans   Other   Total 
2      020 (CHF million)           
Trading assets   250   0   4,500   1,113   66   8,617   14,546 
Net loans   357   371   734   1,967   6,989   939   11,357 
Other assets   2   0   3   119   0   344   468 
Total variable interest assets   609   371   5,237   3,199   7,055   9,900   26,371 
Maximum exposure to loss   852   5,538   7,329   3,199   11,235   10,226   38,379 
Total assets of non-consolidated VIEs   8,553   11,148   127,785   89,686   26,186   33,140   296,498 
2      019 (CHF million)           
Trading assets   230   0   4,897   962   109   4,311   10,509 
Net loans   456   325   904   1,945   7,930   709   12,269 
Other assets   3   0   26   518   0   380   927 
Total variable interest assets   689   325   5,827   3,425   8,039   5,400   23,705 
Maximum exposure to loss   785   6,484   7,664   3,430   12,239   5,937   36,539 
Total assets of non-consolidated VIEs   8,057   13,488   141,608   128,984   25,590   35,998   353,725 
1 Includes liquidity facilities provided to third-party CP conduits through Alpine Securities Ltd. Prior period has been adjusted to conform to the current presentation.
 
36  Financial instruments
The disclosure of the Group’s financial instruments below includes  Chief Credit Officer is responsible for monitoring the portfolio and 
the following sections: assessing compliance with the framework and the portfolio lim-
p  Concentration of credit risk; its and controls in place. Credit risk concentrations are identified 
p  Fair value measurement (including fair value hierarchy, trans- and measured using a range of quantitative tools and metrics and 
fers between levels; level 3 reconciliation; qualitative and quan- are reported to the Credit Risk Appetite Committee on a monthly 
titative disclosures of valuation techniques); basis. The Group Credit Portfolio Management function performs 
p  Fair value option; and portfolio reviews and detailed analyses of selected segments 
p  Disclosures about fair value of financial instruments not carried  of the portfolio which are presented to the Credit Risk Appetite 
at fair value. Committee and to other governance forums including the Position 
& Client Risk cycle of Capital Allocation and Risk Management 
Committee and the Risk Committee where appropriate.
Concentrations of credit risk
From an industry point of view, the combined credit exposure 
Credit risk concentrations arise when a number of counterparties  of the Group is diversified. A substantial portion of the credit 
are engaged in similar business activities, are located in the same  exposure is with individual clients, particularly through residen-
geographic region or when there are similar economic features  tial mortgages in Switzerland, corporate credit exposures and 
that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be  lombard lending arrangements, or relates to derivative and other 
similarly impacted by changes in economic conditions. financial transactions with financial institutions. In both cases, 
the customer base is extensive and the number and variety of 
The Group has in place a credit risk appetite framework which  transactions are broad. For transactions with financial institutions 
provides for the oversight and control of concentrations of credit  and corporations, the business is also geographically diverse, 
exposures by single name, product, industry, and country. The  with operations focused in the Americas, Europe and, to a lesser 
Group Credit Portfolio Management function under the Global  extent, Asia Pacific.
370 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
Fair value measurement
US GAAP permits a reporting entity to measure the fair value of 
a group of financial assets and financial liabilities on the basis of 
A significant portion of the Group’s financial instruments is carried  the price that would be received to sell a net long position or paid 
at fair value. Deterioration of financial markets could significantly  to transfer a net short position for a particular risk exposure in an 
impact the fair value of these financial instruments and the results  orderly transaction between market participants at the measure-
of operations. ment date. As such, the Group continues to apply bid and offer 
adjustments to net portfolios of cash securities and/or derivative 
The fair value of the majority of the Group’s financial instruments  instruments to adjust the value of the net position from a mid-
is based on quoted prices in active markets or observable inputs.  market price to the appropriate bid or offer level that would be 
These instruments include government and agency securities,  realized under normal market conditions for the net long or net 
certain short-term borrowings, most investment grade corporate  short position for a specific market risk. In addition, the Group 
debt, certain high yield debt securities, exchange-traded and cer- reflects the net exposure to credit risk for its derivative instru-
tain OTC derivatives and most listed equity securities. ments where the Group has legally enforceable agreements with 
its counterparties that mitigate credit risk exposure in the event of 
In addition, the Group holds financial instruments for which no  default.
prices are available and which have few or no observable inputs. 
For these instruments, the determination of fair value requires  Valuation adjustments are recorded in a reasonable and consis-
subjective assessment and judgment, depending on liquidity,  tent manner that results in an allocation to the relevant disclosures 
pricing assumptions, the current economic and competitive envi- in the notes to the financial statements as if the valuation adjust-
ronment and the risks affecting the specific instrument. In such  ment had been allocated to the individual unit of account.
circumstances, valuation is determined based on management’s 
own judgments about the assumptions that market participants  Fair value hierarchy
would use in pricing the asset or liability, including assumptions 
about risk. These instruments include certain OTC derivatives,  The levels of the fair value hierarchy are defined as follows:
including interest rate, foreign exchange, equity and credit deriva- p Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for 
tives, certain corporate equity-linked securities, mortgage-related  identical assets or liabilities that the Group has the ability to 
securities, private equity investments and certain loans and credit  access. This level of the fair value hierarchy provides the most 
products, including leveraged finance, certain syndicated loans  reliable evidence of fair value and is used to measure fair value 
and certain high yield bonds, and life finance instruments. The fair  whenever available.
value measurement disclosures exclude derivative transactions  p Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 
that are daily settled. that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or 
indirectly. These inputs include: (i) quoted prices for similar 
The fair value of financial instruments is impacted by factors  assets or liabilities in active markets; (ii) quoted prices for iden-
such as benchmark interest rates, prices of financial instruments  tical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, 
issued by third parties, commodity prices, foreign exchange rates  that is, markets in which there are few transactions for the 
and index prices or rates. In addition, valuation adjustments are  asset or liability, the prices are not current or price quotations 
an integral part of the valuation process when market prices  vary substantially either over time or among market makers, or 
are not indicative of the credit quality of a counterparty, and are  in which little information is publicly available; (iii) inputs other 
applied to both OTC derivatives and debt instruments. The impact  than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability; 
of changes in a counterparty’s credit spreads (known as credit  or (iv) inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated 
valuation adjustments) is considered when measuring the fair  by observable market data by correlation or other means.
value of assets, and the impact of changes in the Group’s own  p Level 3: Inputs that are unobservable for the asset or liabil-
credit spreads (known as debit valuation adjustments) is con- ity. These inputs reflect the Group’s own assumptions about 
sidered when measuring the fair value of its liabilities. For OTC  the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing 
derivatives, the impact of changes in both the Group’s and the  the asset or liability (including assumptions about risk). These 
counterparty’s credit standing is considered when measuring  inputs are developed based on the best information available 
their fair value, based on current CDS prices. The adjustments  in the circumstances, which include the Group’s own data. 
also take into account contractual factors designed to reduce  The Group’s own data used to develop unobservable inputs is 
the Group’s credit exposure to a counterparty, such as collateral  adjusted if information indicates that market participants would 
held and master netting agreements. For hybrid debt instruments  use different assumptions.
with embedded derivative features, the impact of changes in the 
Group’s credit standing is considered when measuring their fair  The Group records net open positions at bid prices if long, or at 
value, based on current funded debt spreads. ask prices if short, unless the Group is a market maker in such 
positions, in which case mid-pricing is utilized. Fair value mea-
surements are not adjusted for transaction costs.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 371
   
Qualitative disclosures of valuation techniques including confirming that the data corresponds to executed trans-
actions or executable broker quotes, review and assessment of 
Overview contributors to ensure they are active market participants, review 
The Group has implemented and maintains a valuation control  of statistical data and utilization of pricing challenges. The analy-
framework, which is supported by policies and procedures that  sis also includes understanding the sources of the pricing service 
define the principles for controlling the valuation of the Group’s  data and any models or assumptions used in determining the 
financial instruments. Control functions such as Product Control  results. The purpose of the review is to judge the quality and reli-
and Risk Management review and approve significant valua- ability of the data for fair value measurement purposes and its 
tion policies and procedures. The framework includes three main  appropriate level of usage within the Product Control independent 
internal processes: (i) valuation governance; (ii) independent price  valuation review.
verification and significant unobservable inputs review; and (iii) a 
cross-functional pricing model review. Through this framework,  For certain financial instruments the fair value is estimated in full 
the Group determines the reasonableness of the fair value of its  or in part using valuation techniques based on assumptions that 
financial instruments. are not supported by market observable prices, rates or other 
inputs. In addition, there may be uncertainty about a valuation 
On a monthly basis, meetings are held for each business line with  resulting from the choice of valuation technique or model used, 
senior representatives of the Front Office and Product Control to  the assumptions embedded in those models, the extent to which 
discuss independent price verification results, valuation adjust- inputs are not market observable, or as a consequence of other 
ments, and other significant valuation issues. On a quarterly  elements affecting the valuation technique or model. Model cali-
basis, a review of significant changes in the fair value of financial  bration is performed when significant new market information 
instruments is undertaken by Product Control and conclusions  becomes available or at a minimum on a quarterly basis as part of 
are reached regarding the reasonableness of those changes.  the business review of significant unobservable inputs for level 3 
Additionally, on a quarterly basis, meetings are held for each  instruments. For models that have been deemed to be significant 
business line with senior representatives of the Front Office and  to the overall fair value of the financial instrument, model valida-
control functions such as Product Control and Risk Management  tion is performed as part of the periodic review of the related 
to discuss independent price verification results, valuation issues,  model. 
business and market updates, as well as a review of significant 
changes in fair value from the prior quarter, significant unobserv- The following information on the valuation techniques and signifi-
able inputs and prices used in valuation techniques, and valuation  cant unobservable inputs of the various financial instruments and 
adjustments. the section “Uncertainty of fair value measurements at the report-
ing date from the use of significant unobservable inputs” should 
The valuation results are aggregated for reporting to the Valuation  be read in conjunction with the tables “Assets and liabilities mea-
Risk Management Committee (VARMC) and the Audit Commit- sured at fair value on a recurring basis”, “Quantitative information 
tee. The VARMC, which is comprised of Executive Board mem- about level 3 assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis” 
bers and the heads of the business and control functions, meets  and “Quantitative information about level 3 liabilities measured at 
to review and ratify valuation review conclusions, and to resolve  fair value on a recurring basis”.
significant valuation issues for the Group. Oversight of the valu-
ation control framework is through specific and regular reporting  Central bank funds sold, securities purchased under 
on valuation directly to the Group’s Executive Board through the  resale agreements and securities borrowing transactions
VARMC. Securities purchased under resale agreements and securities 
sold under repurchase agreements are measured at fair value 
One of the key components of the governance process is the  using discounted cash flow analysis. Future cash flows are dis-
segregation of duties between the Front Office and Product Con- counted using observable market interest rate repurchase/resale 
trol. The Front Office is responsible for measuring inventory at  curves for the applicable maturity and underlying collateral of the 
fair value on a daily basis, while Product Control is responsible for  instruments. As such, the significant majority of both securities 
independently reviewing and validating those valuations on a peri- purchased under resale agreements and securities sold under 
odic basis. The Front Office values the inventory using, wherever  repurchase agreements are included in level 2 of the fair value 
possible, observable market data which may include executed  hierarchy. Structured resale and repurchase agreements include 
transactions, dealer quotes or broker quotes for the same or  embedded derivatives, which are measured using the same tech-
similar instruments. Product Control validates this inventory using  niques as described below for stand-alone derivative contracts 
independently sourced data that also includes executed transac- held for trading purposes or used in hedge accounting relation-
tions, dealer quotes, and broker quotes. ships. If the value of the embedded derivative is determined using 
significant unobservable inputs, those structured resale and 
In general, Product Control utilizes independent pricing service  repurchase agreements included are classified as level 3 in the 
data as part of its review process. Independent pricing service  fair value hierarchy. The significant unobservable input is funding 
data is analyzed to ensure that it is representative of fair value,  spread.
372 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Securities purchased under resale agreements are usually fully  cash flow. The discounted cash flow price is then compared to 
collateralized or over-collateralized by government securities,  the unobservable prices and assessed for reasonableness.
money market instruments, corporate bonds, or other debt instru-
ments. In the event of counterparty default, the collateral service  For most structured debt securities, determination of fair value 
agreement provides the Group with the right to liquidate the col- requires subjective assessment depending on liquidity, owner-
lateral held. ship concentration, and the current economic and competitive 
environment. Valuation is determined based on the Front Office’s 
Debt securities own assumptions about how market participants would price the 
Foreign governments asset. Collateralized bond and loan obligations are split into vari-
Foreign government debt securities typically have quoted prices in  ous structured tranches and each tranche is valued based upon 
active markets and are mainly categorized as level 1 instruments.  its individual rating and the underlying collateral supporting the 
Valuations of foreign government debt securities for which mar- structure. Valuation models are used to value both cash and syn-
ket prices are not available are based on yields reflecting credit  thetic CDOs.
rating, historical performance, delinquencies, loss severity, the 
maturity of the security, recent transactions in the market or other  Equity securities
modeling techniques, which may involve judgment. Those securi- The majority of the Group’s positions in equity securities are 
ties where the price or model inputs are observable in the market  traded on public stock exchanges for which quoted prices are 
are categorized as level 2 instruments, while those securities  readily and regularly available and are therefore categorized as 
where prices are not observable and significant model inputs are  level 1 instruments. Level 2 and level 3 equities include fund-
unobservable are categorized as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. linked products, convertible bonds or equity securities with 
restrictions that are not traded in active markets. Significant 
Corporates unobservable inputs may include earnings before interest, taxes, 
Corporate bonds are priced to reflect current market levels either  depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) multiple and market com-
through recent market transactions or broker or dealer quotes.  parable price.
Where a market price for the particular security is not directly 
available, valuations are obtained based on yields reflected by  Derivatives
other instruments in the specific or similar entity’s capital struc- Derivatives held for trading purposes or used in hedge account-
ture and adjusting for differences in seniority and maturity, bench- ing relationships include both OTC and exchange-traded deriva-
marking to a comparable security where market data is available  tives. The fair values of exchange-traded derivatives measured 
(taking into consideration differences in credit, liquidity and matu- using observable exchange prices are included in level 1 of the 
rity), or through the application of cash flow modeling techniques  fair value hierarchy. For exchange-traded derivatives where the 
utilizing observable inputs, such as current interest rate curves  volume of trading is low, the observable exchange prices may not 
and observable CDS spreads. Significant unobservable inputs  be considered executable at the reporting date. These derivatives 
may include correlation and price. For securities using market  are valued in the same manner as similar observable OTC deriva-
comparable price, the differentiation between level 2 and level 3  tives and are included in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. If the 
is based upon the relative significance of any yield adjustments as  similar OTC derivative used for valuing the exchange-traded deriv-
well as the accuracy of the comparison characteristics (i.e., the  ative is not observable, the exchange-traded derivative is included 
observable comparable security may be in the same country but  in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
a different industry and may have a different seniority level – the 
lower the comparability the more likely the security will be level 3). The fair values of OTC derivatives are determined on the basis of 
either industry standard models or internally developed proprietary 
RMBS, CMBS and CDO securities models. Both model types use various observable and unobserv-
Fair values of RMBS, CMBS and CDO may be available through  able inputs in order to determine fair value. The inputs include 
quoted prices, which are often based on the prices at which  those characteristics of the derivative that have a bearing on the 
similarly structured and collateralized securities trade between  economics of the instrument. The determination of the fair value 
dealers and to and from customers. Fair values of RMBS, CMBS  of many derivatives involves only a limited degree of subjectivity 
and CDO for which there are significant unobservable inputs are  because the required inputs are observable in the marketplace, 
valued using capitalization rate and discount rate. Price may not  while more complex derivatives may use unobservable inputs that 
be observable for fair value measurement purposes for many  rely on specific proprietary modeling assumptions. Where observ-
reasons, such as the length of time since the last executed  able inputs (prices from exchanges, dealers, brokers or market 
transaction for the related security, use of a price from a similar  consensus data providers) are not available, attempts are made 
instrument, or use of a price from an indicative quote. Fair values  to infer values from observable prices through model calibration 
determined by market comparable price may include discounted  (spot and forward rates, mean reversion, benchmark interest rate 
cash flow models using the inputs credit spread, default rate, dis- curves and volatility inputs for commonly traded option products). 
count rate, prepayment rate and loss severity. Prices from similar  For inputs that cannot be derived from other sources, estimates 
observable instruments are used to calculate implied inputs which  from historical data may be made. OTC derivatives where the 
are then used to value unobservable instruments using discounted  majority of the value is derived from market observable inputs are 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 373
   
categorized as level 2 instruments, while those where the majority  estimate of market implied life expectancy, while for RMBS loans 
of the value is derived from unobservable inputs are categorized  it is market comparable price.
as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
For life settlement and premium finance instruments, individual 
The valuation of derivatives includes an adjustment for the cost of  life expectancy rates are typically obtained by multiplying a base 
funding uncollateralized OTC derivatives. mortality curve for the general insured population provided by a 
professional actuarial organization together with an individual-spe-
Interest rate derivatives cific multiplier. Individual-specific multipliers are determined based 
OTC vanilla interest rate products, such as interest rate swaps,  on data from third-party life expectancy data providers, which 
swaptions and caps and floors are valued by discounting the  examine the insured individual’s medical conditions, family history 
anticipated future cash flows. The future cash flows and discount- and other factors to arrive at a life expectancy estimate.
ing are derived from market standard yield curves and industry 
standard volatility inputs. Where applicable, exchange-traded  For RMBS loans, the use of market comparable price varies 
prices are also used to value exchange-traded futures and options  depending upon each specific loan. For some loans, similar to 
and can be used in yield curve construction. For more complex  unobservable RMBS securities, prices from similar observable 
products, inputs include, but are not limited to basis spread, cor- instruments are used to calculate implied inputs which are then 
relation, credit spread, prepayment rate and volatility skew. used to value unobservable instruments using discounted cash 
flow. The discounted cash flow price is then compared to the 
Foreign exchange derivatives unobservable prices and assessed for reasonableness. For other 
Foreign exchange derivatives include vanilla products such as  RMBS loans, the loans are categorized by specific characteris-
spot, forward and option contracts where the anticipated dis- tics, such as loan-to-value ratio, average account balance, loan 
counted future cash flows are determined from foreign exchange  type (single or multi-family), lien, seasoning, coupon, FICO score, 
forward curves and industry standard optionality modeling tech- locality, delinquency status, cash flow velocity, roll rates, loan pur-
niques. Where applicable, exchange-traded prices are also used  pose, occupancy, servicers advance agreement type, modification 
for futures and option prices. For more complex products inputs  status, Federal Housing Administration insurance, property value 
include, but are not limited to, contingent probability, correlation  and documentation quality. Loans with unobservable prices are 
and prepayment rate. put into consistent buckets which are then compared to market 
observable comparable prices in order to assess the reasonable-
Equity and index-related derivatives ness of those unobservable prices.
Equity derivatives include a variety of products ranging from 
vanilla options and swaps to exotic structures with bespoke pay- Other investments
off profiles. The main inputs in the valuation of equity derivatives  Private equity funds, hedge funds and equity method 
may include buyback probability, correlation, gap risk, price and  investment funds
volatility. Equity method investment funds principally include equity invest-
ments in the form of a) direct investments in third-party hedge 
Generally, the interrelationship between the correlation and volatil- funds, private equity funds and funds of funds, b) equity method 
ity is positively correlated. investments where the Group has the ability to significantly influ-
ence the operating and financial policies of the investee, and c) 
Credit derivatives direct investments in non-marketable equity securities.
Credit derivatives include index, single-name and multi-name 
CDS in addition to more complex structured credit products.  Direct investments in third-party hedge funds, private equity 
Vanilla products are valued using industry standard models and  funds and funds of funds are measured at fair value based on 
inputs that are generally market observable including credit  their published NAVs as permitted by ASC Topic 820 – Fair Value 
spread and recovery rate. Measurement. In some cases, NAVs may be adjusted where 
there is sufficient evidence that the NAV published by the invest-
Complex structured credit derivatives are valued using propri- ment manager is not in line with the fund’s observable market 
etary models requiring inputs such as correlation, credit spread,  data, it is probable that the investment will be sold for an amount 
funding spread, loss severity, prepayment rate and recovery rate.  other than NAV or other circumstances exist that would require 
These inputs are generally implied from available market observ- an adjustment to the published NAV. Although rarely adjusted, 
able data. significant judgment is involved in making any adjustments to 
the published NAVs. The investments for which the fair value is 
Other trading assets measured using the NAV practical expedient are not categorized 
Other trading assets primarily include life settlement and premium  within the fair value hierarchy.
finance instruments and RMBS loans. Life settlement and pre-
mium finance instruments are valued using proprietary models  Direct investments in non-marketable equity securities con-
with several inputs. The significant unobservable inputs of the fair  sist of both real estate investments and non-real estate invest-
value for life settlement and premium finance instruments is the  ments. Equity-method investments and direct investments in 
374 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
non-marketable equity securities are initially measured at their  the criteria for sale treatment under US GAAP. The fair value of 
transaction price, as this is the best estimate of fair value. There- mortgage loans held in conjunction with securitization activities is 
after, these investments are individually measured at fair value  determined on a whole-loan basis and is consistent with the valu-
based upon a number of factors that include any recent rounds  ation of RMBS loans discussed in “Other trading assets” above. 
of financing involving third-party investors, comparable company  Whole-loan valuations are calculated based on the exit price 
transactions, multiple analyses of cash flows or book values, or  reflecting the current market conditions. The fair value of assets 
discounted cash flow analyses. The availability of information  and liabilities of VIEs and mortgage securitizations that do not 
used in these modeling techniques is often limited and involves  meet the criteria for sale treatment under US GAAP are deter-
significant judgment in evaluating these different factors over  mined based on the quoted prices for securitized bonds, where 
time. As a result, these investments are included in level 3 of the  available, or on cash flow analyses for securitized bonds, when 
fair value hierarchy. quoted prices are not available. The fair value of the consolidated 
financial assets of RMBS and CMBS securitization vehicles, 
Life finance instruments which qualify as collateralized financing entities, are measured on 
Life finance instruments include single premium immediate annui- the basis of the more observable fair value of the VIEs’ financial 
ties (SPIA) and other premium finance instruments. Life finance  liabilities.
instruments are valued in a similar manner as described for life 
settlement and premium finance instruments under the other  Short-term borrowings and long-term debt
trading assets section above. The Group’s short-term borrowings and long-term debt include 
structured notes (hybrid financial instruments that are both bifur-
Loans catable and non-bifurcatable) and vanilla debt. The fair value 
The Group’s loan portfolio which is measured at fair value pri- of structured notes is based on quoted prices, where available. 
marily consists of commercial and industrial loans and loans to  When quoted prices are not available, fair value is determined by 
financial institutions. Within these categories, loans measured at  using a discounted cash flow model incorporating the Group’s 
fair value include commercial loans, real estate loans, corporate  credit spreads, the value of derivatives embedded in the debt and 
loans, leverage finance loans and emerging market loans. Fair  the residual term of the issuance based on call options. Deriva-
value is based on recent transactions and quoted prices, where  tives structured into the issued debt are valued consistently with 
available. Where recent transactions and quoted prices are not  the Group’s stand-alone derivative contracts held for trading pur-
available, fair value may be determined by relative value bench- poses or used in hedge accounting relationships as discussed 
marking (which includes pricing based upon another position in  above. The fair value of structured debt is heavily influenced by 
the same capital structure, other comparable loan issues, generic  the combined call options and performance of the underlying 
industry credit spreads, implied credit spreads derived from CDS  derivative returns. Significant unobservable inputs for short-term 
for the specific borrower, and enterprise valuations) or calculated  borrowings and long-term debt include buyback probability, cor-
based on the exit price of the collateral, based on current market  relation, credit spread, gap risk, mean reversion, price, recovery 
conditions. rate and volatility.
Both the funded and unfunded portion of revolving credit lines  Generally, the interrelationships between correlation, credit 
on the corporate lending portfolio are valued using a loan pric- spread, gap risk and volatility inputs are positively correlated.
ing model, which requires estimates of significant inputs includ-
ing credit conversion factors, credit spreads, recovery rates and  Other liabilities
weighted average life of the loan. Significant unobservable inputs  Failed sales
may include credit spread and price. These liabilities represent the financing of assets that did not 
achieve sale accounting treatment under US GAAP. Failed sales 
The Group’s other assets and liabilities include mortgage loans  are valued in a manner consistent with the related underlying 
held in conjunction with securitization activities and assets and  financial instruments.
liabilities of VIEs and mortgage securitizations that do not meet 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 375
   
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis
               Assets    
               measured    
               at net    
            Netting   asset value    
end of 2020   Level 1   Level 2   Level 3   impact 1   per share 2   Total 
A      ssets (CHF million)          
Cash and due from banks   0   525   0   –   –   525 
Central bank funds sold, securities purchased under                   
resale agreements and securities borrowing transactions   0   57,994   0   –   –   57,994 
Securities received as collateral   44,074   6,598   101   –   –   50,773 
Trading assets   87,710   181,166   7,535   (119,731)   658   157,338 
   of which debt securities   16,321   45,766   2,253   –   55   64,395 
      of which foreign governments   15,908   11,909   140   –   –   27,957 
      of which corporates   353   9,799   1,270   –   55   11,477 
      of which RMBS   0   20,882   557   –   –   21,439 
   of which equity securities   60,044   2,466   124   –   603   63,237 
   of which derivatives   9,297   132,054   3,911   (119,731)   –   25,531 
      of which interest rate products   3,036   71,043   733   –   –   – 
      of which foreign exchange products   42   24,259   143   –   –   – 
      of which equity/index-related products   6,150   31,945   1,186   –   –   – 
      of which other derivatives   22   110   1,079   –   –   – 
   of which other trading assets   2,048   880   1,247   –   –   4,175 
Investment securities   2   605   0   –   –   607 
Other investments   13   6   3,054   –   721   3,794 
   of which other equity investments   13   6   2,132   –   608   2,759 
   of which life finance instruments   0   0   920   –   –   920 
Loans   0   7,739   3,669   –   –   11,408 
   of which commercial and industrial loans   0   2,187   1,347   –   –   3,534 
   of which financial institutions   0   3,506   1,082   –   –   4,588 
Other intangible assets (mortgage servicing rights)   0   0   180   –   –   180 
Other assets   137   7,315   1,825   (904)   –   8,373 
   of which failed purchases   109   1,229   51   –   –   1,389 
   of which loans held-for-sale   0   4,870   1,576   –   –   6,446 
Total assets at fair value   131,936   261,948   16,364   (120,635)   1,379   290,992 
1 Derivative contracts are reported on a gross basis by level. The impact of netting represents legally enforceable master netting agreements.
2 In accordance with US GAAP, certain investments that are measured at fair value using the net asset value per share practical expedient have not been classified in the fair value  
hierarchy. The fair value amounts presented in this table are intended to permit reconciliation of the fair value hierarchy to the amounts presented in the consolidated balance sheet.
 
376 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis (continued)
               Liabilities    
               measured    
               at net    
            Netting   asset value    
end of 2020   Level 1   Level 2   Level 3   impact 1   per share 2   Total 
L     iabilities (CHF million)          
Due to banks   0   413   0   –   –   413 
Customer deposits   0   3,895   448   –   –   4,343 
Central bank funds purchased, securities sold under                   
repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions   0   13,594   0   –   –   13,594 
Obligation to return securities received as collateral   44,074   6,598   101   –   –   50,773 
Trading liabilities   33,544   137,947   4,246   (129,867)   1   45,871 
   of which equity securities  20,527   111   55   –   1   20,694
   of which derivatives  10,536   132,885   4,191   (129,867)   –   17,745
      of which interest rate products  3,264   68,159   169   –   –   – 
      of which foreign exchange products  51   28,819   72   –   –   – 
      of which equity/index-related products  7,149   30,612   2,010   –   –   – 
      of which credit derivatives  0   4,663   1,335   –   –   – 
Short-term borrowings  0   10,039   701   –   –   10,740 
Long-term debt   0   63,708   7,268   –   –   70,976 
   of which structured notes over one year and up to two years  0   11,787   1,133   –   –   12,920 
   of which structured notes over two years  0   28,330   5,526   –   –   33,856 
   of which high-trigger instruments  0   10,586   0   –   –   10,586 
Other liabilities  0   6,678   1,271   (169)   –   7,780 
Total liabilities at fair value  77,618   242,872   14,035   (130,036)   1   204,490 
1 Derivative contracts are reported on a gross basis by level. The impact of netting represents legally enforceable master netting agreements.
2 In accordance with US GAAP, certain investments that are measured at fair value using the net asset value per share practical expedient have not been classified in the fair value  
  hierarchy. The fair value amounts presented in this table are intended to permit reconciliation of the fair value hierarchy to the amounts presented in the consolidated balance sheet.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 377
   
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis (continued)
               Assets    
               measured    
               at net    
            Netting   asset value    
end of 2019   Level 1   Level 2   Level 3   impact 1   per share 2   Total 
A      ssets (CHF million)          
Cash and due from banks   0   356   0   –   –   356 
Central bank funds sold, securities purchased under                   
resale agreements and securities borrowing transactions   0   85,556   0   –   –   85,556 
Securities received as collateral   36,438   3,780   1   –   –   40,219 
Trading assets   85,559   157,151   7,885   (97,606)   808   153,797 
   of which debt securities   19,430   45,641   1,923   –   –   66,994 
      of which foreign governments   19,281   7,484   198   –   –   26,963 
      of which corporates   16   10,905   1,128   –   –   12,049 
      of which RMBS   0   23,199   317   –   –   23,516 
   of which equity securities   60,675   2,862   197   –   808   64,542 
   of which derivatives   3,539   108,264   3,534   (97,606)   –   17,731 
      of which interest rate products   1,091   66,764   554   –   –   – 
      of which foreign exchange products   23   21,754   152   –   –   – 
      of which equity/index-related products   2,417   13,918   1,040   –   –   – 
      of which credit derivatives   0   5,336   879   –   –   – 
      of which other derivatives   5   66   909   –   –   – 
   of which other trading assets   1,915   384   2,231   –   –   4,530 
Investment securities   2   1,004   0   –   –   1,006 
Other investments   24   5   2,523   –   998   3,550 
   of which other equity investments   24   5   1,463   –   589   2,081 
   of which life finance instruments   0   0   1,052   –   –   1,052 
Loans   0   8,945   3,717   –   –   12,662 
   of which commercial and industrial loans   0   2,491   1,283   –   –   3,774 
   of which financial institutions   0   3,730   1,201   –   –   4,931 
   of which government and public institutions   0   2,200   831      –   3,031 
Other intangible assets (mortgage servicing rights)   0   0   244   –   –   244 
Other assets   101   8,902   1,846   (447)   –   10,402 
   of which loans held-for-sale   0   6,594   1,619   –   –   8,213 
Total assets at fair value   122,124   265,699   16,216   (98,053)   1,806   307,792 
1 Derivative contracts are reported on a gross basis by level. The impact of netting represents legally enforceable master netting agreements.
2 In accordance with US GAAP, certain investments that are measured at fair value using the net asset value per share practical expedient have not been classified in the fair value  
hierarchy. The fair value amounts presented in this table are intended to permit reconciliation of the fair value hierarchy to the amounts presented in the consolidated balance sheet.
 
378 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis (continued)
               Liabilities    
               measured    
               at net    
            Netting   asset value    
end of 2019   Level 1   Level 2   Level 3   impact 1   per share 2   Total 
L     iabilities (CHF million)          
Due to banks   0   322   0   –   –   322 
Customer deposits   0   2,865   474   –   –   3,339 
Central bank funds purchased, securities sold under                   
repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions   0   10,715   0   –   –   10,715 
Obligation to return securities received as collateral   36,438   3,780   1   –   –   40,219 
Trading liabilities   23,010   115,062   3,854   (103,742)   2   38,186 
   of which debt securities  3,636   5,286   0   –   –   8,922
      of which foreign governments   3,544   345   0   –   –   3,889 
   of which equity securities  15,628   109   53   –   2   15,792
   of which derivatives  3,746   109,667   3,801   (103,742)   –   13,472
      of which interest rate products   1,101   64,643   167   –   –   – 
      of which foreign exchange products   31   26,156   98   –   –   – 
      of which equity/index-related products   2,603   12,518   1,921   –   –   – 
      of which credit derivatives  0   5,963   1,211   –   –   – 
Short-term borrowings  0   10,336   997   –   –   11,333 
Long-term debt  0   57,721   12,610   –   –   70,331 
   of which structured notes over one year and up to two years  0   9,291   891   –   –   10,182 
   of which structured notes over two years  0   27,626   11,458   –   –   39,084 
Other liabilities  0   6,654   1,385   (148)   –   7,891 
Total liabilities at fair value  59,448   207,455   19,321   (103,890)   2   182,336 
1 Derivative contracts are reported on a gross basis by level. The impact of netting represents legally enforceable master netting agreements.
2 In accordance with US GAAP, certain investments that are measured at fair value using the net asset value per share practical expedient have not been classified in the fair value  
  hierarchy. The fair value amounts presented in this table are intended to permit reconciliation of the fair value hierarchy to the amounts presented in the consolidated balance sheet.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 379
   
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for level 3
                                      Accumulated other          
                           Trading revenues     Other revenues      comprehensive income          
                                          Foreign       
   Balance at                     On      On      On      currency   Balance   Changes in  
   beginning   Transfers   Transfers               transfers   On all   transfers   On all   transfers   On all   translation   at end   unrealized  
2020   of period   in   out   Purchases   Sales   Issuances  Settlements   out   other   out   other   out   other   impact   of period  gains/losses 1 
A ssets (CHF million)                                                   
Securities received as collateral   1   0   0   213   (106)   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   (7)   101   0 
Trading assets   7,885   3,255   (3,271)   6,304   (6,740)   2,064   (2,968)   290   1,598   0   5   0   0   (887)   7,535   1,377 
   of which debt securities   1,923   2,078   (1,775)   3,811   (3,493)   0   0   1   14   0   5   0   0   (311)   2,253   166 
      of which corporates   1,128   703   (809)   2,685   (2,464)   0   0   26   211   0   0   0   0   (210)   1,270   196 
   of which derivatives   3,534   995   (1,207)   0   0   2,064   (2,891)   213   1,607   0   1   0   0   (405)   3,911   1,323 
      of which equity/index-related products   1,040   255   (519)   0   0   507   (743)   107   725   0   0   0   0   (186)   1,186   752 
      of which other derivatives   909   0   0   0   0   303   (326)   (1)   291   0   0   0   0   (97)   1,079   310 
   of which other trading assets   2,231   119   (246)   2,420   (3,189)   0   (77)   72   76   0   (1)   0   0   (158)   1,247   (87) 
Other investments   2,523   8   0   442   (194)   0   0   0   112   0   286   0   0   (123)   3,054   409 
   of which other equity investments   1,463   7   0   408   (22)   0   0   0   13   0   293   0   0   (30)   2,132   298 
   of which life finance instruments   1,052   0   0   34   (172)   0   0   0   99   0   0   0   0   (93)   920   112 
Loans 2  3,835   1,268   (549)   437   (640)   1,170   (1,435)   52   (164)   0   1   0   0   (306)   3,669   (97) 
   of which commercial and industrial loans 2  1,401   446   (170)   184   (442)   610   (435)   6   (150)   0   1   0   0   (104)   1,347   (183) 
   of which financial institutions   1,201   238   (245)   0   (31)   499   (531)   20   43   0   0   0   0   (112)   1,082   47 
Other intangible assets (mortgage servicing rights)   244   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   (44)   0   0   (20)   180   (44) 
Other assets   1,846   1,440   (709)   4,553   (4,595)   547   (995)   (17)   (14)   0   0   0   0   (231)   1,825   (48) 
   of which loans held-for-sale   1,619   1,380   (665)   4,504   (4,567)   547   (994)   (41)   4   0   0   0   0   (211)   1,576   (73) 
Total assets at fair value   16,334   5,971   (4,529)   11,949   (12,275)   3,781   (5,398)   325   1,532   0   248   0   0   (1,574)   16,364   1,597 
L iabilities (CHF million)                                                   
Customer deposits   474   0   0   0   0   0   (27)   0   7   0   0   0   10   (16)   448   46 
Obligation to return securities received as collateral   1   0   0   213   (106)   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   (7)   101   0 
Trading liabilities   3,854   848   (1,614)   471   (310)   2,146   (2,375)   260   1,428   0   0   0   0   (462)   4,246   1,653 
   of which derivatives   3,801   829   (1,611)   198   (8)   2,146   (2,375)   259   1,410   0   0   0   0   (458)   4,191   1,646 
      of which equity/index-related derivatives   1,921   248   (954)   0   0   776   (536)   167   644   0   0   0   0   (256)   2,010   1,162 
      of which credit derivatives   1,211   539   (562)   0   0   1,111   (1,425)   85   502   0   0   0   0   (126)   1,335   277 
Short-term borrowings   997   37   (294)   0   0   1,307   (1,189)   4   (62)   0   0   0   0   (99)   701   94 
Long-term debt   12,610   3,214   (7,478)   0   0   5,891   (5,622)   568   (708)   0   0   99   (81)   (1,225)   7,268   236 
   of which structured notes over one year and up to two years   891   689   (676)   0   0   1,022   (690)   40   (38)   0   0   1   (1)   (105)   1,133   (19) 
   of which structured notes over two years   11,458   1,614   (6,479)   0   0   4,766   (4,577)   532   (683)   0   0   98   (92)   (1,111)   5,526   224 
Other liabilities   1,385   160   (183)   266   (277)   129   (396)   (33)   37   0   300   0   0   (117)   1,271   64 
Total liabilities at fair value   19,321   4,259   (9,569)   950   (693)   9,473   (9,609)   799   702   0   300   99   (71)   (1,926)   14,035   2,093 
Net assets/(liabilities) at fair value   (2,987)   1,712   5,040   10,999   (11,582)   (5,692)   4,211   (474)   830   0   (52)   (99)   71   352   2,329   (496) 
1 Changes in unrealized gains/(losses) on total assets at fair value and changes in unrealized (gains)/losses on total liabilities at fair value relating to assets and liabilities held at period end 
are included in net revenues or accumulated other comprehensive income. As of 2020, changes in net unrealized gains/(losses) of CHF (692) million and CHF 296 million were recorded 
in trading revenues and other revenues, respectively, and changes in unrealized (gains)/losses of CHF 100 million were recorded in Gains/(losses) on liabilities relating to credit risk in 
Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss).
 2 Includes an adjustment of CHF 118 million reflecting the impact of applying the fair value option on certain loans (previously held at amortized cost) at the adoption of the ASU 2019-05.
380 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for level 3  
                                      Accumulated other          
                           Trading revenues     Other revenues      comprehensive income          
                                          Foreign       
   Balance at                     On      On      On      currency   Balance   Changes in  
   beginning   Transfers   Transfers               transfers   On all   transfers   On all   transfers   On all   translation   at end   unrealized  
2020   of period   in   out   Purchases   Sales   Issuances  Settlements   out   other   out   other   out   other   impact   of period  gains/losses 1 
A ssets (CHF million)                                                   
Securities received as collateral   1   0   0   213   (106)   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   (7)   101   0 
Trading assets   7,885   3,255   (3,271)   6,304   (6,740)   2,064   (2,968)   290   1,598   0   5   0   0   (887)   7,535   1,377 
   of which debt securities   1,923   2,078   (1,775)   3,811   (3,493)   0   0   1   14   0   5   0   0   (311)   2,253   166 
      of which corporates   1,128   703   (809)   2,685   (2,464)   0   0   26   211   0   0   0   0   (210)   1,270   196 
   of which derivatives   3,534   995   (1,207)   0   0   2,064   (2,891)   213   1,607   0   1   0   0   (405)   3,911   1,323 
      of which equity/index-related products   1,040   255   (519)   0   0   507   (743)   107   725   0   0   0   0   (186)   1,186   752 
      of which other derivatives   909   0   0   0   0   303   (326)   (1)   291   0   0   0   0   (97)   1,079   310 
   of which other trading assets   2,231   119   (246)   2,420   (3,189)   0   (77)   72   76   0   (1)   0   0   (158)   1,247   (87) 
Other investments   2,523   8   0   442   (194)   0   0   0   112   0   286   0   0   (123)   3,054   409 
   of which other equity investments   1,463   7   0   408   (22)   0   0   0   13   0   293   0   0   (30)   2,132   298 
   of which life finance instruments   1,052   0   0   34   (172)   0   0   0   99   0   0   0   0   (93)   920   112 
Loans 2  3,835   1,268   (549)   437   (640)   1,170   (1,435)   52   (164)   0   1   0   0   (306)   3,669   (97) 
   of which commercial and industrial loans 2  1,401   446   (170)   184   (442)   610   (435)   6   (150)   0   1   0   0   (104)   1,347   (183) 
   of which financial institutions   1,201   238   (245)   0   (31)   499   (531)   20   43   0   0   0   0   (112)   1,082   47 
Other intangible assets (mortgage servicing rights)   244   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   (44)   0   0   (20)   180   (44) 
Other assets   1,846   1,440   (709)   4,553   (4,595)   547   (995)   (17)   (14)   0   0   0   0   (231)   1,825   (48) 
   of which loans held-for-sale   1,619   1,380   (665)   4,504   (4,567)   547   (994)   (41)   4   0   0   0   0   (211)   1,576   (73) 
Total assets at fair value   16,334   5,971   (4,529)   11,949   (12,275)   3,781   (5,398)   325   1,532   0   248   0   0   (1,574)   16,364   1,597 
L iabilities (CHF million)                                                   
Customer deposits   474   0   0   0   0   0   (27)   0   7   0   0   0   10   (16)   448   46 
Obligation to return securities received as collateral   1   0   0   213   (106)   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   (7)   101   0 
Trading liabilities   3,854   848   (1,614)   471   (310)   2,146   (2,375)   260   1,428   0   0   0   0   (462)   4,246   1,653 
   of which derivatives   3,801   829   (1,611)   198   (8)   2,146   (2,375)   259   1,410   0   0   0   0   (458)   4,191   1,646 
      of which equity/index-related derivatives   1,921   248   (954)   0   0   776   (536)   167   644   0   0   0   0   (256)   2,010   1,162 
      of which credit derivatives   1,211   539   (562)   0   0   1,111   (1,425)   85   502   0   0   0   0   (126)   1,335   277 
Short-term borrowings   997   37   (294)   0   0   1,307   (1,189)   4   (62)   0   0   0   0   (99)   701   94 
Long-term debt   12,610   3,214   (7,478)   0   0   5,891   (5,622)   568   (708)   0   0   99   (81)   (1,225)   7,268   236 
   of which structured notes over one year and up to two years   891   689   (676)   0   0   1,022   (690)   40   (38)   0   0   1   (1)   (105)   1,133   (19) 
   of which structured notes over two years   11,458   1,614   (6,479)   0   0   4,766   (4,577)   532   (683)   0   0   98   (92)   (1,111)   5,526   224 
Other liabilities   1,385   160   (183)   266   (277)   129   (396)   (33)   37   0   300   0   0   (117)   1,271   64 
Total liabilities at fair value   19,321   4,259   (9,569)   950   (693)   9,473   (9,609)   799   702   0   300   99   (71)   (1,926)   14,035   2,093 
Net assets/(liabilities) at fair value   (2,987)   1,712   5,040   10,999   (11,582)   (5,692)   4,211   (474)   830   0   (52)   (99)   71   352   2,329   (496) 
1 Changes in unrealized gains/(losses) on total assets at fair value and changes in unrealized (gains)/losses on total liabilities at fair value relating to assets and liabilities held at period end 
are included in net revenues or accumulated other comprehensive income. As of 2020, changes in net unrealized gains/(losses) of CHF (692) million and CHF 296 million were recorded 
in trading revenues and other revenues, respectively, and changes in unrealized (gains)/losses of CHF 100 million were recorded in Gains/(losses) on liabilities relating to credit risk in 
Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss).
 2 Includes an adjustment of CHF 118 million reflecting the impact of applying the fair value option on certain loans (previously held at amortized cost) at the adoption of the ASU 2019-05.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 381
   
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for level 3 (continued)
                                      Accumulated other          
                           Trading revenues     Other revenues      comprehensive income          
                                          Foreign       
   Balance at                     On      On      On      currency   Balance   Changes in  
   beginning   Transfers   Transfers               transfers   On all   transfers   On all   transfers   On all   translation   at end   unrealized  
2019   of period   in   out   Purchases   Sales   Issuances  Settlements   out   other   out   other   out   other   impact   of period  gains/losses 1 
A ssets (CHF million)                                                   
Central bank funds sold, securities purchased under                                                 
resale agreements and securities borrowing transactions   0   0   (12)   0   0   12   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0 
Securities received as collateral   30   0   0   2   (31)   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   1   0 
Trading assets   8,980   1,600   (2,723)   16,544   (17,005)   1,142   (1,641)   (80)   1,281   0   0   0   0   (213)   7,885   1,085 
   of which debt securities   2,242   793   (1,508)   4,037   (3,537)   0   0   17   (41)   0   0   0   0   (80)   1,923   146 
      of which corporates   1,260   485   (843)   3,076   (2,768)   0   0   21   (52)   0   0   0   0   (51)   1,128   153 
   of which derivatives   3,298   592   (734)   0   0   1,142   (1,616)   (92)   1,034   0   0   0   0   (90)   3,534   957 
      of which equity/index-related products   1,054   224   (400)   0   0   361   (402)   (80)   316   0   0   0   0   (33)   1,040   404 
      of which credit derivatives   673   282   (244)   0   0   390   (765)   (6)   565   0   0   0   0   (16)   879   320 
      of which other derivatives   806   6   (1)   0   0   303   (317)   0   128   0   0   0   0   (16)   909   266 
   of which other trading assets   3,308   132   (424)   12,333   (13,384)   0   (25)   (2)   333   0   0   0   0   (40)   2,231   (43) 
Other investments   1,309   48   (6)   1,184   (195)   0   0   0   151   0   56   0   0   (24)   2,523   328 
   of which other equity investments   227   48   (6)   1,134   9   0   0   0   1   0   56   0   0   (6)   1,463   84 
   of which life finance instruments   1,067   0   0   39   (186)   0   0   0   150   0   0   0   0   (18)   1,052   181 
Loans   4,324   731   (470)   255   (275)   1,436   (2,170)   4   (64)   0   0   0   0   (54)   3,717   (7) 
   of which commercial and industrial loans   1,949   269   (335)   49   (194)   346   (734)   0   (49)   0   0   0   0   (18)   1,283   (9) 
   of which financial institutions   1,391   414   (76)   5   (81)   524   (957)   0   (9)   0   0   0   0   (10)   1,201   10 
   of which government and public institutions   446   48   (58)   199   0   251   (28)   2   (9)   0   0   0   0   (20)   831   (11) 
Other intangible assets (mortgage servicing rights)   163   0   0   85   0   0   0   0   0   0   2   0   0   (6)   244   2 
Other assets   1,543   470   (283)   1,970   (1,913)   703   (565)   17   (48)   0   0   0   0   (48)   1,846   28 
   of which loans held-for-sale   1,235   444   (222)   1,718   (1,693)   703   (564)   3   36   0   0   0   0   (41)   1,619   51 
Total assets at fair value   16,349   2,849   (3,494)   20,040   (19,419)   3,293   (4,376)   (59)   1,320   0   58   0   0   (345)   16,216   1,436 
L iabilities (CHF million)                                                   
Customer deposits   453   0   0   0   0   6   (34)   0   23   0   0   0   51   (25)   474   29 
Obligation to return securities received as collateral   30   0   0   2   (31)   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   1   0 
Trading liabilities   3,589   743   (723)   874   (891)   2,079   (2,478)   108   626   0   0   0   0   (73)   3,854   1,019 
   of which derivatives   3,527   723   (714)   1   (4)   2,079   (2,478)   108   631   0   0   0   0   (72)   3,801   1,016 
      of which equity/index-related derivatives   1,500   344   (405)   0   0   692   (761)   92   500   0   0   0   0   (41)   1,921   841 
      of which credit derivatives   1,140   314   (273)   0   0   1,101   (1,327)   28   249   0   0   0   0   (21)   1,211   147 
Short-term borrowings   784   187   (494)   0   0   1,477   (1,151)   30   191   0   0   0   0   (27)   997   127 
Long-term debt   12,665   2,707   (4,521)   0   0   6,079   (5,668)   149   1,301   0   0   13   175   (290)   12,610   1,448 
   of which structured notes over two years   11,800   2,286   (3,708)   0   0   4,546   (4,744)   94   1,256   0   0   13   173   (258)   11,458   1,301 
Other liabilities   1,341   51   (80)   80   (131)   114   (383)   (4)   70   0   351   0   0   (24)   1,385   58 
Total liabilities at fair value   18,862   3,688   (5,818)   956   (1,053)   9,755   (9,714)   283   2,211   0   351   13   226   (439)   19,321   2,681 
Net assets/(liabilities) at fair value   (2,513)   (839)   2,324   19,084   (18,366)   (6,462)   5,338   (342)   (891)   0   (293)   (13)   (226)   94   (3,105)   (1,245) 
1 Changes in unrealized gains/(losses) on total assets at fair value and changes in unrealized (gains)/losses on total liabilities at fair value relating to assets and liabilities held at period end 
are included in net revenues. As of 2019, changes in net unrealized gains/(losses) of CHF (1,394) million and CHF 149 million were recorded in trading revenues and other revenues, 
respectively.
 
382 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for level 3 (continued)  
                                      Accumulated other          
                           Trading revenues     Other revenues      comprehensive income          
                                          Foreign       
   Balance at                     On      On      On      currency   Balance   Changes in  
   beginning   Transfers   Transfers               transfers   On all   transfers   On all   transfers   On all   translation   at end   unrealized  
2019   of period   in   out   Purchases   Sales   Issuances  Settlements   out   other   out   other   out   other   impact   of period  gains/losses 1 
A ssets (CHF million)                                                   
Central bank funds sold, securities purchased under                                                 
resale agreements and securities borrowing transactions   0   0   (12)   0   0   12   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0 
Securities received as collateral   30   0   0   2   (31)   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   1   0 
Trading assets   8,980   1,600   (2,723)   16,544   (17,005)   1,142   (1,641)   (80)   1,281   0   0   0   0   (213)   7,885   1,085 
   of which debt securities   2,242   793   (1,508)   4,037   (3,537)   0   0   17   (41)   0   0   0   0   (80)   1,923   146 
      of which corporates   1,260   485   (843)   3,076   (2,768)   0   0   21   (52)   0   0   0   0   (51)   1,128   153 
   of which derivatives   3,298   592   (734)   0   0   1,142   (1,616)   (92)   1,034   0   0   0   0   (90)   3,534   957 
      of which equity/index-related products   1,054   224   (400)   0   0   361   (402)   (80)   316   0   0   0   0   (33)   1,040   404 
      of which credit derivatives   673   282   (244)   0   0   390   (765)   (6)   565   0   0   0   0   (16)   879   320 
      of which other derivatives   806   6   (1)   0   0   303   (317)   0   128   0   0   0   0   (16)   909   266 
   of which other trading assets   3,308   132   (424)   12,333   (13,384)   0   (25)   (2)   333   0   0   0   0   (40)   2,231   (43) 
Other investments   1,309   48   (6)   1,184   (195)   0   0   0   151   0   56   0   0   (24)   2,523   328 
   of which other equity investments   227   48   (6)   1,134   9   0   0   0   1   0   56   0   0   (6)   1,463   84 
   of which life finance instruments   1,067   0   0   39   (186)   0   0   0   150   0   0   0   0   (18)   1,052   181 
Loans   4,324   731   (470)   255   (275)   1,436   (2,170)   4   (64)   0   0   0   0   (54)   3,717   (7) 
   of which commercial and industrial loans   1,949   269   (335)   49   (194)   346   (734)   0   (49)   0   0   0   0   (18)   1,283   (9) 
   of which financial institutions   1,391   414   (76)   5   (81)   524   (957)   0   (9)   0   0   0   0   (10)   1,201   10 
   of which government and public institutions   446   48   (58)   199   0   251   (28)   2   (9)   0   0   0   0   (20)   831   (11) 
Other intangible assets (mortgage servicing rights)   163   0   0   85   0   0   0   0   0   0   2   0   0   (6)   244   2 
Other assets   1,543   470   (283)   1,970   (1,913)   703   (565)   17   (48)   0   0   0   0   (48)   1,846   28 
   of which loans held-for-sale   1,235   444   (222)   1,718   (1,693)   703   (564)   3   36   0   0   0   0   (41)   1,619   51 
Total assets at fair value   16,349   2,849   (3,494)   20,040   (19,419)   3,293   (4,376)   (59)   1,320   0   58   0   0   (345)   16,216   1,436 
L iabilities (CHF million)                                                   
Customer deposits   453   0   0   0   0   6   (34)   0   23   0   0   0   51   (25)   474   29 
Obligation to return securities received as collateral   30   0   0   2   (31)   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   1   0 
Trading liabilities   3,589   743   (723)   874   (891)   2,079   (2,478)   108   626   0   0   0   0   (73)   3,854   1,019 
   of which derivatives   3,527   723   (714)   1   (4)   2,079   (2,478)   108   631   0   0   0   0   (72)   3,801   1,016 
      of which equity/index-related derivatives   1,500   344   (405)   0   0   692   (761)   92   500   0   0   0   0   (41)   1,921   841 
      of which credit derivatives   1,140   314   (273)   0   0   1,101   (1,327)   28   249   0   0   0   0   (21)   1,211   147 
Short-term borrowings   784   187   (494)   0   0   1,477   (1,151)   30   191   0   0   0   0   (27)   997   127 
Long-term debt   12,665   2,707   (4,521)   0   0   6,079   (5,668)   149   1,301   0   0   13   175   (290)   12,610   1,448 
   of which structured notes over two years   11,800   2,286   (3,708)   0   0   4,546   (4,744)   94   1,256   0   0   13   173   (258)   11,458   1,301 
Other liabilities   1,341   51   (80)   80   (131)   114   (383)   (4)   70   0   351   0   0   (24)   1,385   58 
Total liabilities at fair value   18,862   3,688   (5,818)   956   (1,053)   9,755   (9,714)   283   2,211   0   351   13   226   (439)   19,321   2,681 
Net assets/(liabilities) at fair value   (2,513)   (839)   2,324   19,084   (18,366)   (6,462)   5,338   (342)   (891)   0   (293)   (13)   (226)   94   (3,105)   (1,245) 
1 Changes in unrealized gains/(losses) on total assets at fair value and changes in unrealized (gains)/losses on total liabilities at fair value relating to assets and liabilities held at period end 
are included in net revenues. As of 2019, changes in net unrealized gains/(losses) of CHF (1,394) million and CHF 149 million were recorded in trading revenues and other revenues, 
respectively.
 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 383
   
 
Both observable and unobservable inputs may be used to deter- arising from an enhancement to the assessment of the valuation 
mine the fair value of positions that have been classified within  significance of unobservable input parameters on equity linked 
level 3. As a result, the unrealized gains and losses for assets and  issuances.
liabilities within level 3 presented in the table above may include 
changes in fair value that were attributable to both observable  Uncertainty of fair value measurements at 
and unobservable inputs. the reporting date from the use of significant 
unobservable inputs
The Group employs various economic hedging techniques in order 
to manage risks, including risks in level 3 positions. Such tech- For level 3 assets with a significant unobservable input of buy-
niques may include the purchase or sale of financial instruments  back probability, correlation, funding spread, pre-initial pub-
that are classified in levels 1 and/or 2. The realized and unrealized  lic offering (IPO) intrinsic option, mortality rate, price, recovery 
gains and losses for assets and liabilities in level 3 presented in  rate, unadjusted NAV, volatility or volatility skew, in general, an 
the table above do not reflect the related realized or unrealized  increase in the significant unobservable input would increase 
gains and losses arising on economic hedging instruments classi- the fair value. For level 3 assets with a significant unobservable 
fied in levels 1 and/or 2. input of credit spread, default rate, discount rate, gap risk, market 
implied life expectancy (for life settlement and premium finance 
The Group typically uses nonfinancial assets measured at fair  instruments) and prepayment rate, in general, an increase in the 
value on a recurring or nonrecurring basis in a manner that  significant unobservable input would decrease the fair value.
reflects their highest and best use.
For level 3 liabilities, in general, an increase in the related sig-
Transfers in and out of level 3 nificant unobservable inputs would have the inverse impact on 
fair value. An increase in the significant unobservable input buy-
Transfers into level 3 assets during 2020 were CHF 5,971  back probability, correlation, credit spread, contingent probability, 
million, primarily from trading assets, loans held-for-sale and  market implied life expectancy (for life settlement and premium 
loans. The transfers were primarily in the securitized products,  finance instruments), mortality rate and volatility would increase 
financing and global trading solution businesses due to limited  the fair value. An increase in the significant unobservable input 
observability of pricing data and reduced pricing information  discount rate, fund gap risk, funding spread, gap risk, mean 
from external providers. Transfers out of level 3 assets during  reversion, prepayment rate and price would decrease the fair 
2020 were CHF 4,529 million, primarily in trading assets, loans  value.
held-for-sale and loans. The transfers out of level 3 assets were 
primarily the securitized products, financing and global trading  Interrelationships between significant 
solution businesses due to improved observability of pricing data  unobservable inputs
and increased availability of pricing information from external 
providers. Except as noted above, there are no material interrelationships 
between the significant unobservable inputs for the financial 
Transfers into level 3 assets during 2019 were CHF 2,849 mil- instruments. As the significant unobservable inputs move inde-
lion, primarily from trading assets and loans. The transfers were  pendently, generally an increase or decrease in one significant 
primarily in the credit and financing businesses due to limited  unobservable input will have no impact on the other significant 
observability of pricing data and reduced pricing information from  unobservable inputs.
external providers. Transfers out of level 3 assets during 2019 
were CHF 3,494 million, primarily in trading assets and loans.  Quantitative disclosures of valuation techniques
The transfers out of level 3 assets were primarily in the credit, 
financing and equity derivatives businesses due to improved  The following tables provide the representative range of minimum 
observability of pricing data and increased availability of pricing  and maximum values and the associated weighted averages of 
information from external providers. each significant unobservable input for level 3 assets and liabili-
ties by the related valuation technique most significant to the 
Transfers out of level 3 liabilities of CHF 9,569 million in 2020  related financial instrument.
primarily reflected transfers of structured notes over two years 
384 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Quantitative information about level 3 assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis
      Valuation   Unobservable   Minimum   Maximum   Weighted 
end of 2020   Fair value   technique   input   value   value   average 1 
C       HF million, except where indicated        
Trading assets   7,535                
   of which debt securities   2,253                
      of which corporates   1,270                
         of which   386   Discounted cash flow   Credit spread, in bp   (9)   1,509   1,007 
         of which   321   Market comparable   Price, in %   0   227   95 
         of which   416   Option model   Correlation, in %   (50)   100   55 
         Gap risk, in %   0   2   0 
         Recovery rate, in %   40   40   40 
         Volatility, in %   0   158   23 
         of which   71   Vendor price   Price, in actuals   0   2,292   1,654 
         Unadjusted NAV, in actuals   1   1   1 
   of which derivatives   3,911                
      of which equity/index-related products   1,186   Option model   Buyback probability, in %   50   100   66 
         Correlation, in %   (50)   100   58 
         Gap risk, in % 2   0   4   0 
         Volatility, in %   (2)   158   24 
         Market implied life          
      of which other derivatives   1,079   Discounted cash flow   expectancy, in years   2   14   6 
         Mortality rate, in %   72   137   98 
   of which other trading assets   1,247                
         Market implied life          
      of which   766   Discounted cash flow   expectancy, in years   3   14   7 
Other investments   3,054                
   of which other equity investments   2,132                
      of which   840   Discounted cash flow   Discount rate, in %   9   9   9 
         Terminal growth rate, in %   3   3   3 
      of which   118   Market comparable   Price, in %   100   100   100 
      of which   974   Adjusted NAV   Price, in actuals   310   310   310 
      of which   110   Vendor price   Price, in actuals   1   1,249   713 
         Market implied life          
   of which life finance instruments   920   Discounted cash flow   expectancy, in years   2   15   6 
Loans   3,669                
   of which commercial and industrial loans   1,347                
      of which   908   Discounted cash flow   Credit spread, in bp   237   1,480   554 
         Recovery rate, in %   25   25   25 
      of which   338   Market comparable   Price, in %   0   100   70 
         Pre-IPO intrinsic           
   72   Option model   option, in actuals   100   100   100 
   of which financial institutions   1,082                
      of which   674   Discounted cash flow   Credit spread, in bp   192   1,698   612 
         Recovery rate, in %   25   40   25 
      of which   190   Market comparable   Price, in %   0   100   54 
Other assets   1,825                
   of which loans held-for-sale   1,576                
      of which   296   Discounted cash flow   Credit spread, in bp   246   506   343 
         Recovery rate, in %   1   40   34 
      of which   1,277   Market comparable   Price, in %   0   111   71 
1 Weighted average is calculated based on the fair value of the instruments.
 2 Risk of unexpected large declines in the underlying values occurring between collateral settlement dates.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 385
   
Quantitative information about level 3 assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis (continued)
      Valuation   Unobservable   Minimum   Maximum   Weighted 
end of 2019   Fair value   technique   input   value   value   average 1 
C       HF million, except where indicated        
Trading assets   7,885                
   of which debt securities   1,923                
      of which corporates   1,128                
         of which   503   Market comparable   Price, in %   0   129   97 
         of which   913   Option model   Correlation, in %   (60)   100   63 
         Gap risk, in %   0   2   0 
         Volatility, in %   0   275   27 
   of which derivatives   3,534                
      of which equity/index-related products   1,040   Option model   Buyback probability, in %   50   100   70 
         Correlation, in %   (50)   100   64 
         Gap risk, in % 2   0   2   0 
         Volatility, in %   0   275   30 
      of which credit derivatives   879                
         of which   691   Discounted cash flow   Correlation, in %   97   97   97 
         Credit spread, in bp   2   1,033   150 
         Default rate, in %   1   20   4 
         Discount rate, in %   8   27   16 
         Funding spread, in bp   100   115   102 
         Loss severity, in %   29   85   69 
         Prepayment rate, in %   0   7   4 
         Recovery rate, in %   0   40   26 
         of which   142   Market comparable   Price, in %   86   110   98 
         Market implied life          
      of which other derivatives   909   Discounted cash flow   expectancy, in years   2   15   6 
         Mortality rate, in %   71   134   97 
   of which other trading assets   2,231                
         Market implied life          
      of which   856   Discounted cash flow   expectancy, in years   2   15   7 
      of which   1,118   Market comparable   Price, in %   0   112   27 
      of which   233   Option model   Mortality rate, in %   0   70   6 
Other investments   2,523                
   of which other equity investments   1,463                
      of which   398   Discounted cash flow   Discount rate, in %   9   9   9 
         Terminal growth rate, in %   3   3   3 
      of which   147   Market comparable   Price, in %   100   100   100 
      of which   857   Vendor price   Price, in actuals   1   869   231 
         Market implied life          
   of which life finance instruments   1,052   Discounted cash flow   expectancy, in years   2   16   6 
Loans   3,717                
   of which commercial and industrial loans   1,283                
      of which   996   Discounted cash flow   Credit spread, in bp   96   1,484   654 
         Recovery rate, in %   25   25   25 
      of which   273   Market comparable   Price, in %   0   99   64 
   of which financial institutions   1,201                
      of which   984   Discounted cash flow   Credit spread, in bp   111   1,261   412 
         Recovery rate, in %   25   25   25 
      of which   135   Market comparable   Price, in %   16   100   36 
   of which government and public institutions   831                
      of which   468   Discounted cash flow   Credit spread, in bp   457   526   500 
         Recovery rate, in %   25   40   30 
      of which   166   Market comparable   Price, in %   62   62   62 
Other assets   1,846                
   of which loans held-for-sale   1,619                
      of which   501   Discounted cash flow   Credit spread, in bp   117   381   243 
         Recovery rate, in %   0   1   1 
      of which   1,026   Market comparable   Price, in %   0   180   91 
1 Cash instruments are generally presented on a weighted average basis, while certain derivative instruments either contain a combination of weighted averages and arithmetic means of 
the related inputs or are presented on an arithmetic mean basis.
2 Risk of unexpected large declines in the underlying values occurring between collateral settlement dates.
 
386 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Quantitative information about level 3 liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis
      Valuation   Unobservable   Minimum   Maximum   Weighted 
end of 2020   Fair value   technique   input   value   value   average 1 
C      HF million, except where indicated          
Trading liabilities   4,246                
   of which derivatives   4,191                
      of which equity/index-related derivatives   2,010   Option model   Buyback probability, in % 3   50   100   66 
         Correlation, in %   (50)   100   58 
         Volatility, in %   (2)   158   27 
      of which credit derivatives   1,335                
         of which   738   Discounted cash flow   Correlation, in %   37   45   44 
         Credit spread, in bp   0   1,468   391 
         Default rate, in %   0   7   3 
         Discount rate, in %   6   19   14 
         Funding spread, in bp   55   183   120 
         Loss severity, in %   0   100   68 
         Prepayment rate, in %   0   9   7 
         Recovery rate, in %   12   81   38 
         of which   520   Market comparable   Price, in %   84   116   99 
         of which   12   Option model   Correlation, in %   49   50   50 
         Credit spread, in bp   13   865   250 
Short-term borrowings   701                
   of which   58   Discounted cash flow   Credit spread, in bp   (4)   992   722 
         Recovery rate, in %   35   40   39 
   of which   508   Option model   Buyback probability, in %   50   100   66 
         Correlation, in %   (50)   100   56 
         Funding gap risk, in % 2   0   2   0 
         Volatility, in %   3   158   30 
Long-term debt   7,268                
   of which structured notes over one year and            
   up to two years   1,133        
      of which   48   Discounted cash flow   Credit spread, in bp   35   189   52 
         Recovery rate, in %   25   25   25 
      of which   1,051   Option model   Buyback probability, in % 3   50   100   66 
         Correlation, in %   (50)   100   55 
         Funding gap risk, in % 2   0   2   0 
         Gap risk, in %   0   4   1 
         Volatility, in %   0   158   24 
   of which structured notes over two years   5,526                
      of which   1,380   Discounted cash flow   Credit spread, in bp   (14)   481   58 
         Recovery rate, in %   23   40   38 
      of which   9   Market comparable   Price, in %   27   46   27 
      of which   3,961   Option model   Buyback probability, in % 3   50   100   66 
         Correlation, in %   (50)   100   55 
         Gap risk, in % 2   0   2   0 
         Mean reversion, in % 4   (10)   0   (5) 
         Volatility, in %   0   158   21 
1 Weighted average is calculated based on the fair value of the instruments.
2 Risk of unexpected large declines in the underlying values occurring between collateral settlement dates.
3 Estimate of probability of structured notes being put back to the Group at the option of the investor over the remaining life of the financial instruments.
 4 Management’s best estimate of the speed at which interest rates will revert to the long-term average.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 387
   
Quantitative information about level 3 liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis (continued)
      Valuation   Unobservable   Minimum   Maximum   Weighted 
end of 2019   Fair value   technique   input   value   value   average 1 
C      HF million, except where indicated          
Trading liabilities   3,854                
   of which derivatives   3,801                
      of which equity/index-related derivatives   1,921   Option model   Buyback probability, in % 2   50   100   70 
         Correlation, in %   (60)   100   66 
         Volatility, in %   0   275   26 
      of which credit derivatives   1,211                
         of which   745   Discounted cash flow   Correlation, in %   38   45   44 
         Credit spread, in bp   2   1,041   142 
         Default rate, in %   1   20   4 
         Discount rate, in %   8   27   15 
         Funding spread, in bp   100   154   122 
         Loss severity, in %   29   85   69 
         Prepayment rate, in %   0   8   5 
         Recovery rate, in %   0   40   31 
         of which   412   Market comparable   Price, in %   89   110   99 
         of which   23   Option model   Correlation, in %   49   50   49 
         Credit spread, in bp   17   1,225   270 
Short-term borrowings   997                
   of which   847   Option model   Buyback probability, in %   50   100   70 
         Correlation, in %   (50)   100   62 
         Funding gap risk, in % 3   0   2   0 
         Volatility, in %   1   275   39 
Long-term debt   12,610                
   of which structured notes over two years   11,458                
      of which   1,141   Discounted cash flow   Credit spread, in bp   (12)   1,260   40 
         Recovery rate, in %   25   40   29 
      of which   22   Market comparable   Price, in %   43   46   43 
      of which   9,972   Option model   Buyback probability, in % 2   50   100   70 
         Correlation, in %   (60)   100   63 
         Gap risk, in % 3   0   2   0 
         Mean reversion, in % 4   (55)   0   (7) 
         Volatility, in %   0   275   26 
1 Cash instruments are generally presented on a weighted average basis, while certain derivative instruments either contain a combination of weighted averages and arithmetic means of 
the related inputs or are presented on an arithmetic mean basis.
2 Estimate of probability of structured notes being put back to the Group at the option of the investor over the remaining life of the financial instruments.
3 Risk of unexpected large declines in the underlying values occurring between collateral settlement dates.
4 Management’s best estimate of the speed at which interest rates will revert to the long-term average.
 
388 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
Qualitative discussion of the ranges of significant  Default rate and loss severity
unobservable inputs For financial instruments backed by residential real estate or other 
assets, diversity in the portfolio is reflected in a wide range for 
The following sections provide further information about the  loss severity due to varying levels of default. The lower end of the 
ranges of significant unobservable inputs included in the tables  range represents high performing or government guaranteed col-
above. The level of aggregation and diversity within the financial  lateral with a low PD or guaranteed timely payment of principal 
instruments disclosed in the tables above results in certain ranges  and interest, while the higher end of the range relates to collateral 
of significant inputs being wide and unevenly distributed across  with a greater risk of default.
asset and liability categories.
Discount rate
Basis spread The discount rate is the rate of interest used to calculate the 
Basis spread is the primary significant unobservable input for  present value of the expected cash flows of a financial instru-
non-callable constant maturity treasury-constant maturity swap  ment. There are multiple factors that will impact the discount rate 
(CMS) products and is used to determine interest rate risk as a  for any given financial instrument including the coupon on the 
result of differing lending and borrowing rates. instrument, the term and the underlying risk of the expected cash 
flows. Two instruments of similar term and expected cash flows 
Buyback probability may have significantly different discount rates because the cou-
Buyback probability is the probability assigned to structured notes  pons on the instruments are different.
being unwound prior to their legal maturity.
EBITDA multiple
Contingent probability EBITDA multiple is a primary significant unobservable input for 
Contingent probability is the primary significant unobservable  some equity deals which are benchmarked using industry com-
input for contingent foreign exchange forward trades where the  parables. The EBITDA multiple may be preferred over other 
delivery or exercise and the premium payment are contingent  measures because it is normalized for differences between the 
on an event such as completion of an M&A deal or regulatory  accounting policies of similar companies.
approval for a product.
Funding gap risk and gap risk
Correlation Gap risk is the primary significant unobservable input for fund-
There are many different types of correlation inputs, including  linked Constant Proportion Portfolio Insurance products and 
credit correlation, cross-asset correlation (such as equity-inter- structures where the payoff may be sensitive to discontinuity in 
est rate correlation) and same-asset correlation (such as interest  the hedging portfolio.
rate-interest rate correlation). Correlation inputs are generally 
used to value hybrid and exotic instruments. Due to the complex  Funding spread
and unique nature of these instruments, the ranges for correlation  Funding spread is the primary significant unobservable input for 
inputs can vary widely across portfolios. special purpose vehicle funding facilities. Synthetic funding curves 
which represent the assets pledged as collateral are used to value 
Credit spread and recovery rate structured financing transactions. The curves provide an estimate 
For financial instruments where credit spread is the significant  of where secured funding can be sourced and are expressed as a 
unobservable input, the wide range represents positions with  basis point spread in relation to the referenced benchmark rate.
varying levels of risk. The lower end of the credit spread range 
typically represents shorter-dated instruments and/or those with  Market implied life expectancy
better perceived credit risk. The higher end of the range typically  Market implied life expectancy is the primary significant unobserv-
comprises longer-dated financial instruments or those referencing  able input on such products as life settlement, premium finance 
non-performing, distressed or impaired reference credits. Simi- and SPIA, and represents the estimated mortality rate for the 
larly, the spread between the reference credit and an index can  underlying insured for each contract. This estimate may vary 
vary significantly based on the risk of the instrument. The spread  depending upon multiple factors including the age and specific 
will be positive for instruments that have a higher risk of default  health characteristics of the insured.
than the index (which is based on a weighted average of its com-
ponents) and negative for instruments that have a lower risk of  Mean reversion
default than the index. Mean reversion is the primary significant unobservable input for 
callable CMS spread exotics and represents the idea that prices 
Similarly, recovery rates can vary significantly depending upon the  and returns eventually move back towards the historical average.
specific assets and terms of each transaction. Transactions with 
higher seniority or more valuable collateral will have higher recov-
ery rates, while those transactions which are more subordinated 
or with less valuable collateral will have lower recovery rates.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 389
   
 
Mortality rate Volatility and volatility skew
Mortality rate is the primary significant unobservable input for  Volatility and its skew are both impacted by the underlying risk, 
pension swaps. The expected present value of future cash flow  term and strike price of the derivative. In the case of interest 
of the trades depend on the mortality of individuals in the pen- rate derivatives, volatility may vary significantly between differ-
sion fund who are grouped into categories such as gender, age,  ent underlying currencies and expiration dates on the options. 
pension amount and other factors. In some cases mortality rates  Similarly, in the case of equity derivatives, the volatility attributed 
include a “scaler” (also referred to as a loading or multiplier) that  to a structure may vary depending upon the underlying reference 
align mortality projections with historical experience and calibrate  name on the derivative.
to exit level.
Investment funds measured at NAV per share
Pre-IPO intrinsic option
Pre-IPO intrinsic option represents the share price of a company  Investments in funds held in trading assets and trading liabili-
in advance of its listing on a public exchange. It is typically a dis- ties primarily include positions held in equity funds of funds as an 
counted price from the IPO price. economic hedge for structured notes and derivatives issued to 
clients that reference the same underlying risk and liquidity terms 
Prepayment rate of the fund. A majority of these funds have limitations imposed 
Prepayment rates may vary from collateral pool to collateral pool,  on the amount of withdrawals from the fund during the redemp-
and are driven by a variety of collateral-specific factors, including  tion period due to illiquidity of the investments. In other instances, 
the type and location of the underlying borrower, the remaining  the withdrawal amounts may vary depending on the redemption 
tenor of the obligation and the level and type (e.g., fixed or float- notice period and are usually larger for the longer redemption 
ing) of interest rate being paid by the borrower. notice periods. In addition, penalties may apply if redemption is 
within a certain time period from initial investment.
Price
Bond equivalent price is a primary significant unobservable input  Investments in funds held in other investments principally involves 
for multiple products. Where market prices are not available for  private equity securities and, to a lesser extent, publicly traded 
an instrument, benchmarking may be utilized to identify com- securities and fund of funds. Several of these investments have 
parable issues (same industry and similar product mixes) while  redemption restrictions subject to the discretion of the board 
adjustments are considered for differences in deal terms and  of directors of the fund and/or redemption is permitted without 
performance. restriction, but is limited to a certain percentage of total assets or 
only after a certain date.
Terminal Growth Rate
The terminal growth rate is the rate at which free cash flows are  The following table pertains to investments in certain entities that 
expected to grow in perpetuity as part of an overall firm valuation  calculate NAV per share or its equivalent, primarily private equity 
process. The terminal growth rate typically parallels the historical  and hedge funds. These investments do not have a readily deter-
inflation rate (2-3%) and is applied to the discounted cash flow  minable fair value and are measured at fair value using NAV.
model to represent mature stage company valuation.
Fair value, unfunded commitments and term of redemption conditions of investment funds measured at NAV per share
          2020          2019 
            Unfunded            Unfunded 
   Non-      Total    commit-   Non-      Total    commit- 
end of   redeemable  Redeemable   fair value   ments   redeemable  Redeemable   fair value   ments 
F     air value of investment funds and unfunded commitments (CHF million)              
Funds held in trading assets and trading liabilities   138   519   657   45   58   748   806   53 
Private equity funds   94   0   94   77   323   0   323   161 
Hedge funds   12   7   19   0   21   65   86   0 
Equity method investment funds   321   287   608   226   187   402   589   14 
Funds held in other investments   427   294   721   303   531   467   998   175 
Total fair value of investment funds and unfunded commitments  565 1   813 2   1,378   348   589 3   1,215 4   1,804   228 
1 CHF 190 million of the underlying assets have known liquidation periods and for CHF 375 million, the timing of liquidation is unknown.
2 CHF 540 million is redeemable on demand with a notice period of primarily less than 30 days. CHF 4 million of the investment funds had restrictions on redemptions, which have a 
redemption restriction of less than 1 year.
3 CHF 163 million of the underlying assets have known liquidation periods and for CHF 426 million, the timing of liquidation is unknown.
4 CHF 724 million is redeemable on demand with a notice period of primarily less than 30 days. CHF 13 million of the investment funds had restrictions on redemptions, which have a 
  redemption restriction of less than 1 year.
390 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a  for loans held-for-sale and commitments held-for-sale is deter-
nonrecurring basis mined by benchmarking to comparable instruments.
Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a non- The following table provides the fair value and the fair value 
recurring basis; that is, they are not measured at fair value on an  hierarchy of all assets that were held as of December 31, 2020 
ongoing basis but are subject to fair value adjustments in certain  and 2019, for which a nonrecurring fair value measurement was 
circumstances. Nonrecurring measurements reported are as of  recorded.
the end of the period, unless otherwise stated. The market value 
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis
end of 2020   Level 1   Level 2   Level 3   Total 
A    ssets (CHF million)        
Other investments   0   217   326   543 
   of which equity method investments   0   0   303   303 
   of which equity securities (without a readily determinable fair value)   0   217   10   227 
Net loans   0   67   4   71 
Other assets   0   104   97   201 
   of which loans held-for-sale   0   97   39   136 
   of which premises, equipment and right-of-use assets   0   4   54   58 
Total assets recorded at fair value on a nonrecurring basis   0   388   427   815 
L   iabilities (CHF million)        
Other liabilities   0   0   14   14 
   of which commitments held-for-sale   0   0   14   14 
Total liabilities recorded at fair value on a nonrecurring basis   0   0   14   14 
 e nd of 2019                    
A    ssets (CHF million)        
Other investments   0   0   1   1 
Other intangible assets   0   0   10   10 
Other assets   0   0   60   60 
   of which loans held-for-sale   0   0   29   29 
   of which premises, equipment and right-of-use assets   0   0   5   5 
   of which real estate held-for-sale   0   0   26   26 
Total assets recorded at fair value on a nonrecurring basis   0   0   71   71 
L   iabilities (CHF million)        
Other liabilities   0   0   22   22 
   of which commitments held-for-sale   0   0   22   22 
Total liabilities recorded at fair value on a nonrecurring basis   0   0   22   22 
 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 391
   
 
The following table provide the representative range of mini- the related financial instrument that were held as of December 
mum and maximum values and the associated weighted aver- 31, 2020, for which a nonrecurring fair value measurement was 
ages of each significant unobservable input for level 3 assets and  recorded.
liabilities by the related valuation technique most significant to 
Quantitative information about level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis
      Valuation   Unobservable   Minimum   Maximum   Weighted 
end of 2020   Fair value   technique   input   value   value   average 1 
A      ssets (CHF million, except where indicated)        
Other investments   326                
   of which equity method investments   303   Discounted cash flow   Discount rate, in %   10   14   12 
Other assets   97                
   of which loans held-for-sale   39   Market comparable   Price, in %   83   100   95 
   of which premises, equipment and right-of-use assets   54                
      of which   52   Discounted cash flow   Price, in actuals   52   52   52 
         Discount rate, in %   1   3   3 
      of which   2   Market comparable   Price, in actuals   2   2   2 
L      iabilities (CHF million, except where indicated)        
Other liabilities   14                
      of which commitments held-for-sale   14   Market comparable   Price, in %   83   98   89 
1 Weighted average is calculated based on the fair value of the instruments.
 
Fair value option
Other investments
The Group has availed itself of the simplification in accounting  The Group has elected to account for certain equity method 
offered under the fair value option. This has been accomplished  investments at fair value. These activities are managed on a fair 
generally by electing the fair value option, both at initial adoption  value basis; thus, fair value accounting is deemed more appropri-
and for subsequent transactions, on items impacted by the hedge  ate for reporting purposes.
accounting requirements of US GAAP. For instruments for which 
hedge accounting could not be achieved but for which the Group  In December 2019, Credit Suisse completed a review of the 
is economically hedged, the Group has generally elected the  accounting treatment of the shares that it holds in SIX Group AG 
fair value option. Where the Group manages an activity on a fair  and elected fair value accounting under US GAAP in respect of 
value basis but previously has been unable to achieve fair value  this equity investment.
accounting, the Group has generally utilized the fair value option 
to align its financial accounting to its risk management reporting. Loans
The Group elected fair value for certain of its financial statement  The Group has elected to account for substantially all commercial 
captions as follows: loans and loan commitments from the investment banking busi-
nesses and certain emerging market loans from the investment 
Central bank funds sold, securities purchased  banking businesses at fair value. These activities are managed 
under resale agreements and securities  on a fair value basis and fair value accounting was deemed more 
borrowing transactions appropriate for reporting purposes. Additionally, recognition on a 
fair value basis eliminates the mismatch that existed due to the 
The Group has elected to account for structured resale agree- economic hedging the Group employs to manage these loans. 
ments and most matched book resale agreements at fair value.  Certain similar loans, such as project finance, lease finance, cash 
These activities are managed on a fair value basis; thus, fair value  collateralized and some bridge loans, which were eligible for the 
accounting is deemed more appropriate for reporting purposes.  fair value option, were not elected due to the lack of currently 
The Group did not elect the fair value option for firm financing  available infrastructure to fair value such loans and/or the inability 
resale agreements as these agreements are generally overnight  to economically hedge such loans. Additionally, the Group elected 
agreements which approximate fair value, but which are not man- not to account for loans granted by its private, corporate and insti-
aged on a fair value basis. tutional banking businesses at fair value, such as domestic con-
sumer lending, mortgages and corporate loans, as these loans 
are not managed on a fair value basis.
392 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Other assets permits the Group to elect fair value accounting for non-bifur-
catable hybrid debt instruments. With the exception of certain 
The Group elected the fair value option for loans held-for-sale,  bifurcatable hybrid debt instruments which the Group did not elect 
due to the short period over which such loans are held and the  to account for at fair value, the Group has elected to account 
intention to sell such loans in the near term. Other assets also  for all hybrid debt instruments held as of January 1, 2007, and 
include assets of VIEs and mortgage securitizations which do not  hybrid debt instruments originated after January 1, 2007, at fair 
meet the criteria for sale treatment under US GAAP. The Group  value. These activities are managed on a fair value basis and 
did elect the fair value option for these types of transactions. fair value accounting was deemed appropriate for reporting pur-
poses. There are two main populations of similar instruments for 
Due to banks and customer deposits which fair value accounting was not elected. The first relates to 
the lending business transacted by the Group’s private, corporate 
The Group elected the fair value option for certain time depos- and institutional banking businesses, which includes structured 
its associated with its emerging markets activities. The Group’s  deposits and similar investment products. These are managed 
customer deposits include fund-linked deposits. The Group  on a bifurcated or accrual basis and fair value accounting was 
elected the fair value option for these fund-linked deposits. Fund- not considered appropriate. The second is where the instruments 
linked products are managed on a fair value basis and fair value  were or will be maturing in the near term and their fair value will 
accounting was deemed more appropriate for reporting purposes. be realized at that time.
Central bank funds purchased, securities sold  Long-term debt
under repurchase agreements and securities 
lending transactions The Group’s long-term debt includes hybrid debt instruments with 
embedded derivative features as described above in short-term 
The Group has elected to account for structured repurchase  borrowings. The Group’s long-term debt also includes debt issu-
agreements and most matched book repurchase agreements at  ances managed by the Treasury department that do not contain 
fair value. These activities are managed on a fair value basis and  derivative features (vanilla debt). The Group actively manages the 
fair value accounting was deemed more appropriate for report- interest rate risk on these instruments with derivatives. In particu-
ing purposes. The Group did not elect the fair value option for  lar, fixed-rate debt is hedged with receive-fixed, pay-floating inter-
firm financing repurchase agreements as these agreements are  est rate swaps. The Group elected to fair value fixed-rate debt 
generally overnight agreements which approximate fair value, but  upon implementation of the fair value option on January 1, 2007, 
which are not managed on a fair value basis. with changes in fair value recognized as a component of trading 
revenues. The Group did not elect to apply the fair value option to 
Short-term borrowings fixed-rate debt issued by the Group since January 1, 2008, but 
instead applies hedge accounting.
The Group’s short-term borrowings include hybrid debt instru-
ments with embedded derivative features. Some of these embed- Other liabilities
ded derivative features create bifurcatable debt instruments. The 
Group elected the fair value option for some of these instruments  Other liabilities include liabilities of VIEs and mortgage securiti-
as of January 1, 2006, in accordance with the provisions of US  zations that do not meet the criteria for sale treatment under US 
GAAP. New bifurcatable debt instruments which were entered  GAAP. The Group elected the fair value option for these types of 
into in 2006 are carried at fair value. Some hybrid debt instru- transactions.
ments do not result in bifurcatable debt instruments. US GAAP 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 393
   
Difference between the aggregate fair value and unpaid principal balances of fair value option-elected financial 
instruments
        2020        2019 
   Aggregate   Aggregate      Aggregate   Aggregate    
   fair   unpaid      fair   unpaid    
end of   value   principal   Difference   value   principal   Difference 
F     inancial instruments (CHF million)          
Central bank funds sold, securities purchased under                   
resale agreements and securities borrowing transactions   57,994   57,895   99   85,556   85,463   93 
Loans   11,408   12,079   (671)   12,662   13,104   (442) 
Other assets 1  7,834   10,090   (2,256)   9,710   12,006   (2,296) 
Due to banks and customer deposits   (578)   (489)   (89)   (582)   (508)   (74) 
Central bank funds purchased, securities sold under                   
repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions   (13,594)   (13,578)   (16)   (10,715)   (10,719)   4 
Short-term borrowings   (10,740)   (10,632)   (108)   (11,333)   (11,187)   (146) 
Long-term debt 2  (70,976)   (73,842)   2,866   (70,331)   (72,126)   1,795 
Other liabilities   (616)   (1,569)   953   (709)   (1,681)   972 
                   
Non-performing and non-interest-earning loans 3  543   3,364   (2,821)   543   3,235   (2,692) 
1 Primarily loans held-for-sale.
2 Long-term debt includes both principal-protected and non-principal protected instruments. For non-principal-protected instruments, the original notional amount has been reported in the 
aggregate unpaid principal.
3 Included in loans or other assets.
 
Gains and losses on financial instruments
   2020   2019   2018 
   Net   Net   Net 
   gains/   gains/   gains/ 
in   (losses)   (losses)   (losses) 
F  inancial instruments (CHF million)       
Interest-bearing deposits with banks   15 1   29 1   2 1 
   of which related to credit risk   0   11   (10) 
Central bank funds sold, securities purchased under          
resale agreements and securities borrowing transactions   1,198 1   2,696 1   2,451 1 
Other investments   397 2   268 3   241 2 
   of which related to credit risk   1   2   (1) 
Loans   510 1   908 1   717 1 
   of which related to credit risk   (181)   26   (296) 
Other assets   489 1   892 1   770 1 
   of which related to credit risk   (106)   111   61 
Due to banks and customer deposits   (10) 3   (29) 3   (39) 3 
   of which related to credit risk   0   1   (37) 
Central bank funds purchased, securities sold under          
repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions   (58) 1   (612) 1   (890) 1 
Short-term borrowings   (687) 3   (50) 3   2,807 3 
   of which related to credit risk   0   8   (5) 
Long-term debt   (2,294) 3   (8,501) 3   4,206 3 
   of which related to credit risk   11   (5)   7 
Other liabilities   (20) 3   92 2   73 2 
   of which related to credit risk   (15)   50   4 
1 Primarily recognized in net interest income.
2 Primarily recognized in other revenues.
3 Primarily recognized in trading revenues.
 
394 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
The impact of credit risk on assets presented in the table above  in interest and dividend income or interest expense. Interest and 
has been calculated as the component of the total change in fair  dividend income is recognized separately from trading revenues.
value, excluding the impact of changes in base or risk-free inter-
est rates. The impact of changes in own credit risk on liabilities  Gains and losses attributable to changes in 
presented in the table above has been calculated as the dif- instrument-specific credit risk on fair value option 
ference between the fair values of those instruments as of the  elected liabilities
reporting date and the theoretical fair values of those instruments 
calculated by using the yield curve prevailing at the end of the  The following table provides additional information regarding the 
reporting period, adjusted up or down for changes in the Group’s  gains and losses attributable to changes in instrument-specific 
own credit spreads from the transition date to the reporting date. credit risk on fair value option elected liabilities, which have been 
recorded in AOCI. The table includes both the amount of change 
Interest income and expense, which are calculated based on con- during the period and the cumulative amount that were attribut-
tractual rates specified in the transactions, are recorded in the  able to the changes in instrument-specific credit risk. In addition, 
consolidated statements of operations depending on the nature of  the table includes the gains and losses related to instrument-spe-
the instrument and its related market convention. When interest  cific credit risk, which were previously recorded in AOCI but have 
is included as a component of the change in the instrument’s fair  been transferred to net income during the period.
value, it is included in trading revenues. Otherwise, it is included 
Gains/(losses) attributable to changes in instrument-specific credit risk
             Gains/(losses) recorded 
              in AOCI transferred 
        Gains/(losses) recorded into AOCI 1     to net income 1 
in   2020  Cumulative   2019   2020   2019 
F    inancial instruments (CHF million)         
Customer deposits   (9)   (75)   (51)   0   0 
Short-term borrowings   (13)   (66)   (2)   1   2 
Long-term debt   70   (2,513)   (2,190)   155   190 
   of which treasury debt over two years   234   (796)   (1,198)   0   0 
   of which structured notes over two years   (177)   (1,591)   (769)   155   179 
Total   48   (2,654)   (2,243)   156   192 
1  Amounts are reflected gross of tax.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 395
   
 
Financial instruments not carried 
value of financial instruments which are not carried at fair value 
at fair value in the consolidated balance sheet. The disclosure excludes all 
non-financial instruments such as lease transactions, real estate, 
The “Carrying value and fair value of financial instruments not  premises and equipment, equity method investments and pension 
carried at fair value” table provides the carrying value and fair  and benefit obligations.
Carrying value and fair value of financial instruments not carried at fair value
   Carrying             
   value            Fair value 
end of      Level 1   Level 2   Level 3   Total 
2     020 (CHF million)       
Financial assets                
Central bank funds sold, securities purchased under                
resale agreements and securities borrowing transactions   21,139   0   21,139   0   21,139 
Loans   277,137   0   272,660   14,534   287,194 
Other financial assets 1  155,266   138,672   16,315   303   155,290 
Financial liabilities                
Due to banks and customer deposits   402,589   234,700   167,924   0   402,624 
Central bank funds purchased, securities sold under                
repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions   10,256   0   10,256   0   10,256 
Short-term borrowings   10,128   0   10,128   0   10,128 
Long-term debt   90,111   0   90,897   2,317   93,214 
Other financial liabilities 2  16,012   0   15,567   412   15,979 
2     019 (CHF million)       
Financial assets                
Central bank funds sold, securities purchased under                
resale agreements and securities borrowing transactions   21,441   0   21,441   0   21,441 
Loans   280,568   0   278,337   11,562   289,899 
Other financial assets 1  114,543   101,600   12,225   720   114,545 
Financial liabilities                
Due to banks and customer deposits   396,867   189,419   207,453   0   396,872 
Central bank funds purchased, securities sold under                
repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions   16,818   0   16,818   0   16,818 
Short-term borrowings   17,052   0   17,052   0   17,052 
Long-term debt   81,674   0   83,018   1,123   84,141 
Other financial liabilities 2  15,867   0   15,705   168   15,873 
1 Primarily includes cash and due from banks, interest-bearing deposits with banks, loans held-for-sale, cash collateral on derivative instruments, interest and fee receivables and non-
marketable equity securities.
 2 Primarily includes cash collateral on derivative instruments and interest and fee payables.
396 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
37  Assets pledged and collateral
Assets pledged purchased, securities borrowings and loans, pledges to clearing 
organizations, segregation requirements under securities laws and 
The Group pledges assets mainly for repurchase agreements and  regulations, derivative transactions and bank loans.
other securities financing. Certain pledged assets may be encum-
bered, meaning they have the right to be sold or repledged. The  Collateral
encumbered assets are parenthetically disclosed on the consoli- end of   2020   2019 
dated balance sheet.
CHF million        
Fair value of collateral received        
Assets pledged with the right to sell or repledge   413,154   412,765 
end of   2020   2019     of which sold or repledged   184,837   185,935 
 
CHF million        
Total assets pledged or assigned as collateral   144,355   121,800 
Other information
   of which encumbered   71,471   59,013 
end of   2020   2019 
P rior period has been corrected.
CHF million        
Collateral Swiss National Bank required minimum liquidity reserves   2,092   2,059 
Other restricted cash, securities and receivables 1  5,065   5,310 
The Group receives cash and securities in connection with resale  1 Includes cash, securities and receivables recorded on the Group’s consolidated balance 
sheets and restricted under Swiss or foreign regulations for financial institutions; excludes 
agreements, securities borrowing and loans, derivative transac-
restricted cash, securities and receivables held on behalf of clients which are not 
tions and margined broker loans. A significant portion of the col- recorded on the Group’s consolidated balance sheet. Prior periods have been adjusted to 
lateral and securities received by the Group was sold or repledged    conform to the current presentation.
in connection with repurchase agreements, securities sold not yet 
38  Capital adequacy
The Group is subject to the Basel III framework, as implemented in  capacity standard. Both the going concern and the gone concern 
Switzerland, as well as Swiss legislation and regulations for systemi- requirements were subject to phase-in, with gradually increas-
cally important banks (Swiss Requirements), which include capital,  ing requirements as well as grandfathering provisions for certain 
liquidity, leverage and large exposure requirements and rules for  outstanding instruments, and became fully effective on January 1, 
emergency plans designed to maintain systemically relevant func- 2020. Under the Capital Adequacy Ordinance’s grandfathering 
tions in the event of threatened insolvency. The legislation imple- provisions, additional tier 1 capital instruments with a low trigger 
menting the Basel III framework in Switzerland in respect of capital  qualify as going concern capital until their first call date; additional 
requirements for systemically relevant banks, including the Group,  tier 1 capital instruments and tier 2 capital instruments that no 
goes beyond the Basel III minimum standards for systemically rel- longer qualify as going concern capital, qualify as gone concern 
evant banks. The Swiss TLAC standards were phased in from 2016  capital until termination or one year before their final maturity, 
through 2019 and became fully effective on January 1, 2020. The  respectively. Additionally, there are FINMA decrees that apply to 
Group, which is subject to regulation by FINMA, has based its capi- the Group as a systemically important bank operating internation-
tal adequacy calculations on US GAAP financial statements, as per- ally, including capital adequacy requirements as well as liquidity 
mitted by FINMA Circular 2013/1. and risk diversification requirements. Banks that do not maintain 
the minimum requirements may be limited in their ability to pay divi-
Under the Capital Adequacy Ordinance, Swiss banks classified  dends and make discretionary bonus payments and other earnings 
as systemically important banks operating internationally, such as  distributions.
the Group, are subject to two different minimum requirements for 
loss-absorbing capacity: such banks must hold sufficient capital  The Group’s balance sheet positions and off-balance sheet expo-
that absorbs losses to ensure continuity of service (going concern  sures translate into risk-weighted assets, which are categorized 
requirement), and they must issue sufficient debt instruments to  as credit, market and operational risk-weighted assets. When 
fund an orderly resolution without recourse to public resources  assessing risk-weighted assets, it is not the nominal size, but 
(gone concern requirement). Going concern capital and gone con- rather the nature (including risk mitigation such as collateral or 
cern capital together form the Group’s total loss-absorbing capac- hedges) of the balance sheet positions or off-balance sheet expo-
ity. The going concern and gone concern requirements are gener- sures that determines the risk-weighted assets.
ally aligned with the Financial Stability Board’s total loss-absorbing 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 397
   
Leverage exposure consists of period-end total assets and pre- Swiss metrics
scribed regulatory adjustments, such as derivative financial instru- end of   2020   2019 
ments, securities financing transactions and off-balance sheet 
Swiss capital (CHF million)        
exposures.
Swiss CET1 capital   35,351   36,740 
Going concern capital   51,192   49,757 
Capital ratios measure the Group’s capital components against 
Gone concern capital 1  41,852   41,138 
risk-weighted assets and leverage ratios measure them against 
Total loss-absorbing capacity   93,044   90,895 
the end-of-period leverage exposure.
S  wiss risk-weighted assets and leverage exposure (CHF million)     
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Group’s capital position  Swiss risk-weighted assets   275,576   291,282 
exceeded its capital requirements under the regulatory provisions  Leverage exposure   799,853 2   909,994 
outlined under Swiss Requirements. Swiss capital ratios (%)        
Swiss CET1 ratio   12.8   12.6 
Broker-dealer operations
Going concern capital ratio   18.6   17.1 
Gone concern capital ratio   15.2   14.1 
Certain of the Group’s broker-dealer subsidiaries are also subject  TLAC ratio   33.8   31.2 
to capital adequacy requirements. As of December 31, 2020 and 
Swiss leverage ratios (%)        
2019, the Group and its subsidiaries complied with all applicable 
Swiss CET1 leverage ratio   4.4   4.0 
regulatory capital adequacy requirements. 
Going concern leverage ratio   6.4   5.5 
Dividend restrictions Gone concern leverage ratio   5.2 3   4.5 
TLAC leverage ratio   11.6   10.0 
Certain of the Group’s subsidiaries are subject to legal restric-
Swiss capital ratio requirements (%)        
tions governing the amount of dividends they can pay (for exam-
Swiss CET1 ratio requirement   10.0   9.68 
ple, pursuant to corporate law as defined by the Swiss Code of 
Going concern capital ratio requirement   14.3   13.58 
Obligations).
Gone concern capital ratio requirement   14.3   11.6 
TLAC ratio requirement   28.6   25.18 
Under the Swiss Code of Obligations, dividends may be paid out 
only if and to the extent the corporation has distributable profits  Swiss leverage ratio requirements (%)        
from previous business years, or if the free reserves of the corpo- Swiss CET1 leverage ratio requirement   3.5   3.2 
ration are sufficient to allow distribution of a dividend. In addition,  Going concern leverage ratio requirement   5.0   4.5 
at least 5% of the annual net profits must be retained and booked  Gone concern leverage ratio requirement   5.0   4.0 
as general legal reserves for so long as these reserves amount  TLAC leverage ratio requirement   10.0   8.5 
to less than 20% of the paid-in share capital. The reserves cur- The Swiss capital requirements have been fully phased-in as of January 1, 2020 and the 
rently exceed this 20% threshold. Furthermore, dividends may  2019 balances are presented on a comparative basis. Does not include the effects of the 
countercyclical buffers and any rebates for resolvability and for certain tier 2 low-trigger 
be paid out only after shareholder approval at the Annual General 
instruments recognized in gone concern capital.
Meeting. 1 Amounts are shown on a look-through basis. Certain tier 2 instruments and their related 
tier 2 amortization components are subject to phase out through 2022. As of 2020 and 
2019, gone concern capital was CHF 42,198 million and CHF 38,576 million, including 
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, Credit Suisse Group AG 
CHF 346 million and CHF 372 million, respectively, of such instruments.
was not subject to restrictions on its ability to pay the proposed  2 Excludes CHF 110,677 million of cash held at central banks, after adjusting for the divi-
dividends. dend paid in 2020.
3 The gone concern ratio would be 4.6%, if calculated using a leverage exposure of 
CHF 910,530 million, without the temporary exclusion of cash held at central banks, after 
  adjusting for the dividend paid in 2020, of CHF 110,677 million.
398 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
39  Assets under management
The following disclosure provides information regarding client  investment instruments managed by the Group. The extent of 
assets, assets under management and net new assets as regu- double counting is disclosed in the following table.
lated by FINMA.
Assets under management
Assets under management
end of   2020   2019 
CHF billion        
Assets under management include assets for which the Group 
Assets in collective investment        
provides investment advisory or discretionary asset management  instruments managed by Credit Suisse   215.6   212.2 
services, investment fund assets and assets invested in other  Assets with discretionary mandates   267.4   277.5 
investment fund-like pooled investment vehicles managed by the  Other assets under management   1,028.9   1,017.5 
Group. The classification of assets under management is condi- Assets under management        
tional upon the nature of the services provided by the Group and  (including double counting)   1,511.9   1,507.2 
the clients’ intentions. Assets are individually assessed on the     of which double counting   49.1   51.0 
basis of each client’s intentions and objectives and the nature of   
the banking services provided to that client. In order to be clas-
sified as assets under management, the Group must currently or  Changes in assets under management
in the foreseeable future expect to provide a service where the     2020   2019 
involvement of the Group’s banking or investment expertise (e.g. 
Assets under management (CHF billion)        
as asset manager or investment advisor) is not purely executional 
Balance at beginning of period 1  1,507.2   1,344.9 
or custodial in nature. 
Net new assets/(net asset outflows)   42.0   79.3 
Market movements, interest, dividends and foreign exchange   (14.7)   106.8 
Assets under custody are client assets held mainly for execution-
   of which market movements, interest and dividends 2  53.4   126.6 
related or safekeeping/custody purposes only and therefore are 
   of which foreign exchange   (68.1)   (19.8) 
not considered assets under management since the Group does 
Other effects   (22.6)   (23.8) 
not generally provide asset allocation or financial advice.
Balance at end of period   1,511.9   1,507.2 
Assets of corporate clients and public institutions that are used  1 Including double counting.
2 Net of commissions and other expenses and net of interest expenses charged.
primarily for cash management or transaction executional pur-  
poses for which no investment advice is provided are classified as 
commercial assets or assets under custody and therefore do not  Net new assets
qualify as assets under management.
Net new assets measure the degree of success in acquiring assets 
For the purpose of classifying assets under management, clients  under management or changes in assets under management 
with multiple accounts are assessed from an overall relationship  through warranted reclassifications. The calculation is based on 
perspective. Accounts that are clearly separate from the remain- the direct method, taking into account individual cash payments, 
der of the client relationship and represent assets held for custody  security deliveries and cash flows resulting from loan increases or 
purposes only are not included as assets under management. repayments. 
The initial classification of the assets may not be permanent as  Interest and dividend income credited to clients and commissions, 
the nature of the client relationship is reassessed on an on-going  interest and fees charged for banking services as well as changes 
basis. If changes in client intent or activity warrant reclassifica- in assets under management due to currency and market volatil-
tion between client asset categories, the required reclassification  ity are not taken into account when calculating net new assets, as 
adjustments are made immediately when the change in intent or  such charges or market movements are not directly related to the 
activity occurs. Reclassifications between assets under manage- Group’s success in acquiring assets under management. Similarly 
ment and assets held for transaction-related or custodial pur- other effects mainly relate to asset inflows and outflows due to 
poses result in corresponding net asset inflows or outflows.  acquisition or divestiture, exit from businesses or markets or exits 
due to new regulatory requirements and are not taken into account 
A portion of the Group’s assets under management results from  when calculating net new assets. The Group reviews relevant poli-
double counting. Double counting arises when assets under man- cies regarding client assets on a regular basis.
agement are subject to more than one level of asset management 
services. Each separate advisory or discretionary service provides  Divisional allocation
additional benefits to the client and represents additional income 
for the Group. Specifically, double counting primarily results  Assets under management and net new assets for the Private 
from the investment of assets under management in collective  Clients business in Swiss Universal Bank, the Private Banking 
business in International Wealth Management, Asia Pacific and 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 399
   
the Corporate & Institutional Banking business in Swiss Universal  The allocation of assets under management and net new assets 
Bank are allocated based on the management areas (business  for Asset Management in the Internal Wealth Management divi-
areas) that effectively manage the assets. The distribution of net  sion reflects the location where the investment vehicles are man-
new assets resulting from internal referral arrangements is gov- aged and where the costs of managing the funds are incurred.
erned under the net new asset referral framework, which includes 
preset percentages for the allocation of net new assets to the 
businesses.
40  Litigation
The Group is involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and arbi- certainty based on currently available information, and accordingly 
tration proceedings concerning matters arising in connection with  may ultimately prove to be substantially greater (or may be less) 
the conduct of its businesses, including those disclosed below.  than the provision that is reflected on the Group’s balance sheet.
Some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of vari-
ous classes of claimants and seek damages of material and/or  It is inherently difficult to determine whether a loss is probable or 
indeterminate amounts. even reasonably possible or to estimate the amount of any loss or 
loss range for many of the Group’s legal proceedings. Estimates, 
The Group accrues loss contingency litigation provisions and  by their nature, are based on judgment and currently available infor-
takes a charge to income in connection with certain proceedings  mation and involve a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, 
when losses, additional losses or ranges of loss are probable and  the type and nature of the proceeding, the progress of the matter, 
reasonably estimable. The Group also accrues litigation provisions  the advice of counsel, the Group’s defenses and its experience in 
for the estimated fees and expenses of external lawyers and  similar matters, as well as its assessment of matters, including set-
other service providers in relation to such proceedings, including  tlements, involving other defendants in similar or related cases or 
in cases for which it has not accrued a loss contingency provision.  proceedings. Factual and legal determinations, many of which are 
The Group accrues these fee and expense litigation provisions  complex, must be made before a loss, additional losses or ranges 
and takes a charge to income in connection therewith when such  of loss can be reasonably estimated for any proceeding.
fees and expenses are probable and reasonably estimable. The 
Group reviews its legal proceedings each quarter to determine the  Most matters pending against the Group seek damages of an 
adequacy of its litigation provisions and may increase or release  indeterminate amount. While certain matters specify the damages 
provisions based on management’s judgment and the advice of  claimed, such claimed amount may not represent the Group’s 
counsel. The establishment of additional provisions or releases of  reasonably possible losses. For certain of the proceedings dis-
litigation provisions may be necessary in the future as develop- cussed below the Group has disclosed the amount of damages 
ments in such proceedings warrant. claimed and certain other quantifiable information that is publicly 
available.
The specific matters described below include (a) proceedings 
where the Group has accrued a loss contingency provision, given  The following table presents a roll forward of the Group’s aggre-
that it is probable that a loss may be incurred and such loss is  gate litigation provisions.
reasonably estimable; and (b) proceedings where the Group has 
not accrued such a loss contingency provision for various rea- Litigation provisions
sons, including, but not limited to, the fact that any related losses     2020 
are not reasonably estimable. The description of certain of the 
CHF million    
matters below includes a statement that the Group has estab-
Balance at beginning of period   898 
lished a loss contingency provision and discloses the amount of 
Increase in litigation accruals   1,358 
such provision; for the other matters no such statement is made. 
Decrease in litigation accruals   (131) 
With respect to the matters for which no such statement is made, 
Decrease for settlements and other cash payments   (391) 
either (a) the Group has not established a loss contingency provi-
Foreign exchange translation   (74) 
sion, in which case the matter is treated as a contingent liability 
Balance at end of period   1,660 
under the applicable accounting standard, or (b) the Group has 
established such a provision but believes that disclosure of that   
fact would violate confidentiality obligations to which the Group  The Group’s aggregate litigation provisions include estimates of 
is subject or otherwise compromise attorney-client privilege,  losses, additional losses or ranges of loss for proceedings for which 
work product protection or other protections against disclosure or  such losses are probable and can be reasonably estimated. The 
compromise the Group’s management of the matter. The future  Group does not believe that it can estimate an aggregate range of 
outflow of funds in respect of any matter for which the Group has  reasonably possible losses for certain of its proceedings because 
accrued loss contingency provisions cannot be determined with  of their complexity, the novelty of some of the claims, the early 
400 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
stage of the proceedings, the limited amount of discovery that has  issuer, sponsor, depositor and/or underwriter of RMBS transactions 
occurred and/or other factors. The Group’s estimate of the aggre- prior to 2008. The original complaint, which referenced 13 RMBS 
gate range of reasonably possible losses that are not covered by  issued, sponsored, deposited and underwritten by CSS LLC and its 
existing provisions for the proceedings discussed below for which  affiliates in 2006 and 2007, alleges that CSS LLC and its affiliates 
the Group believes an estimate is possible is zero to CHF 0.9  misled investors and engaged in fraud or deceit in connection with 
billion. the offer and sale of RMBS, and seeks an unspecified amount of 
damages. On August 21, 2014, the SCNJ dismissed without preju-
After taking into account its litigation provisions, the Group believes,  dice the action brought against CSS LLC and its affiliates by the 
based on currently available information and advice of counsel, that  NJAG. On September 4, 2014, the NJAG filed an amended com-
the results of its legal proceedings, in the aggregate, will not have a  plaint against CSS LLC and its affiliates, asserting additional allega-
material adverse effect on the Group’s financial condition. However,  tions but not expanding the number of claims or RMBS referenced 
in light of the inherent uncertainties of such proceedings, includ- in the original complaint. On August 21, 2019, the NJAG filed a 
ing those brought by regulators or other governmental authorities,  motion for partial summary judgment. On November 18, 2019, 
the ultimate cost to the Group of resolving such proceedings may  CSS LLC and its affiliates filed a cross-motion for partial summary 
exceed current litigation provisions and any excess may be material  judgment.
to its operating results for any particular period, depending, in part, 
upon the operating results for such period. Civil litigation
CSS LLC and/or certain of its affiliates have also been named 
Mortgage-related matters as defendants in various civil litigation matters related to their 
roles as issuer, sponsor, depositor, underwriter and/or servicer of 
Government and regulatory related matters RMBS transactions. These cases include or have included class 
Various financial institutions, including Credit Suisse Securities  action lawsuits, actions by individual investors in RMBS, actions 
(USA) LLC (CSS LLC) and certain of its affiliates, have received  by monoline insurance companies that guaranteed payments of 
requests for information from, and/or have been defending civil  principal and interest for certain RMBS, and repurchase actions 
actions by, certain regulators and/or government entities, includ- by RMBS trusts, trustees and/or investors. Although the allega-
ing the US Department of Justice (DOJ) and other members of  tions vary by lawsuit, plaintiffs in the class actions and individual 
the Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities (RMBS) Work- investor actions generally allege that the offering documents of 
ing Group of the US Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force,  securities issued by various RMBS securitization trusts contained 
regarding the origination, purchase, securitization, servicing and  material misrepresentations and omissions, including state-
trading of subprime and non-subprime residential and commer- ments regarding the underwriting standards pursuant to which 
cial mortgages and related issues. CSS LLC and its affiliates are  the underlying mortgage loans were issued; monoline insurers 
cooperating with such requests for information. generally allege that loans that collateralize RMBS they insured 
breached representations and warranties made with respect to 
DOJ RMBS settlement the loans at the time of securitization and that they were fraudu-
As previously disclosed, on January 18, 2017, CSS LLC and its  lently induced to enter into the transactions; and repurchase 
current and former US subsidiaries and US affiliates reached a  action plaintiffs generally allege breached representations and 
settlement with the DOJ related to its legacy RMBS business,  warranties in respect of mortgage loans and failure to repurchase 
a business conducted through 2007. The settlement resolved  such mortgage loans as required under the applicable agree-
potential civil claims by the DOJ related to certain of those Credit  ments. The amounts disclosed below do not reflect actual realized 
Suisse entities’ packaging, marketing, structuring, arrangement,  plaintiff losses to date or anticipated future litigation exposure. 
underwriting, issuance and sale of RMBS. Pursuant to the terms  Rather, unless otherwise stated, these amounts reflect the origi-
of the settlement a civil monetary penalty was paid to the DOJ in  nal unpaid principal balance amounts as alleged in these actions 
January 2017. The settlement also required the above-mentioned  and do not include any reduction in principal amounts since issu-
entities to provide a specified amount of consumer relief mea- ance. Further, unless otherwise stated, amounts attributable to 
sures, including affordable housing payments and loan forgive- an “operative pleading” for the individual investor actions are not 
ness, within five years of the settlement, and the DOJ and Credit  altered for settlements, dismissals or other occurrences, if any, 
Suisse agreed to the appointment of an independent monitor to  that may have caused the amounts to change subsequent to the 
oversee the completion of the consumer relief requirements of the  operative pleading. In addition to the mortgage-related actions 
settlement. The monitor has published reports periodically noting  discussed below, a number of other entities have threatened to 
Credit Suisse’s cooperation and progress toward satisfaction of  assert claims against CSS LLC and/or its affiliates in connection 
the consumer relief requirements. with various RMBS issuances.
NJAG litigation Individual investor actions
On December 18, 2013, the New Jersey Attorney General (NJAG),  CSS LLC and, in one instance, its affiliates, as an RMBS issuer, 
on behalf of the State of New Jersey, filed a civil action in the  underwriter and/or other participant, along with other defen-
Superior Court of New Jersey, Chancery Division, Mercer County  dants, have been named as defendants in: (i) one action brought 
(SCNJ), against CSS LLC and affiliated entities in their roles as  by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), as receiver 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 401
   
for Citizens National Bank and Strategic Capital Bank, in the US  SCNY issued a post-trial order determining liability, and on Janu-
District Court for the Southern District of New York (SDNY), in  ary 25, 2021 entered an order setting damages in the amount of 
which claims against CSS LLC and its affiliates relate to approxi- USD 604 million. On February 11, 2021, following a settlement in 
mately USD 28 million of the RMBS at issue (approximately 20%  the amount of USD 600 million, for which Credit Suisse was fully 
of the USD 141 million at issue against all defendants in the  reserved, the SCNY dismissed with prejudice all claims against 
operative pleading) and (ii) one action brought by the FDIC, as  CSS LLC and its affiliates.
receiver for Colonial Bank, in the SDNY, in which claims against 
CSS LLC relate to approximately USD 92 million of the RMBS at  Repurchase litigations
issue (approximately 23% of the USD 394 million at issue against  DLJ Mortgage Capital, Inc. (DLJ) is a defendant in: (i) one action 
all defendants in the operative pleading). These actions are at  brought by Asset Backed Securities Corporation Home Equity Loan 
intermediate procedural stages. Trust, Series 2006-HE7, in which plaintiff alleges damages of not 
less than USD 374 million, increased from not less than USD 341 
CSS LLC and certain of its affiliates are the only defendants  million, in an amended complaint filed on August 19, 2019, which 
named in an action brought by IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG  action is proceeding in the SCNY following the resolution of a pre-
and affiliated entities in the Supreme Court for the State of New  viously pending appeal; on January 13, 2020, DLJ filed a motion 
York, New York County (SCNY), in which claims against CSS  to dismiss; (ii) one action brought by Home Equity Asset Trust, 
LLC and its affiliates relate to approximately USD 97 million of  Series 2006-8, in which plaintiff alleges damages of not less than 
RMBS at issue; this action is at an intermediate procedural stage. USD 436 million; (iii) one action brought by Home Equity Asset 
Trust 2007-1, in which plaintiff alleges damages of not less than 
As disclosed in Credit Suisse’s second quarter Financial Report  USD 420 million; on December 27, 2018, the SCNY denied DLJ’s 
of 2020, on July 16, 2020, following a settlement, the Wash- motion for partial summary judgment in this action, and the First 
ington state court presiding in an investor action brought by the  Department affirmed the SCNY’s summary judgment order on 
Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle dismissed with prejudice all  October 10, 2019; on January 30, 2020, DLJ obtained leave to 
claims against CSS LLC and its affiliates relating to approximately  further appeal to the New York State Court of Appeals; subject to 
USD 145 million of RMBS at issue. final resolution of DLJ’s summary judgment appeal, the SCNY has 
scheduled trial in this action to begin on October 11, 2021; (iv) one 
On December 8, 2020, following a settlement, the Massachu- action brought by Home Equity Asset Trust Series 2007-3, in which 
setts state court presiding in an investor action brought by the  plaintiff alleges damages of not less than USD 206 million; (v) one 
Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston dismissed with prejudice all  action brought by Home Equity Asset Trust 2007-2, in which plain-
claims against CSS LLC and its affiliates relating to approximately  tiff alleges damages of not less than USD 495 million; and (vi) one 
USD 333 million of RMBS at issue. action brought by CSMC Asset-Backed Trust 2007-NC1, in which 
no damages amount is alleged. These actions are brought in the 
Monoline insurer disputes SCNY and are at various procedural stages. DLJ and its affiliate, 
CSS LLC and certain of its affiliates are defendants in one mono- Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (SPS), are defendants in two actions 
line insurer action pending in the SCNY, commenced by MBIA  that have been consolidated for certain procedural purposes, includ-
Insurance Corp. (MBIA) as guarantor for payments of principal  ing trial, in the SCNY: one action brought by Home Equity Mortgage 
and interest related to approximately USD 770 million of RMBS  Trust Series 2006-1, Home Equity Mortgage Trust Series 2006-3 
issued in an offering sponsored by the Credit Suisse defendants.  and Home Equity Mortgage Trust Series 2006-4, in which plaintiffs 
One theory of liability advanced by MBIA is that an affiliate of  allege damages of not less than USD 730 million, and allege that 
CSS LLC must repurchase certain mortgage loans from the  SPS obstructed the investigation into the full extent of the defects 
trusts at issue. MBIA claims that the vast majority of the underly- in the mortgage pools by refusing to afford the trustee reasonable 
ing mortgage loans breach certain representations and warran- access to certain origination files; and one action brought by Home 
ties, and that the affiliate has failed to repurchase the allegedly  Equity Mortgage Trust Series 2006-5, in which plaintiff alleges 
defective loans. In addition, MBIA brought claims for fraudulent  damages of not less than USD 500 million, and alleges that SPS 
inducement, material misrepresentations, breaches of warran- likely discovered DLJ’s alleged breaches of representations and 
ties, repurchase obligations, and reimbursement. MBIA submit- warranties but did not notify the trustee of such breaches, in alleged 
ted repurchase demands for loans with an original principal bal- violation of its contractual obligations. On January 10, 2019, the 
ance of approximately USD 549 million. On March 31, 2017, the  SCNY denied DLJ’s motion for partial summary judgment in these 
SCNY granted in part and denied in part both parties’ respec- actions, and the First Department affirmed the SCNY’s summary 
tive summary judgment motions, which resulted, among other  judgment order on September 17, 2019. On December 12, 2019, 
things, in the dismissal of MBIA’s fraudulent inducement claim  DLJ obtained leave to further appeal to the New York State Court 
with prejudice. On September 13, 2018, the First Department  of Appeals. Subject to final resolution of DLJ’s summary judgment 
issued a decision that, among other things, affirmed the dismissal  appeal, the SCNY has scheduled trial in these actions to begin on 
of MBIA’s fraudulent inducement claim with prejudice. Follow- January 10, 2022.
ing its decision, the First Department remanded the action to the 
trial court for further proceedings. On August 2, 2019, the SCNY  As disclosed in Credit Suisse’s fourth quarter Financial Report 
concluded a two-week bench trial. On November 30, 2020, the  of 2013, the following repurchase actions were dismissed with 
402 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
prejudice in 2013: the three consolidated actions brought by  aiding and abetting fraud, and civil conspiracy claims, including 
Home Equity Asset Trust 2006-5, Home Equity Asset Trust  damages of approximately USD 212 million, exclusive of inter-
2006-6 and Home Equity Asset Trust 2006-7 against DLJ.  est, but left standing the separate December 2014 jury verdict 
Those dismissals were upheld by the New York State Court of  for plaintiff on its claim for fraudulent inducement by affirma-
Appeals on February 19, 2019. On July 8, 2019, the notice  tive misrepresentation. The Texas Supreme Court has remanded 
of appeal plaintiffs filed before the First Department from the  the case back to the trial court for further proceedings related to 
SCNY’s April 2017 denial of plaintiffs’ request that its 2013  the calculation of damages. On June 10, 2020, Highland filed a 
dismissal decision be modified to allow plaintiffs to assert new  motion for rehearing in the Texas Supreme Court, which the court 
claims not previously included in plaintiffs’ consolidated complaint  denied on October 2, 2020.
was deemed dismissed when plaintiffs declined to further pursue 
their appeal by a court-ordered deadline. On August 15, 2019,  In the case in New York state court, the court granted in part 
the trustees for Home Equity Asset Trust 2006-5, Home Equity  and denied in part CSS LLC and certain of its affiliates’ sum-
Asset Trust 2006-6 and Home Equity Asset Trust 2006-7 com- mary judgment motion. Both parties appealed that decision, but 
menced a new repurchase action against DLJ in the SCNY, in  the appellate court affirmed the decision in full. The case is cur-
which plaintiffs alleged damages of not less than USD 936 mil- rently in discovery. CSS LLC and certain of its affiliates separately 
lion, asserting substantially similar claims against DLJ as those  sued Highland-managed funds on related trades and received a 
alleged in the three consolidated repurchase actions that were  favorable judgment awarding both principal owed and prejudgment 
dismissed with prejudice in 2013. On September 20, 2019, DLJ  interest. Highland appealed the portion of the judgment awarding 
filed a motion to dismiss and on November 25, 2019, the SCNY  prejudgment interest, however the original decision was affirmed in 
entered an order dismissing this new action with prejudice. On  its entirety. The parties subsequently agreed to settle the amount 
December 20, 2019, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal to the  owed by the Highland-managed funds under the judgment.
First Department.
Tax and securities law matters
Bank loan litigation
On May 19, 2014, Credit Suisse AG entered into settlement 
CSS LLC and certain of its affiliates are the subject of certain  agreements with several US regulators regarding its US cross-
litigation relating to certain real estate developments including Yel- border matters. As part of the agreements, Credit Suisse AG, 
lowstone Club and Lake Las Vegas as well as other similar real  among other things, engaged an independent corporate monitor 
estate developments. Credit Suisse defendants in these matters  that reports to the New York State Department of Financial Ser-
arranged, and acted as the agent bank for, syndicated loans pro- vices. As of July 31, 2018, the monitor concluded both his review 
vided to borrowers affiliated with such real estate developments,  and his assignment. Credit Suisse AG continues to report to and 
and who have since gone through bankruptcy or foreclosure. Such  cooperate with US authorities in accordance with Credit Suisse 
litigation includes two cases brought in Texas and New York state  AG’s obligations under the agreements.
courts by entities related to Highland Capital Management LP 
(Highland). In the case in Texas state court, a jury trial was held in  Rates-related matters
December 2014 on Highland’s claim for fraudulent inducement by 
affirmative misrepresentation and omission. A verdict was issued  Regulatory matters
for the plaintiff on its claim for fraudulent inducement by affirma- Regulatory authorities in a number of jurisdictions, including the 
tive misrepresentation, but the jury rejected its claim that CSS LLC  US, UK, EU and Switzerland, have for an extended period of 
and an affiliate had committed fraudulent inducement by omission.  time been conducting investigations into the setting of LIBOR 
The Texas judge held a bench trial on Highland’s remaining claims  and other reference rates with respect to a number of curren-
in May and June 2015, and entered judgment in the amount of  cies, as well as the pricing of certain related derivatives. These 
USD 287 million (including prejudgment interest) for the plaintiff  ongoing investigations have included information requests from 
on September 4, 2015. Both parties appealed and on February  regulators regarding LIBOR-setting practices and reviews of the 
21, 2018 the appeals court affirmed the lower court’s decision. On  activities of various financial institutions, including Credit Suisse 
March 7, 2018, the defendants filed a motion for rehearing with the  Group AG, which is a member of three LIBOR rate-setting panels 
appeals court. On April 2, 2018, the motion for rehearing with the  (US Dollar LIBOR, Swiss Franc LIBOR and Euro LIBOR). Credit 
appeals court was denied. On July 18, 2018, the defendants filed  Suisse is cooperating fully with these investigations. In particu-
a request for review by the Texas Supreme Court. On Decem- lar, it has been reported that regulators are investigating whether 
ber 14, 2018, the court issued an order requiring briefs on the  financial institutions engaged in an effort to manipulate LIBOR, 
merits in the request for review. On October 4, 2019, the Texas  either individually or in concert with other institutions, in order to 
Supreme Court granted the request for review. On January 8,  improve market perception of these institutions’ financial health 
2020, the Texas Supreme Court heard oral argument. On April  and/or to increase the value of their proprietary trading positions. 
24, 2020, the Texas Supreme Court issued a ruling reversing the  In response to regulatory inquiries, Credit Suisse commissioned 
portion of the trial court’s judgment related to the bench trial held  a review of these issues. To date, Credit Suisse has seen no evi-
in May and June 2015, thereby dismissing plaintiff’s breach of  dence to suggest that it is likely to have any material exposure in 
contract, breach of the implied duty of good faith and fair dealing,  connection with these issues.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 403
   
Regulatory authorities in a number of jurisdictions, including the  set of defendants in the LIBOR actions (including the dismissal 
Swiss Competition Commission (COMCO), the European Com- of several Credit Suisse entities from various cases on personal 
mission (Commission), the South African Competition Commis- jurisdiction and statute of limitation grounds). The plaintiffs have 
sion, and the Brazilian Competition Authority have been conduct- appealed several of the SDNY’s rulings to the United States 
ing investigations into the trading activities, information sharing  Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Second Circuit), and two 
and the setting of benchmark rates in the foreign exchange  appeals remain pending. The first pending appeal was filed 2017 
(including electronic trading) markets. and is a consolidated appeal brought by a number of putative 
class and individual plaintiffs challenging the district courts’ dis-
On March 31, 2014, COMCO announced its formal investigation  missal of plaintiffs’ antitrust claims. The second pending appeal 
of numerous Swiss and international financial institutions, includ- was filed on June 23, 2020 by the plaintiffs in one of the non-
ing Credit Suisse Group AG, in relation to the setting of exchange  stayed putative class actions challenging the district court’s per-
rates in foreign exchange trading. Credit Suisse continues to  sonal jurisdiction and statute of limitations rulings.
cooperate with this ongoing investigation.
Separately, on May 4, 2017, the plaintiffs in the three non-stayed 
On July 26, 2018, Credit Suisse Group AG and certain affili- putative class actions moved for class certification. On February 
ates received a Statement of Objections from the Commission,  28, 2018, the SDNY denied certification in two of the actions 
alleging that Credit Suisse entities engaged in anticompetitive  and granted certification over a single antitrust claim in an action 
practices in connection with their foreign exchange trading busi- brought by over-the-counter purchasers of LIBOR-linked deriva-
ness. The Statement of Objections sets out the Commission’s  tives. In the same decision, the court dismissed Credit Suisse 
preliminary views and does not prejudge the final outcome of its  AG, the only remaining Credit Suisse entity in the action, from the 
investigation. over-the-counter action. All parties moved for immediate appellate 
review of the class-certification decisions, and the Second Circuit 
The reference rates investigations have also included information  denied their petitions for review.
requests from regulators concerning supranational, sub-sovereign 
and agency (SSA) bonds and commodities (including precious  USD ICE LIBOR litigation
metals) markets. Credit Suisse is cooperating fully with these  In January 2019, members of the US dollar Intercontinental 
investigations. Exchange (ICE) LIBOR panel, including Credit Suisse Group 
AG and certain of its affiliates, were named in three civil puta-
On December 20, 2018, Credit Suisse Group AG and Credit  tive class action lawsuits alleging that panel banks suppressed 
Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited received a Statement of  US dollar ICE LIBOR to benefit defendants’ trading positions. 
Objections from the Commission, alleging that Credit Suisse enti- These actions have been consolidated in the SDNY. On July 1, 
ties engaged in anticompetitive practices in connection with its  2019, plaintiffs filed a consolidated complaint. On August 30, 
SSA bonds trading business. The Statement of Objections sets  2019, defendants filed a motion to dismiss. On March 26, 2020, 
out the Commission’s preliminary views and does not prejudge  the SDNY granted defendants’ motion to dismiss. On April 24, 
the final outcome of its investigation. 2020, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal. On December 28, 2020, 
a proposed intervener filed a motion to intervene because of the 
The investigations are ongoing and it is too soon to predict the  current plaintiffs’ intent to withdraw. On January 7, 2021, defen-
final outcome of the investigations. dants filed a motion to dismiss the appeal based on the current 
plaintiffs’ intent to withdraw.
Civil litigation
USD LIBOR litigation On August 18, 2020, members of the ICE LIBOR panel, includ-
Beginning in 2011, certain Credit Suisse entities were named in  ing Credit Suisse Group AG and certain of its affiliates, were 
various civil lawsuits filed in the US, alleging banks on the US  named in a civil action in the US District Court for the North-
dollar LIBOR panel manipulated US dollar LIBOR to benefit their  ern District of California, alleging that panel banks manipulated 
reputation and increase profits. All remaining matters have been  ICE LIBOR to profit from variable interest loans and credit cards. 
consolidated for pre-trial purposes into a multi-district litigation  On November 10, 2020, plaintiffs filed a motion for preliminary 
in the SDNY. The majority of the actions have been stayed since  and permanent injunction that seeks to enjoin the panel banks 
their outset, while a handful of individual actions and putative  from continuing to set LIBOR or that would automatically set the 
class actions have been proceeding. The Credit Suisse entities  benchmark to zero every day. On November 11, 2020, defen-
have been dismissed from all non-stayed putative class actions. dants filed a motion to transfer the case to the SDNY.
In a series of rulings between 2013 and 2019 on motions to  CHF LIBOR litigation
dismiss, the SDNY (i) narrowed the claims against the Credit  In February 2015, various banks that served on the Swiss franc 
Suisse entities and the other defendants (dismissing antitrust,  LIBOR panel, including Credit Suisse Group AG, were named 
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO),  in a civil putative class action lawsuit filed in the SDNY, alleg-
Commodity Exchange Act, and state law claims), (ii) narrowed  ing manipulation of Swiss franc LIBOR to benefit defendants’ 
the set of plaintiffs who may bring claims, and (iii) narrowed the  trading positions. On September 25, 2017, the SDNY granted 
404 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
defendants’ motion to dismiss all claims, but permitted the plain- affiliates moved for summary judgment. On March 5, 2021, plain-
tiffs to file an amended complaint. Defendants filed motions to  tiffs moved for summary judgment.
dismiss the amended complaint on February 7, 2018. On Sep-
tember 16, 2019, the SDNY granted defendants’ motions to dis- The second pending matter names Credit Suisse AG and affili-
miss, finding that the court lacked subject matter jurisdiction over  ates, as well as other financial institutions in a putative class 
the case. On October 16, 2019, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal. action filed in the SDNY on June 3, 2015. This action is based 
on the same alleged conduct as the consolidated class action 
SIBOR/SOR litigation and alleges violations of the US Employee Retirement Income 
In July 2016, various banks that served on the Singapore Interbank  Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). On August 23, 2016, the SDNY 
Offered Rate (SIBOR) and Singapore Swap Offer Rate (SOR)  granted a motion to dismiss filed by affiliates of Credit Suisse 
panels, including Credit Suisse Group AG and affiliates, were  AG, along with other financial institutions. Plaintiffs appealed that 
named in a civil putative class action lawsuit filed in the SDNY,  decision, and on July 10, 2018, the Second Circuit issued an 
alleging manipulation of SIBOR and SOR to benefit defendants’  order affirming in full the SDNY’s decision to dismiss the putative 
trading positions. On August 18, 2017, the SDNY dismissed all  ERISA class action against Credit Suisse AG and affiliates as well 
claims against Credit Suisse Group AG and affiliates (and various  as other defendant financial institutions and denying plaintiffs’ 
other defendants) but granted the plaintiffs leave to amend their  request for leave to amend their complaint.
complaint. On October 4, 2018, the SDNY granted in part and 
denied in part defendants’ motion to dismiss plaintiffs’ second  The third pending matter originally named Credit Suisse Group 
amended complaint, upholding antitrust claims against Credit  AG and affiliates, as well as other financial institutions, in a 
Suisse AG and other panel bank defendants, but narrowing the  consolidated putative class action filed in the SDNY, alleging 
claims to those related to Singapore Dollar SIBOR and dismissing  manipulation of the foreign exchange market on behalf of indirect 
all but one plaintiff from the action. The court also dismissed the  purchasers of foreign exchange instruments. On March 15, 2018, 
RICO claims without leave to amend. On October 25, 2018, the  the court issued a decision granting defendants’ joint motion to 
remaining plaintiff filed a third amended complaint. The remain- dismiss and dismissing the consolidated complaint in its entirety. 
ing defendants moved to dismiss on November 15, 2018. On July  On October 25, 2018, the SDNY granted in substantial part 
26, 2019, the SDNY granted defendants’ motion to dismiss and  plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file a proposed second consolidated 
denied plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend, holding that the court  class action complaint, which plaintiffs filed on November 28, 
lacked subject matter jurisdiction over the action. On August 26,  2018. On December 20, 2018, the Group, together with other 
2019, plaintiff filed a notice of appeal. financial institutions, filed a motion to dismiss on the basis of 
personal jurisdiction. On February 19, 2019, plaintiffs voluntarily 
Foreign exchange litigation dismissed Credit Suisse Group AG. On July 17, 2020, the court 
Credit Suisse Group AG and affiliates as well as other financial insti- entered an order preliminarily approving a group settlement of 
tutions are named in five pending civil lawsuits in the SDNY relating  USD 10 million with the remaining defendants, including Credit 
to the alleged manipulation of foreign exchange rates. Suisse AG and an affiliate. On November 19, 2020, the court 
entered an order granting final approval of the settlement and 
The first pending matter is a putative consolidated class action.  directing that the litigation be dismissed with prejudice.
On January 28, 2015, the court denied defendants’ motion to 
dismiss the original consolidated complaint brought by US-based  The fourth pending matter names Credit Suisse Group AG and 
investors and foreign plaintiffs who transacted in the US, but  affiliates in a putative class action filed in the SDNY on July 12, 
granted their motion to dismiss the claims of foreign-based inves- 2017, alleging improper practices in connection with electronic 
tors for transactions outside of the US. In July 2015, plaintiffs  foreign exchange trading. On April 12, 2018, the SDNY granted 
filed a second consolidated amended complaint, adding additional  defendants’ motion to compel arbitration.
defendants and asserting additional claims on behalf of a second 
putative class of exchange investors. On September 20, 2016,  The fifth pending matter originally named Credit Suisse Group AG 
the SDNY granted in part and denied in part a motion to dismiss  and affiliates, as well as other financial institutions, in a civil action 
filed by the Group and affiliates, along with other financial institu- filed in the SDNY on November 13, 2018. This action is based 
tions, which reduced the size of the putative class, but allowed  on the same alleged conduct as the consolidated class action. On 
the primary antitrust and Commodity Exchange Act claims to  March 1, 2019, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint. On April 
survive. On May 31, 2018, plaintiffs served a motion for class  1, 2019, defendants filed motions to dismiss. On April 23, 2019, 
certification, which the Group and affiliates opposed on October  plaintiffs sought leave to file a second amended complaint in lieu 
25, 2018. On September 3, 2019, the SDNY denied plaintiffs’  of responding to defendants’ motions. On April 26, 2019, the 
motion for certification of a Rule 23(b)(3) damages class, rul- SDNY ordered plaintiffs to file their second amended complaint 
ing that proof of both injury and damages must proceed on an  subject to defendants’ right to oppose the amendment and to 
individual basis, but granted certification as to two threshold  renew their motions to dismiss, and on June 11, 2019, plaintiffs 
issues concerning the alleged conspiracy. The SDNY also denied  filed a second amended complaint. On June 28, 2019, plain-
plaintiffs’ motion for certification of a second proposed class in  tiffs voluntarily dismissed Credit Suisse Group AG. On July 25, 
its entirety. On January 29, 2021, Credit Suisse Group AG and  2019, defendants filed motions to dismiss the second amended 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 405
   
complaint. On September 6, 2019, plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed  SDNY granted defendants’ motion to dismiss for failure to state 
Credit Suisse International. The claims against Credit Suisse  a claim, but granted plaintiffs leave to amend. On November 6, 
AG and CSS LLC remain pending. On May 28, 2020, the court  2018, plaintiffs filed a second consolidated amended class action 
granted in part and denied in part defendants’ motion to dismiss  complaint, which defendants moved to dismiss on December 21, 
the second amended complaint. On July 28, 2020, plaintiffs filed  2018. On September 30, 2019, the SDNY granted the motion to 
a third amended complaint. dismiss for lack of personal jurisdiction and improper venue made 
by Credit Suisse and certain other defendants and subsequently 
Credit Suisse Group AG and certain of its affiliates, together with  indicated that it would further address the motion to dismiss 
other financial institutions, have also been named in two Canadian  for failure to state a claim made by CSS LLC and certain other 
putative class actions proceeding in Ontario and Quebec, which  defendants. On March 18, 2020, the SDNY issued an additional 
make allegations similar to the consolidated class action. On April  opinion granting the motion to dismiss for failure to state a claim. 
14, 2020, in the matter proceeding in Ontario, the court granted  On June 1, 2020, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal.
in part and denied in part plaintiffs’ motion for class certification, 
certifying a class comprising all persons in Canada who, between  Separately, on February 7, 2019, Credit Suisse AG and certain 
2003 and 2013, entered into an FX instrument transaction with a  of its affiliates, together with other financial institutions and indi-
defendant or through an intermediary. viduals, were named in a putative class action filed in the SDNY, 
which makes allegations similar to the consolidated class action, 
Credit Suisse AG, together with other financial institutions, has  but seeks to represent a putative class of indirect purchasers of 
also been named in a consolidated putative class action in Israel,  US dollar SSA bonds where the purchase was made in or con-
which makes allegations similar to the consolidated class action. nected to New York. On June 25, 2020, plaintiff voluntarily dis-
missed the lawsuit.
Treasury markets litigation
CSS LLC, along with over 20 other primary dealers of US trea- Credit Suisse Group AG and certain of its affiliates, together with 
sury securities, has been named in a number of putative civil class  other financial institutions, have also been named in two Cana-
action complaints in the US relating to the US treasury markets.  dian putative class actions, which make allegations similar to the 
These complaints generally allege that defendants colluded to  consolidated class action.
manipulate US treasury auctions, as well as the pricing of US 
treasury securities in the when-issued market, with impacts upon  Bank Bill Swap litigation
related futures and options. These actions have been consolidated  On August 16, 2016, Credit Suisse Group AG and Credit Suisse 
into a multi-district litigation in the SDNY. On August 23, 2017, the  AG, along with other financial institutions, were named in a puta-
SDNY appointed lead counsel, and on August 25, 2017, three pur- tive class action brought in the SDNY, alleging manipulation of 
ported class representatives re-filed their complaints as a collective  the Australian Bank Bill Swap reference rate. Plaintiffs filed an 
individual action. On November 15, 2017, plaintiffs filed a consoli- amended complaint on December 16, 2016, which defendants 
dated amended class action complaint naming CSS LLC, Credit  moved to dismiss on February 24, 2017. On November 26, 2018, 
Suisse Group AG, and Credit Suisse International (CSI), along with  the SDNY granted in part and denied in part defendants’ motions 
a narrower group of other defendants. The consolidated complaint  to dismiss, including dismissing the complaint in its entirety 
contains previously-asserted allegations as well as new allega- against Credit Suisse Group AG and Credit Suisse AG. On March 
tions concerning a group boycott to prevent the emergence of  4, 2019, plaintiffs were granted leave to file a second amended 
anonymous, all-to-all trading in the secondary market for treasury  complaint. On April 3, 2019, plaintiffs filed a second amended 
securities. On February 23, 2018, defendants served motions to  complaint. On May 20, 2019, defendants filed motions to dismiss. 
dismiss on plaintiffs and the SDNY entered a stipulation voluntarily  On February 13, 2020, the SDNY granted in part and denied in 
dismissing Credit Suisse Group AG and other defendant holding  part defendants’ motion to dismiss.
companies. On March 26, 2018, the SDNY entered a stipulation 
voluntarily dismissing CSI for lack of personal jurisdiction. Mexican government bonds litigation 
Credit Suisse AG and affiliates have been named in multiple puta-
SSA bonds litigation tive class actions in US federal court alleging a conspiracy among 
Credit Suisse Group AG and affiliates, along with other financial  Credit Suisse entities and other dealer banks to manipulate the 
institutions and individuals, have been named in several putative  Mexican government bond market. These actions have been 
class action complaints filed in the SDNY relating to SSA bonds.  consolidated in the SDNY and on July 18, 2018, plaintiffs filed 
The complaints generally allege that defendants conspired to fix  their consolidated amended complaint. On September 17, 2018, 
the prices of SSA bonds sold to and purchased from investors in  defendants filed motions to dismiss the consolidated amended 
the secondary market. These actions have been consolidated in  complaint. On September 30, 2019, the SDNY granted defen-
the SDNY. On April 7, 2017, plaintiffs filed a consolidated class  dants’ motion to dismiss. On December 9, 2019, plaintiffs filed a 
action complaint. Plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended class  second consolidated amended complaint that does not name any 
action complaint on November 3, 2017, which defendants moved  Credit Suisse entity as a defendant.
to dismiss on December 12, 2017. On August 24, 2018, the 
406 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Government-sponsored entity bonds litigation On September 21, 2020, Credit Suisse AG and CSS LLC, along 
Since February 22, 2019, Credit Suisse AG and CSS LLC,  with other financial institutions, were named in a civil action 
together with other financial institutions, have been named in  brought by the City of New Orleans, the New Orleans Munici-
multiple putative class action complaints filed in the SDNY, alleg- pal Employees Retirement System and the New Orleans Aviation 
ing a conspiracy among the financial institutions to fix prices for  Board in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Louisi-
unsecured bonds issued by Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae, the Federal  ana, which also alleges a conspiracy among financial institutions 
Home Loan Banks and the Federal Farm Credit Banks. to fix prices for unsecured bonds issued by certain government-
sponsored entities. On February 17, 2021, the court dismissed 
On April 3, 2019, the SDNY consolidated the putative class  without prejudice the claims against Credit Suisse AG for lack of 
action complaints. On May 23, 2019, class plaintiffs in the con- service. The claim against CSS LLC remains pending. On March 
solidated putative class action filed a consolidated amended  8, 2021, the court transferred the action to the US District Court 
complaint that removed Credit Suisse AG as a defendant. On  for the Middle District of Louisiana for consolidation with the three 
June 13, 2019, defendants filed a motion to dismiss. On July 12,  earlier-filed Louisiana cases.
2019, plaintiffs filed a second consolidated amended complaint. 
On August 29, 2019, the SDNY granted defendants’ motion to  OTC trading cases 
dismiss, but granted plaintiffs leave to amend. On September 
10, 2019, plaintiffs filed a third consolidated amended complaint.  Credit Suisse Group AG and affiliates, along with other financial 
On September 17, 2019, defendants filed a motion to dismiss  institutions, have been named in one consolidated putative civil 
certain aspects of the complaint, which was denied on October  class action complaint and one consolidated complaint filed by indi-
15, 2019. On December 6, 2019, the parties reached an agree- vidual plaintiffs relating to interest rate swaps, alleging that dealer 
ment in principle to settle the putative class action in its entirety.  defendants conspired with trading platforms to prevent the develop-
Class plaintiffs filed a motion seeking preliminary approval of the  ment of interest rate swap exchanges. The individual lawsuits were 
global settlement on December 16, 2019, and the SDNY issued  brought by TeraExchange LLC, a swap execution facility, and affili-
an order preliminarily approving the global settlement on February  ates, and Javelin Capital Markets LLC, a swap execution facility, 
3, 2020. On June 16, 2020, the court issued an order granting  and an affiliate, which claim to have suffered lost profits as a result 
final approval to all settlements, including the global settlement to  of defendants’ alleged conspiracy. All interest rate swap actions 
which CSS LLC is a party. have been consolidated in a multi-district litigation in the SDNY. 
Both class and individual plaintiffs filed second amended consoli-
Credit Suisse AG and CSS LLC, along with other financial insti- dated complaints on December 9, 2016, which defendants moved 
tutions, have been named in two civil actions in the US District  to dismiss on January 20, 2017. On July 28, 2017, the SDNY 
Court for the Middle District of Louisiana, alleging a conspiracy  granted in part and denied in part defendants’ motions to dismiss. 
among financial institutions to fix prices for unsecured bonds  On May 30, 2018, class plaintiffs filed a third amended consoli-
issued by certain government-sponsored entities: one action  dated class action complaint.
brought by the Louisiana Attorney General on behalf of the State 
of Louisiana on September 23, 2019, and one action brought by  On June 14, 2018, a new direct action complaint was filed by 
the City of Baton Rouge on October 21, 2019. On July 13, 2020,  swap execution facility trueEX LLC. On June 20, 2018, the 
in the civil action filed on September 23, 2019, plaintiff filed an  trueEX LLC complaint was added to the existing multi-district liti-
amended complaint. On July 24, 2020, Credit Suisse AG and  gation. On August 9, 2018, trueEX LLC filed an amended com-
CSS LLC filed an answer. plaint against Credit Suisse Group AG and affiliates, along with 
other financial institutions, which defendants moved to dismiss on 
On April 1, 2020, Credit Suisse AG and CSS LLC, along with  August 28, 2018. On November 20, 2018, the SDNY issued an 
other financial institutions, were named in a civil action in the US  order granting in part and denying in part defendants’ motion to 
District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana, alleging a  dismiss the trueEX LLC amended complaint.
conspiracy among financial institutions to fix prices for unsecured 
bonds issued by certain government-sponsored entities. On June  On February 20, 2019, class plaintiffs in the consolidated multi-
26, 2020, CSS LLC and certain other defendants filed a partial  district litigation filed a motion for class certification. On March 
motion to dismiss state law claims brought under the Louisiana  20, 2019, class plaintiffs filed a fourth amended consolidated 
Unfair Trade Practices Act. On July 17, 2020, the plaintiff filed a  class action complaint. On June 18, 2019, defendants filed their 
first amended complaint in response to the partial motion to dis- opposition to plaintiffs’ motion for class certification.
miss. On July 31, 2020, CSS LLC and certain other defendants 
filed a partial motion to dismiss plaintiff’s first amended complaint  On June 8, 2017, Credit Suisse Group AG and affiliates, along with 
alleging state law claims brought under the Louisiana Unfair Trade  other financial institutions, were named in a civil action filed in the 
Practices Act. On December 31, 2020, the court transferred the  SDNY by Tera Group, Inc. and related entities (collectively “Tera”), 
action to the US District Court for the Middle District of Louisiana  alleging violations of antitrust law in connection with the allegation 
for consolidation with the two earlier-filed Louisiana cases. that credit default swap (CDS) dealers conspired to block Tera’s 
electronic CDS trading platform from successfully entering the mar-
ket. On September 11, 2017, defendants filed a motion to dismiss. 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 407
   
On July 30, 2019, the SDNY granted in part and denied in part  a second amended complaint in the EDNY against a number of 
defendants’ motion to dismiss. On January 30, 2020, plaintiffs filed  banks, including Credit Suisse AG, alleging claims under the ATA. 
an amended complaint. On April 3, 2020, defendants filed a motion  On September 14, 2016, Credit Suisse AG and the other defen-
to dismiss. dants filed motions to dismiss the plaintiffs’ second amended com-
plaint in the EDNY. On September 16, 2019, the EDNY granted 
Credit Suisse Group AG and certain of its affiliates, as well as  defendants’ motion to dismiss. Plaintiffs moved for partial recon-
other financial institutions, were originally named in a number of  sideration of portions of the dismissal that do not relate to Credit 
civil lawsuits in the SDNY, certain of which are brought by class  Suisse, which the court denied on October 28, 2019. On Novem-
action plaintiffs alleging that the defendants conspired to keep  ber 26, 2019, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal.
stock-loan trading in an over-the-counter market and collec-
tively boycotted certain trading platforms that sought to enter the  Another lawsuit was filed on November 9, 2017 in the SDNY 
market, and certain of which are brought by trading platforms  against a number of banks, including Credit Suisse AG, alleging 
that sought to enter the market alleging that the defendants col- claims under the ATA. On March 2, 2018, Credit Suisse AG and 
lectively boycotted the platforms. The SDNY denied defendants’  other defendants filed motions to dismiss the plaintiffs’ complaint. 
motions to dismiss in the putative class action. On February 22,  On March 28, 2019, the SDNY granted the motion to dismiss. 
2021, plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification in the putative  On April 22, 2019, plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to amend 
class action. In each of the lawsuits, the court entered a stipu- their complaint, which defendants opposed on May 20, 2019. On 
lation voluntarily dismissing Credit Suisse Group AG and other  February 25, 2020, the court denied plaintiffs’ motion to amend 
defendant holding companies, although certain Credit Suisse  their complaint and dismissed the case with prejudice as to Credit 
Group AG affiliates remain part of the ongoing action. Suisse AG and the other moving bank defendants. On May 28, 
2020, plaintiffs filed a motion to appeal the court’s February 25, 
On August 6, 2019, in one of the civil actions filed in the SDNY  2020 decision, which the moving defendants opposed on June 11, 
by a purported successor in interest to a trading platform for  2020.
stock loans that sought to enter the market, the SDNY granted 
defendants’ motion to dismiss and entered judgment in favor of  In December 2018, five additional lawsuits were filed in the EDNY 
the defendants. On September 3, 2019, plaintiff filed a motion to  or SDNY against a number of banks, including Credit Suisse AG 
amend the judgment to permit plaintiff to file an amended com- and, in two instances, Credit Suisse AG, New York Branch alleg-
plaint or, in the alternative, to dismiss certain claims without preju- ing claims under the ATA and the Justice Against Sponsors of 
dice. On September 10, 2019, the SDNY denied in part plaintiff’s  Terrorism Act. These actions similarly allege a conspiracy between 
motion to amend the judgment but ordered additional briefing on  Iran and various international financial institutions, including the 
whether certain claims should be dismissed without prejudice. On  defendants, in which they agreed to alter, falsify or omit informa-
January 6, 2020, the SDNY denied plaintiff’s motion to amend  tion from payment messages that involved Iranian parties, and that 
the judgment. this conspiracy made it possible for Iran to transfer funds to terror-
ist organizations actively engaged in harming US military personnel 
On April 21, 2020, CSS LLC and other financial institutions were  and civilians.
named in a putative class action complaint filed in the SDNY, 
alleging a conspiracy among the financial institutions to boycott  On April 11, 2019, another action alleging claims under the ATA 
electronic trading platforms and fix prices in the secondary mar- was filed in the EDNY that is related to, and makes allegations 
ket for odd-lot corporate bonds. On July 14, 2020, plaintiff filed  materially similar to, the other ATA cases already pending in the 
an amended complaint. On September 10, 2020, defendants  EDNY. On January 6, 2020, defendants filed a motion to dismiss 
filed a motion to dismiss. two of these cases, which were filed in December 2018 and April 
2019 in the EDNY. On June 5, 2020, the EDNY granted defen-
ATA litigation dants’ motion to dismiss as to Credit Suisse AG and most of the 
other bank defendants.
A lawsuit was filed on November 10, 2014 in the US District Court 
for the Eastern District of New York (EDNY) against a number of  Other than cases that have been decided or where a motion to 
banks, including Credit Suisse AG, alleging claims under the United  dismiss is pending, these cases have been stayed pending the 
States Anti-Terrorism Act (ATA). The action alleges a conspiracy  outcome of certain of the decisions described above.
between Iran and various international financial institutions, includ-
ing the defendants, in which they agreed to alter, falsify or omit  Customer account matters
information from payment messages that involved Iranian parties 
for the express purpose of concealing the Iranian parties’ financial  Several clients have claimed that a former relationship man-
activities and transactions from detection by US authorities. The  ager in Switzerland had exceeded his investment authority in the 
complaint, brought by approximately 200 plaintiffs, alleges that this  management of their portfolios, resulting in excessive concentra-
conspiracy has made it possible for Iran to transfer funds to Hez- tions of certain exposures and investment losses. Credit Suisse 
bollah and other terrorist organizations actively engaged in harming  AG is investigating the claims, as well as transactions among the 
US military personnel and civilians. On July 12, 2016, plaintiffs filed  clients. Credit Suisse AG filed a criminal complaint against the 
408 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
former relationship manager with the Geneva Prosecutor’s Office  continues to cooperate with US authorities on this matter. As pre-
upon which the prosecutor initiated a criminal investigation. Sev- viously disclosed, the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Author-
eral clients of the former relationship manager also filed criminal  ity FINMA has announced the conclusion of its investigation.
complaints with the Geneva Prosecutor’s Office. On February 
9, 2018, the former relationship manager was sentenced to five  External asset manager matter
years in prison by the Geneva criminal court for fraud, forgery 
and criminal mismanagement and ordered to pay damages of  Several clients have claimed that an external asset manager 
approximately USD 130 million. Several parties have appealed  based in Geneva misappropriated funds, forged bank statements, 
the judgement. On June 26, 2019, the Criminal Court of Appeals  transferred assets between client accounts at Credit Suisse AG 
of Geneva ruled in the appeal of the judgment against the former  as custodian to conceal losses and made investments without the 
relationship manager, upholding the main findings of the Geneva  authorization of those clients. The Geneva Prosecutor’s Office 
criminal court. Several parties have appealed the decision to the  initiated a criminal investigation against representatives of the 
Swiss Federal Supreme Court. On February 19, 2020, the Swiss  external asset manager and two former Credit Suisse AG employ-
Federal Supreme Court rendered its judgment on the appeals,  ees. This investigation was expanded in November 2018 to also 
substantially confirming the findings of the Criminal Court of  include one former and one current Credit Suisse AG employee 
Appeals of Geneva. and Credit Suisse AG itself in order to assess the sufficiency of 
Credit Suisse AG’s controls and supervision. In the third quarter 
Civil lawsuits were initiated between August 7, 2017 and August  of 2019, Credit Suisse AG entered into a two stage, conditional 
25, 2017 in the High Court of Singapore and the Supreme Court  settlement agreement with affected clients. With the cooperation 
of Bermuda against Credit Suisse AG and certain affiliates, based  of the Geneva Prosecutor’s Office, the first stage of the settle-
on the findings established in the criminal proceedings against the  ment was completed in November 2019.
former relationship manager.
Mossack Fonseca/Israel Desk matters
In Singapore, on August 31, 2018, the civil lawsuit was stayed 
by an Assistant Registrar of the High Court of Singapore and  Credit Suisse, along with many financial institutions, has received 
plaintiffs appealed the decision. On January 18, 2019, the Sin- inquiries from governmental and regulatory authorities concern-
gapore High Court dismissed the plaintiffs’ appeal and upheld  ing banking relationships between financial institutions, their 
the Assistant Registrar’s decision to stay the civil proceedings in  clients and the Panama-based law firm of Mossack Fonseca. 
Singapore. On April 29, 2019, the plaintiffs appealed the deci- Credit Suisse has also received governmental and regulatory 
sion of the Singapore High Court only with respect to their action  inquiries concerning cross-border services provided by Credit 
against the Credit Suisse affiliate. On June 21, 2019, the plain- Suisse’s Switzerland-based Israel Desk. Credit Suisse is conduct-
tiffs discontinued their action against Credit Suisse AG. On July  ing a review of these issues and has been cooperating with the 
3, 2020, the Singapore Court of Appeals granted the plaintiffs’  authorities.
appeal against the Credit Suisse affiliate and lifted the stay of the 
civil proceedings, allowing the plaintiffs’ civil claim to proceed in  Mozambique matter
the Singapore High Court. On July 10, 2020, plaintiffs filed an 
amended statement of claim in the Singapore High Court. On  Credit Suisse is continuing to respond to requests from regulatory 
March 9, 2021 the Singapore High Court transferred the civil  and enforcement authorities, and is in ongoing dialogue with cer-
lawsuit to the Singapore International Commercial Court. tain of these authorities, related to certain Credit Suisse entities’ 
arrangement of loan financing to Mozambique state enterprises, 
FIFA-related matters Proindicus S.A. and Empresa Mocambiacana de Atum S.A. 
(EMATUM), a distribution to private investors of loan participa-
In connection with investigations by US and Swiss government  tion notes (LPN) related to the EMATUM financing in Septem-
authorities into the involvement of financial institutions in the  ber 2013, and certain Credit Suisse entities’ subsequent role in 
alleged bribery and corruption surrounding the Fédération Inter- arranging the exchange of those LPNs for Eurobonds issued by 
nationale de Football Association (FIFA), Credit Suisse received  the Republic of Mozambique. On January 3, 2019, the United 
inquiries from these authorities regarding its banking relationships  States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York unsealed an 
with certain individuals and entities associated with FIFA, includ- indictment against several individuals in connection with the mat-
ing but not limited to certain persons and entities named and/ ter, including three former Credit Suisse employees. On May 20, 
or described in the May 20, 2015 indictment and the November  2019, July 19, 2019 and September 6, 2019, the three former 
25, 2015 superseding indictment filed by the Eastern District of  employees pleaded guilty to accepting improper personal ben-
New York US Attorney’s Office. The US and Swiss investiga- efits in connection with financing transactions carried out with 
tions encompassed whether multiple financial institutions, includ- two Mozambique state enterprises. Credit Suisse is cooperat-
ing Credit Suisse, permitted the processing of suspicious or  ing with the authorities on this matter. On February 27, 2019, 
otherwise improper transactions, or failed to observe anti-money  certain Credit Suisse entities, the same three former employees, 
laundering laws and regulations, with respect to the accounts of  and several other unrelated entities were sued in the English High 
certain persons and entities associated with FIFA. Credit Suisse  Court by the Republic of Mozambique. On January 21, 2020, the 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 409
   
Credit Suisse entities filed their defense. On June 26, 2020 the  monitor was required. As part of the agreement, Credit Suisse 
Credit Suisse entities filed third party claims against the project  AG has ongoing obligations, including cooperating with the DOJ, 
contractor and several Mozambique officials. The Republic of  maintaining prescribed standards in its compliance programs and 
Mozambique filed an updated Particulars of Claim on October 27,  reporting to the DOJ on the functioning of its enhanced com-
2020, and the Credit Suisse entities filed their amended defense  pliance programs. On July 5, 2018, Credit Suisse Group AG 
and counterclaim on January 15, 2021. The Republic of Mozam- reached a settlement with the US Securities and Exchange Com-
bique seeks a declaration that the sovereign guarantee issued  mission to resolve the parallel investigation of the same conduct 
in connection with the ProIndicus loan syndication arranged and  for USD 29.8 million.
funded, in part, by a Credit Suisse subsidiary is void and also 
seeks unspecified damages alleged to have arisen in connec- Write-downs litigation
tion with the transactions involving ProIndicus and EMATUM, 
and a transaction in which Credit Suisse had no involvement with  On December 22, 2017, Credit Suisse Group AG and certain cur-
Mozambique Asset Management S.A. Also on January 15, 2021,  rent and former executives were named in a class action complaint 
the project contractor filed a cross claim against the Credit Suisse  filed in the SDNY on behalf of a putative class of purchasers of 
entities (as well as the three former Credit Suisse employees  Credit Suisse Group AG American Depositary Receipts (ADRs), 
and various Mozambican officials) seeking an indemnity and/or  asserting claims for violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the 
contribution in the event that the contractor is found liable to the  US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, 
Republic of Mozambique. alleging that defendants sanctioned increases to trading limits that 
ultimately led to write-downs in the fourth quarter of 2015 and 
On April 27, 2020, Banco Internacional de Moçambique (BIM),  the first quarter of 2016 and a decline in the market value of the 
a member of the ProIndicus syndicate, brought a claim against  ADRs. On April 18, 2018, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint, 
certain Credit Suisse entities seeking, contingent on the Republic  which asserted substantially the same claims as the original 
of Mozambique’s claim, a declaration that Credit Suisse is liable to  complaint. On February 19, 2019, the SDNY granted in part and 
compensate it for alleged losses suffered as a result of any inva- denied in part, defendants’ motion to dismiss the amended com-
lidity of the sovereign guarantee. The Credit Suisse entities filed  plaint. The decision narrowed the scope of the action to claims 
their defense to this claim on August 28, 2020, to which BIM  related to statements concerning Credit Suisse’s risk limits and 
replied on October 16, 2020. controls. On May 16, 2019, the SDNY denied defendants’ motion 
for reconsideration. On July 8, 2020, the parties entered into an 
On December 17, 2020, two members of the ProIndicus syn- agreement to settle all claims for USD 15.5 million. On December 
dicate, Beauregarde Holdings LLP and Orobica Holdings LLC,  16, 2020, the court issued an order granting final approval to the 
filed a claim against certain Credit Suisse entities in respect of  settlement.
their interests in the ProIndicus loan, seeking unspecified dam-
ages stemming from the alleged loss suffered due to their reli- ETN-related litigation 
ance on representations made by Credit Suisse to the syndicate 
lenders. Since March 14, 2018, three class action complaints were filed in 
the SDNY on behalf of a putative class of purchasers of Veloci-
Cross-border private banking matters  tyShares Daily Inverse VIX Short Term Exchange Traded Notes 
linked to the S&P 500 VIX Short-Term Futures Index due Decem-
Credit Suisse offices in various locations, including the UK, the  ber 4, 2030 (XIV ETNs). On August 20, 2018, plaintiffs filed 
Netherlands and France, have been contacted by regulatory and  a consolidated amended class action complaint, naming Credit 
law enforcement authorities that are seeking records and infor- Suisse Group AG and certain affiliates and executives, along with 
mation concerning investigations into our historical private bank- Janus Index & Calculation Services LLC and affiliates, which 
ing services on a cross-border basis and in part through our local  asserts claims for violations of Sections 9(a)(4), 9(f), 10(b) and 
branches and banks. A similar inquiry has been opened in Bel- 20(a) of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 
gium. Credit Suisse has conducted a review of these issues, the  thereunder and Sections 11 and 15 of the US Securities Act of 
UK aspects of which have now been closed with no action being  1933 and alleges that the defendants are responsible for losses to 
taken against the bank, and is continuing to cooperate with the  investors following a decline in the value of XIV ETNs on February 
authorities. Credit Suisse applies a strict zero tolerance policy on  5, 2018. Defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint 
tax evasion. on November 2, 2018. On September 25, 2019, the SDNY 
granted defendants’ motion to dismiss and dismissed with preju-
Hiring practices investigation dice all claims against the defendants. On October 18, 2019, 
plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal.
On May 30, 2018, Credit Suisse (Hong Kong) Limited (CSHKL) 
entered into a non-prosecution agreement to resolve the inves- On April 17, 2018, Credit Suisse AG, along with Janus Index & 
tigation of past hiring practices between 2007 and 2013 in the  Calculation Services LLC, was named in an individual civil action 
Asia Pacific region by the DOJ, under which CSHKL paid a  in the Northern District of Alabama that makes allegations similar 
penalty of USD 47 million. No criminal charges were filed and no  to those alleged in the consolidated New York class action. On 
410 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
August 10, 2018, defendants filed a motion to transfer the action  a decline in the value of ZIV ETNs in February 2018. On August 
to the SDNY, which was denied on December 17, 2018. On  20, 2019, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint. On October 21, 
September 26, 2018, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the  2019, defendants filed a motion to dismiss. On April 28, 2020, 
Alabama complaint. On December 4, 2018, plaintiffs filed an  the SDNY granted defendants’ motion to dismiss and dismissed 
amended complaint, which defendants moved to dismiss on  all claims against the defendants. Plaintiffs did not appeal and the 
January 11, 2019. On August 22, 2019, the court granted in part  judgment is now final.
and denied in part defendants’ motion to dismiss. On October 1, 
2020, plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed with prejudice their claims  TWINT
against Credit Suisse AG.
On November 13, 2018, COMCO announced an investigation 
On February 4, 2019, Credit Suisse Group AG and certain affili- into several Swiss financial institutions, including UBS Switzerland 
ates and executives, along with Janus Index & Calculation Services  AG, Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG, Aduno Holding AG, PostFi-
LLC and affiliates, were named in a separate individual action  nance AG, and Swisscard AECS GmbH. According to COMCO, 
brought in the EDNY, which asserts claims substantially similar  its investigation is focused on whether these institutions entered 
to those brought in the consolidated class action. On March 29,  into an agreement to boycott mobile payment solutions of interna-
2019, plaintiff voluntarily dismissed its action and filed a substan- tional providers, including Apple Pay and Samsung Pay, in order 
tially similar complaint in the SDNY. On May 16, 2019, defendants  to protect TWINT, their own Swiss payment solution.
filed a motion to dismiss. On January 2, 2020, the SDNY granted 
defendants’ motion to dismiss. On February 3, 2020, plaintiff filed  SWM
a notice of appeal. On April 14, 2020, plaintiff filed a motion for 
voluntary dismissal with prejudice of its appeal, which was granted  CSI is the defendant in a lawsuit brought by the German public 
by the Second Circuit on April 15, 2020. utility company Stadtwerke München GmbH (SWM) in a German 
court, in connection with a series of interest rate swaps entered 
On June 3, 2019, Credit Suisse AG, an affiliate and executives  into between 2008 and 2012. The claimant alleges breach of an 
were named in a separate individual action brought in the SDNY  advisory duty to provide both investor- and investment-specific 
by a purchaser of XIV ETNs, which asserts claims similar to  advice, including in particular a duty to disclose the initial mark-to-
those brought in the consolidated class action complaint as well  market value of the trades at inception. On March 22, 2019, the 
as additional claims under New York and Pennsylvania state law.  trial court (the Regional Court of Frankfurt am Main) dismissed in 
On November 12, 2019, defendants filed a motion to dismiss.  their entirety claims against CSI. On April 29, 2019, plaintiff filed 
Plaintiffs responded to the motion to dismiss by filing an amended  a notice of appeal and an application for a supplementary judg-
complaint in lieu of opposing the motion to dismiss. The action  ment. On November 29, 2019, the court ruled on the supple-
has been stayed pending a resolution of the appeal in the consoli- mentary judgment application, finding that SWM was entitled to a 
dated class action. refund of negative interest from CSI. CSI is appealing this ruling.
On February 4, 2019, Credit Suisse Group AG and certain affili- Bulgarian former clients matter
ates and executives, along with Janus Index & Calculation Services 
LLC and affiliates, were named in a class action complaint filed  Credit Suisse AG has been responding to an investigation by 
in the SDNY brought on behalf of a putative class of purchas- the Swiss Office of the Attorney General (SOAG) concerning 
ers of VelocityShares Daily Inverse VIX Medium Term Exchange  the diligence and controls applied to a historical relationship with 
Traded Notes linked to the S&P 500 VIX Mid-Term Futures Index  Bulgarian former clients who are alleged to have laundered funds 
due December 4, 2030 (ZIV ETNs). The complaint asserts claims  through Credit Suisse AG accounts. On December 17, 2020, the 
for violations of Sections 9(a)(4), 9(f), 10(b) and 20(a) of the US  SOAG brought charges against Credit Suisse AG and other par-
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder and  ties. Credit Suisse AG believes its diligence and controls complied 
Sections 11 and 15 of the US Securities Act of 1933 and alleges  with applicable legal requirements, and intends to defend itself 
that the defendants are responsible for losses to investors following  vigorously.
41  Significant subsidiaries and equity method investments 
The entities presented in the table below generally include sub- are entities which are deemed regionally significant or otherwise 
sidiaries with total assets over CHF 100 million or net income  relevant from an operational perspective.
attributable to shareholders over CHF 10 million. Also included 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 411
   
Significant subsidiaries
         Nominal   Equity 
         capital   interest 
Company name   Domicile   Currency   in million   in % 
E    nd of 2020       
Credit Suisse Group AG             
Credit Suisse AG   Zurich, Switzerland   CHF   4,399.7   100 
Credit Suisse Insurance Linked Strategies Ltd   Zurich, Switzerland   CHF   0.2   100 
Credit Suisse (Poland) SP. z o.o   Warsaw, Poland   PLN   20.0   100 
Credit Suisse Services AG   Zurich, Switzerland   CHF   1.0   100 
Credit Suisse Trust AG   Zurich, Switzerland   CHF   5.0   100 
Credit Suisse Trust Holdings Limited   St. Peter Port, Guernsey   GBP   2.0   100 
CS LP Holding AG   Zug, Switzerland   CHF   0.1   100 
Inreska Limited   St. Peter Port, Guernsey   GBP   3.0   100 
Savoy Hotel Baur en Ville AG   Zurich, Switzerland   CHF   7.5   88 
Credit Suisse AG             
Alpine Securitization LTD   George Town, Cayman Islands   USD   83.0   100 
Asset Management Finance LLC   Wilmington, United States   USD   167.4   100 
Banco Credit Suisse (Brasil) S.A.   São Paulo, Brazil   BRL   53.6   100 
Banco Credit Suisse (Mexico), S.A.   Mexico City, Mexico   MXN   1,716.7   100 
Banco de Investimentos Credit Suisse (Brasil) S.A.   São Paulo, Brazil   BRL   164.8   100 
Bank-now AG   Horgen, Switzerland   CHF   30.0   100 
Boston Re Ltd.   Hamilton, Bermuda   USD   2.0   100 
Casa de Bolsa Credit Suisse (Mexico), S.A. de C.V.   Mexico City, Mexico   MXN   274.0   100 
Column Financial, Inc.   Wilmington, United States   USD   0.0   100 
Credit Suisse (Australia) Limited   Sydney, Australia   AUD   34.1   100 
Credit Suisse (Brasil) S.A. Corretora de Titulos e Valores Mobiliarios   São Paulo, Brazil   BRL   98.4   100 
Credit Suisse (Deutschland) Aktiengesellschaft   Frankfurt, Germany   EUR   130.0   100 
Credit Suisse (Hong Kong) Limited   Hong Kong, China   HKD   8,192.9   100 
Credit Suisse (Italy) S.p.A.   Milan, Italy   EUR   170.0   100 
Credit Suisse (Luxembourg) S.A.   Luxembourg, Luxembourg   CHF   230.9   100 
Credit Suisse (Qatar) LLC   Doha, Qatar   USD   29.0   100 
Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG   Zurich, Switzerland   CHF   100.0   100 
Credit Suisse (Singapore) Limited   Singapore, Singapore   SGD   743.3   100 
Credit Suisse (UK) Limited   London, United Kingdom   GBP   245.2   100 
Credit Suisse (USA), Inc.   Wilmington, United States   USD   0.0   100 
Credit Suisse Asset Management (UK) Holding Limited   London, United Kingdom   GBP   144.2   100 
Credit Suisse Asset Management             
Immobilien Kapitalanlagegesellschaft mbH   Frankfurt, Germany   EUR   6.1   100 
Credit Suisse Asset Management International Holding Ltd   Zurich, Switzerland   CHF   20.0   100 
Credit Suisse Asset Management Investments Ltd   Zurich, Switzerland   CHF   0.1   100 
Credit Suisse Asset Management Limited   London, United Kingdom   GBP   45.0   100 
Credit Suisse Asset Management, LLC   Wilmington, United States   USD   1,115.9   100 
Credit Suisse Atlas I Investments (Luxembourg) S.à.r.l.   Luxembourg, Luxembourg   USD   0.0   100 
Credit Suisse Brazil (Bahamas) Limited   Nassau, Bahamas   USD   70.0   100 
Credit Suisse Business Analytics (India) Private Limited   Mumbai, India   INR   40.0   100 
Credit Suisse Capital LLC   Wilmington, United States   USD   2,137.3   100 
Credit Suisse Entrepreneur Capital AG   Zurich, Switzerland   CHF   15.0   100 
Credit Suisse Equities (Australia) Limited   Sydney, Australia   AUD   62.5   100 
Credit Suisse Finance (India) Private Limited   Mumbai, India   INR   1,050.1   100 
Credit Suisse First Boston (Latam Holdings) LLC   George Town, Cayman Islands   USD   28.8   100 
Credit Suisse First Boston Finance B.V.   Amsterdam, The Netherlands   EUR   0.0   100 
 
412 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Significant subsidiaries (continued)
         Nominal   Equity 
         capital   interest 
Company name   Domicile   Currency   in million   in % 
Credit Suisse First Boston Mortgage Capital LLC   Wilmington, United States   USD   356.6   100 
Credit Suisse First Boston Next Fund, Inc.   Wilmington, United States   USD   0.0   100 
Credit Suisse Fund Management S.A.   Luxembourg, Luxembourg   CHF   0.3   100 
Credit Suisse Fund Services (Luxembourg) S.A.   Luxembourg, Luxembourg   CHF   1.5   100 
Credit Suisse Funds AG   Zurich, Switzerland   CHF   7.0   100 
Credit Suisse Hedging-Griffo Corretora de Valores S.A.   São Paulo, Brazil   BRL   29.6   100 
Credit Suisse Holding Europe (Luxembourg) S.A.   Luxembourg, Luxembourg   CHF   32.6   100 
Credit Suisse Holdings (Australia) Limited   Sydney, Australia   AUD   3.0   100 
Credit Suisse Holdings (USA), Inc.   Wilmington, United States   USD   550.0   100 
Credit Suisse International   London, United Kingdom   USD   11,366.2   100 1 
Credit Suisse Istanbul Menkul Degerler A.S.   Istanbul, Turkey   TRY   10.0   100 
Credit Suisse Life & Pensions AG   Vaduz, Liechtenstein   CHF   15.0   100 
Credit Suisse Life (Bermuda) Ltd.   Hamilton, Bermuda   USD   0.5   100 
Credit Suisse Loan Funding LLC   Wilmington, United States   USD   1.7   100 
Credit Suisse Management LLC   Wilmington, United States   USD   891.4   100 
Credit Suisse Prime Securities Services (USA) LLC   Wilmington, United States   USD   73.3   100 
Credit Suisse PSL GmbH   Zurich, Switzerland   CHF   0.0   100 
Credit Suisse Saudi Arabia   Riyadh, Saudi Arabia   SAR   737.5   100 
Credit Suisse Securities (Canada), Inc.   Toronto, Canada   CAD   3.4   100 
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited   London, United Kingdom   USD   3,859.3   100 
Credit Suisse Securities (Hong Kong) Limited   Hong Kong, China   HKD   2,080.9   100 
Credit Suisse Securities (India) Private Limited   Mumbai, India   INR   2,214.7   100 
Credit Suisse Securities (Japan) Limited   Tokyo, Japan   JPY   78,100.0   100 
Credit Suisse Securities (Johannesburg) Proprietary Limited – in liquidation   Johannesburg, South Africa   ZAR   0.0   100 
Credit Suisse Securities (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.   Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia   MYR   100.0   100 
Credit Suisse Securities (Singapore) Pte Limited   Singapore, Singapore   SGD   30.0   100 
Credit Suisse Securities, Sociedad de Valores, S.A.   Spain, Madrid   EUR   5.3   100 
Credit Suisse Securities (Thailand) Limited   Bangkok, Thailand   THB   500.0   100 
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC   Wilmington, United States   USD   2,200.7   100 
Credit Suisse Services (India) Private Limited   Pune, India   INR   0.1   100 
Credit Suisse Services (USA) LLC   Wilmington, United States   USD   15.4   100 
CS Non-Traditional Products Ltd.   Nassau, Bahamas   USD   0.1   100 
DLJ Mortgage Capital, Inc.   Wilmington, United States   USD   0.0   100 
Fides Treasury Services AG   Zurich, Switzerland   CHF   2.0   100 
JSC “Bank Credit Suisse (Moscow)”   Moscow, Russia   USD   37.8   100 
Lime Residential, Ltd.   Nassau, Bahamas   USD   100.0   100 
LLC “Credit Suisse Securities (Moscow)”   Moscow, Russia   RUB   97.1   100 
Merban Equity AG   Zug, Switzerland   CHF   0.1   100 
Solar Investco II Ltd.   George Town, Cayman Islands   USD   0.0   100 
SP Holding Enterprises Corp.   Wilmington, United States   USD   0.0   100 
SR Lease Co VI Ltd.   Cayman Islands   USD   0.0   100 
PT Credit Suisse Sekuritas Indonesia   Jakarta, Indonesia   IDR  235,000.0   99 
Credit Suisse Hypotheken AG   Zurich, Switzerland   CHF   0.1   98 
Credit Suisse Founder Securities Limited   Beijing, China   CNY   1,089.0   51
1  98% of voting rights and 98% of equity interest held by Credit Suisse AG.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 413
   
Significant equity method investments
      Equity 
      interest 
Company name   Domicile   in % 
      
Credit Suisse Group AG       
Credit Suisse Group Funding (Guernsey) Limited   St. Peter Port, Guernsey   100 1 
Credit Suisse AG       
Swisscard AECS GmbH   Horgen, Switzerland   50 
Stockbrokers Holdings Pty Ltd.   Melbourne, Australia   23 
ICBC Credit Suisse Asset Management Co., Ltd.   Beijing, China   20 
ALLFUNDS (UK) LIMITED   London, United Kingdom   14 
York Capital Management Global Advisors, LLC   New York, United States   5 2 
Holding Verde Empreendimentos e Participações S.A.   São Paulo, Brazil   0 2 
1 Deconsolidated under US GAAP as the Group is not the primary beneficiary.
2 The Group holds a significant noncontrolling interest.
 
42  Subsidiary guarantee information
Certain wholly owned finance subsidiaries of the Group, includ- The Group and the Bank have issued full, unconditional and sev-
ing Credit Suisse Group Funding (Guernsey) Limited, which is a  eral guarantees of Credit Suisse (USA), Inc.’s outstanding SEC-
Guernsey incorporated non-cellular company limited by shares,  registered debt securities. In accordance with the guarantees, if 
have issued securities fully and unconditionally guaranteed by  Credit Suisse (USA), Inc. fails to make any timely payment under 
the Group. There are various legal and regulatory requirements,  the agreements governing such debt securities, the holders of the 
including the satisfaction of a solvency test under Guernsey law  debt securities may demand payment from either the Group or the 
for the Guernsey subsidiary, applicable to some of the Group’s  Bank, without first proceeding against Credit Suisse (USA), Inc. 
subsidiaries that may limit their ability to pay dividends or distribu- The guarantee from the Group is subordinated to senior liabilities. 
tions and make loans and advances to the Group. Credit Suisse (USA), Inc. is an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary 
of the Group.
414 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Condensed consolidating statements of operations
      Bank             
   Credit   parent        Eliminations     
   Suisse   company      Group   and    Credit 
   (USA), Inc.   and other      parent  consolidation    Suisse 
in 2020   consolidated   subsidiaries 1   Bank   company  adjustments   Group 
C      ondensed consolidating statements of operations (CHF million)          
Interest and dividend income   2,363   11,515   13,878   1,633   (1,592)   13,919 
Interest expense   (2,549)   (5,369)   (7,918)   (1,649)   1,596   (7,971) 
Net interest income   (186)   6,146   5,960   (16)   4   5,948 
Commissions and fees   3,952   7,898   11,850   18   (15)   11,853 
Trading revenues   436   2,742   3,178   12   105   3,295 
Other revenues   2,006   (491)   1,515   2,723 2   (2,945)   1,293 
Net revenues   6,208   16,295   22,503   2,737   (2,851)   22,389 
Provision for credit losses   14   1,078   1,092   0   4   1,096 
Compensation and benefits   2,627   6,233   8,860   84   946   9,890 
General and administrative expenses   2,540   5,422   7,962   (13)   (1,426)   6,523 
Commission expenses   225   1,031   1,256   2   (2)   1,256 
Restructuring expenses   27   95   122   0   35   157 
Total other operating expenses   2,792   6,548   9,340   (11)   (1,393)   7,936 
Total operating expenses   5,419   12,781   18,200   73   (447)   17,826 
Income/(loss) before taxes   775   2,436   3,211   2,664   (2,408)   3,467 
Income tax expense/(benefit)   139   558   697   (5)   109   801 
Net income/(loss)   636   1,878   2,514   2,669   (2,517)   2,666 
Net income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests   (2)   5   3   0   (6)   (3) 
Net income/(loss) attributable to shareholders   638   1,873   2,511   2,669   (2,511)   2,669 
1 Includes eliminations and consolidation adjustments.
2 Primarily consists of revenues from investments in Group companies accounted for under the equity method.
 
Condensed consolidating statements of comprehensive income
      Bank             
   Credit   parent        Eliminations     
   Suisse   company      Group   and    Credit 
   (USA), Inc.   and other      parent  consolidation    Suisse 
in 2020   consolidated   subsidiaries 1   Bank   company  adjustments   Group 
C       omprehensive income (CHF million)        
Net income/(loss)   636   1,878   2,514   2,669   (2,517)   2,666 
   Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges   0   177   177   0   1   178 
   Foreign currency translation   (1,608)   (1,406)   (3,014)   12   (63)   (3,065) 
   Unrealized gains/(losses) on securities   0   (17)   (17)   0   0   (17) 
   Actuarial gains/(losses)   (13)   (31)   (44)   0   7   (37) 
   Net prior service credit/(cost)   0   (4)   (4)   0   (144)   (148) 
   Gains/(losses) on liabilities related to credit risk   2   149   151   37   14   202 
Other comprehensive income/(loss), net of tax   (1,619)   (1,132)   (2,751)   49   (185)   (2,887) 
Comprehensive income/(loss)   (983)   746   (237)   2,718   (2,702)   (221) 
Comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests   (7)   (48)   (55)   0   46   (9) 
Comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to shareholders   (976)   794   (182)   2,718   (2,748)   (212) 
1  Includes eliminations and consolidation adjustments.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 415
   
Condensed consolidating statements of operations (continued)
      Bank             
   Credit   parent        Eliminations     
   Suisse   company      Group   and    Credit 
   (USA), Inc.   and other      parent  consolidation    Suisse 
in 2019   consolidated   subsidiaries 1   Bank   company  adjustments   Group 
C      ondensed consolidating statements of operations (CHF million)          
Interest and dividend income   4,040   16,140   20,180   1,307   (1,303)   20,184 
Interest expense   (4,191)   (8,940)   (13,131)   (1,343)   1,307   (13,167) 
Net interest income   (151)   7,200   7,049   (36)   4   7,017 
Commissions and fees   3,217   7,854   11,071   23   64   11,158 
Trading revenues   543   1,230   1,773   (68)   34   1,739 
Other revenues   2,058   735   2,793   3,565 2   (3,788)   2,570 
Net revenues   5,667   17,019   22,686   3,484   (3,686)   22,484 
Provision for credit losses   14   310   324   0   0   324 
Compensation and benefits   2,772   6,333   9,105   101   830   10,036 
General and administrative expenses   2,193   5,395   7,588   (37)   (1,423)   6,128 
Commission expenses   213   1,063   1,276   1   (1)   1,276 
Total other operating expenses   2,406   6,458   8,864   (36)   (1,424)   7,404 
Total operating expenses   5,178   12,791   17,969   65   (594)   17,440 
Income/(loss) before taxes   475   3,918   4,393   3,419   (3,092)   4,720 
Income tax expense/(benefit)   167   1,131   1,298   0   (3)   1,295 
Net income/(loss)   308   2,787   3,095   3,419   (3,089)   3,425 
Net income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests   5   9   14   0   (8)   6 
Net income/(loss) attributable to shareholders   303   2,778   3,081   3,419   (3,081)   3,419 
1 Includes eliminations and consolidation adjustments.
2 Primarily consists of revenues from investments in Group companies accounted for under the equity method.
 
Condensed consolidating statements of comprehensive income (continued)
      Bank             
   Credit   parent        Eliminations     
   Suisse   company      Group   and    Credit 
   (USA), Inc.   and other      parent  consolidation    Suisse 
in 2019   consolidated   subsidiaries 1   Bank   company  adjustments   Group 
C       omprehensive income (CHF million)        
Net income/(loss)   308   2,787   3,095   3,419   (3,089)   3,425 
   Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges   0   86   86   14   0   100 
   Foreign currency translation   (284)   (711)   (995)   (15)   (15)   (1,025) 
   Unrealized gains/(losses) on securities   0   21   21   0   (1)   20 
   Actuarial gains/(losses)   (7)   (17)   (24)   0   350   326 
   Net prior service credit/(cost)   0   1   1   0   216   217 
   Gains/(losses) on liabilities related to credit risk   (73)   (1,665)   (1,738)   (65)   (57)   (1,860) 
Other comprehensive income/(loss), net of tax   (364)   (2,285)   (2,649)   (66)   493   (2,222) 
Comprehensive income/(loss)   (56)   502   446   3,353   (2,596)   1,203 
Comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests   4   3   7   0   1   8 
Comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to shareholders   (60)   499   439   3,353   (2,597)   1,195 
1  Includes eliminations and consolidation adjustments.
416 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Condensed consolidating statements of operations (continued)
      Bank             
   Credit   parent        Eliminations     
   Suisse   company      Group   and    Credit 
   (USA), Inc.   and other      parent  consolidation    Suisse 
in 2018   consolidated   subsidiaries 1   Bank   company  adjustments   Group 
C      ondensed consolidating statements of operations (CHF million)          
Interest and dividend income   4,086   15,537   19,623   932   (942)   19,613 
Interest expense   (4,210)   (8,288)   (12,498)   (983)   877   (12,604) 
Net interest income   (124)   7,249   7,125   (51)   (65)   7,009 
Commissions and fees   3,725   8,017   11,742   26   122   11,890 
Trading revenues   474   (18)   456   88   80   624 
Other revenues   2,006   (509)   1,497   2,020 2   (2,120)   1,397 
Net revenues   6,081   14,739   20,820   2,083   (1,983)   20,920 
Provision for credit losses   (1)   246   245   0   0   245 
Compensation and benefits   2,653   6,211   8,864   58   698   9,620 
General and administrative expenses   1,944   5,124   7,068   0   (1,270)   5,798 
Commission expenses   229   1,030   1,259   0   0   1,259 
Restructuring expenses   237   291   528   0   98   626 
Total other operating expenses   2,410   6,445   8,855   0   (1,172)   7,683 
Total operating expenses   5,063   12,656   17,719   58   (474)   17,303 
Income/(loss) before taxes   1,019   1,837   2,856   2,025   (1,509)   3,372 
Income tax benefit   261   873   1,134   1   226   1,361 
Net income/(loss)   758   964   1,722   2,024   (1,735)   2,011 
Net income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests   6   (13)   (7)   0   (6)   (13) 
Net income/(loss) attributable to shareholders   752   977   1,729   2,024   (1,729)   2,024 
1 Includes eliminations and consolidation adjustments.
2 Primarily consists of revenues from investments in Group companies accounted for under the equity method.
 
Condensed consolidating statements of comprehensive income (continued)
      Bank             
   Credit   parent        Eliminations     
   Suisse   company      Group   and    Credit 
   (USA), Inc.   and other      parent  consolidation    Suisse 
in 2018   consolidated   subsidiaries 1   Bank   company  adjustments   Group 
C       omprehensive income (CHF million)        
Net income/(loss)   758   964   1,722   2,024   (1,735)   2,011 
   Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges   0   (7)   (7)   (3)   0   (10) 
   Foreign currency translation   142   (463)   (321)   (11)   7   (325) 
   Unrealized gains/(losses) on securities   0   (18)   (18)   0   1   (17) 
   Actuarial gains/(losses)   22   9   31   0   (422)   (391) 
   Net prior service credit/(cost)   0   (10)   (10)   0   (125)   (135) 
   Gains/(losses) on liabilities related to credit risk   28   1,414   1,442   83   129   1,654 
Other comprehensive income/(loss), net of tax   192   925   1,117   69   (410)   776 
Comprehensive income/(loss)   950   1,889   2,839   2,093   (2,145)   2,787 
Comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests   6   (9)   (3)   0   (12)   (15) 
Comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to shareholders   944   1,898   2,842   2,093   (2,133)   2,802 
1  Includes eliminations and consolidation adjustments.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 417
   
Condensed consolidating balance sheets
      Bank             
   Credit   parent        Eliminations     
   Suisse   company      Group   and    Credit 
   (USA), Inc.   and other      parent  consolidation    Suisse 
end of 2020   consolidated   subsidiaries 1   Bank   company  adjustments   Group 
A      ssets (CHF million)          
Cash and due from banks   2,327   135,880   138,207   277   628   139,112 
Interest-bearing deposits with banks   8   1,222   1,230   445   (377)   1,298 
Central bank funds sold, securities purchased under                   
resale agreements and securities borrowing transactions   31,245   47,888   79,133   0   0   79,133 
Securities received as collateral   1,495   49,278   50,773   0   0   50,773 
Trading assets   34,570   122,941   157,511   0   (173)   157,338 
Investment securities   0   605   605   52,061   (52,059)   607 
Other investments   490   4,889   5,379   49,911   (49,878)   5,412 
Net loans   7,196   293,145   300,341   0   (8,433)   291,908 
Goodwill   649   3,106   3,755   0   671   4,426 
Other intangible assets   208   29   237   0   0   237 
Brokerage receivables   14,916   21,027   35,943   0   (2)   35,941 
Other assets   12,980   23,594   36,574   782   2,281   39,637 
Total assets   106,084   703,604   809,688   103,476   (107,342)   805,822 
L     iabilities and equity (CHF million)          
Due to banks   33   16,387   16,420   2,442   (2,439)   16,423 
Customer deposits   1   392,038   392,039   0   (1,118)   390,921 
Central bank funds purchased, securities sold under                   
repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions   5,040   18,904   23,944   0   (93)   23,851 
Obligation to return securities received as collateral   1,495   49,278   50,773   0   0   50,773 
Trading liabilities   12,877   32,994   45,871   0   0   45,871 
Short-term borrowings   5,894   15,414   21,308   4,700   (5,140)   20,868 
Long-term debt   42,291   117,988   160,279   53,009   (52,201)   161,087 
Brokerage payables   12,564   9,091   21,655   0   (2)   21,653 
Other liabilities   9,916   20,424   30,340   648   446   31,434 
Total liabilities   90,111   672,518   762,629   60,799   (60,547)   762,881 
Total shareholders’ equity   15,920   30,344   46,264   42,677   (46,264)   42,677 
Noncontrolling interests   53   742   795   0   (531)   264 
Total equity   15,973   31,086   47,059   42,677   (46,795)   42,941 
                      
Total liabilities and equity   106,084   703,604   809,688   103,476   (107,342)   805,822 
1  Includes eliminations and consolidation adjustments.
418 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Condensed consolidating balance sheets (continued)
      Bank             
   Credit   parent        Eliminations     
   Suisse   company      Group   and    Credit 
   (USA), Inc.   and other      parent  consolidation    Suisse 
end of 2019   consolidated   subsidiaries 1   Bank   company  adjustments   Group 
A      ssets (CHF million)          
Cash and due from banks   2,642   98,402   101,044   277   558   101,879 
Interest-bearing deposits with banks   10   663   673   489   (421)   741 
Central bank funds sold, securities purchased under                   
resale agreements and securities borrowing transactions   26,905   80,092   106,997   0   0   106,997 
Securities received as collateral   2,921   37,298   40,219   0   0   40,219 
Trading assets   35,339   118,556   153,895   1   (99)   153,797 
Investment securities   0   1,004   1,004   32,853   (32,851)   1,006 
Other investments   621   5,013   5,634   49,780   (49,748)   5,666 
Net loans   11,907   292,118   304,025   0   (7,246)   296,779 
Goodwill   715   3,245   3,960   0   703   4,663 
Other intangible assets   276   15   291   0   0   291 
Brokerage receivables   17,012   18,636   35,648   0   0   35,648 
Other assets   12,843   24,226   37,069   625   1,915   39,609 
Total assets   111,191   679,268   790,459   84,025   (87,189)   787,295 
L     iabilities and equity (CHF million)          
Due to banks   63   16,679   16,742   2,287   (2,285)   16,744 
Customer deposits   1   384,949   384,950   0   (1,167)   383,783 
Central bank funds purchased, securities sold under                   
repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions   5,799   21,842   27,641   0   (108)   27,533 
Obligation to return securities received as collateral   2,921   37,298   40,219   0   0   40,219 
Trading liabilities   8,468   29,718   38,186   0   0   38,186 
Short-term borrowings   8,720   20,149   28,869   0   (484)   28,385 
Long-term debt   43,821   107,179   151,000   37,596   (36,591)   152,005 
Brokerage payables   15,213   10,470   25,683   0   0   25,683 
Other liabilities   9,414   20,992   30,406   498   139   31,043 
Total liabilities   94,420   649,276   743,696   40,381   (40,496)   743,581 
Total shareholders’ equity   16,713   29,407   46,120   43,644   (46,120)   43,644 
Noncontrolling interests   58   585   643   0   (573)   70 
Total equity   16,771   29,992   46,763   43,644   (46,693)   43,714 
                      
Total liabilities and equity   111,191   679,268   790,459   84,025   (87,189)   787,295 
1  Includes eliminations and consolidation adjustments.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 419
   
Condensed consolidating statements of cash flows
      Bank             
   Credit   parent        Eliminations     
   Suisse   company      Group   and    Credit 
   (USA), Inc.   and other      parent  consolidation    Suisse 
in 2020   consolidated   subsidiaries 1   Bank   company  adjustments   Group 
O       perating activities (CHF million)        
Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities   3,981   (10,144)   (6,163)   (81) 2   (270)   (6,514) 
I      nvesting activities (CHF million)        
(Increase)/decrease in interest-bearing deposits with banks   1   (521)   (520)   45   (44)   (519) 
(Increase)/decrease in central bank funds sold, securities purchased under                   
resale agreements and securities borrowing transactions   (7,244)   26,463   19,219   0   0   19,219 
Purchase of investment securities   0   (402)   (402)   (12,644)   12,644   (402) 
Proceeds from sale of investment securities   0   629   629   0   0   629 
Maturities of investment securities   0   184   184   0   0   184 
Investments in subsidiaries and other investments   (17)   (193)   (210)   0   0   (210) 
Proceeds from sale of other investments   132   545   677   0   1   678 
(Increase)/decrease in loans   3,860   (10,839)   (6,979)   0   1,244   (5,735) 
Proceeds from sales of loans   0   3,860   3,860   0   0   3,860 
Capital expenditures for premises and equipment and other intangible assets   (293)   (751)   (1,044)   0   (144)   (1,188) 
Proceeds from sale of premises and equipment and other intangible assets   0   45   45   0   0   45 
Other, net   3   110   113   0   0   113 
Net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities   (3,558)   19,130   15,572   (12,599)   13,701   16,674 
F      inancing activities (CHF million)        
Increase/(decrease) in due to banks and customer deposits   (26)   21,361   21,335   155   (126)   21,364 
Increase/(decrease) in short-term borrowings   (2,166)   (3,124)   (5,290)   0   44   (5,246) 
Increase/(decrease) in central bank funds purchased, securities sold under                   
repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions   (245)   (1,224)   (1,469)   0   5   (1,464) 
Issuances of long-term debt   223,638   (165,997)   57,641   13,644   (13,276)   58,009 
Repayments of long-term debt   (221,868)   179,100   (42,768)   0   0   (42,768) 
Sale of treasury shares   0   0   0   0   12,364   12,364 
Repurchase of treasury shares   0   0   0   (882)   (12,371)   (13,253) 
Dividends paid   0   (10)   (10)   (716)   10   (716) 
Other, net   168   766   934   480   36   1,450 
Net cash provided by/(used in) financing activities   (499)   30,872   30,373   12,681   (13,314)   29,740 
E      ffect of exchange rate changes on cash and due from banks (CHF million)        
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and due from banks   (239)   (2,380)   (2,619)   (1)   (47)   (2,667) 
N       et increase/(decrease) in cash and due from banks (CHF million)        
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and due from banks   (315)   37,478   37,163   0   70   37,233 
                       
Cash and due from banks at beginning of period 3  2,642   98,402   101,044   277   558   101,879 
Cash and due from banks at end of period 3  2,327   135,880   138,207   277   628   139,112 
1 Includes eliminations and consolidation adjustments.
2 Consists of dividend payments from Group companies of CHF 10 million and CHF 14 million from bank and non-bank subsidiaries, respectively, and other cash items from parent com-
pany operations such as Group financing. 
3  Includes restricted cash.
420 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Condensed consolidating statements of cash flows (continued)
      Bank             
   Credit   parent        Eliminations     
   Suisse   company      Group   and    Credit 
   (USA), Inc.   and other      parent  consolidation    Suisse 
in 2019   consolidated   subsidiaries 1   Bank   company  adjustments   Group 
O       perating activities (CHF million)        
Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities   (4,694)   (13,724)   (18,418)   (141) 2   135   (18,424) 
I      nvesting activities (CHF million)        
(Increase)/decrease in interest-bearing deposits with banks   12   399   411   9   (9)   411 
(Increase)/decrease in central bank funds sold, securities purchased under                   
resale agreements and securities borrowing transactions   8,321   65   8,386   0   0   8,386 
Purchase of investment securities   0   (557)   (557)   (9,396)   9,396   (557) 
Proceeds from sale of investment securities   0   6   6   0   0   6 
Maturities of investment securities   0   1,007   1,007   942   (942)   1,007 
Investments in subsidiaries and other investments   (34)   (250)   (284)   (10)   9   (285) 
Proceeds from sale of other investments   516   617   1,133   48   (23)   1,158 
(Increase)/decrease in loans   93   (17,402)   (17,309)   0   1,965   (15,344) 
Proceeds from sales of loans   0   4,612   4,612   0   0   4,612 
Capital expenditures for premises and equipment and other intangible assets   (397)   (736)   (1,133)   0   (160)   (1,293) 
Proceeds from sale of premises and equipment and other intangible assets   0   30   30   0   0   30 
Other, net   27   510   537   6   0   543 
Net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities   8,538   (11,699)   (3,161)   (8,401)   10,236   (1,326) 
F      inancing activities (CHF million)        
Increase/(decrease) in due to banks and customer deposits   6   24,678   24,684   923   (754)   24,853 
Increase/(decrease) in short-term borrowings   (809)   7,720   6,911   0   8   6,919 
Increase/(decrease) in central bank funds purchased, securities sold under                   
repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions   (397)   3,888   3,491   0   (110)   3,381 
Issuances of long-term debt   206,056   (171,145)   34,911   10,396   (10,344)   34,963 
Repayments of long-term debt   (208,631)   162,341   (46,290)   (942)   942   (46,290) 
Issuances of common shares   0   0   0   (10)   10   0 
Sale of treasury shares   0   0   0   3   9,621   9,624 
Repurchase of treasury shares   0   0   0   (1,916)   (9,620)   (11,536) 
Dividends paid   (1)   (10)   (11)   (728)   43   (696) 
Other, net   75   133   208   768   (5)   971 
Net cash provided by/(used in) financing activities   (3,701)   27,605   23,904   8,494   (10,209)   22,189 
E      ffect of exchange rate changes on cash and due from banks (CHF million)        
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and due from banks   (41)   (554)   (595)   1   (13)   (607) 
N       et increase/(decrease) in cash and due from banks (CHF million)        
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and due from banks   102   1,628   1,730   (47)   149   1,832 
                      
Cash and due from banks at beginning of period 3  2,540   96,774   99,314   324   409   100,047 
Cash and due from banks at end of period 3  2,642   98,402   101,044   277   558   101,879 
1 Includes eliminations and consolidation adjustments.
2 Consists of dividend payments from Group companies of CHF 10 million and CHF 14 million from bank and non-bank subsidiaries, respectively, and other cash items from parent com-
pany operations such as Group financing.
 3 Includes restricted cash.
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 421
   
Condensed consolidating statements of cash flows (continued)
      Bank             
   Credit   parent        Eliminations     
   Suisse   company      Group   and    Credit 
   (USA), Inc.   and other      parent  consolidation    Suisse 
in 2018   consolidated   subsidiaries 1   Bank   company  adjustments   Group 
O       perating activities (CHF million)        
Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities   (8,326)   20,860   12,534   (215) 2   564   12,883 
I      nvesting activities (CHF million)        
(Increase)/decrease in interest-bearing deposits with banks   11   (375)   (364)   (5)   (58)   (427) 
(Increase)/decrease in central bank funds sold, securities purchased under                   
resale agreements and securities borrowing transactions   22,936   (24,308)   (1,372)   0   0   (1,372) 
Purchase of investment securities   0   (683)   (683)   (8,793)   8,793   (683) 
Proceeds from sale of investment securities   0   255   255   0   0   255 
Maturities of investment securities   0   567   567   290   (290)   567 
Investments in subsidiaries and other investments   (99)   (447)   (546)   (10)   9   (547) 
Proceeds from sale of other investments   540   1,230   1,770   4   (2)   1,772 
(Increase)/decrease in loans   310   (14,011)   (13,701)   0   1,201   (12,500) 
Proceeds from sales of loans   0   5,981   5,981   0   (1)   5,980 
Capital expenditures for premises and equipment and other intangible assets   (307)   (682)   (989)   0   (106)   (1,095) 
Proceeds from sale of premises and equipment and other intangible assets   0   80   80   0   (50)   30 
Other, net   5   337   342   0   0   342 
Net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities   23,396   (32,056)   (8,660)   (8,514)   9,496   (7,678) 
F      inancing activities (CHF million)        
Increase/(decrease) in due to banks and customer deposits   (213)   2,219   2,006   609   (807)   1,808 
Increase/(decrease) in short-term borrowings   (1,298)   (1,687)   (2,985)   0   (5)   (2,990) 
Increase/(decrease) in central bank funds purchased, securities sold under                   
repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions   (9,127)   7,075   (2,052)   0   0   (2,052) 
Issuances of long-term debt   119,547   (86,239)   33,308   8,805   (8,941)   33,172 
Repayments of long-term debt   (124,405)   80,547   (43,858)   (290)   297   (43,851) 
Sale of treasury shares   0   0   0   0   11,693   11,693 
Repurchase of treasury shares   0   0   0   (757)   (11,684)   (12,441) 
Dividends paid   (2)   (13)   (15)   (661)   10   (666) 
Other, net   (120)   (374)   (494)   829   9   344 
Net cash provided by/(used in) financing activities   (15,618)   1,528   (14,090)   8,535   (9,428)   (14,983) 
E      ffect of exchange rate changes on cash and due from banks (CHF million)        
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and due from banks   30   (10)   20   2   (12)   10 
N       et increase/(decrease) in cash and due from banks (CHF million)        
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and due from banks   (518)   (9,678)   (10,196)   (192)   620   (9,768) 
                       
Cash and due from banks at beginning of period 3  3,058   106,452   109,510   516   (211)   109,815 
Cash and due from banks at end of period 3  2,540   96,774   99,314   324   409   100,047 
1 Includes eliminations and consolidation adjustments.
2 Consists of dividend payments from Group companies of CHF 10 million and CHF 6 million from bank and non-bank subsidiaries, respectively, and other cash items from parent company 
operations such as Group financing.
 3 Includes restricted cash.
43  Credit Suisse Group parent company
> 
Refer to “Note 42 – Subsidiary guarantee information” for the condensed 
Credit Suisse Group parent company financial information.
422 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
44   Significant valuation and income recognition differences 
between US GAAP and Swiss GAAP banking law 
(true and fair view)
The Group’s consolidated financial statements have been pre- accounting, a company’s share of the profit or loss as well as any 
pared in accordance with US GAAP. impairment on the participation are reported in other revenues. 
FINMA requires Swiss-domiciled banks which present their finan- Under Swiss GAAP, investments in equity securities which are 
cial statements under either US GAAP or International Financial  held with the intention of a permanent investment or which are 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) to provide a narrative explanation of  investments in financial industry infrastructure are included in 
the major differences between Swiss GAAP banking law (true  participations irrespective of the percentage ownership of voting 
and fair view) and its primary accounting standard. shares held. Other participations are initially recognized at histori-
cal cost and tested for impairment at least annually. The fair value 
The principal provisions of the Swiss Ordinance on Banks  option is not allowed for participations.
and Savings Banks (Banking Ordinance), the Swiss Finan-
cial Market Supervisory Authority’s Ordinance on Accounting  Under Swiss GAAP, participations held by a company are tested 
(FINMA Accounting Ordinance) and the FINMA circular 2020/1,  for impairment on the level of each individual participation. An 
“Accounting – banks”, governing financial reporting for banks  impairment is recorded if the carrying value of a participation 
(Swiss GAAP) differ in certain aspects from US GAAP. The fol- exceeds its fair value. Should the fair value of an impaired par-
lowing are the major differences: ticipation recover in subsequent periods and such recovery is 
> Refer to “Note 1 – Summary of significant accounting policies” for a detailed  considered sustainable, the impairment from prior periods can be 
description of the Group’s accounting policies. reversed up to the fair value but not exceeding the historical cost 
basis. A reversal of an impairment is recorded as extraordinary 
Scope of consolidation income in the statements of income.
Under Swiss GAAP, majority-owned subsidiaries that are not con- Available-for-sale debt securities
sidered long-term investments or do not operate in the core busi- Under US GAAP, available-for-sale debt securities are valued at fair 
ness of the Group are either accounted for as financial investments  value. Unrealized gains and losses due to fluctuations in fair value 
or as equity method investments. US GAAP has no such exception  (including foreign exchange) are not recorded in the consolidated 
relating to the consolidation of majority-owned subsidiaries. statements of operations but included net of tax in AOCI, which is 
part of total shareholders’ equity. Credit-related impairments may 
Foreign currency translations have to be recognized in the consolidated statements of operations 
if the fair value of an individual debt security decreases below its 
Under US GAAP, foreign currency translation adjustments result- amortized cost basis due to credit-related factors.
ing from the consolidation of branches with functional currencies 
other than the Swiss franc are included in AOCI in shareholders’  Under Swiss GAAP, available-for-sale securities are accounted 
equity. Under Swiss GAAP, foreign currency translation adjust- for at the lower of amortized cost or market with valuation reduc-
ments from the consolidation of foreign branches are recognized  tions and recoveries due to market fluctuations recorded in other 
in net income/(loss) from trading activities and fair value option.  ordinary expenses and income, respectively. Foreign exchange 
gains and losses are recognized in net income/(loss) from trading 
Under US GAAP, foreign currency measurement adjustments for  activities and fair value option.
available-for-sale securities are reported in AOCI, which is part 
of total shareholder’s equity, whereas for Swiss GAAP statutory  Non-marketable equity securities
purposes they are included in the statements of income. Under US GAAP, equity securities which do not have a readily deter-
minable fair value are measured in accordance with the NAV practi-
Investments in securities cal expedient by using the measurement alternative or at fair value.
Under Swiss GAAP, classification and measurement of invest- Under Swiss GAAP, non-marketable equity securities are carried 
ments in securities depends on the nature of the investment. at the lower of cost or market.
Non-consolidated participations Allowances and provisions for credit losses
Under US GAAP, investments in equity securities where a company  Under US GAAP, allowances and provisions for credit losses on 
has the ability to significantly influence the operating and financial  financial instruments are estimated based on a CECL model. 
policies of an investee are accounted for under the equity method  The credit loss requirements apply to financial assets measured 
of accounting or the fair value option. Under the equity method of  at amortized cost as well as off-balance sheet credit exposures, 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 423
   
such as irrevocable loan commitments, credit guarantees and  Derecognition of financial instruments
similar instruments. The credit loss requirements are based on a 
forward-looking, lifetime CECL model by incorporating historical  Under US GAAP, financial instruments are only derecognized if 
experience, current conditions and reasonable and supportable  the transaction meets the following criteria: (i) the financial asset 
forecasts of future economic conditions available as of the report- has been legally isolated from the transferor, (ii) the transferee 
ing date. has the right to repledge or resell the transferred asset, and 
(iii) the transferor does not maintain effective control over the 
Under Swiss GAAP, an incurred loss model is applied for the  transferred asset.
measurement of credit losses. Valuation allowances and provi-
sions are recognized for credit exposures that are considered  Under Swiss GAAP, a financial instrument is derecognized when 
impaired. In addition, an inherent (or general) loss allowance is  the economic control has been transferred from the seller to 
estimated and recognized for all loans not specifically identified  the buyer. A party which has the controlling ability to receive the 
as impaired which, on a portfolio basis, are considered to contain  future returns from the financial instrument and the obligation to 
inherent losses. absorb the risk of the financial instrument is deemed to have eco-
nomic control over a financial instrument.
Fair value option
Debt issuance costs
Unlike US GAAP, Swiss GAAP generally does not allow the fair 
value option concept that creates an optional alternative measure- Under US GAAP, debt issuance costs are presented as a direct 
ment treatment for certain non-trading financial assets and liabilities,  deduction from the carrying amount of the related debt.
guarantees and commitments. The fair value option permits the use 
of fair value for initial and subsequent measurement with changes in  Under Swiss GAAP, debt issuance costs are reported as a bal-
fair value recorded in the consolidated statements of operations.  ance sheet asset in accrued income and prepaid expenses.
For issued structured products that meet certain conditions, fair  Operating leases – lessee arrangements
value measurement can be applied. The related changes in fair 
value of both the embedded derivative and the host contract are  Under US GAAP, at commencement of an operating lease, the 
recorded in trading revenues, except for fair value adjustments  lessee recognizes a lease liability for future lease payments and a 
relating to own credit that cannot be recognized in the consoli- right-of-use asset which reflects the future benefits from the lease 
dated statements of income. Impacts of changes in own credit  contract. The initial lease liability equals the present value of the 
spreads are recognized in the compensation accounts which are  future lease payments; amounts paid upfront are not included. The 
either recorded in other assets or other liabilities. right-of-use asset equals the sum of the initial lease liability, initial 
direct costs and prepaid lease payments, with lease incentives 
Derivative financial instruments used for fair value  received deducted. Operating lease costs, which include amortiza-
hedging tion and an interest component, are recognized over the remaining 
lease term on a straight-line basis. If the reporting entity perma-
Under US GAAP, for fair value hedges, the carrying value of the  nently vacates premises and sub-leases a leased asset to another 
underlying hedged items is adjusted to the change in the fair  party at a loss, an impairment is recognized on the right-of-use 
value of the hedged risk. Changes in the fair value of the related  asset. The impairment is determined as the difference between the 
designated derivatives are recorded in the same line item of the  carrying value of the right-of-use asset and the present value of the 
consolidated statements of operations as the change in fair value  expected sub-lease income over the sub-lease term.
of the hedged risk for the respective assets or liabilities.
Under Swiss GAAP, at commencement of an operating lease, 
Under Swiss GAAP, the carrying value of hedged items is not  no right-of-use assets and lease liabilities are recognized on the 
adjusted. The amount representing the change in fair value of  balance sheet of the lessee. For the calculation of the periodic 
the hedged item with regard to the hedged risk is recorded in the  lease expenses, initial direct costs, lease incentives and prepaid 
compensation account included in other assets or other liabilities. lease payments are considered and the total cost of a lease con-
tract is expensed on a straight-line basis over the lease term. If 
Derivative financial instruments used for cash  the reporting entity permanently vacates premises, a provision 
flow hedging for future payments under the lease contract is recorded, net of 
expected sub-lease income.
Under US GAAP, the change in the fair value of a designated 
derivative of a cash flow hedge is reported in AOCI. Goodwill amortization
Under Swiss GAAP, the change in the fair value of a designated  Under US GAAP, goodwill is not amortized but must be tested for 
derivative of a cash flow hedge is recorded in the compensation  impairment annually or more frequently if an event or change in 
account included in other assets or other liabilities. circumstances indicates that the goodwill may be impaired.
424 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Under Swiss GAAP, goodwill is amortized over its useful life, gen- in accordance with Swiss GAAP FER 26. A pension asset is 
erally not exceeding five years, except for justified cases where a  recorded if a statutory overfunding of a pension plan leads to 
maximum useful life of up to ten years is acceptable. In addition,  a future economic benefit, and a pension liability is recorded 
goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment. if a statutory underfunding of a pension plan leads to a future 
economic obligation. Employer contribution reserves must be 
Amortization of intangible assets capitalized if they represent a future economic benefit. A future 
economic benefit exists if the employer can reduce its future 
Under US GAAP, intangible assets with indefinite lives are not  statutory annual contribution to the pension plan by releasing 
amortized but are tested for impairment annually or more fre- employer contribution reserves. Pension expenses include the 
quently if an event or change in circumstances indicates that the  required contributions defined by Swiss law, any additional contri-
asset may be impaired. bution mandated by the pension fund trustees and any change in 
value of the pension asset or liability between two measurement 
Under Swiss GAAP, intangible assets are amortized over a useful  dates as determined on the basis of the annual year-end pension 
life, up to a maximum of five years, in justified cases up to a max- plan valuation.
imum of ten years. In addition, these assets are tested at least 
annually for impairment. Discontinued operations
Guarantees Under US GAAP, the assets and liabilities of a discontinued 
operation are separated from the ordinary captions of the con-
US GAAP requires all guarantees to be initially recognized at fair  solidated balance sheets and are reported as discontinued opera-
value. Upon issuance of a guarantee, the guarantor is required  tions measured at the lower of the carrying value or fair value less 
to recognize a liability that reflects the initial fair value; simultane- cost to sell. Accordingly, income and expense from discontinued 
ously, a receivable is recorded to reflect the future guarantee fee  operations are reported in a separate line item of the consolidated 
income over the entire life of the guarantee. statements of operations.
Under Swiss GAAP, only accrued or prepaid guarantee fees are  Under Swiss GAAP, these positions remain in their initial bal-
recorded on the balance sheet. No guarantee liability and receiv- ance sheet captions until disposed of and continue to be valued 
able for future guarantee fees are recorded upon issuance of a  according to the respective captions.
guarantee.
Security collateral received in securities lending 
Loan origination fees and costs transactions
US GAAP requires the deferral of fees received upfront and  Under US GAAP, security collateral received in securities lend-
direct costs incurred in connection with the origination of loans  ing transactions with the right to sell or repledge are recorded 
not held under the fair value option. as assets and a corresponding liability to return the collateral is 
recognized. 
Under Swiss GAAP, only upfront payments or fees that are con-
sidered interest-related components are deferred (e.g., premiums  Under Swiss GAAP, security collateral received and the obligation 
and discounts). Fees received from the borrower which are con- to return collateral of securities lending transactions are not rec-
sidered service-related fees such as commitment fees, structur- ognized on the balance sheet.
ing fees and arrangement fees are immediately recognized in 
commission income. Loan commitments
Extraordinary income and expenses Under US GAAP, loan commitments include all commitments to 
extend loans, unfunded commitments under commercial lines of 
Unlike US GAAP, Swiss GAAP does report certain expenses or  credit, revolving credit lines, credit guarantees in the future and 
revenues as extraordinary if the recorded income or expense is  overdraft protection agreements, except for commitments that 
non-operating and non-recurring. can be revoked by the Group at any time at the Group’s sole dis-
cretion without prior notice.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits
Under Swiss GAAP, loan commitments include all commitments 
Under US GAAP, the liability and related pension expense is  to extend loans, unfunded commitments under commercial lines 
determined based on the projected unit credit actuarial calculation  of credit, revolving credit lines, credit guarantees in the future and 
of the benefit obligation. overdraft protection agreements, except for commitments that 
can be revoked by the Group at any time at the Group’s sole dis-
Under Swiss GAAP, the liability and related pension expense  cretion with a notice period not exceeding six weeks.
is primarily determined based on the pension plan valuation 
Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 425
   
Controls and procedures
Evaluation of disclosure controls 
Management has made an evaluation and assessment of the 
and procedures Group’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 
31, 2020 using the criteria issued in 2013 by the Committee of 
The Group has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and  Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) 
operation of its disclosure controls and procedures as of the end  in “Internal Control – Integrated Framework”.
of the period covered by this report under the supervision and 
with the participation of management, including the Group Chief  Based upon its review and evaluation, management, including the 
Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), pur- Group CEO and CFO, has concluded that the Group’s internal 
suant to Rule 13(a)-15(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of  control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 
1934 (the Exchange Act). There are inherent limitations to the  2020.
effectiveness of any system of controls and procedures, including 
the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding  The Group’s independent registered public accounting firm, Price-
of the controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective con- waterhouseCoopers AG, has issued an unqualified opinion on the 
trols and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of  effectiveness of the Group’s internal control over financial report-
achieving their control objectives. ing as of December 31, 2020, as stated in their report.
The CEO and CFO concluded that, as of December 31, 2020, 
Changes in internal control over 
the design and operation of the Group’s disclosure controls and 
procedures were effective, in all material respects, to ensure that  financial reporting
information required to be disclosed in reports filed and submitted 
under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and  There were no changes in the Group’s internal control over finan-
reported as and when required. cial reporting during the period covered by this report that have 
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, 
the Group’s internal control over financial reporting.
Management report on internal 
control over financial reporting
The management of the Group is responsible for establishing 
and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. 
The Group’s internal control over financial reporting is a process 
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements 
for external purposes in accordance with US GAAP. Because 
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting 
may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any 
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the 
risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with policies or pro-
cedures may deteriorate.
426 Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
  VII – Parent company 
financial statements – 
Credit Suisse Group
Report of the Statutory Auditor  429
Parent company financial statements   431
Notes to the financial statements  432
Proposed appropriation of retained 
earnings and capital distribution  444
427
   
Notes to the financial statements
1   General information, business developments and subsequent events ......................................432
2  Accounting and valuation principles ......................................................................................433
3  Other financial income .........................................................................................................433
4  Other operating income .......................................................................................................433
5  Financial expenses ..............................................................................................................434
6  Personnel expenses ............................................................................................................434
7  Other operating expenses ....................................................................................................434
8  Other short-term receivables ................................................................................................434
9   Accrued income and prepaid expenses .................................................................................434
10  Financial investments ..........................................................................................................434
11  Participations  .....................................................................................................................435
12   Short-term interest-bearing liabilities ....................................................................................435
13   Accrued expenses and deferred income ...............................................................................435
14  Long-term interest-bearing liabilities .....................................................................................436
15  Share capital, conditional, conversion and authorized capital  .................................................438
16  Credit Suisse Group shares held by subsidiaries ....................................................................439
17  Purchases and sales of treasury shares ................................................................................439
18  Significant shareholders .......................................................................................................439
19  Assets subject to retention of title ........................................................................................440
20  Contingent liabilities ............................................................................................................440
21  Assets and liabilities with related parties ...............................................................................441
22  Subordinated assets and liabilities ........................................................................................441
23  Shareholdings  ....................................................................................................................442
428 Parent company financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
 
 
Report of the statutory auditor 
to the General Meeting of Credit Suisse Group AG, Zurich  
Report on the audit of the financial statements 
Opinion 
We have audited the financial statements of Credit Suisse Group AG, which comprise the statements of income, balance 
sheets and notes for the year ended December 31, 2020, including a summary of significant accounting policies. 
In our opinion, the financial statements as at December 31, 2020 comply with Swiss law and the company’s articles of 
association.  
Basis for opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards. Our responsibilities under those 
provisions and standards are further described in the “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements” 
section of our report. 
We are independent of the entity in accordance with the provisions of Swiss law and the requirements of the Swiss audit 
profession and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that 
the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
Our audit approach 
Overview  Overall materiality: CHF 850 million 
We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to 
enable us to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, 
taking into account the structure of the entity, the accounting processes 
and controls, and the industry in which the entity operates. 
●  Our audit identified one key audit matter, carrying value of 
participations 
 
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG, Birchstrasse 160, Postfach, CH-8050 Zurich, Switzerland 
Telefon: +41 58 792 44 00, Telefax: +41 58 792 44 10, www.pwc.ch 
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG is a member of the global PricewaterhouseCoopers network of firms, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. 
 
Parent company fi nancial statements – Credit Suisse Group 429
   
Materiality 
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. Our audit opinion aims to provide reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or 
error. They are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall 
materiality for the financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative 
considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures 
and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the financial statements as a whole. 
Overall materiality  CHF 850 million 
How we determined it  0.8% of total assets 
Rationale for the materiality  We have applied this benchmark, which is generally accepted in audit 
benchmark applied  practice, based on our analysis of the common information needs of users 
of the financial statements.  
As the entity is a holding company, we believe a measure of balance sheet 
assets to be more relevant than an earnings measure.  
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements above CHF 42 million identified during 
our audit as well as any misstatements below that amount which, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. 
Audit scope 
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial 
statements. In particular, we considered where subjective judgements were made; for example, in respect of significant 
accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As 
in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other 
matters consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to 
fraud. 
Report on key audit matters based on the circular 1/2015 of the Federal Audit Oversight Authority 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the 
financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 
Carrying value of participations 
  
Key audit matter  How our audit addressed the key audit matter 
As set out in the balance sheet and described in Note     We addressed the key audit matter by testing the 
11 to the financial statements, Credit Suisse Group AG  design and effectiveness of controls relating to 
held participations with a carrying value of CHF 52,066  management’s impairment assessment of 
million as of December 31, 2020. Participations are  participations.  
valued at acquisition cost less impairment. For the   
purpose of impairment testing, portfolio valuation  We further compared the carrying value with the fair 
method is applied for economically closely related  valuation of each participation. For a sample of 
participations.   participations, we reviewed managements’ assumptions 
  such as five-year financial plans, discount rates used 
Due to the high level of sensitivity of the fair value to the  under the income approach and market multiples used 
assumptions used in the impairment assessment and  under the market approach. We used professionals with 
the significance of the participations to the financial  specialized skill and knowledge to assist in the 
statements of Credit Suisse Group AG, we identified  evaluation of the valuation methodology applied as well 
the impairment assessment of participations as a key  as the discount rate and multiples assumptions.  
audit matter. 
 
  2  Credit Suisse Group AG  |  Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting 
429-I Parent company fi nancial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Other matter  
The financial statements of Credit Suisse Group AG for the year ended December 31, 2019 were audited by another firm 
of auditors whose report, dated 25 March 2020, expressed an unmodified opinion on those statements. 
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors for the financial statements 
The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the provisions of 
Swiss law and the company’s articles of association, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors determines is 
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error. 
In preparing the financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the entity’s ability to continue as 
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of 
accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease operations, or has no realistic 
alternative but to do so. 
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with 
Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can 
arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. 
As part of an audit in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards, we exercise professional judgment and 
maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: 
●  Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud 
is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 
●  Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the 
entity’s internal control. 
●  Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made. 
●  Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may 
cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material 
uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial 
statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the entity 
to cease to continue as a going concern. 
We communicate with the Board of Directors or its relevant committee regarding, among other matters, the planned 
scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that 
we identify during our audit. 
We also provide the Board of Directors or its relevant committee with a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. 
From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors or its relevant committee, we determine those matters that 
were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit 
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the 
matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report 
 
  3  Credit Suisse Group AG  |  Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting 
Parent company fi nancial statements – Credit Suisse Group 429-II
   
because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits 
of such communication. 
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements 
In accordance with article 728a paragraph 1 item 3 CO and Swiss Auditing Standard 890, we confirm that an internal 
control system exists which has been designed for the preparation of financial statements according to the instructions of 
the Board of Directors. 
We further confirm that the proposed appropriation of available earnings and reserves complies with Swiss law and the 
company’s articles of association. We recommend that the financial statements submitted to you be approved. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG 
Matthew Falconer  Beresford Caloia 
Audit expert  Audit expert 
Auditor in charge 
Zurich, Switzerland 
March 18, 2021 
 
  4  Credit Suisse Group AG  |  Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting 
430 Parent company fi nancial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Parent company financial statements 
Statements of income
in   Note   2020   2019 
S   tatements of income (CHF million)       
Dividend income from participations      24   30 
Other financial income   3   1,670   1,440 
Other operating income   4   154   206 
Total operating income      1,848   1,676 
Financial expenses   5   1,818   1,445 
Personnel expenses   6   82   103 
Other operating expenses   7   113   106 
Amortization, depreciation and impairment losses on noncurrent assets      25   9 
Total operating expenses      2,038   1,663 
Net profit/(loss) before taxes      (190)   13 
Direct tax expenses      7   17 
Net profit/(loss)      (197)   (4) 
Balance sheets
end of   Note   2020   2019 
A   ssets (CHF million)       
Cash and cash equivalents      92   79 
Other short-term receivables   8   277   253 
Accrued income and prepaid expenses   9   883   593 
Total current assets      1,252   925 
Financial investments   10   50,900   31,848 
Participations   11   52,066   52,090 
Total noncurrent assets      102,966   83,938 
Total assets      104,218   84,863 
L  iabilities and shareholders’ equity (CHF million)       
Short-term interest-bearing liabilities   12   6,636   2,331 
Other short-term liabilities      7   46 
Accrued expenses and deferred income   13   978   672 
Total short-term liabilities      7,621   3,049 
Long-term interest-bearing liabilities   14   51,780   35,828 
Provisions      311   311 
Total long-term liabilities      52,091   36,139 
Total liabilities      59,712   39,188 
Share capital   15   98   102 
Capital contribution reserves      25,160   25,659 
Other capital reserves      1,800   1,800 
Legal capital reserves      26,960   27,459 
Reserves for treasury shares   16   500   500 
Legal income reserves      500   500 
Statutory and discretionary reserves      10,500   10,500 
Retained earnings carried forward      7,037   8,538 
Net profit/(loss)      (197)   (4) 
Voluntary retained earnings      17,340   19,034 
Treasury shares against other capital reserves      (392)   (420) 
Treasury shares against voluntary retained earnings      0   (1,000) 
Treasury shares   17   (392)   (1,420) 
Total shareholders’ equity      44,506   45,675 
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity      104,218   84,863 
Parent company financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 431
   
Notes to the financial statements
1   General information, business developments and subsequent 
events
Company held by Credit Suisse Group Funding (Guernsey) Limited have 
been transferred to Credit Suisse Group AG. This resulted in an 
Credit Suisse Group AG is a Swiss holding company incorporated  increase in financial investments and long-term interest-bearing 
as a joint stock corporation (public limited company) with its reg- liabilities in the amount of CHF 9.5 billion and the contingent 
istered office in Zurich, Switzerland. The financial statements of  liabilities entered into on behalf of subsidiaries have been reduced 
Credit Suisse Group AG are prepared in accordance with the reg- accordingly. The issuer substitution had no impact on net profit/
ulations of the Swiss Code of Obligations and are stated in Swiss  (loss) of Credit Suisse Group AG.
francs (CHF). The financial year ends on December 31. > Refer to “Note 14 – Long-term interest-bearing liabilities” for further 
information.
Number of employees
COVID-19 pandemic
The average number of employees (full-time equivalents) for the 
current year, as well as for the previous year, did not exceed 50. The pandemic and the consequences for markets and the global 
economy affected Credit Suisse Group AG’s financial perfor-
Business developments mance in 2020. Credit Suisse Group AG continues to closely 
monitor the COVID-19 pandemic and its effects on the compa-
Effective November 3, 2020, Credit Suisse Group AG and Credit  ny’s operations and businesses. Should current economic condi-
Suisse Group Funding (Guernsey) Limited exercised the voluntary  tions persist or continue to deteriorate, the macroeconomic envi-
issuer substitution clause included in the terms of senior unse- ronment could have an adverse effect on these and other aspects 
cured notes issued by Credit Suisse Group Funding (Guernsey)  of the Group’s business, operations and financial performance, 
Limited with a maturity date post December 31, 2022. As a  including decreased client activity or demand for its products.
result of the substitution, Credit Suisse Group AG succeeded to, 
and was substituted for, and became bound by every obligation  Subsequent events
of, Credit Suisse Group Funding (Guernsey) Limited as principal 
obligor under these notes, which qualify as total loss-absorbing  > Refer to “Note 3 – Business developments, significant shareholders and sub-
capacity (TLAC) debt instruments. In addition, the related sub- sequent events” in VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse 
Group for information on subsequent events.
ordinated internal TLAC notes issued by Credit Suisse AG and 
432 Parent company financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
2  Accounting and valuation principles
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with the  Interest-bearing liabilities
provisions of the Swiss Law on Accounting and Financial Report-
ing (32nd title of the Swiss Code of Obligations).  Short-term and long-term interest-bearing liabilities are carried at 
nominal value. Issuance costs and discounts are recognized as 
Cash and cash equivalents prepaid expenses and are amortized on a straight-line basis over 
the contractual term of the notes. Premiums are recognized as 
Cash and cash equivalents are carried at nominal value. accrued expenses and are amortized on a straight-line basis over 
the contractual term of the notes.
Financial investments
Treasury shares
Financial investments include debt securities with a remaining 
maturity of more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.  Own shares are recorded at cost and reported as treasury shares, 
These securities are carried at cost. No valuation adjustments or  resulting in a reduction to total shareholders’ equity. Realized gains 
impairment losses were required. and losses on the sale of own shares are recognized through 
the statements of income as other financial income or financial 
Participations expenses.
Participations are valued at historical cost less impairment.  Revenue recognition
For the purpose of impairment testing, with a clearly defined 
sub-portfolio of economically closely related participations, the  Revenues are recognized when they are realized or realizable, and 
portfolio valuation method is applied. Impairment is assessed at  are earned. Dividend income is recorded in the reporting period in 
each balance sheet date or at any point in time when facts and  which the dividend is declared.
circumstances would indicate that an event has occurred which 
triggers an impairment review. The amount of impairment, if any,  Foreign currency translations
is assessed on the level of this sub-portfolio and not individually 
for each participation. All other participations are valued individu- Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are trans-
ally. An impairment is recorded if the carrying value exceeds the  lated into Swiss francs at the exchange rates prevailing at year-
fair value of the participation sub-portfolio. If the fair value of par- end, with the exception of non-monetary assets and liabilities, 
ticipations recovers significantly and is considered sustainable, a  which are maintained in Swiss francs at historical exchange rates. 
prior period impairment can be reversed up to the historical cost  All currency translation effects are recognized in other financial 
value of the participations. income or financial expenses. 
3  Other financial income 4  Other operating income
in   2020   2019  in   2020   2019 
Other financial income (CHF million)         Other operating income (CHF million)        
Interest income   1,662   1,325  Management fees   75   98 
Foreign exchange gains   7   1  Trademark fees   59   62 
Gains on sale of treasury shares   1   69  Guarantee fees   18   22 
Realized and unrealized gains on derivative         Gain on sale of participations   0   23 
financial instruments   0   45 
Other   2   1 
Other financial income   1,670   1,440 
Other operating income   154   206 
Parent company financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 433
   
5  Financial expenses 9   Accrued income and prepaid 
expenses
in   2020   2019 
Financial expenses (CHF million)         end of   2020   2019 
Interest expense 1  1,659   1,358 
Accrued income and prepaid expenses (CHF million)       
Losses on sale of treasury shares   157   2 
Accrued interest income   609   412 
Realized and unrealized losses on derivative        
financial instruments   0   84  Deferred debt issuance costs   243   167 
Other   2   1  Unamortized discount on notes issued   26   8 
Financial expenses   1,818   1,445  Other   5   6 
Accrued income and prepaid expenses   883   593 
1 Includes negative interest expense of CHF 39 million in 2020 and CHF 14 million in 
2019, respectively.
Credit Suisse Group AG entered into a hedging transaction to 
hedge an open interest rate risk exposure from a fixed rate liability 
with a nominal amount of USD 1.0 billion with a fixed receiver inter-
est rate swap with equivalent notional and maturity. This hedg-
6  Personnel expenses
ing relationship is considered to be highly effective over the entire 
maturity of the hedge. The hedging instrument follows the account-
in   2020   2019 
ing treatment of the underlying liability. The interest on the interest 
Personnel expenses (CHF million)         rate swap is recorded as financial expenses in the statement of 
Salaries   39   38  income. The interest rate swap was initially recorded at cost. Sub-
Variable compensation expenses   33   55  sequently, no replacement values and no valuation changes, i.e., 
Other   10   10  change of clean replacement values, are recorded on the balance 
Personnel expenses   82   103  sheet and in the statement of income of the company.
10  Financial investments
7  Other operating expenses
end of   2020   2019 
in   2020   2019  Financial investments (CHF million)        
Other operating expenses (CHF million)         Debt securities 1  50,899   31,847 
Branding expenses   59   62  Equity securities   1   1 
Other general and administrative expenses   54   44  Financial investments   50,900   31,848 
Other operating expenses   113   106 
1 Reflects notes issued by Credit Suisse AG. Refer to “Business developments” in Note 1 
– General information, business developments and subsequent events for further 
information.
8  Other short-term receivables
end of   2020   2019 
Other short-term receivables (CHF million)       
Receivables for trademark fees   202   234 
Debt securities   53   – 
Other   22   19 
Other short-term receivables   277   253 
434 Parent company financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
11  Participations 
Direct participations
         Nominal   Voting   Equity 
         capital   interest    interest  
Company name   Domicile   Currency   in million   in %   in % 
as of December 31, 2020             
Capital Union Bank B.S.C. (closed) (under liquidation)   Manama, Kingdom of Bahrain   USD   50.0   26   26 
Credit Suisse AG 1  Zurich, Switzerland   CHF   4,399.7   100   100 
Credit Suisse Group Finance (Guernsey) Limited                
(in Guernsey members’ voluntary liquidation)   St. Peter Port, Guernsey   USD   0.0   100   100 
Credit Suisse Group Funding (Guernsey) Limited 1  St. Peter Port, Guernsey   USD   0.1   100   100 
Credit Suisse Insurance Linked Strategies Ltd 1  Zurich, Switzerland   CHF   0.2   100   100 
Credit Suisse International 1  London, United Kingdom   USD   11,366.2   2 2   2 2 
Credit Suisse IP GmbH   Zurich, Switzerland   CHF   0.0   100   100 
Credit Suisse Services AG 1  Zurich, Switzerland   CHF   1.0   100   100 
Credit Suisse Trust AG 1  Zurich, Switzerland   CHF   5.0   100   100 
Credit Suisse Trust Holdings Limited 1  St. Peter Port, Guernsey   GBP   2.0   100   100 
CS LP Holding AG   Zug, Switzerland   CHF   0.1   100   100 
Inreska Limited 1  St. Peter Port, Guernsey   GBP   3.0   100   100 
Savoy Hotel Baur en Ville AG   Zurich, Switzerland   CHF   7.5   88   88 
1 For the purpose of impairment testing, these participations form part of a sub-portfolio for which the portfolio valuation method is applied.
2 98% held by other group companies.
Indirect participations
The company’s principal indirect participations are shown in 
Note 41 – Significant subsidiaries and equity method investments 
in VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group.
12   Short-term interest-bearing  13   Accrued expenses and 
liabilities deferred income
end of   2020   2019  end of   2020   2019 
Short-term interest-bearing liabilities (CHF million)         A  ccrued expenses and deferred income (CHF million)      
Due to banks   6,513   2,287  Accrued interest expense   610   415 
Cash collateral received   70   44  Deferred fees on acquired debt securities   238   161 
Senior bail-in notes   53   –  Accrued personnel and other operating expenses   103   87 
Short-term interest-bearing liabilities   6,636   2,331  Unamortized discount on debt securities   26   8 
Other   1   1 
Accrued expenses and deferred income   978   672 
Parent company financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 435
   
14  Long-term interest-bearing liabilities
The high-trigger and low-trigger tier 1 capital notes issued by  the Higher Trigger Capital Ratio (i.e., the ratio of Higher Trigger 
Credit Suisse Group AG are perpetual securities and have no  Capital Amount to the aggregate of all risk-weighted assets of the 
fixed or final maturity date. Subject to the satisfaction of certain  Group) as of any quarterly balance sheet date or interim capital 
conditions, they may be redeemed, at the option of the issuer,  report date is below 5.125%. A write-down event will also occur 
on the first call date or as specified thereafter in the terms of the  if FINMA determines that a write-down of the notes is neces-
note. sary, or that Credit Suisse Group AG requires extraordinary public 
sector capital support to prevent Credit Suisse Group AG from 
The high-trigger tier 1 capital notes mandatorily either convert  becoming insolvent, bankrupt or unable to pay a material part of 
into ordinary shares of Credit Suisse Group AG or are perma- its debts, or other similar circumstances. Write-down can only 
nently written down to zero, as provided in the terms of the  be prevented if FINMA, at the Group’s request, is satisfied that 
respective instrument, upon the occurrence of certain specified  certain conditions exist and determines that a conversion or write-
triggering events. These events include the Group’s consolidated  down is not required.
common equity tier 1 (CET1) ratio falling below 7%, or a deter-
mination by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority  In addition to the high-trigger and low-trigger tier 1 capital notes, 
FINMA (FINMA) that conversion or write-down is necessary, or  Credit Suisse Group AG has issued senior unsecured notes, 
that Credit Suisse Group AG requires extraordinary public sector  which qualify as TLAC. The senior unsecured notes have a fixed 
capital support, to prevent Credit Suisse Group AG from becom- maturity date and can be redeemed, at the option of the issuer, 
ing insolvent, bankrupt or unable to pay a material amount of its  at a call date, if specified in the applicable terms and conditions. 
debt, or other similar circumstances. Conversion or write-down  The senior unsecured notes are bail-in debt instruments that are 
can only be prevented if FINMA, at Credit Suisse Group AG’s  designed to absorb losses after the cancellation of Credit Suisse 
request, is satisfied that certain conditions exist and determines  Group AG’s equity instruments and after the write-down or con-
that a conversion or write-down is not required. High-trigger  version into equity of regulatory capital (including high-trigger and 
instruments are designed to absorb losses before other capital  low-trigger tier 1 capital notes) in restructuring proceedings with 
instruments, including the low-trigger capital instruments. respect to Credit Suisse Group AG. Bail-in debt instruments do 
not feature capital triggers that may lead to a write-down and/or 
The low-trigger tier 1 capital notes have a write-down feature,  a conversion into equity outside of restructuring, but only begin to 
which means that interest on the notes shall cease to accrue and  bear losses once Credit Suisse Group AG is formally in restruc-
the full principal amount of the notes will be permanently written  turing proceedings and FINMA orders capital measures (i.e., a 
down to zero upon the occurrence of certain specified trigger- write-down and/or a conversion into equity) in the restructuring 
ing events, also called write-down events. A write-down event  plan.
will occur if the sum of the Group’s consolidated CET1 ratio and 
436 Parent company financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Long-term interest-bearing liabilities
                  2020   2019 
   Notional                Carrying value    Carrying value  
Currency   (million)   Interest rate   Issue date   First call date   Maturity date   (CHF million)   (CHF million) 
H       igh-trigger tier 1 capital notes           
USD   1,500   7.125% 1   January 30, 2017   July 29, 2022   Perpetual   1,321   1,454 
USD   2,000   7.500% 1   July 16, 2018   July 17, 2023   Perpetual   1,761   1,938 
CHF   200   3.875% 1   March 22, 2017  September 22, 2023   Perpetual   200   200 
SGD   750   5.625% 1   June 6, 2019   June 6, 2024   Perpetual   500   540 
CHF   300   3.500% 1   September 4, 2018   September 4, 2024   Perpetual   300   300 
USD   1,500   7.250% 1   September 12, 2018  September 12, 2025   Perpetual   1,321   1,454 
CHF   525   3.000% 1   September 11, 2019   November 11, 2025   Perpetual   525   525 
USD   1,750   6.375% 1   August 21, 2019   August 21, 2026   Perpetual   1,541   1,696 
USD   1,500   5.250% 1   August 11, 2020   August 11, 2027 2   Perpetual   1,321   – 
USD   1,000   5.100% 1   January 24, 2020   January 24, 2030   Perpetual   881   – 
USD   1,500   4.500% 1   December 9, 2020   March 3, 2031 2   Perpetual   1,321   – 
L      ow-trigger tier 1 capital notes           
USD   2,250   7.500% 1   December 11, 2013   December 11, 2023   Perpetual   1,982   2,180 
USD   2,500   6.250% 1   June 18, 2014   December 18, 2024   Perpetual   2,202   2,423 
S       enior unsecured notes           
USD   60 3   3 Month USD LIBOR +0.55% 4   October 6, 2017   October 6, 2021   October 6, 2022   – 5   58 
USD   1,750   3.574%   January 9, 2017   January 9, 2022   January 9, 2023   1,541   1,696 
AUD   194   5.000% 6   February 8, 2018   February 8, 2022   February 8, 2038   132   126 
USD   100   3 Month USD LIBOR +0.55% 7   April 9, 2019   April 9, 2022   April 9, 2023   88   97 
JPY   38,700   0.553% 1   October 27, 2017   October 27, 2022   October 27, 2023   331   345 
USD   1,000   2.997% 1   September 14, 2017   December 14, 2022   December 14, 2023   881   969 
USD   500   3 Month USD LIBOR +1.2%   September 14, 2017   December 14, 2022   December 14, 2023   440   485 
AUD   125   3.500% 1   March 8, 2018   March 8, 2023   March 8, 2024   85   85 
AUD   175   3 Month USD BBSW +1.25%   March 8, 2018   March 8, 2023   March 8, 2024   119   119 
USD   1,050   3 Month USD LIBOR +0.80% 8   March 8, 2019   March 8, 2023   March 8, 2024   925   1,018 
USD   334   4.600% 6   March 29, 2018   March 29, 2023   March 29, 2048   294   309 
CHF   1,000 9 ,10  1.000%   April 15, 2015   –   April 14, 2023   1,000   – 
USD   2,000 9   3.800%   June 10, 2016   –   June 9, 2023   1,761   – 
USD   1,250   4.207% 1   June 12, 2018   June 12, 2023   June 12, 2024   1,101   1,211 
USD   750   3 Month USD LIBOR +1.24%   June 12, 2018   June 12, 2023   June 12, 2024   661   727 
USD   160   5.000% 6   June 29, 2018   June 29, 2023   June 29, 2048   141   148 
USD   209   5.000% 6   August 31, 2018   August 31, 2023   August 31, 2048   184   193 
USD   111   5.350% 6   October 26, 2018   October 26, 2023   October 26, 2048   98   102 
USD   111   5.400% 6   December 27, 2018   December 27, 2023   December 27, 2048   98   102 
USD   126   5.350% 6   January 30, 2019   January 30, 2024   January 30, 2049   111   116 
USD   126   5.350% 6   January 30, 2019   January 30, 2024   January 30, 2049   111   116 
USD   105   5.300% 6   January 30, 2019   January 30, 2024   January 30, 2049   93   97 
USD   136   4.700% 6   May 29, 2019   May 29, 2024   May 29, 2049   120   126 
USD   136   4.500% 6   June 27, 2019   June 27, 2024   June 27, 2049   120   126 
EUR   1,500   1.250% 1   July 17, 2017   July 17, 2024   July 17, 2025   1,624   1,629 
USD   2,000   2.593% 1   September 11, 2019   September 11, 2024   September 11, 2025   1,761   1,938 
GBP   750   2.125% 1   September 12, 2017  September 12, 2024  September 12, 2025   902   954 
USD   280   3.850% 6   January 31, 2020   January 31, 2025   January 31, 2060   247   – 
USD   2,500 9   3.750%   March 26, 2015   –   March 26, 2025   2,202   – 
EUR   2,000   3.250% 1   April 2, 2020   April 2, 2025   April 2, 2026   2,166   – 
NOK   1,000 9   3.600%   May 29, 2015   –   May 28, 2025   103   – 
Parent company financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 437
   
Long-term interest-bearing liabilities (continued)
                  2020   2019 
   Notional                Carrying value    Carrying value  
Currency   (million)   Interest rate   Issue date   First call date   Maturity date   (CHF million)   (CHF million) 
USD   1,500   2.193% 1   June 5, 2020   June 5, 2025   June 5, 2026   1,321   – 
GBP   500 9   2.750%   August 8, 2016   –   August 8, 2025   601   – 
USD   2,000 9   4.550%   April 18, 2016   –   April 17, 2026   1,761   – 
EUR   1,500 1 1  1.000% 1   June 24, 2019   June 24, 2026   June 24, 2027   1,624   1,629 
JPY   8,300   0.904% 1   October 27, 2017   October 27, 2026   October 27, 2027   71   74 
USD   2,250   4.282%   January 9, 2017   January 9, 2027   January 9, 2028   1,982   2,180 
EUR   1,250   0.650% 1   January 14, 2020   January 14, 2027   January 14, 2028   1,354   – 
GBP   750   2.250% 1   June 9, 2020   June 9, 2027   June 9, 2028   902   – 
USD   2,000   3.869% 1   January 12, 2018   January 12, 2028   January 12, 2029   1,761   1,938 
EUR   100   2.455%   July 11, 2018   July 11, 2028   July 4, 2034   108   109 
EUR   100   1.190% 1 ,12  June 11, 2019   March 11, 2029   March 11, 2030   108   109 
EUR   1,000   0.650%   September 10, 2019   –  September 10, 2029   1,083   1,086 
USD   3,000   4.194% 1   April 1, 2020   April 1, 2030   April 1, 2031   2,642   – 
JPY   10,000   1.269% 1   October 27, 2017   October 27, 2032   October 27, 2033   85   89 
USD   2,000 9   4.875%   May 21, 2015   –   May 15, 2045   1,761   – 
T      ime deposit           
CHF                  –   3,012 
Total                  51,780   35,828 
1  Interest rate reset at first call date and on every reset date thereafter.
2  Represents the first reset date. Optional redemption at any time during the six-month period prior to the first reset date.
3  On December 12, 2019, the notes with a principal amount of USD 1,000 million were partially redeemed.
4  Minimum rate 0.55% / Maximum rate 3.55%.
5  As of December 31, 2020, CHF 53 million reported as short-term interest-bearing liabilities.
6  The interest rate of these zero coupon annual accreting senior callable notes reflects the yield rate of the notes.
7  Minimum rate of 0.55%.
8  Minimum rate of 0.80%.
9  Transferred to Credit Suisse Group AG. Refer to “Business developments” in Note 1 – General information, business developments and subsequent events for further information.
10 On May 12, 2015, the offering was re-opened and the aggregate principal amount was increased from CHF 825 million to CHF 1,000 million.
11 On July 23, 2019, the offering was re-opened and the aggregate principal amount was increased from EUR 1,000 million to EUR 1,500 million.
12 The interest rate was 1.59% from June 11, 2019 to March 10, 2020.
15  Share capital, conditional, conversion and authorized capital 
         % of        
   No. of      existing    No. of    
   registered   Par value   share   registered   Par value 
   shares   in CHF   capital   shares   in CHF 
Share capital as of December 31, 2019            2,556,011,720   102,240,469 
O     rdinary share capital decrease         
Cancellation of repurchased shares on July 9, 2020            (108,264,000)   (4,330,560) 
 C    onditional capital         
Warrants and convertible bonds                
Capital as of December 31, 2019   400,000,000   16,000,000          
Capital as of December 31, 2020   400,000,000 1   16,000,000   16       
    Conversion capital         
Capital as of December 31, 2019   150,000,000   6,000,000          
Capital as of December 31, 2020   150,000,000 2   6,000,000  6        
    Authorized capital         
Capital as of December 31, 2019   103,000,000   4,120,000          
Capital as of December 31, 2020   103,000,000   4,120,000   4       
Share capital as of December 31, 2020            2,447,747,720   97,909,909 
1 72.2 million registered shares reserved for the USD 1,500 million 7.125% high-trigger tier 1 capital notes.
2 39.0 million registered shares reserved for the USD 1,500 million 7.125% high-trigger tier 1 capital notes.
438 Parent company financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
16  Credit Suisse Group shares held by subsidiaries
      2020     2019 
   Share  Market value   Share  Market value 
   equivalents  (CHF million)   equivalents  (CHF million) 
B     alance at end of financial year      
Physical holdings   3,170,970 1   36  4,772,328   63 
Holdings, net of pending obligations   108,227   1  1,308,618   17 
1 Representing 0.1% of issued shares as of December 31, 2020.
17  Purchases and sales of treasury shares
   Net gain/(loss)   Treasury shares,      Average price  
   on sale   at cost   Number   per share 
   (CHF million)   (CHF million)   of shares   (CHF) 
2   020        
Balance as of December 31, 2019      1,420   114,989,483   12.35 
Purchase of treasury shares      882   82,515,654   10.69 
Sale of treasury shares 1  (156)   (585)   (50,809,266)   8.45 
Cancellation of repurchased shares/notes      (1,325)   (108,264,000)   12.24 
Change in 2020   (156)   (1,028)   (76,557,612)    
Balance as of December 31, 2020      392   38,431,871   10.19 
2   019        
Balance as of December 31, 2018      7   405,281   16.38 
Purchase of treasury shares      1,916   156,632,122   12.23 
Sale of treasury shares 1  67   (503)   (42,047,920)   13.56 
Change in 2019   67   1,413   114,584,202    
Balance as of December 31, 2019      1,420   114,989,483   12.35 
2020: Highest price CHF 13.65, paid on February 20 and lowest price CHF 6.50 paid on March 18 in a market transaction.
2019: Highest price CHF 13.65, paid on May 2 and lowest price CHF 10.81, paid on August 15 in a market transaction.
1 Representing share award settlements.
18  Significant shareholders
        2020        2019 
   Number  Total nominal   Share-   Number  Total nominal   Share- 
   of shares   value   holding   of shares   value   holding 
end of   (million)  (CHF million)   (%)   (million)  (CHF million)   (%) 
D      irect shareholders 1         
Chase Nominees Ltd. 2  323   13   13.21   343   14   13.43 
Nortrust Nominees Ltd. 2  184   7   7.53   163   7   6.37 
1 As registered in the share register of the Group on December 31 of the reporting period; includes shareholders registered as nominees.
2 Nominee holdings exceeding 2% are registered with a right to vote only if the nominee confirms that no individual shareholder holds more than 0.5% of the outstanding share capital or if 
the nominee discloses the identity of any beneficial owner holding more than 0.5% of the outstanding capital.
> 
Refer to “Note 3 – Business developments, significant shareholders and subsequent events” in VI – Consolidated financial statements – Credit Suisse Group for infor-
mation received from shareholders not registered in the share register of Credit Suisse Group AG.
Parent company financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 439
   
19  Assets subject to retention of title
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, cash and cash equivalents 
in the amount of CHF 4 million and CHF 5 million, respectively, 
were subject to a retention of title.
20  Contingent liabilities
end of   2020   2019 
 Contingent liabilities (CHF million)     
Aggregate indemnity liabilities, guarantees and other contingent liabilities (net of exposures recorded as liabilities)   8,110   22,766 
   of which have been entered into on behalf of subsidiaries 1  8,110   22,766 
1 Includes senior unsecured notes issued by subsidiaries of CHF 7,385 million and CHF 21,785 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, of which the underlying notional 
amounts (subject to regulatory adjustments) qualify as TLAC. Refer to “Business developments” in Note 1 – General information, business developments and subsequent events for fur-
ther information.
Contingent liabilities include guarantees for obligations, perfor- (Schweiz)” (the Swiss pension plan). Most of the Swiss subsidiar-
mance-related guarantees and letters of comfort issued to third  ies of Credit Suisse Group AG and a few companies that have 
parties. Contingencies with a stated amount are included in the  close business and financial ties with Credit Suisse Group AG 
above table. In some instances, however, the exposure of Credit  participate in this plan. The Swiss pension plan is an indepen-
Suisse Group AG is not defined as an amount but relates to spe- dent self-insured pension plan set up as a trust and qualifies as a 
cific circumstances such as the solvency of subsidiaries.  defined contribution plan (savings plan) under Swiss law.
Value-added tax The Swiss pension plan’s annual financial statements are pre-
pared in accordance with Swiss GAAP FER 26 based on the 
The company belongs to the Swiss value-added tax group of Credit  full population of covered employees. Individual annual financial 
Suisse Group, and thus carries joint liability to the Swiss federal tax  statements for each participating company are not prepared. As a 
authority for value-added tax debts of the entire Group. No contin- multi-employer plan with unrestricted joint liability for all participat-
gent liability is included in the above table. ing companies, the economic interest in the Swiss pension plan’s 
over- or underfunding is allocated to each participating company 
Swiss pension plan based on an allocation key determined by the plan. No contingent 
liability is included in the above table.
The employees of Credit Suisse Group AG are covered by the 
pension plan of the “Pensionskasse der Credit Suisse Group 
440 Parent company financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
21  Assets and liabilities with related parties
end of   2020   2019 
A  ssets (CHF million)      
Cash and cash equivalents   88   74 
Other short-term receivables   255   235 
Accrued income and prepaid expenses   614   417 
Total current assets – related parties   957   726 
Financial investments   50,899   31,847 
Participations   52,066   52,090 
Total noncurrent assets – related parties   102,965   83,937 
Total assets – related parties   103,922   84,663 
L iabilities (CHF million)      
Short-term interest-bearing liabilities   6,583   2,331 
Other short-term liabilities   5   2 
Accrued expenses and deferred income 1  306   214 
Total short-term liabilities – related parties   6,894   2,547 
Long-term interest-bearing liabilities   0   3,012 
Total long-term liabilities – related parties  0    3,012 
Total liabilities – related parties   6,894   5,559 
The assets and liabilities represent the amounts due from and due to group companies, except where indicated.
1 Includes amounts due to management bodies of CHF 41 million at December 31, 2020 and CHF 44 million at December 31, 2019, respectively.
22  Subordinated assets and liabilities
end of   2020   2019 
S  ubordinated assets and liabilities (CHF million)      
Subordinated assets 1  51,560   32,259 
Subordinated liabilities   15,413   12,915 
1 Refer to “Business developments” in Note 1 – General information, business developments and subsequent events for further information.
Group-internal funding related to loss-absorbing instruments has  Ordinance, effective January 1, 2020. Due to this alignment, 
been aligned to international standards for internal TLAC instru- the bail-in debt instruments issued by Credit Suisse AG to Credit 
ments and to the new article 126b of the Swiss Capital Adequacy  Suisse Group AG are permanently subordinated.
Parent company financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 441
   
23  Shareholdings 
Executive Board shareholdings interest as well as the value of the unvested share-based 
 compensation awards held by Executive Board members as of 
The shareholdings of the Executive Board members, their imme- December 31, 2020 and 2019, are disclosed in the table below.
diate family and companies in which they have a controlling 
Executive Board holdings and values of deferred share-based awards by individual
               Value (CHF) of 
         Number of   Value (CHF) of   unvested awards  
   Number of    Number of   owned shares and   unvested awards    at year end  
end of   owned shares 1   unvested awards 2   unvested awards   at grant date 3   (at fair value) 4 
2    020         
Thomas P. Gottstein   329,945   1,175,386   1,505,331   14,059,196   7,982,209 
Romeo Cerutti   360,449   569,438   929,887   7,134,274   4,108,232 
Brian Chin   568,030   1,790,864   2,358,894   21,951,346   12,474,970 
André Helfenstein   74,229   671,329   745,558   7,523,347   5,899,796 
Lydie Hudson   57,115   421,216   478,331   4,864,351   2,895,168 
David R. Mathers   110,958   1,313,581   1,424,539   14,661,244   10,505,639 
Antoinette Poschung   141,405   207,515   348,920   2,360,009   1,412,321 
Helman Sitohang   365,186   1,344,933   1,710,119   16,773,304   9,612,195 
James B. Walker   143,444   577,046   720,490   6,552,588   5,092,395 
Lara J. Warner   –   1,089,006   1,089,006   13,461,484   7,647,962 
Philipp Wehle   74,542   670,246   744,788   7,652,671   5,095,777 
Total   2,225,303   9,830,560   12,055,863   116,993,815   72,726,662 
2    019         
Tidjane Thiam   66,422   1,303,823   1,370,245   19,084,599   10,833,091 
Romeo Cerutti   323,165   458,513   781,678   6,750,770   3,820,259 
Brian Chin   494,030   1,430,886   1,924,916   20,368,149   11,843,258 
Thomas P. Gottstein   150,214   672,361   822,575   9,574,478   5,530,279 
Lydie Hudson   26,175   295,386   321,561   3,739,373   2,832,024 
David R. Mathers   84,360   1,029,891   1,114,251   13,509,668   9,392,954 
David Miller   –   734,280   734,280   10,240,437   8,888,164 
Antoinette Poschung   123,318   139,024   262,342   1,693,270   1,302,361 
Helman Sitohang   264,737   1,007,352   1,272,089   14,683,925   8,198,365 
James B. Walker   100,153   317,330   417,483   4,181,205   3,834,492 
Lara J. Warner   –   786,568   786,568   11,361,535   6,138,554 
Philipp Wehle   21,540   364,059   385,599   4,735,987   3,862,390 
Total   1,654,114   8,539,473   10,193,587   119,923,396   76,476,192 
1 Includes shares that were initially granted as deferred compensation and have vested.
2 Includes unvested shares originating from LTI opportunities calculated on the basis of maximum opportunity for awards that have not reached the end of their three-year performance 
period, given that the actual achievement level and associated number of unvested shares cannot be determined until the end of the performance period. For LTI awards that have 
reached the end of their three-year performance period, the number of unvested shares reflects the actual number of shares earned based on achievement of the performance target 
levels.
3 Determined based on the number of unvested awards multiplied by the share price at grant.
4 Includes the value of unvested LTI opportunities. For LTI awards that have reached the end of their three-year performance period, the value is based on the actual number of shares 
eligible to vest. For LTI opportunities that have not reached the end of their three-year performance period, this is determined based on the number of shares at fair value at the time of 
grant, multiplied by the share price at the end of the year.
442 Parent company financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
Board of Directors shareholdings Board of Directors shareholdings by individual
end of   2020   2019 
The shareholdings of the Board of Directors members, their 
December 31 (shares) 1       
immediate family and companies in which they have a  controlling 
Urs Rohner   425,783   298,416 
interest are disclosed in the table below. As of December 31, 
Iris Bohnet   96,328   74,916 
2020 and 2019, there were no Board of Directors members with 
Christian Gellerstad   103,991   51,716 
outstanding options.
Andreas Gottschling   104,659   51,391 
Michael Klein   49,897   22,369 
Shan Li   28,590   7,178 
Seraina Macia   84,844   63,432 
Richard Meddings 2  13,774   – 
Kai S. Nargolwala   366,334   324,088 
Ana Paula Pessoa   53,816   24,758 
Joaquin J. Ribeiro   77,724   53,253 
Severin Schwan   169,976   145,505 
John Tiner   335,960   278,188 
Total   1,911,676  1,395,210 3 
1 Includes Group shares that are subject to a blocking period of up to four years; includes 
shareholdings of immediate family members.
2 Richard Meddings was newly elected at the 2020 AGM.
3 Excludes 51,455 shares held by Alexander Gut, who did not stand for re-election to the 
Board as of April 30, 2020.
Shares awarded
      2020      2019 
      Value       Value  
   Number of    of shares   Number of    of shares 
end of   shares   (CHF million)   shares   (CHF million) 
S    hares awarded        
Board of Directors   568,021   5   335,089   4 
Executive Board 1  2,271,970   24   2,041,167   24 
Employees 2  82,664,247   1,119   106,275,209   1,192 
Includes shares, share awards and performance share awards and for the Executive Board LTI awards granted at fair value.
1 For the individuals who joined the Executive Board and the individuals who left the Executive Board during 2020 and 2019, compensation relating to the period during which they were 
members of the Executive Board and, for leavers, during their respective notice period is included.
2 Includes shares awarded to employees of subsidiaries of Credit Suisse Group AG and excludes shares awarded to the Executive Board.
Share awards outstanding 
      2020     2019 
   Number      Number    
   of share       of share     
   awards      awards    
   outstanding  Fair value in    outstanding  Fair value in  
end of   in million   CHF million   in million   CHF million 
S    hare awards 1       
Employees   218   2,485   183   2,397 
Total share awards   218   2,485   183   2,397 
1 In the interests of transparency, share awards granted to employees of subsidiaries of Credit Suisse Group AG are also considered in this disclosure table.
Parent company financial statements – Credit Suisse Group 443
   
Proposed appropriation of retained 
earnings and capital distribution
Proposed appropriation of retained earnings
   2020 
Retained earnings (CHF million)    
Retained earnings carried forward   7,037 
Net profit/(loss)   (197) 
Retained earnings   6,840 
Proposed distribution of CHF 0.1463 per registered share for the financial year 2020 1  (352) 
Retained earnings to be carried forward   6,488 
1 2,409,315,849 registered shares – net of own shares held by the company – as of December 31, 2020. The number of registered shares eligible for distribution may change due to the 
issuance of new registered shares and transactions in own shares.
Proposed distribution out of capital contribution reserves
   2020 
Capital contribution reserves (CHF million)    
Balance at end of year   25,160 
Proposed distribution of CHF 0.1463 per registered share for the financial year 2020 1  (352) 
Balance after distribution   24,808 
Distributions are free of Swiss withholding tax and are not subject to income tax for Swiss resident individuals holding the shares as a private investment.
1 2,409,315,849 registered shares – net of own shares held by the company – as of December 31, 2020.  The number of registered shares eligible for distribution may change due to the 
issuance of new registered shares and transactions in own shares.
 
444 Parent company financial statements – Credit Suisse Group
   
   Appendix
Selected five-year information  A-2
List of abbreviations  A-4
Glossary  A-6
Investor information   A-10
Financial calendar and contacts  A-12
A-1
   
Selected five-year information
Selected information – Group
in / end of   2020   2019   2018   2017   2016 
C     ondensed consolidated statements of operations (CHF million)         
Net revenues   22,389   22,484   20,920   20,900   20,323 
Provision for credit losses   1,096   324   245   210   252 
Total operating expenses   17,826   17,440   17,303   18,897   22,337 
Income/(loss) before taxes   3,467   4,720   3,372   1,793   (2,266) 
Income tax expense   801   1,295   1,361   2,741   441 
Net income/(loss)   2,666   3,425   2,011   (948)   (2,707) 
Net income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests   (3)   6   (13)   35   3 
Net income/(loss) attributable to shareholders   2,669   3,419   2,024   (983)   (2,710) 
E     arnings per share (CHF)         
Basic earnings/(loss) per share   1.09   1.35   0.79   (0.41)   (1.27) 
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share   1.06   1.32   0.77   (0.41)   (1.27) 
C     onsolidated balance sheet (CHF million)         
Total assets   805,822   787,295   768,916   796,289   819,861 
Share capital   98   102   102   102   84 
Shareholders’ equity   42,677   43,644   43,922   41,902   41,897 
S     hares outstanding (million)         
Shares outstanding   2,406.1   2,436.2   2,550.6   2,550.3   2,089.9 
D     ividend per share (CHF)         
Dividend per share   0.2926 1   0.2776   0.2625   0.25   0.70 
R     atios (%)         
Return on assets 2  0.3   0.4   0.2   (0.1)   (0.3) 
Return on equity   5.9   7.7   4.7   (2.3)   (6.1) 
Dividend payout ratio   26.8   20.6   33.2   -   - 
Equity to asset ratio   5.3   5.5   5.7   5.3   5.1 
1 Proposal of the Board of Directors to the Annual General Meeting on April 30, 2021.
2 Based on amounts attributable to shareholders.
A-2 Selected five-year information
   
Selected information – Bank
in / end of   2020   2019   2018   2017   2016 
C     ondensed consolidated statements of operations (CHF million)         
Net revenues   22,503   22,686   20,820   20,965   20,393 
Provision for credit losses   1,092   324   245   210   252 
Total operating expenses   18,200   17,969   17,719   19,202   22,630 
Income/(loss) before taxes   3,211   4,393   2,856   1,553   (2,489) 
Income tax expense   697   1,298   1,134   2,781   400 
Net income/(loss)   2,514   3,095   1,722   (1,228)   (2,889) 
Net income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests   3   14   (7)   27   (6) 
Net income/(loss) attributable to shareholders   2,511   3,081   1,729   (1,255)   (2,883) 
C     onsolidated balance sheet (CHF million)         
Total assets   809,688   790,459   772,069   798,372   822,065 
Share capital   4,400   4,400   4,400   4,400   4,400 
Shareholders’ equity   46,264   46,120   45,296   42,670   42,789 
N     umber of shares outstanding (million)         
Number of shares outstanding   4,399.7   4,399.7   4,399.7   4,399.7   4,399.7 
Selected five-year information A-3
   
List of abbreviations
A     C (continued)    
ABO   Accumulated benefit obligation  CRCO   Chief Risk and Compliance Officer 
ABS   Asset-backed securities  CRD   Capital Requirements Directive 
ADS   American Depositary Shares  CRR   Capital Requirements Regulation 
AEI   Automatic Exchange of Information  CSI   Credit Suisse International 
AES®   Advanced execution services  CSSEL   Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited 
AGM   Annual General Meeting  CVA   Credit valuation adjustment 
AIG   American International Group, Inc. 
A-IRB   Advanced internal ratings-based approach  D    
ALM   Asset & Liability Management  DFS   Department of Financial Services 
AMA   Advanced measurement approach  DOJ   US Department of Justice 
AoA   Articles of Association 
AOCI   Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)  E    
ARR   Alternative reference rate  EAD   Exposure at default 
ASC   Accounting Standards Codification  EBITDA   Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization 
ASU   Accounting Standards Update  ECB   European Central Bank 
EGM   Extraordinary General Meeting 
B     EMEA   Europe, Middle East and Africa 
BA   Bachelor of Arts  EMIR   European Market Infrastructure Regulation 
BBSW   Bank Bill Swap Rate  ERCF   Enterprise risk and control framework 
BCBS   Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  ERISA   US Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 
BEAT   Base Erosion and Anti-abuse Tax  ESG   Environmental, Social and Governance 
BIS   Bank for International Settlements  EU   European Union 
Board   Board of Directors 
bp   basis points  F    
BS   Bachelor of Science  FASB   Financial Accounting Standards Board 
BVG   Swiss Federal Law on Occupational Retirement,   FATCA   Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act 
Survivors’ and Disability Pension Plans  FDIC   Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
Fed   US Federal Reserve 
C     FINMA   Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority FINMA 
CARMC   Capital Allocation and Risk Management Committee  FINRA   Financial Industry Regulatory Authority 
CCA   Contingent Capital Awards  FMIA   Swiss Federal Act on Financial Market Infrastructure and  
CCAR   Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review  Market Conduct in Securities and Derivatives Trading 
CDO   Collateralized debt obligation  FSA   UK Financial Services Authority 
CDS   Credit default swap  FSB   Financial Stability Board 
CDX   Credit default swap index  FSMA   Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
CEB   Conduct and Ethics Board  FTQ Lite   Flight to quality lite 
CECL   Current expected credit loss  FVA   Funding valuation adjustments 
CEO   Chief Executive Officer  FX   Foreign exchange 
CET1   Common equity tier 1 
CFO   Chief Financial Officer  G    
CFTC   Commodity Futures Trading Commission  G7   Group of seven leading industrial nations 
CLO   Collateralized loan obligation  G20   Group of Twenty Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors 
CMBS   Commercial mortgage-backed securities  GAAP   Generally accepted accounting principles 
CMI   Continuous Mortality Investigation  GDP   Gross domestic product 
CMS   Constant maturity swap  G-SIB   Global Systemically Important Bank 
COF   Capital Opportunity Facility  GTS   Global Trading Solutions 
COO   Chief Operating Officer 
COSO   Committee of Sponsoring Organizations  H    
of the Treadway Commission  HQLA   High quality liquid assets 
CP   Commercial paper  HNWI   High-net-worth individuals 
CPR   Constant prepayment rate 
A-4 List of abbreviations
   
I     R    
IBOR   Interbank offered rate  RMBS   Residential mortgage-backed securities 
ICE   Intercontinental Exchange  RNIV   Risk not in VaR 
ICS   Internal Control System  ROE   Return on equity 
IFRS   International Financial Reporting Standards  RoTE   Return on tangible equity 
IHC   US intermediate holding company  RPSC   Risk Processes & Standards Committee 
IPO   Initial public offering  RRP   Recovery and resolution plan 
IRC   Incremental risk charge  RTSR   Relative total shareholder return 
IRS   Internal Revenue Service  RWA   Risk-weighted assets 
ISDA   International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. 
IT   Information technology  S    
ITS   International Trading Solutions  SA-CCR   Standardized approach for counterparty credit risk 
SAPS   Self-administered pension scheme 
L     SARON   Swiss Average Rate Overnight 
LCR   Liquidity coverage ratio  SEC   US Securities and Exchange Commission 
LGD   Loss given default  SEI   Significant economic interest 
LIBOR   London Interbank Offered Rate  SFTQ   Severe flight to quality 
LLM   Master of laws  SIBOR   Singapore Interbank Offered Rate 
LTI   Long-term incentive  SNB   Swiss National Bank 
LTV   Loan-to-value  SOFR   Secured Overnight Financing Rate 
SOR   Singapore Swap Offer Rate 
M     SPE   Special purpose entity 
M&A   Mergers and acquisitions  SPIA   Single premium immediate annuity 
MA   Master of Arts  SRI   Sustainability, Research & Investment Solutions 
MBA   Master of Business Administration  SRO   Strategic risk objective 
MEF   Macroeconomic factor  STI   Short-term incentive 
MiFID I   Markets in Financial Instruments Directive 
MiFID II   Revised Markets in Financial Instruments Directive  T    
MRTC   Material risk takers and controllers  TBVPS   Tangible book value per share 
MSRB   Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board  TCFD   Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
TLAC   Total loss-absorbing capacity 
N     TRS   Total return swap 
Nasdaq   Nasdaq Stock Market 
NAV   Net asset value  U    
NRV   Negative replacement value  UHNW   Ultra-high-net-worth 
NSFR   Net stable funding ratio  UHNWI   Ultra-high-net-worth individuals 
NYSE   New York Stock Exchange  UK   United Kingdom 
UN   United Nations 
O     US   United States of America 
OCI   Other comprehensive income  US GAAP  US generally accepted accounting principles 
OECD   Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development 
OFAC   Office of Foreign Assets Control  V    
OGR   Organizational Guidelines and Regulations  VaR   Value-at-risk 
OTC   Over-the-counter  VARMC   Valuation Risk Management Committee 
VDAX   Deutsche Börse AG DAX Volatility Index 
P     VIE   Variable interest entity 
PBO   Projected benefit obligation  VIX   Chicago Board of Options Exchange Market Volatility Index 
PCR   Position & Client Risk 
PD   Probability of default 
PFIC   Passive foreign investment company 
PRA   Prudential Regulation Authority 
PRV   Positive replacement value 
PSA   Prepayment speed assumption 
List of abbreviations A-5
   
Glossary
 
A  B 
Advanced execution services® (AES®) AES® is a suite of algorithmic trad- Backtesting Backtesting is one of the techniques used to assess the accuracy 
ing strategies, tools and analytics operated by Credit Suisse to facilitate global  and performance of VaR models. Backtesting is used by regulators to assess 
equity trading. By employing algorithms to execute client orders and limit vola- the adequacy of regulatory capital held by a bank. It involves comparing of the 
tility, AES® helps institutions and hedge funds reduce market impact. Credit  results produced by the VaR model with the hypothetical trading revenues on 
Suisse provides access to over 100 trading destinations in over 40 countries  the trading book. VaR models that experience less than five exceptions in a roll-
and six continents. ing 12-month period are considered by regulators to be classified in a defined 
Advanced internal ratings-based approach (A-IRB) Under the A-IRB  “green zone”. The “green zone” corresponds to backtesting results that do not 
approach, risk weights are determined by using internal risk parameters. We  themselves suggest a problem with the quality or accuracy of a bank’s model.
have received approval from FINMA to use, and have fully implemented, the  Bank for International Settlements (BIS) The Bank for International Settle-
A-IRB approach whereby we provide our own estimates for probability of default  ments (BIS) serves central banks in their pursuit of monetary and financial 
(PD), loss given default (LGD) and exposure at default (EAD). We use the  stability, fosters international cooperation in those areas and acts as a bank for 
A-IRB approach to determine our institutional credit risk and most of our retail  central banks.
credit risk. Basel III In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
Advanced measurement approach (AMA) The AMA is used for measuring  (BCBS) issued the Basel III framework, which is a comprehensive set of reform 
operational risk. The methodology is based upon the identification of a number  measures to strengthen the regulation, supervision and risk management of the 
of key risk scenarios that describe the major operational risks we face. Groups  banking sector. These measures aim to improve the banking sector’s ability to 
of senior staff review each scenario and discuss the likelihood of occurrence  absorb shocks arising from financial and economic stress, whatever the source, 
and the potential severity of loss. Internal and external loss data, along with cer- improve risk management and governance and strengthen banks’ transparency 
tain business environment and internal control factors, such as self-assessment  and disclosures. The phase-in period for Basel III was January 1, 2013 through 
results and key risk indicators, are considered as part of this process. Based  January 1, 2019.
on the output from these meetings, we enter the scenario parameters into an  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) The Basel Commit-
operational risk model that generates a loss distribution from which the level  tee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) provides a forum for regular cooperation 
of capital required to cover operational risk is determined. We have received  on banking supervisory matters. Its objective is to enhance the understand-
approval from FINMA to use an internal model for the calculation of operational  ing of key supervisory issues and improve the quality of banking supervision 
risk capital, which is aligned with the requirements of the AMA under the Basel  worldwide. It seeks to do so by exchanging information on national supervisory 
framework. issues, approaches and techniques, with a view to promoting common under-
Affluent and retail clients We define affluent and retail clients as individuals  standing. At times, the BCBS uses this common understanding to develop 
having assets under management below CHF 1 million. guidelines and supervisory standards in areas where they are considered desir-
American Depositary Shares (ADS) An ADS, which is evidenced by an  able. In this regard, the BCBS is best known for its international standards on 
American Depositary Receipt, is a negotiable certificate issued by a depositary  capital adequacy, the Core Principles for Effective Banking Supervision and the 
bank that represents all or part of an underlying share of a foreign-based com- Concordat on cross-border banking supervision.
pany held in custody. Booking center Part of a legal entity of Credit Suisse AG that is registered 
with a domestic banking license where client assets are administered and 
booked.
A-6 Glossary
   
C  E 
Current expected credit losses (CECL) CECL is a FASB accounting stan- Exposure at default (EAD) The EAD represents the expected amount of 
dard which requires the measurement of all expected credit losses for financial  credit exposure in the event of a default and reflects the current drawn exposure 
instruments measured at amortized cost and held at the reporting date over  and an expectation regarding the future evolution of the credit exposure. For 
the remaining contractual life (considering the effect of prepayments) based on  loan exposures, a credit conversion factor is applied to project the additional 
historical experience, current conditions and reasonable and supportable fore- drawn amount. The credit conversion factor related to traded products such as 
casts. The CECL standard has replaced the previous incurred loss methodology  derivatives is based on a simulation using statistical models.
for recognizing credit losses.
CET1 ratio CET1 ratio means the ratio (expressed as a percentage) of CET1  F 
capital divided by risk-weighted assets. Fair value The price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer 
Collateralized debt obligation (CDO) A CDO is a type of structured asset- a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measure-
backed security whose value and payments are derived from a portfolio of  ment date.
underlying fixed-income assets.
Commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) CMBS are a type of  G 
mortgage-backed security that is secured by loans on commercial property and  G7 The G7 is a group of finance ministers from seven industrialized nations: the 
can provide liquidity to real estate investors and commercial lenders. US, UK, France, Germany, Italy, Canada and Japan.
Commercial paper (CP) Commercial paper is an unsecured money-market  G20 The G20 is a group of finance ministers and central bank governors from 
security with a fixed maturity of 1 to 364 days, issued by large banks and cor- 19 countries (Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, 
porations to raise funds to meet short term debt obligations. India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Republic of Korea, Mexico, Russia, Saudi Arabia, 
Constant prepayment rate (CPR) CPR is a loan prepayment rate that is  South Africa, Turkey, the UK and the US) and the EU.
equal to the proportion of the principal of a pool of loans that is assumed to be 
paid off prematurely in each period. The calculation of this estimate is based on  H 
a number of factors such as historical prepayment rates for previous loans that  Haircut The percentage by which an asset’s market value is reduced for the 
are similar to ones in the pool and on future economic outlooks. purpose of calculating capital, margin requirements and collateral levels. This is 
Credit default swap (CDS) A CDS is a contractual agreement in which the  used to provide a cushion when lending against collateral to account for possible 
buyer of the swap pays a periodic fee in return for a contingent payment by the  adverse movements in the value of the collateral.
seller of the swap following a credit event of a reference entity. A credit event  Higher Trigger Capital Amount The capital ratio write-down triggers for 
is commonly defined as bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership, material adverse  certain of our outstanding capital instruments take into account the fact that 
restructuring of debt or failure to meet payment obligations when due. other outstanding capital instruments that contain relatively higher capital ratios 
Credit valuation adjustment (CVA) The CVA represents the market value of  as part of their trigger feature are expected to convert into equity or be written 
counterparty credit risk for uncollateralized OTC derivative instruments. down prior to the write-down of such capital instruments. The amount of addi-
tional capital that is expected to be contributed by such conversion into equity or 
D  write-down is referred to as the Higher Trigger Capital Amount.
Debit valuation adjustment The debit valuation adjustment represents  High-net-worth individuals (HNWI) We define high-net-worth individuals as 
the market value of our own credit risk for uncollateralized OTC derivative  individuals having assets under management in excess of CHF 1 million.
instruments.
Derivatives Derivatives are financial instruments or contracts that meet all  I 
of the following three characteristics: (1) their value changes in response to  Incremental risk charge (IRC) The IRC represents an estimate of the issuer 
changes in an underlying price, such as interest rate, security price, foreign  default and migration risk of positions in the trading book over a one-year capital 
exchange rate, credit rating/price or index; (2) they require no initial net invest- horizon at a 99.9% confidence level, taking into account the liquidity horizons 
ment or an initial net investment that is smaller than would be required for  of individual positions. This includes sovereign debt, but excludes securitizations 
other types of contracts that would be expected to have a similar response to  and correlation products.
changes in market factors; and (3) their terms require or permit net settlement 
(US GAAP) or they settle at a future date (IFRS).
Glossary A-7
   
L  N (continued) 
Liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) The LCR aims to ensure that banks have a  Netting agreements Netting agreements are contracts between two par-
stock of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets available to meet liquid- ties where under certain circumstances, such as insolvency, bankruptcy or any 
ity needs for a 30-day time horizon under a severe stress scenario. The LCR  other credit event, mutual claims from outstanding business transactions can be 
is comprised of two components: the value of the stock of high quality liquid  offset against each other. The inclusion of a legally binding netting agreement 
assets in stressed conditions and the total net cash outflows calculated accord- reduces the default risk from a gross to a net amount.
ing to specified scenario parameters. The ratio of liquid assets over net cash 
outflows should be at least 100%. O 
Lombard loan A loan granted against pledged collateral in the form of  Over-the-counter (OTC) Over-the-counter securities and derivatives are not 
securities. traded on an exchange but via private contracts between counterparties.
London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) LIBOR is a daily reference rate 
based on the interest rates at which banks borrow unsecured funds from other  P 
banks in the London wholesale money market. Position risk Component of the economic capital framework, which is used to 
Loss given default (LGD) LGD parameters consider seniority, collateral, coun- assess, monitor and report risk exposures throughout the Group. Position risk is 
terparty industry and, in certain cases, fair value markdowns. LGD estimates  the level of unexpected loss in economic value on our portfolio of positions over 
are based on an empirical analysis of historical loss rates and are calibrated to  a one-year horizon which is exceeded with a given small probability (1% for risk 
reflect time and cost of recovery as well as economic downturn conditions. For  management purposes; 0.03% for capital management purposes).
much of the loan portfolio of private banking, corporate and institutional busi- Positive replacement value (PRV) PRV represents the positive fair value of 
nesses, the LGD is primarily dependent upon the type and amount of collateral  a derivative financial instrument at a given reporting date. A positive replace-
pledged. For other retail credit risk, predominantly loans secured by financial  ment value reflects the amount receivable from the counterparty if the derivative 
collateral, pool LGDs differentiate between standard and higher risks, as well as  transaction were to be settled at the reporting date, or alternatively, the cost at 
domestic and foreign transactions. The credit approval and collateral monitoring  a given reporting date to enter into the exact same transaction for the residual 
processes are based on loan-to-value (LTV) limits. For mortgages (residential or  term, if the existing counterparty should default.
commercial), recovery rates are differentiated by type of property. Probability of default (PD) PD parameters capture the risk of a counterparty 
defaulting over a one-year time horizon. PD estimates are based on time-
M  weighted averages of historical default rates by rating grade, with low-default-
Match funded Match funded balance sheet items consist of assets and liabili- portfolio estimation techniques applied for higher quality rating grades. Each PD 
ties with close to equal liquidity durations and value so that the liquidity and  reflects the internal rating for the relevant obligor.
funding generated or required by the positions are substantially equivalent.
Material risk takers and controllers (MRTC) MRTC are employees who,  R 
either individually or as a part of a group, are considered to have a potentially  Regulatory VaR Regulatory VaR is a version of VaR that uses an exponential 
material impact on the Group’s risk profile. weighting technique that automatically increases VaR where recent short-term 
market volatility is greater than long-term volatility in the two-year dataset. 
N  Regulatory VaR uses an expected shortfall calculation based on average losses, 
Negative replacement value (NRV) NRV represents the negative fair value  and a ten-day holding period. This results in a more responsive VaR model, as 
of a derivative financial instrument at a given financial reporting date. A negative  the overall increases in market volatility are reflected almost immediately in the 
replacement value reflects the amount payable to the counterparty if the deriva- regulatory VaR model.
tive transaction were to be settled at the reporting date, or alternatively, the cost  Repurchase agreements Repurchase agreements are securities sold under 
at a given reporting date to close an open derivative position with a fully offset- agreements to repurchase substantially identical securities. These transactions 
ting transaction. normally do not constitute economic sales and are therefore treated as collater-
Net stable funding ratio (NSFR) The NSFR is intended to ensure that banks  alized financing transactions and are carried in the  balance sheet at the amount 
maintain a structurally sound long-term funding profile beyond one year and  of cash received (liability) and cash disbursed (asset), respectively.
is a complementary measure to the LCR. It is structured to ensure that illiquid  Residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) RMBS are a type of 
assets are funded with an appropriate amount of stable long-term funds. The  mortgage-backed security composed of a wide array of different non-commer-
standard is defined as the ratio of available stable funding over the amount of  cial mortgage debts. They securitize the mortgage payments of non-commer-
required stable funding. The ratio should always be at least 100%. cial real estate. Different residential mortgages with varying credit ratings are 
pooled together and sold in tranches to investors.
A-8 Glossary
   
R (continued)  T 
Reverse repurchase agreements Reverse repurchase agreements are pur- “Too Big to Fail” In 2011, the Swiss Parliament passed legislation relating to 
chases of securities under agreements to resell substantially identical securities.  big banks. The legislation includes capital and liquidity requirements and rules 
These transactions normally do not constitute economic sales and are therefore  regarding risk diversification and emergency plans designed to maintain system-
treated as collateralized financing transactions and are carried in the balance  ically relevant functions even in the event of threatened insolvency.
sheet at the amount of cash received (liability) and cash disbursed (asset),  Total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) TLAC is a regulatory requirement 
respectively. designed to ensure that Global Systemically Important Banks (G-SIBs) have the 
Risk management VaR Risk management VaR is a version of VaR that uses  loss-absorbing and recapitalization capacity so that, in an immediately following 
an exponential weighting technique that automatically adjusts VaR where recent  resolution, critical functions can continue without requiring taxpayer support or 
short-term market volatility differs from long-term volatility in the two-year  threatening financial stability.
dataset. Risk management VaR uses an expected shortfall calculation based  Total return swap (TRS) A TRS is a swap agreement in which one party 
on average losses, and a one-day holding period. This results in a more respon- makes payments based on a set rate, either fixed or variable, while the other 
sive VaR model, as the overall changes in market volatility are reflected almost  party makes payments based on the return of an underlying asset, which 
immediately in the risk management VaR model. includes both the income it generates and any capital gains. In total return 
Risk mitigation Risk mitigation refers to measures undertaken by the Group  swaps, the underlying asset, referred to as the reference asset, is usually an 
or the Bank to actively manage its risk exposure. For credit risk exposure, such  equity index, loans or bonds.
measures would normally include utilizing credit hedges and collateral, such as 
cash and marketable securities. Credit hedges represent the notional exposure  U 
that can be transferred to other market counterparties, generally through the  Ultra-high-net-worth individuals (UHNWI) Ultra-high-net-worth individu-
use of credit default swaps. In addition, risk mitigation also includes the active  als have assets under management in excess of CHF 50 million or total wealth 
management of a loan portfolio by selling or sub-participating positions. exceeding CHF 250 million.
Risk not in VaR (RNIV) RNIV captures a variety of risks, such as certain basis 
risks, higher order risks and cross risks between asset classes, not adequately  V 
captured by the VaR model for example due to lack of sufficient or accurate risk  Value-at-risk (VaR) VaR is a technique used to measure the potential loss in 
or historical market data. fair value of financial instruments based on a statistical analysis of historical 
Risk-weighted assets (RWA) The value of the Group’s assets weighted  price trends and volatilities. VaR as a concept is applicable for all financial risk 
according to certain identified risks for compliance with regulatory provisions. types with adequate price histories; the use of VaR allows the comparison of 
risk across different businesses.
S 
Stressed VaR Stressed VaR replicates a VaR calculation on the current portfo-
lio of the Group or the Bank, taking into account a one-year observation period 
relating to significant financial stress; it helps reduce the pro-cyclicality of the 
minimum capital requirements for market risk.
Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority FINMA (FINMA) FINMA, 
as an independent supervisory authority, protects creditors, investors and policy 
holders, ensuring the smooth functioning of the financial markets and preserv-
ing their reputation. In its role as state supervisory authority, FINMA acts as an 
oversight authority of banks, insurance companies, exchanges, securities deal-
ers, collective investment schemes, distributors and insurance intermediaries. 
It is responsible for combating money laundering and, where necessary, con-
ducts restructuring and bankruptcy proceedings and issues operating licenses 
for companies in the supervised sectors. Through its supervisory activities, it 
ensures that supervised institutions comply with the requisite laws, ordinances, 
directives and regulations and continues to fulfill the licensing requirements. 
FINMA also acts as a regulatory body; it participates in legislative procedures, 
issues its own ordinances and circulars where authorized to do so, and is 
responsible for the recognition of self-regulatory standards.
Glossary A-9
   
Investor information 
Share data
in / end of   2020   2019   2018 
S   hare price (common shares, CHF)       
Average   9.96   12.11   15.17 
Minimum   6.42   10.59   10.45 
Maximum   13.27   13.54   18.61 
End of period   11.40   13.105   10.80 
 S  hare price (American Depositary Shares, USD)       
Average   10.55   12.15   15.50 
Minimum   6.48   10.74   10.42 
Maximum   13.61   13.63   19.98 
End of period   12.80   13.45   10.86 
 M  arket capitalization       
Market capitalization (CHF million)   27,904   32,451   27,605 
 D  ividend per share (CHF)       
Dividend per share   0.2926 1   0.2776   0.2625 
1 Proposal of the Board of Directors to the Annual General Meeting on April 30, 2021. Fifty percent of the distribution will be paid out of capital contribution reserves, and fifty percent will 
be paid out of retained earnings.
Share performance 
CHF
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
2018 2019 2020
p Credit Suisse Group   p Swiss Market Index (rebased)
A-10 Investor information 
   
Ticker symbols / stock exchange listings
   Common shares   ADS 1 
T icker symbols      
SIX Financial Information   CSGN   – 
New York Stock Exchange   –   CS 
Bloomberg   CSGN SW   CS US 
Reuters   CSGN.S   CS.N 
S  tock exchange listings      
Swiss security number   1213853   570660 
ISIN number   CH0012138530   US2254011081 
CUSIP number   –   225 401 108 
1 One American Depositary Share (ADS) represents one common share.
Credit ratings and outlook
   Short-term   Long-term    
as of March 17, 2021   debt   debt   Outlook 
C   redit Suisse Group AG       
Moody’s   –   Baa1   Stable 
Standard & Poor’s   –   BBB+   Stable 
Fitch Ratings   F2   A-   Stable 
Rating and Investment Information   –   A+   Stable 
C   redit Suisse AG       
Moody’s   P-1   Aa3   Stable 
Standard & Poor’s   A-1   A+   Stable 
Fitch Ratings   F1   A   Stable 
Foreign currency translation rates
        End of        Average in 
   2020   2019   2018   2020   2019   2018 
1 USD / 1 CHF   0.88   0.97   0.99   0.94   0.99   0.98 
1 EUR / 1 CHF   1.08   1.09   1.13   1.07   1.11   1.15 
1 GBP / 1 CHF   1.20   1.27   1.26   1.21   1.27   1.30 
100 JPY / 1 CHF   0.85   0.89   0.89   0.88   0.91   0.88 
Investor information  A-11
   
Financial calendar and contacts
Financial calendar  US share register and transfer agent 
First quarter results 2021  Thursday, April 22, 2021 ADS depositary bank  The Bank of New York Mellon
Annual General Meeting 2021  Friday, April 30, 2021 Shareholder correspondence address  BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
Second quarter results 2021  Thursday, July 29, 2021   P.O. Box 505000
    Louisville, KY 40233-5000
Investor relations  Overnight correspondence address  BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
Phone  +41 44 333 71 49   462 South 4th Street, Suite 1600
E-mail  investor.relations@credit-suisse.com   Louisville, KY 40202
Internet  credit-suisse.com/investors US and Canada phone  +1 866 886 0788
Media relations  Phone from outside US and Canada  +1 201 680 6825
Phone  +41 844 33 88 44 E-mail  shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com
E-mail  media.relations@credit-suisse.com Swiss share register and transfer agent 
Internet  credit-suisse.com/news Address  Credit Suisse Group AG
    Share Register RXS
Financial information and printed copies    8070 Zurich, Switzerland
Annual reports  credit-suisse.com/annualreporting Phone  +41 44 332 02 02
Interim reports  credit-suisse.com/interimreporting E-mail  share.register@credit-suisse.com
 
Main offices
Switzerland Europe, Middle East and Africa Americas
Credit Suisse Credit Suisse Credit Suisse Credit Suisse
Paradeplatz 8 One Cabot Square Eleven Madison Avenue Rua Leopoldo Couto de 
8070 Zurich London E14 4QJ New York, NY 10010 Magalhães Jr. 700
Switzerland United Kingdom United States São Paulo 04542-000
Tel.  +41 44 333 11 11 Tel.  +44 20 7888 8888 Tel. + 1 212 325 2000 Brazil
Tel.  +55 11 3701 6000
Asia Pacific
Credit Suisse Credit Suisse Credit Suisse
International Commerce Centre One Raffles Link Izumi Garden Tower
One Austin Road West #05-02 6-1, Roppongi 1-Chome
Kowloon Singapore 039393 Minato-ku
Hong Kong Singapore Tokyo, 106-6024
Tel.  +852 2101 6000 Tel.  +65 6212 6000 Japan
Tel.  +81 3 4550 9000
Production: Management Digital Data AG
Printer: Neidhart + Schön Print AG
Paper (cover): Nautilus, SuperWhite, matt, 100% Recycling, 350g/m2
Paper (content): Image Impact, HighWhite, matt, FSC-Mix, 100g/m2
 
Credit Suisse values environmental sustainability. This publication is printed on 
paper which is FSC certified. FSC promotes the responsible management of 
forests according to environmental, social and economic criteria. This report was 
produced using environmentally friendly printing inks that comply with European 
standard EN 71-3.
A-12 Financial calendar and contacts
   
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information  p the effects of, and changes in, fiscal, monetary, exchange rate, trade 
This report contains statements that constitute forward-looking state- and tax policies; 
ments. In addition, in the future we, and others on our behalf, may make  p the effects of currency fluctuations, including the related impact on our 
statements that constitute forward-looking statements. Such forward-look- business, financial condition and results of operations due to moves in 
ing statements may include, without limitation, statements relating to the  foreign exchange rates;
following: p political, social and environmental developments, including war, civil 
p our plans, targets or goals;  unrest or terrorist activity and climate change; 
p our future economic performance or prospects;  p the ability to appropriately address social, environmental and sustainabil-
p the potential effect on our future performance of certain contingencies;  ity concerns that may arise from our business activities; 
and  p the effects of, and the uncertainty arising from, the UK’s withdrawal 
p assumptions underlying any such statements.  from the EU; 
p the possibility of foreign exchange controls, expropriation, national-
Words such as “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends” and “plans”  ization or confiscation of assets in countries in which we conduct our 
and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements  operations; 
but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. We do not  p operational factors such as systems failure, human error, or the failure to 
intend to update these forward-looking statements.  implement procedures properly; 
p the risk of cyber attacks, information or security breaches or technology 
By their very nature, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and  failures on our reputation, business or operations, the risk of which is 
uncertainties, both general and specific, and risks exist that predictions,  increased while large portions of our employees work remotely; 
forecasts, projections and other outcomes described or implied in forward- p the adverse resolution of litigation, regulatory proceedings and other 
looking statements will not be achieved. We caution you that a number of  contingencies;
important factors could cause results to differ materially from the plans,  p actions taken by regulators with respect to our business and practices 
targets, goals, expectations, estimates and intentions expressed in such  and possible resulting changes to our business organization, practices 
forward-looking statements and that the COVID-19 pandemic creates sig- and policies in countries in which we conduct our operations; 
nificantly greater uncertainty about forward-looking statements in addition  p the effects of changes in laws, regulations or accounting or tax stan-
to the factors that generally affect our business. These factors include:  dards, policies or practices in countries in which we conduct our 
p the ability to maintain sufficient liquidity and access capital markets;  operations; 
p market volatility and interest rate fluctuations and developments affect- p the expected discontinuation of LIBOR and other interbank offered rates 
ing interest rate levels, including the persistence of a low or negative  and the transition to alternative reference rates; 
interest rate environment;  p the potential effects of changes in our legal entity structure; 
p the strength of the global economy in general and the strength of the  p competition or changes in our competitive position in geographic and 
economies of the countries in which we conduct our operations, in par- business areas in which we conduct our operations; 
ticular the risk of negative impacts of COVID-19 on the global economy  p the ability to retain and recruit qualified personnel; 
and financial markets and the risk of continued slow economic recovery  p the ability to maintain our reputation and promote our brand; 
or downturn in the EU, the US or other developed countries or in emerg- p the ability to increase market share and control expenses; 
ing markets in 2021 and beyond;  p technological changes instituted by us, our counterparties or 
p the emergence of widespread health emergencies, infectious diseases  competitors; 
or pandemics, such as COVID-19, and the actions that may be taken by  p the timely development and acceptance of our new products and ser-
governmental authorities to contain the outbreak or to counter its impact; vices and the perceived overall value of these products and services by 
p potential risks and uncertainties relating to the severity of impacts from  users; 
COVID-19 and the duration of the pandemic, including potential mate- p acquisitions, including the ability to integrate acquired businesses suc-
rial adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of  cessfully, and divestitures, including the ability to sell non-core assets; 
operations; and
p the direct and indirect impacts of deterioration or slow recovery in resi- p other unforeseen or unexpected events and our success at managing 
dential and commercial real estate markets; these and the risks involved in the foregoing.
p adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies in respect of us, sover-
eign issuers, structured credit products or other credit-related exposures; We caution you that the foregoing list of important factors is not exclusive. 
p the ability to achieve our strategic goals, including those related to our  When evaluating forward-looking statements, you should carefully consider 
targets, ambitions and financial goals; the foregoing factors and other uncertainties and events, including the 
p the ability of counterparties to meet their obligations to us and the ade- information set forth in I – Information on the company – Risk factors.
quacy of our allowance for credit losses; 
 
 
 
E
5
CREDIT SUISSE GROUP 35
5
Paradeplatz 8 7
0
8070 Zurich 4 / 
2
Switzerland 0
1
1
credit-suisse.com 5
5