
Corporate  
Social  
Responsibility 
Report
2020
Contents
Message from our CEO, 
Naïm Abou-Jaoudé  p.3
CANDRIAM in 2020  p.4
CANDRIAM’s   Responsible
CSR commitments governance
  p.6   p.10
Responsible Responsible
investing employer
  p.14   p.24
Responsible operation   Responsible
& supply chain  p.28 citizens  p.32
CSR awards  p.36
Objectives tables  p.37
Naïm Abou-Jaoudé
Chief Executive Officer
Building a future 
we can all be  
proud of
In future years, historians will look back on 2020 as a year of 
change. In one year, homes became offices, stadiums transformed 
into hospitals and scientific breakthroughs unlocked our 
economies. The status quo was disrupted, unsettling our 
perception of the world whilst reinforcing the fragility of our lives. 
Change often leads to a period of reflection. During 2020, there 
has been a greater appreciation about the crises facing both our 
communities and the natural environment. Covid-19 has sounded 
a warning bell. No longer can we ignore the consequences of 
social inequality, the devastating impact of rising temperatures 
“At CANDRIAM,  
or the effects of environmental destruction. As we enter this 
transformation decade, we must rethink how we invest, live   we recognise that  
and consume.
it is our duty, not only 
At CANDRIAM, we recognise that it is our duty, not only as investors, 
as investors, but as 
but as responsible citizens to ensure we work with all stakeholders, 
including investors, governments and academic institutions to turn  responsible citizens  
this recovery into a green but growing and inclusive economy, while 
at the same time building a post-pandemic world that is resilient  to ensure we work 
and progressive.
with all stakeholders, 
As we look to a brighter future, we must not forget the lessons that  including investors, 
we have learnt during this challenging year. We need to keep 
educating and advocating for a cleaner, fairer and prosperous  governments and 
future. We need to deploy our capital wisely to accelerate the 
academic institutions.”
transition to a greener financial system. We need to challenge 
businesses to address emerging economic, social and environmental 
risks in order to equip them for a world where sustainable innovation 
will become a priority. But equally, as an organisation, we too must 
critically assess how we can continue to reduce our own impact 
on the planet and make a meaningful difference to society. The 
following pages outline our progress to date, and importantly our 
ambitions for the future.
Change happens day by day. Let us not waste any opportunity to 
create a future that we can all be proud of.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 - 3
CANDRIAM in 2020
Our mission is to provide asset management services  
driven by conviction and responsibility.
CANDRIAM Snapshot   Our clients Our expertise
as of 31 December 
AUM by client type*
2020
Institutional Investors Multi-asset
61% 38%
Assets Under Management   Financial Distributors Fixed income  
35% and money market
increased compared to the end  
32%
of 2019 High-Net-Worth  
Individuals Equity
8%
4% 23%
(€10 billion) from €130 billion   Absolute return
at the end of 2019 to €140 billion   7%
at the end of 2020.
€3.9bn Part of  
New York Life  
annual net sales 
a Fortune** 100© company
86% 
€140bn* €88.3bn***
of traditional investment funds had  
total AUM  ESG AUM = 63% of our total AUM
3, 4 or 5 stars from Morningstar  
at the end of 2020* *Assets under management (AUM) includes assets which do not fall within the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission's definition of 'regulatory AUM' in Form ADV, Part 1A. **CANDRIAM is a New York Life Company. New 
York Life Investments ranks among the world’s largest asset managers (source: New York Life Investments ranked 
* ©2007 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved. Some of the  35th among the world’s largest money managers within Pensions & Investments (June 2020). Rankings are based  
information contained in this document is the property of  on total worldwide institutional assets under management for the year-end 2019. New York Life Investments assets 
Morningstar and/or its information providers. It is given without  include assets of affiliated investment advisors). *** More than 90% of these €88bn AUM are aligned with “Article 8 
any guarantee as to its accuracy, exhaustiveness or topicality.   or 9”, according to the Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation. “Article 9” products have defined and quantifiable 
Its reproduction or redistribution is strictly forbidden. Overall  ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) objectives. They are products with a social or environmental objective, 
Morningstar Rating for all Candriam funds, as of December 2020. aligned with the definition of sustainable investments. “Article 8” products do not have a defined ESG objective,  
but take ESG criteria into consideration when constructing their portfolios. The remaining 10% of these €88bn are 
not considered in the scope of SFDR (mostly non EU assets, and advisory) as at 10 March 2021.
Our presence worldwide
Management centre Client relation office 
Brussels Amsterdam Madrid
London Dubaï Milan
20+
Luxembourg Frankfurt New York
countries served  
by CANDRIAM and  
Paris  Geneva Zurich
its licensees/3rd parties
4 - Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020
Stewardship and engagement  Environmental  
impact
Top topics 1,180
Voted Meeting
Energy Transition GHG emissions Scope 1  
Fair Work Conditions and 2 emissions:  
Business Ethics 613 tCO2e*
Geographical slip of meetings (operational footprint)
43%  17%  
206  
corporate contacted  Europe North America
individually  30%   10%  
GHG emissions for the full 
Asia Rest of the World operational value chain  
(Scope 1, 2 and 3 Upstream only):  
ESG breakdown   12,065 tCO2e*
of the companies contacted 
Remuneration of Management  
(direct dialogue)
and Directors (voting)
Social 30%
44% votes against  Over the last 3 years, 
CANDRIAM has offset 
Environment
27% 34 KtCO2e 
to compensate its operational 
Governance Engaged votes (voting)
value chain emissions
15%
63%
Overlapping ESG Issues  of AGMs with at least one 
14%
vote against management * The calculations were provided by Trucost 
CANDRIAM employees
570 50+ 43
employees employees supporting   average age 
CSR governance  
at CANDRIAM
30 10.5
nationalities  16- average length of service 
average years of service  
across our senior  
French executive team 9.6%
42%
new recruits
Belgian Men
42% 66%
8%
Others Women
16% 34% staff turnover rate
All data in the entire report as of 31 December 2020 and covering all CANDRIAM offices unless otherwise mentioned.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 - 5
CANDRIAM’s 
CSR commitments
Leader in ESG 
investing since
1996
“At CANDRIAM, we ensure we apply  
to ourselves the same best practices  
Philosophy & strategy
we expect from all our stakeholders.”
What makes CANDRIAM 
different from other actors  
in the market when it comes  
to CSR? 
As a leader in ESG for over 25 years,  
Isabelle 
our innovative ESG approach and rigorous 
implementation have always been key elements  Cabie
of our corporate strategy. We apply the same 
approach to CANDRIAM as an organisation  
Global Head of  
as we do to the companies in which we invest.   Corporate Sustainability
We regularly assess CANDRIAM's ESG 
practices based on our sustainability model. 
This ensures we apply the best practices   colleagues with the opportunity to engage   What are the main 
we expect from our stakeholders to ourselves  in CSR initiatives, including supporting our  environmental challenges  
and that we reflect these standards at every  philanthropic Helping Those Who Help program. 
and social objectives regarding 
step of our investment processes and in our  During the year, we have defined our CSR 
business operations and 
corporate behaviour in general. roadmap for the next 5 years, which covers all 
CSR pillars, and target-dedicated KPIs by pillar. stakeholders in the next  
How does CANDRIAM's CSR  5 years?
engagement bring value   How was CANDRIAM’s  
I think one of the main challenges is the lack  
to society and to all  ESG engagement impacted  
of consistent CSR standards. A lot of initiatives 
stakeholders?  by the Covid-19 crisis in 2020?  are launched. It is a good start, but I think it is 
not moving fast enough, notably in the area  
Our ESG models assess how companies'  The Covid-19 crisis created a disruptive  of sustainable economy and environment.  
business activities contribute to solving global  environment and was a real turning point for the  And these regulations and standards are 
challenges whilst looking after all their  industry. It raised more awareness around the ‘S’  sometimes conflicting. Another challenge  
stakeholders. We take the same approach  in ESG and the importance of social aspects. is related to the global transition towards a 
across our business activities and in our  net-zero carbon economy and the achievement 
day-to-day corporate life.  At CANDRIAM, social aspects have been a key  of the UN SDGs. CANDRIAM supports the 
element to our stewardship and global  European Commission’s Green Deal, but the 
As a sustainable leader, we provide guidance   engagement. In 2019, CANDRIAM signed the  finance sector can’t do it alone. All actors need 
to our clients regarding investment solutions  ‘Just Transition’ COP-24 initiative, committing   to be more coordinated on all aspects, including 
that respond to their needs and the global  to take into account the social aspects of energy  economical policies, taxation, governmental 
sustainable challenges of our world. We also  transition. In line with this commitment, we  practices and the evolution of company 
support our suppliers by sharing best practices  partnered with the London School of Economics’  business models. All levers have to be used  
to help them improve their CSR business  Grantham Research Institute to finance a  and aligned to achieve the sustainable goals. 
models*. In terms of our HR policies,  research project on the ‘Just Transition’ topic. 
* Additional information on CANDRIAM sustainable 
CANDRIAM’s top priority is to develop an  Within CANDRIAM, we also put in place several 
procurement approach can be found in the Responsible 
environment where employees feel included,  initiatives to stay close to our employees and  Operation & Supply Chain chapter of this report.
** More information on this topic can be found in the 
valued and respected. We also provide our  take care of their wellbeing**.
Responsible Employer section of this report. 
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 - 7
The impact of our  
CSR approach in 2020
At CANDRIAM, we believe asset management  Double impact  
has a key role to play in building a more 
sustainable future by channelling capital into  investments 
projects that will ensure sustainable and inclusive 
growth. This is the reason why we place 
sustainability at the core of our business model  In 2020, CANDRIAM launched new thematic 
on two axis: equity strategies, including a strategy devoted 
- Sustainable business activities   to developing a more circular economy.  
Being an active and responsible asset manager,   This strategy invests in global companies 
we want our investments to contribute to the  contributing to recycling, replacement of raw 
sustainable challenges and goals the world   material, repurposing end-of-life products  
is facing. To deliver on our responsible investor  and rationalisation of resource use. This strategy 
philosophy, we have developed a unique value  is included in our aim to create a “double impact”, 
proposition based on three pillars, with 90%   whereby CANDRIAM donated up to 10% of  
of our AUM incorporating elements of this   the strategy’s net management fees to charities  
ESG approach: systematic integration of  and organisations providing solutions to promote  
materially relevant ESG criteria into our  the transition towards a circular economy. 
investments, active stewardship and impact 
measurement and transparency.  We also launched a private equity impact 
- Responsible company practices   strategy (fund of fund), allowing investors  
We consider that a responsible asset manager  to gain exposure, via investment funds  
also needs to walk the talk and develop  and co-investments, to companies whose 
high-standard sustainability practices towards all  performance is linked to the achievement of 
its stakeholders: its employees, clients, citizens  measurable social or environmental objectives*. 
and communities, but also across its entire 
operational value chain and governance.
The 
CANDRIAM  
Academy
 
Being a leader in ESG topics, CANDRIAM also 
has ambitions to bridge the knowledge gap  
on ESG by sharing its expertise and knowledge 
with all its stakeholders. Launched in 2017,  
the CANDRIAM Academy – the world’s  
first free-to-access training platform on 
responsible investments – has now reached 
5,700 members from 30 countries. In 2020, 
CANDRIAM launched a new module on  
the Circular Economy and made the platform 
available in France, Switzerland and the US. 
The company plans to make it mandatory for  
its entire employee base in 2021.
* Additional information on these strategies can be found  
in the page 22 of this report.
8 - Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020
Participation 
in industry 
associations
CANDRIAM is committed to the Principles  
for Responsible Investment (PRI). This 
commitment is reflected in all of CANDRIAM’s 
activities as well as promoted in our relations 
with our stakeholders including the 
associations CANDRIAM is member of. 
CANDRIAM ESG experts actively and regularly 
Name of Association Joined in
take leading roles within responsible 
investment working groups across a number  
SRI working groups within: BEAMA - Belgian Asset Managers Association 2004
of industry associations. 
AFG - Association Française de la Gestion 
  financière 2003
This is both to ensure CANDRIAM has a voice 
EFAMA - European Fund And Asset Manage-
2010
on important ESG policy as well as to connect  ment Association
with policy-makers and policy-setters at   Eurosif - European Sustainable Investment 
Several social investment forums, such as: 2003
the EU level, particularly on issues related   Forum
to feasibility of new ESG standards and  VBDO - Dutch Sustainable Investment Forum 2007
regulations. The following is a list of the 
Forum Nachhaltige Geldanlagen (Germany,
2010
associations and groups focused on policy  Switzerland & Austria)
engagement activities where CANDRIAM  
Swiss Sustainable Finance (Switzerland) 2014
is an active member.
Forum pour la Finance Responsable  
2014
(French SIF FIR)
Forum per la Finanza Sostenibile (Italy)  2015
US SIF - United Kingdom Sustainable  
2016
Investment Forum
US SIF - United States Forum for Sustainable 
2016
& Responsible Investment 
Other sustainability-oriented investor bodies:  ABIS - The Academy of Business in Society 2005
IIGCC - The Institutional Investors Group  
2020
on Climate Change
Investor Alliance for Human Rights  
2021
(ICCR Initiative) 
During the year, CANDRIAM participated   - ESAs - RTS ESG Disclosure
in the following public consultations: 
- CFA - Disclosure standards for SRI funds
- EC Review Non-financial Disclosure Regulation
- EC& TEG - EU Green Bonds Standards
- EC - Delegated Acts ESG Disclosures UCITS/
AIFM/MIFID For more detail on CANDRIAM’s participation  
with industry associations and related guiding 
- EC - Renewed Sustainable Finance Strategy principles, please consult our website.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 - 9
Responsible 
governance 
The United Nations  
Sustainable Development  
Goals (UN SDG) impacted
16 +50
years
the average years within the  people (across a range of 
company of our top execs   functions) involved in sustainable 
(Group Strategic Committee) governance across the firm
Responsible governance 
Responsible 
and  
transparent 
governance
Sustainability is the new norm. New regulations 
are leading companies and financial leaders to 
embrace a new era of corporate responsibility. 
At the same time, on a societal level the global 
pandemic cast in stark relief the risks of 
ignoring environmental threats at our peril. 
The field of ESG investing is becoming  A commitment 
increasingly crowded and undeniably 
mainstream, for companies and clients alike.   to corporate 
In this context, CANDRIAM strives to retain  governance 
its position at the forefront of sustainable 
investment. CANDRIAM stands for ‘Conviction 
and Responsibility In Asset Management’.  To add more substance and strength to   - The Proxy Voting Committee provides 
Underscoring the inherent promise of its name,  the promise embedded in our brand name,   strategic guidance on proxy voting best 
in 2020 CANDRIAM strengthened its  we have further strengthened the governance  practices and monitors CANDRIAM’s  
governance of sustainability within the  of sustainability within CANDRIAM, enhancing  voting policy. 
company, expanding and deepening ESG  our ESG investment capabilities and focus   - The CANDRIAM Institute for Sustainable 
adoption and CSR practices across the  on our corporate social responsibility (CSR)  Development oversees CANDRIAM’s 
company. efforts through the following committees:  philanthropy and community-impact program, 
- A Strategic Sustainability Committee  through the support of initiatives in ESG 
which includes the Group Strategic  research & education and in the social  
Committee (GSC), and is supported by  impact domain. 
CANDRIAM’s ESG and CSR experts, sets out  - The ESG Steering Committee 
the strategic orientations for ESG investing  coordinates the implementation of the 
(both from a product and a commercial  strategic ESG roadmap, relying on several 
standpoint) and Corporate Sustainability Risk.  agile investments, operational, IT and 
- A company-wide Sustainability Risk  regulatory workstreams. 
Committee, assesses corporate reputational   - The CSR Steering Committee oversees 
& financial risks regarding sustainability,  and coordinates the implementation  
including climate risks, and defines a  of the CSR roadmap across staff, clients,  
Controversial Company and Country Watch  the operational value chain, governance  
List for all CANDRIAM activities.  and the community.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 - 11
Business ethics
Over the past 25 years, we have created, 
developed and enriched an expertise that  
is highly regarded by the market. The challenge  
of this new governance is not only to anchor 
CANDRIAM at the heart of the evolution  
of our industry, but also to give us the best 
chances to play a leading role in  
the transformation towards a more  
sustainable economy.
More generally, we hold regular  
shareholders’ general meetings for 
shareholders to meet and discuss CANDRIAM’s  Ethical 
activities, helping to deliver on its conviction.
Local boards of directors, aligned with   behaviour  
the overall Group strategy, define business 
strategies and policies for their geographic  in business
regions. They are also responsible for 
management control, risk monitoring  
and shareholder relations. CANDRIAM’s governance, based on key pillars  On remuneration, in 2020, CANDRIAM 
of ethical behaviour, responsible remuneration,  implement a compensation policy that covers 
The Board of Directors and the Audit  and the quality of its governance, structure and  long-term and ESG objectives, along with 
Committee in Belgium ensure that   bodies, is underpinned by a demonstrable  targets to reduce the gender pay gap.
all activities are properly audited and   commitment to transparency.
compliant with regulations. In Belgium,   Acting to ensure the quality of its governing 
the audit committee assists the Board of  To ensure ethical behaviour across all activities  structure and bodies, CANDRIAM permanently 
Directors in this essential monitoring task. and comply with existing regulations, CANDRIAM  monitors and ensures the boards of its funds 
has established policies and codes that include   are well-balanced, including those of funds, are 
a compliance charter and policy, client charter,  well-balanced with independent directors, with 
code of ethics, supplier charter, and a policy   an array of diversified skills and backgrounds.
for identifying and preventing conflicts  
of interest. For greater transparency, it discloses 
its ESG promotion and influence activities,  
such as industry association memberships  
and roles, and visibility over its financial metrics 
and taxation, which are in addition to legally 
published accounts.
12 - Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020
Business model
The asset management industry today 
Geopolitical instability, global warming, rise of social inequalities.
Slow economic growth, low interest rates, deglobalisation. 
Rise of ESG and passive management, increased regulation, digitalisation, fee pressures.
Our resources Sustainable value 
created for our 
key stakeholders
An independent,   For our community
AAA-rated shareholder Sustainable and responsible 
New York Life is a Fortune 100©  investments: allocating capital wisely 
company and in the top 35   in order to contribute to a sustainable 
in terms of AUM worldwide. Our mission   economy that can take up long term 
challenges. In addition, via the 
statement:   CANDRIAM Institute, supporting ESG 
education and research, as well as 
“Investing   initiatives for better health, social 
inclusion and the environment.
for tomorrow”
Loyal, talented people For our people
More than 570 total employees  Engagement, professional and 
and 219 investment professionals. We are truly committed to   personal development, talent 
management, CSR awareness. 
putting sustainability at the 
A strong corporate culture Diversity & Inclusion. 
heart of everything we do.
Convictions and responsibility  
at the heart of everything we do.
We believe that helping our 
clients channel their assets 
A large variety of expertise For our clients
ESG, Equities, Fixed Income,  responsibly will accelerate  Financial strength, risk-adjusted, 
Emerging Markets, Asset  change towards a more  sustainable performance, conviction-
Allocation, Absolute Return,   driven investment solutions, constant 
sustainable future.
Real Estate Private Debt and –  innovation, social impact, CSR and 
through New York Life’s boutiques  ESG awareness.
– Private Equity.
A global investment approach For the environment
Conviction-based, long-term  Climate policy including climate-
investments. In-house research,  related investment solutions, 
and a robust investment process  engagement with investee companies 
based on a rigorous risk  on environmental issues, taking into 
management framework. Active  account environmental criteria in 
engagement and proxy voting. investments. On a company level: 
waste management, reducing carbon 
footprint, in addition foresee offsetting 
of remaining CO₂.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 - 13
Responsible 
investing 
The United Nations  
Sustainable Development  
Goals (UN SDG) impacted
63
ESG AUM:
% €88.3
bn
of total AUM = ESG Assets
“Our goal remains to offer  
our clients cutting-edge investment 
Sustainable investing
solutions that have a real, inclusive  
and sustainable impact.” 
What was the impact  
of the 2020 pandemic  
on ESG investing?
The world changed, almost instantly, in March 
2020. With full effects still unfolding, Covid-19 
has clearly intensified and accelerated a range 
of trends. Permanently changing the future  
of society, work, geopolitics and business,  
it also emphasised the growing relevancy  
of wider stakeholder-oriented company 
models, which provide equitable returns not 
just to shareholders, but also to employees, 
customers and suppliers. Covid-19 not only 
brought the greatest recession since World 
War II, but also renewed the focus on climate 
change. It should be seen as a wake-up call, 
accelerating the need to invest for a better 
Responsible 
future. Now that policymakers are looking  
at how to bring the global economy back to life, 
they should put sustainability at the heart.
investing  With the increase of regulation 
across the industry in relation  Vincent  
to sustainable investing, how 
Hamelink
do you see this trend evolving? 
What impact will it have on   Chief Investment Officer
the investment community?
The increased regulation is contributing   their capital accordingly and deliberately  development of our long-standing and holistic 
to raising the bar on how sustainability   adopting a long-term perspective, valuing  Environmental, Social, and Governance analysis 
is integrated by investors and sets to change  natural and human capital. Governments   approaches, and to the ongoing expansion  
the way capital is channelled in building a  more than ever need to seize the opportunity   of our large range of SRI investment products. 
financial system attracting long-term capital   by using this economic recovery momentum  
to support the transition to a more sustainable  to address climate, sustainability and   From a few funds 25 years ago, the spectrum  
economy. We also see an acceleration   economic inclusion goals and to accelerate   of investment strategies where ESG is 
in regulation focused on corporate disclosure  a just transition.  integrated has grown to encompass almost  
of environmental, social and governance   all investment products in a large variety of 
in particular to climate-related factors,  How has CANDRIAM’s ESG  asset classes within CANDRIAM’s investment 
stewardship and investor duties. Investors   scope. Following our own path, we will continue 
platform evolved, and what are  
will play a key role not only in the allocation   to develop our expertise by enhancing our 
your plans for the next years?
of their capital, but more importantly as  processes, the developing of a proprietary  
stewards of their investments. ‘Build back  ESG dashboard and refining our knowledge  
better’ has become the new mantra for   As a responsible asset manager, sustainability  of ESG impacts and materiality. Our goal remains 
our post-Covid-19 society. Companies   is an active choice. Acknowledging our leading  to offer our clients cutting-edge investment 
have a crucial part to play in reforming   role in shaping the world of tomorrow, we will  solutions having a real, inclusive and 
harmful practices and facilitating positive  act to drive change across society, addressing  sustainable impact, not only searching 
change. Investors are pivotal to drive this  social inequalities and prioritising our planet.  immediate profit for the investor, but to all 
change, not least through channelling   We are committed to the continuous  stakeholders in society. 
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 - 15
Sustainable investing
Steering capital 
to sustainable 
and inclusive 
economic 
activities
As mentioned in our name, an acronym that  In addition, we believe that companies should  Demographic Shifts and Digitalization  
stands for Conviction and Responsibility   respect universally agreed upon principles   & Innovation. These environmental and societal 
In Asset Management, we are fully committed   of human and labour rights and abstain from  trends drive consumer behaviour, regulatory 
to contributing to the broader sustainability  corruption or actions that damage the  policy and the economic landscape and shape 
objectives of the Paris Agreement and the   environment. To this end, companies that  the future challenges and long-term growth 
UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). repetitively and severely violate the principles   prospects of companies.  
of the UN Global Compact are excluded.
As an active and responsible asset manager at  Stakeholder Analysis evaluates the extent to 
the forefront of sustainable investing ever since  Further to exclusions, ESG integration is  which each company incorporates the interests 
launching our first responsible funds back in  imperative as some of the sustainability  of stakeholders (investors, employees, 
1996, the explicit and systematic integration   challenges we face could test the resilience   customers, suppliers, society and environment) 
of environmental, social and governance (ESG)  of our financial and economic systems.  in its long-term strategy. The factors give rise to 
issues is an integral part of our investment  opportunities as well as risks and are therefore 
strategy across all asset classes. This is our  Our ESG analysis adds essential layers of  key determinants of long-term value creation  
responsibility both to clients and society,  information that encompass the “intangible”  or risk exposure.
particularly during times of geopolitical   aspects of a business not fully captured  
and socio-economic uncertainty. by traditional financial analysis. In our ESG 
approach, sustainability challenges are  Updated 
A multi-layer sustainability approach: analysed from two different but interlinked 
Our responsible investment approach applies  angles and cater to the specific needs   Sovereign 
firm-wide exclusions of companies involved  of each investment asset class.  
in thermal coal mining, coal-fired power  Sustainability 
generation, tobacco and controversial  Business Activities Analysis looks at a 
armaments. These activities do not embody  company’s exposure to five key sustainable  Model
sustainability as they can compromise public  challenges: Climate Change, Resource  
health and the environment.  & Waste, Healthy living & Well-being, 
In 2020, CANDRIAM’s ESG analysts worked  
on an updated version of its Sovereign 
Sustainability Model, highlighting how the 
emphasis of sovereign analysis must prioritise 
Economic development and growth should be 
sustainable development alongside economic 
sustainable and inclusive in the long run to 
development.
benefit everyone across generations
The new evolved model goes beyond typical 
Companies that embed sustainability in their governance, strategies and  country sustainability models which assume all 
business operations tend to outperform or have less downside risk than  forms of capital are perfectly interchangeable, 
peers that do not consider sustainability. putting four types of capital (Human Capital, 
16 - Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020
Kroum 
Sourov
Sovereign Sustainability Analyst
We see increased recognition  
regarding the importance of climate 
change and environmental preservation  
TIMELINE by regulators. The industry should take 
the lead in implementing changes  
The evolution of our investment strategy to focus on Natural Capital
in the way that we think about 
2009 2017 2020
production, consumption, and investing. 
Sustainability issues can no longer  
be papered over, as the cracks  
have become just too large.
FIRST CANDRIAM ESG  FOUR CAPITAL PILLARS FOCUS ON NATURAL CAPITAL
COUNTRY MODEL - Four Capital Approach -  Environmentaly Efficient 
- Dynamic  Capital Pillars
- Mappable to UN SDGs - Materiality-based imputs 
- Dynamic across time
Social Capital, Economic Capital, and Natural  Natural Capital at the centre of the Sovereign  ecosystem degradation and zoonotic disease 
Capital) at the same level. CANDRIAM’s model  Sustainability model, CANDRIAM offers a  transmission from wild animal populations  
puts climate change and environmental  unique and forward-looking outlook on  to humans. Such transmission is suspected  
preservations at the core of the investment  sustainability analysis.  in the case of the Covid-19 pandemic,  
process as it focuses more on how countries  for instance.
manage their Natural Capital, as well as the  Another finding was that most of the 
interdependencies between Natural Capital   environmental impact over the coming decade  * Additional details about the model and its methodology  
and the three other capital forms.  has already been determined by current and  can be found here: The new sovereign sustainability model
past economic activities and Natural Capital 
This move was based on the findings of  cannot be replaced with other forms of capital. 
CANDRIAM’s research that if environmentally  Therefore how countries manage their Natural 
inefficient countries continue to deplete large  Capital will, to a significant extent, shape their 
amounts of natural resources which are by  social and economic development. For 
definition finite, they will eventually experience   example, in the case of deforestation, land use 
a negative impact across four types of capital  change and habitat destruction all contribute 
– Human Capital, Social Capital, Economic  to ecosystem degradation, which in turn 
Capital, and Natural Capital – which will have  exacerbates climate change and increases  
devastating social, economic, and  the severity of natural disasters. Related to  
environmental repercussions. By placing  this, research has found direct links between 
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 - 17
Engagement 
Effecting 
change 
through 
stewardship
As a responsible asset manager, the careful 
selection of sustainable investments is only  
one tool in CANDRIAM’s box when it comes  
to promoting and championing ESG. 
Increasingly, as markets, clients and regulatory 
interests grow, so too has the importance  
of CANDRIAM’s stewardship activities*.  Engagement  Dialogue  
Through proxy voting, direct dialogue, 
collaborative dialogue, and the promotion   through proxy  on social and 
of sustainable finance, CANDRIAM is able  
to exert effective pressure at investee  voting environmental 
company level, thus advancing our agenda  
on the energy transition, fair working  issues 
conditions, and business ethics. Voting is integral to our stewardship of client 
investments, and critical for increasing 
awareness on what is important for  Social issues remained a primary focus of our 
shareholders and stakeholders. Our voting  direct engagement in 2020. Notable among 
policy is defined around three cornerstones,  these, the use of Uighur labour in China,  
which are the rights and equal treatment   and the possible non-compliance of 
of shareholders, the accuracy of financial  Teleperformance with human rights provisions 
information, and the independence and  under French law. Social unrest and the Black 
accountability of the board. The policy  Lives Matter protests originating in the US 
applies to open-ended funds managed   ensured diversity remained steadily in the 
by the Group’s entities, and in certain cases   spotlight. CANDRIAM also extended its work  
to dedicated funds and mandates. with the Workforce Disclosure Initiative with a 
direct engagement campaign targeting small  
During 2020, CANDRIAM made its voice heard  and mid-cap companies. Environmental issues, 
in 1,180 ordinary and extraordinary general  primarily climate change and biodiversity  
meetings, voting on 15,899 resolutions for   were also priority targets. Here, CANDRIAM’s 
our open-ended equity funds. These votes  engagement focused on topics including the 
covered diverse topics, from the election   energy transition, and opportunities for  
of directors, appointment of auditors and  a socially-just transition and reducing financing 
remuneration of management and directors   for high greenhouse gas-emitting companies. 
to the share capital, and anti-takeover measures.  Pressure was consistently increased on emitters 
In terms of shareholder resolutions, CANDRIAM  to implement a zero-emission 2050 commitment. 
supported more than 60% of environmental   CANDRIAM joined the Investors Policy Dialogue 
and social resolutions on the agenda. on Deforestation (IPDD), established in July 2020 
to coordinate public policy debate on halting 
* All reports related to CANDRIAM’s stewardship activities  
are available here SRI publications deforestation. 
18 - Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020
Adapting 
actions to  
the pandemic
The global pandemic resulted in unprecedented 
delays and cancellations of annual general 
meetings across the world, while virtual 
shareholder meetings reached an all-time high. 
Faced with this reality, CANDRIAM reorganised its 
dialogue campaigns to offer companies the time 
to adapt to the new norms. Early on, CANDRIAM 
focused its direct dialogue efforts on European 
companies, facilitated by their historical  
and geographical proximity. We also helped 
catalyse investors to call on European business  
and political leaders to act on reducing  
the pandemic’s impact on society and markets.  
These recommendations included best practices 
such as maintaining workforces, a focus on B2B 
relationships, paid leave, and the need to respect 
health standards. They also called leaders to use 
recovery plans for supporting an accelerated 
transition to a net zero emissions economy  
in line with the Paris Agreement. Sophie 
Deleuze
Lead ESG Analyst, Stewardship
Engagement & voting are core 
components of ESG integration:  
in addition to supporting our investment 
decisions and impacting positively  
on issuers’ practices, they also offer  
a favourable exchange ground  
for analysts and fund managers. While 
governance & business ethics remain 
fundamental pillars of our engagement 
activities, climate attracted most  
of the attention again in 2020.  
However, human rights & workforce-
related matters as well as biodiversity  
are definitely gaining traction.
Looking forward
In 2021 and beyond, CANDRIAM will continue its efforts on climate, 
digital and human rights, diversity, and inequality as part of our 
long-term framework on energy transition, fair working conditions,  
and business ethics.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 - 19
The table shows collaborative initiatives active in 2019/2020
Collaborative initiatives for a call to action ESG Joined /Signed in
Making Finance Work for People and the Planet  ESG 2019 one off
PRI-coordinated Investor Working Group on Sustainable Palm Oil  ES 2019
Investor Mining and Tailings Safety Initiative  E 2019
Statement for Mandatory Human Rights Due Diligence  S 2019 - 2020
2019 Global Investor Statement to Governments on Climate Change  E 2019 one off
Investor Statement on Turkmen Cotton (Sourcing Network)   S 2019
2019-2020 Initiative for Pesticide Use Reduction and Safer Chemicals Management - Grocery Retail  ES 2019
Investor Statement On Deforestation & Forest Fires in the Amazon  E 2019 one off
Investor Statement to Support Gender Equality in the Workplace   S 2019 - 2020
Now completed
Australian Extractives Sector, IGCC Public Sign On Letter   E 2019 one off
Open Letter in support of Amazon Soy Moratorium  E 2019 one off
PRI Investor statement on Climate change for Airlines & Aerospace companies  E End 2019/2020
one off
PRI Investors Letter to SEC  ESG End 2019/2020
one off
CHRB - Investor statement calling on companies to improve Human Rights performance  S 2020 one off
Investor Statement on Coronavirus Response    ESG 2020 one off
 
The Investor Agenda | Open investor letter to EU leaders on a sustainable recovery from Covid-19
   ESG 2020 one off
IIGCC | Open letter to EU leaders from investors on a sustainable recovery from Covid-19
Support brought to Joint-statement-on-the-NFRD-revision (7 recommendations)  ESG 2020 one off
Collaborative dialogue on Teleperformance  S 2020
Investors’ Policy Dialogue on Deforestation in Brazil  E 2020
Investor Engagement Group - Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region (XUAR)  S 2020
Micro Fibre Engagement  E 2020
Since 2006, as a founding signatory to the UNPRI, we have signed the following statements:
Commitments ESG Joined /Signed in
PRI - Principles for Responsible Investment  ESG 2006
UNGC Call to Action on Anti-Corruption  G 2014
G20 Energy Efficiency Investor Statement  E 2015
Adhesion to Green and Social Bond Principles  ES 2017
Montreal Carbon Pledge  E 2015
Paris Pledge for Action  E 2015
Investor Statement on ESG Credit Ratings  ESG 2017
Adhesion to Green and Social Bond Principles  ES 2017
Tobacco-Free Finance Pledge  S 2018
The Investor Agenda  E 2018
Commitment to Support a Just Transiton on Climate Change  ESG 2018
TCFD supporter   E 2021
20 - Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020
Supported by CANDRIAM in previous years, their impact, and CANDRIAM’s specific contributions:
Collaborative initiatives for a call to action ESG Joined /Signed in
CDP - Carbon Disclosure Project (incl. Climate Change, Water and Forest programs)   E 2004  
Sustainable Stock Exchanges   ESG 2010
Access to Medicine (AtM)   S 2010
Access to Nutrition   S 2013
Bangladesh Initiative on garment industry    S 2013
Labour practices in agricultural supply chain   S 2016 - 2020 Q1  
now completed
Fiduciary Duty in the 21st Century   ESG 2017 one-off
Engagement on antibiotics overuse in livestock supply chains   ES 2017
Sustainable Protein Engagement   E 2017
Workforce Disclosure Initiative   S 2017
Banking on a Low Carbon Future   E 2017 - 2020
2017 - 2020
Engagement on Cybersecurity SG
now completed
Expectations on Corporate Climate Lobbying   E 2017 one-off
Decarbonisation Initiative (incl. RE100 & EP100 Engagement)   E 2017
Combating Child Labour in Cocoa Supply Chains   S 2017 - 2019
Corporate Tax Responsibility   G 2017 - 2020
now completed
Climate Action 100+   E 2017
CA100+ related - Paris-aligned accounting and audit   E 2019
PRI - Climate change transition for oil and gas   E 2018 - 2020
Merged with CA100+
BBFAW Investor Collaboration on Farm Animal Welfare   ES 2018
PRI Water Risks in Agricultural Supply Chains   E 2018 - 2020Q1  
now completed
Plastic Solutions Investor Alliance   E 2018
UK Living Wage Engagement Campaign   S 2018
PRI Supported Engagement on Responsible Sourcing of Cobalt   ES 2018
Corporate Accountability for Digital Rights   SG 2018
Investor Statement to EU Policymakers on the future of Corporate Reporting   ESG 2018 one-off
Investors call on power companies to accelerate decarbonisation      
E 2018 one-off
and support ambitious climate policy
Open Letter to Index Providers on Controversial Weapons Exclusions   SG 2018 one-off
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 - 21
A responsible provider
Improved 
communication
With many in-person events cancelled or 
postponed due to the pandemic, CANDRIAM 
organised regular client video conferences, 
while boosting its webinars, podcasts and 
newsletters. More than one million emails  
were delivered, 10 webinars hosted and 
20 podcasts listened to more than 6,000 times. 
The CANDRIAM Academy launched  
a new webinar series, ESG Talks, exploring  
the pressing economic, social and 
environmental issues of the day.
At the same time, CANDRIAM started 
Convictions: Small Talk, Big Opportunities,  
a bi-monthly English newsletter to share 
insights in a direct, close and friendly tone.  
The first edition was sent to 3,000 institutional 
clients, distributors and financial advisors,  
and complements the ever-popular Coffee 
Breaks weekly and monthly newsletters. 
Understanding  Taking impact 
our clients’  investing 
needs  further
In a year marked by social distancing,  Clients were asked what they considered  Two new strategies launched by CANDRIAM in 
maintaining customer proximity took   distinctive about CANDRIAM’s investment  2020 underlined its impact investing ethos. First 
on renewed urgency and importance.   expertise, with sustainable investing   was an impact strategy that focused on social 
A wide-ranging customer feedback survey  the most-cited (27%), followed by fixed   and environment factors. The immediate focus 
carried out in November 2020 invited more  income (21%) and equities (19%). was to support Europe’s post-Covid-19 recovery.
than 200 investors to have their say on  The respondents gave CANDRIAM’s services  The second launch was a strategy that supports a 
CANDRIAM’s services and solutions,   an overall rating of 4.25 out of 5. Highest-rated  circular economy to help further our commitment 
with the goal of better understanding and  was the CANDRIAM Academy on ESG (4.32),  to a sustainable future. Given the stakes, it should 
adapting to customer needs. Respondents  with the continuity of support, roadshows   be no surprise the CANDRIAM Academy also now 
included wholesale investment companies,  and conferences, and CSR report also highly  offers a dedicated module on the circular 
fund distributors and institutional investors,  valued services. The availability of information  economy. 
of which more than 40% were long-term  and quality of reporting were also singled out. 
CANDRIAM clients. The results revealed high  Thanks to a pledge to plant one tree for  
levels of satisfaction across CANDRIAM’s  every response, the survey will not only help  27
activities, with nearly 96% describing   CANDRIAM and our valued customers,  
the partnership as good or excellent.   but the environment also. %
of clients surveyed 
considered sustainable 
investing as CANDRAM's  
n°1 expertise
22 - Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020
“Education on ESG is key to  
successfully transforming the private 
clients investment landscape.”
Michelle Owen
Managing Director, Global Head of Funds and EMEA 
Head of CIO & Investment Solutions, IPB 
Deutsche Bank AG, Filiale London
What do you look for when you 
select your (ESG) fund 
managers? 
Deutsche Bank International Private Bank (IPB) 
aims to be the house of choice for clients who 
wish to make a positive social change. Fund 
managers play a crucial role in enabling our 
clients to achieve this goal, and our partnerships 
with them are integral to selecting offerings with 
strong ESG standards. DB IPB has developed an 
extensive ESG screening approach to ensure that  To equip our employees, we are investing heavily  making on sustainability factors, and whether 
our product achieves two hurdles. Firstly, funds  in educating all of our staff over 2021 and beyond.  their products will meet the Article 8 or Article 9 
must have clear ESG investment intent, such as  We are deploying a range of in-house and  hurdles. Sustainability regulation is an evolving 
evidenced through Article 8 and 9 classification   external education initiatives including  field and it will remain important for fund 
in the EU. Secondly, funds must demonstrate   certification programs with the leading providers  managers and private clients advisors to continue 
that they have fulfilled this intent through their  across Europe and globally. Furthermore, we have   adapting solutions for clients in line with our 
underlying holdings and exclusions. Beyond   built strong partnerships with universities   global regulators’ expectations. In this landscape, 
a strong range of high quality ESG products,   and networks such as Cambridge University   partnerships are more important than ever,  
we also look for our asset management partners  and the Ocean Risk and Resilience Action  and we anticipate that the standard set by SFDR 
to share a wider vision and commitment   Alliance (ORRAA) in order to develop and share  and the entire EU action plan, will be the advent  
for the future of ESG investing, with ongoing  deeper insights on crucial ESG topics such   of a more harmonised global approach to ESG 
collaboration on the evolution of ESG and impact  as Biodiversity and the Blue Economy with   frameworks in the coming years.  
topics, and continued education of our staff   our clients, prospects and staff.
and clients.
How does SFDR impact the way 
How do you encourage your  you select your investment 
employees to become more  managers/partners? 
aware of ESG matters? 
Europe’s SFDR regulation has really set the stage 
Education on ESG is key to successfully  for clear standards and structures to deliver ESG 
transforming the private clients investment  investing. As the industry embraces this new 
landscape.  At Deutsche Bank, we see ourselves  regulation, we have absorbed it into the centre of 
as translators of this investing revolution for our  our selection process. One of the first questions 
clients, being able to talk fluently to all levels of  we now ask fund managers when we engage 
investors about the purpose of ESG, the  them, is whether they consider the principal 
performance opportunities and risk management.  adverse impacts of their investment decision-
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 - 23
Responsible  
employer
The United Nations  
Sustainable Development   New hires  New positions 
Goals (UN SDG) impacted 45 30
% %
of women in 2020   filled through internal mobility  
vs 35% in 2019 in 2020 (+16% vs 2019)
“To benefit from a wider pool of 
To our employees experience, skills and perspectives, 
CANDRIAM is adopting a more inclusive 
approach to recruitment.” 
How do CANDRIAM’s   How did CANDRIAM respond 
and Compliance, Purchasing and Logistics,  
corporate values support  to the challenges of Covid-19  and Communications divisions to keep all 
employee development? from a human resources  employees aware of our actions. Starting from 
February 20 we enacted concrete steps, 
perspective? 
CANDRIAM’s values of conviction and  culminating in a global work-from-home order  
responsibility in asset management are deeply  Like other global firms, CANDRIAM faced an initial  on March 17. Our efforts were bolstered by the 
rooted in the company’s name and ethos,  challenge to keep employees around the world  launch of our new digital learning management 
encapsulating everything we represent as an  updated and informed. We made health and  platform. A Workplace & Wellbeing feedback 
organisation and employer. The pandemic’s  safety our first priority, offering mental health  survey conducted in June provided reassurance 
silver lining is to have reinforced the impor- support through a dedicated Employee  our initiatives were responding to the workforce’s 
tance of the human factor, raising everyone’s  Assistance Program, and a psychologist available  needs and expectations. Overall, the strategy 
general level of empathy and humility, and  to employees 24/7. For many, the program helped  proved highly successful. In terms of Corporate 
further enhancing our people-first culture. to mitigate the pandemic’s effects on work, life  culture, it’s been remarkable to witness the 
In face of this unprecedented global health  and family. We provided additional manager  strength and resilience of our colleagues and 
challenge, the collaboration and solidarity  training and advice, acting to keep employees  their collective efforts and support for one 
within teams and across departments has   close while socially distant. Early on, we launched  another. Looking forward, we will have less travel 
been impressive, with creativity and innovation  a weekly Covid-19 crisis committee with country  and more work flexibility which will provide a 
remaining very high. managers, and heads of HR, Risk, Legal   better work/life balance with no impact on 
productivity or our corporate culture. This crisis 
was also an opportunity to rethink the layout of 
the working environment and create more space 
for interactions, networking and boost digital 
technology allowing our employees to work either 
from the office or from home.
What is CANDRIAM’s approach 
towards diversity and inclusion?
CANDRIAM is committed to developing, 
implementing and promoting diversity and 
inclusion by onboarding people from a diverse 
range of backgrounds, at all levels of seniority.  
To benefit from a wider pool of experience, skills 
and perspectives, CANDRIAM is adopting a more 
inclusive approach to recruitment, removing bias 
through training and development, while closely 
monitoring employee diversity. It is our belief that 
initiative, entrepreneurship and healthy collabora-
tion thrive in a work environment where 
differences are valued and leveraged, creating  
the foundations for employee satisfaction  
and fulfilment.
Odile  
Mohan
Global Head of Human Resources
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 - 25
To our employees
Paving  
the way for 
diversity  
and inclusion 
As a responsible asset manager, CANDRIAM  communities, a mentoring program, internal 
makes it a top priority to develop an  networking events, social activities, and regular 
environment where employees feel included,  training and development sessions focused  
valued, connected and respected, and are  on diversity and inclusion. 
comfortable bringing their “authentic selves”  
to work, regardless of their backgrounds,  Our commitment towards gender equality  
beliefs and perspectives. We undertake many  is demonstrated in our hiring practices,  
initiatives and actions to develop a sense  which seek to achieve 50% women below 
of community and belonging across our  30 years across all our hires in 2021.
workforce. These include employee-led 
From training 
culture,  
to learning 
culture
Creating the building blocks to transition from  
a training culture towards a learning culture was 
a focus of 2020. We launched a digital learning 
platform adapted to new ways of working  
and offered new training sessions on agile work  
and other concepts, in blended-learning formats.
Our learning and development platform, 
Horizon, was improved with consolidated 
learning analytics, and modules on leadership 
skills, personal development, IT and digital skills, 
and wellbeing. These were bolstered by a 
learning and development newsletter ‘What’s 
new in Horizon’ and the popular Digital Week, 
focused on enhancing our employees digital 
knowledge and experience at CANDRIAM  
and Discovering CANDRIAM (our annual event 
to introduce new joiners to CANDRIAM). 
CANDRIAM delivered manager training on 
successful onboarding, effective feedback,  
and unintended bias for the second year 
running, along with a training on inclusive 
leadership.
26 - Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020
Mentoring  
and mobility
In June, CANDRIAM implemented Mentoring  
at CANDRIAM to develop junior talent as  
they progress in their careers. The project, 
slated to run into 2021, gives increasing 
opportunities to a larger group of mentors  
and mentees.Another means to keep 
employees engaged and broaden their career 
perspectives is to offer internal mobility and 
make temporary and fixed-term contracts 
permanent. In 2020, 44% of all open positions 
were filled in these ways. Our objective is 
to help employees acquire technical and 
managerial skills, realise their full potential,  
and experiment with new roles.
Nadia 
Targeted
Tortel
50
% Global Head of Talent
Some of the most important qualities  
of women across
all our hires in 2021 I look for in a hire is the personality,  
state of mind, and positive energy that 
someone can bring to the CANDRIAM 
family. In addition to the technical and 
professional skills necessary for the role, 
these qualities are paramount in a firm 
Communities@CANDRIAM like CANDRIAM where our culture  
and values are key to the strength  
Central to our exploration of ways   - Digital Ambassadors: to help  and success of our business. 
to improve as an organisation,  enhance our digital culture, pursuing 
employee-led initiatives help bring  day-to-day improvements  
forward innovative ideas and further  and accelerating the adoption  
foment the sense of community  of new technologies.
across CANDRIAM. Recent 
87
initiatives include: - Mentoring: to support 
intergenerational sharing   %
- Women@CANDRIAM: an internal  of knowledge.
network that aims to support, 
develop, and promote women’s  - Change Agents: sharing 
of the staff followed  
professional development. competencies across collaborative  a non-mandatory training  
projects to gain efficiencies. in 2020 vs 81% in 2019
- Millennials Group: to bring 
innovative ideas to help shape  
the future of CANDRIAM.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 - 27
Responsible  
operation  
& supply chain
The United Nations  
Sustainable Development  
Goals (UN SDG) impacted
1.55
metric 
tonnes
(57% decrease compared  
to 2019) paper consumption
“Our Purchasing policy and code of  
conduct try to ensure that the suppliers  
To the environment
on our operational value chain take  
sustainability into consideration.”
How do you manage supplier 
relationships in line with 
CANDRIAM’s sustainability 
philosophy? 
As an asset manager, CANDRIAM is reliant  
on suppliers for data, market flows, IT 
infrastructure and other essential services. 
Associated indirect CO2 emissions account  
for roughly 80% of CANDRIAM’s footprint,  
so it is very important we monitor and control 
our suppliers. We have a comprehensive code 
of conduct that addresses carbon emissions, 
governance, diversity, social aspects, respect 
for human rights, the labour environment,  
and broader environmental issues. We have 
also included specific questions in our 
purchasing policy with regard to CSR 
behaviour. By reviewing the responses to  
these questions and monitoring progress,  
we try to raise CSR awareness amongst  
our suppliers.
How is CANDRIAM embracing  What will be your main  Fabrice 
the technological and digital  challenge in coming years?
Cuchet
transformation? 
Our focus will be on further controlling our  Chief Operating Officer
Technological and digital transformation is core  direct emissions from owned or controlled 
to our corporate strategy and embraced across  sources (known as scope 1 emissions under  
all our activities. For clients, this means we can  the GHG protocol), and indirect emissions  
enhance their client journey. Our fund  from the generation of purchased energy 
managers can generate alpha through  (scope 2 emissions). 
enhanced trading technology and better 
integrate ESG analysis in their investment  In addition, we will seek to control the 
processes thanks to improved data tools and  consequences of an increased usage of data 
platforms. Employees meanwhile are provided  and computing capabilities, working together 
with state-of-the-art equipment that improves  with our providers on a sustainable approach.  
the working environment. This enhanced  It is easy to think digital has no environmental 
working environment facilitates flexible working  cost yet this is simply not the case. As such,  
and mobility, while reducing transportation  it is important to consider and limit the impact 
needs and costs.  of all our activities. 
New digital solutions are being deployed to 
enhance efficiency. These include DocuSign’s 
eSignature offer for signing electronically, as 
well as collaborative tools to reduce paper 
consumption and printing. We are also 
targeting reductions in our data storage needs. 
* CANDRIAM data
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 - 29
To the environment
Ever-more 
sustainable 
and 
responsible 
workplace
In 2020, CANDRIAM put in place new 
programs, tools and approaches to reinforce 
the sustainability of its value chain.  
These aim to minimise operational carbon 
emissions, implement a sustainable 
procurement approach, optimise waste 
management, and improve the working 
environment. For the fourth year, Trucost,  
a leading carbon and environment risk analyst 
evaluated CANDRIAM’s operational footprint  Sustainable  Eco-friendly 
and supplier impacts within the value chain. 
procurement  working 
In 2020, the total footprint of the operational 
value chain (excluding investments) decreased  environments
to 12,065 tCO₂e*. The total operational carbon  Yet controlling the carbon footprint should be 
footprint for 100% of CANDRIAM’s activities   only one aspect of any company’s comprehensive 
over 2020 was 613 tCO₂e**, a decrease from   ESG approach, and CANDRIAM is no exception. Staff in Paris and Switzerland completed moves 
1,730 tCO₂e in 2019, largely attributable to   In 2020, CANDRIAM formalised the basics of   to new workspaces that reflect CANDRIAM’s 
reduced business travel and reduced on-site  its sustainable procurement approach, with   eco-responsible identity and ethical values. 
energy consumption due to Covid-19 protocols.  a Supplier Relationship Charter and Code   The new working environments are equipped 
Post-Covid-19, CANDRIAM will continue its  of Conduct for all new Tier 1 and 2 vendors,   with motion-sensing LED lights, energy-
focus on reducing energy and optimising  and a preliminary ESG scorecard for vendors. efficient air conditioning, and drinking fountains 
business travel. A fleet policy review has  to reduce plastic bottles and cups. Both sites 
prioritised and incentivised the adoption of  The charter, which outlines 10 commitments   have replaced traditional meeting rooms  
plug-in hybrid and electric vehicles, with usage  for responsible purchasing, is promoted by the  with an enlarged video-conference area to 
already increasing from 5% in 2019 to 15% in  French National Purchase Council (Conseil  encourage remote and hybrid meetings.  
2020. Leasing contracts expiring are replaced by  National des Achats) and the French Ministry   As always, obsolete equipment was donated  
contract with Plug-in Hybrid and electric vehicles.   of Finance’s Credit Mediation Department.  or upcycled with help from valued partners.
Use of plug-in hybrid  
and electric vehicles  
has increased from 5%  
in 2019 to Key figures
15
- In 2021, CANDRIAM will offset the 2020-related 
%
12,065 tonnes of CO₂
in 2020
- In total, CANDRIAM will have offset more than 
than 34K tonnes CO₂e from its own operational 
value chain over three years
* GHG emissions for the full operational value chain (Scope 1, 2 and 3 Upstream only).
** GHG emissions Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
30 - Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020
Commitments  
in CANDRIAM's 
suppliers charter
- Reduce the risks of mutual dependence 
between contractors  and suppliers 
- Incorporate environmental concerns 
- Guarantee fair financial treatment  
for suppliers
Digitally 
transforming 
the work 
environment
Embracing the technological and digital 
13 transformation taking place across the 
industry, CANDRIAM has put in place three  Emmanuel 
K measures to enhance efficiency and 
  Callebaut
collaboration across the firm. First, to improve 
corporate efficiency, the introduction of 
Trees planted so far   DocuSign electronic signature software has  Head of Procurement  
and Projects
with We Forest to offset 
reduced the paper burden while decreasing  
emissions from client 
the administrative workload. Second, a  Calculating the carbon footprint  
events (among others)
firm-wide project launched in 2020 to upgrade   of a company is a complex process. 
the workplace environment with a new 
Since 2015, we’ve partnered with  
operating system (Windows 10) and software 
the leading carbon and environment  
(Office 2019, Microsoft 365). 
The phased rollout of Microsoft Teams across  risk analyst Trucost, to calculate 
the firm will create a more efficient working  CANDRIAM’s footprint using the 
environment while improving remote 
standard GHG emission protocol.  
communication and collaboration, making 
Our ESG and investment management 
working life more efficient and collaborative. 
And third,we have developed  in-house   teams also use Trucost as one of  
tools to improve ESG analysis by   their key data providers.
our investment managers.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 - 31
Responsible  
citizens
The United Nations  
Sustainable Development  
Goals (UN SDG) impacted
+350
%
Members of CANDRIAM Academy  
in 2 years
“The CANDRIAM Institute  
for Sustainable Development leads 
To our community 
the company’s philanthropic initiatives 
as an extension of its sustainable 
investing goals.”
Helena 
Colle
Global Head of Corporate  
Development
What is CANDRIAM’s 
sustainability themes. Sound economic  
approach to philanthropy? and financial research that integrates 
sustainability is a first and crucial step  
As a responsible asset manager, we aim first   towards sustainable financial decision-making.
of all for our sustainable funds to reach 
sustainability objectives. Yet progress towards   Why does the Institute 
a sustainable society  cannot  be achieved  
focus on social inclusion  
via the financial markets alone. This led us  
and local communities?
to the principle of creating a double impact,  
from sustainable investment and philanthropic 
donations. The CANDRIAM Institute for   The Institute is driven by a belief that social 
Sustainable Development leads the company’s  cohesiveness and inclusion are key for any 
philanthropic initiatives as an extension   society to thrive. In this context we have 
of its sustainable investing goals. We look   chosen in particular to support associations 
for philanthropy-objectives that complement  and projects that empower underprivileged 
sustainable investing and align with   youth.
the UN Sustainable Development Goals  
(SDG), such as  helping reduce inequalities, 
How do CANDRIAM employees 
addressing-poverty, supporting quality 
education and good health initiatives.  contribute to its impact 
SDG themes such as climate action and  programs?
responsible  production and consumption  
are also part of our remit.  We have a long tradition of employees getting 
involved in impact programs. The Helping 
Those Who Help program is one example 
Why does CANDRIAM support  where staff sponsor solidarity and community 
ESG education & research? projects close to their heart. The Institute’s 
board has representatives from across 
The financial sector plays a key role   CANDRIAM business units, with staff putting  60
in allocating capital to those companies   forward most of the associations we support.
and governments meeting the challenges   staff
of a transition to a sustainable and inclusive 
society. We therefore want to foster a wider 
members (across a range 
understanding of sustainable finance among 
of functions) involved in the 
the investment professionals and financial 
philantropic initiatives led by 
advisors of today and tomorrow.     the CANDRIAM Institute
We are also committed to financing  
high-quality research focused on key 
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 - 33
To our community 
Social  
inclusion  
and the 
community
In 2020, the CANDRIAM Institute initiated  Academic 
promising local partnerships including a 
mentoring program for youth (Article 1), social  partnerships 
support for Sciences Po students in France, 
and a scholarship fund for aspiring tertiary  for ESG 
Philanthropy  students at the Maastricht University in the 
Netherlands. Through the Démos program, the  education  
CANDRIAM sets aside 10% of net fees  Institute inspires children from underprivileged 
earned from several of its sustainable and  backgrounds to learn classical music, as culture  and research
thematic strategies to fund the CANDRIAM  can be a strong lever of empowerment. Given 
Institute for Sustainable Development’s  Covid-19, a specific budget was allocated in 
multi-year philanthropic programs. 2020 towards Covid-19 relief programs**  To promote ESG education and research,  
throughout Europe. CANDRIAM also  2020 saw a new academic partnership with  
responded to the AFG appeal  for solidarity  the London School of Economics and Political 
Oncology  
with Lebanon***. CANDRIAM also supported  Science’ Grantham Research Institute on 
and the fight  
the mission of Goods to Give in Belgium to  Climate Change and the Environment (GRI), 
against cancer  redistribute donations of unsold non-food  focusing on the just transition. In Belgium, 
products to Belgian poverty-organisations,  CANDRIAM launched a new Chair in 
The Institute provides aid for scientific  thereby alleviating poverty and reducing waste.  Regenerative Economics with UCLouvain,  
research and social projects associated*  Helping Those Who Help, an employee- one of the world’s oldest research universities, 
with oncology and cancer support,  supported initiative that helps charities   and created the Centre for Sustainable Finance 
selecting leading cancer research   meet their social inclusion goals, celebrated   with the Vlerick Business School. The centre will 
and prevention institutes in Europe   19 years in 2020. CANDRIAM donated a record  research how Artificial Intelligence can measure 
and beyond. 
€200,000 to 17 charities tackling youth &  scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions, among 
education, social distress & extreme poverty,  other topics. Once again, CANDRIAM supported 
and intellectual/rational disabilities. Climate Investment Challenge, by Imperial 
College Business School****, encouraging 
graduate students to develop creative financial 
Donations 2020 €2 million solutions to address climate change. These 
initiatives are part of CANDRIAM's continued 
ESG Education   support to other academic parterns like the 
23% & Research Kedge Business School in France, FDIR and 
37%
3% 2020 Social Inclusion   LUMSA Università in Italy. The CANDRIAM 
& Community
Academy also expanded in size and scope, 
37% Climate & Circular launching French, Swiss and US versions,  
Oncology and a circular economy module. It now counts 
5,700 members, a 350% increase in two years.
* Associations in Belgium (the Foundation Against Cancer), 
Luxembourg (Fondation Kriibskrank Kanner), Japan (National Cancer 
Center, and the Japan CancerSociety), Spain (Asociación Española 
contra el Cáncer), Switzerland (Krebsforschung Schweiz),  
France (Gustave Roussy), Germany (Georg Speyer Haus),  
UK (Macmillan Cancer Support), Italy (Fondazione IRCCS Istituto 
nazionale dei Tumori) and international research network BIG against 
breast cancer. 2020 donations are paid in 2020 and 2021. 
** Covid-19 relief programs.  
*** AFG document for appeal for solidarity with Lebanon.  
**** http://www.climateinvestmentchallenge.com
34 - Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020
Protecting the 
environment 
With South Pole, in 2020, CANDRIAM has 
compensated 24,833 tons of CO in order  
2
to offset the carbon footprint of its dedicated 
David 
strategy investing in companies bringing 
solutions to fight climate change. South Pole 
Czupryna
invests on CANDRIAM’s behalf in projects that 
support reforestation, renewables and energy 
Head of ESG Development 
efficiency, all of which bear  ‘Gold Standards  
for Global Goals’ certification*.
The growth of the CANDRIAM 
CANDRIAM also pursues a dedicated 
investment strategy to encourage long-term  Academy’s membership**** and its 
investment in companies providing new  engagement in 2020 is really impressive.  
technologies and innovations to transition  
It demonstrates that investors,  
to a circular economy. True to its double impact 
and the public in general, are willing  
philosophy, CANDRIAM donates up to 10%  
of this sub-fund’s net annual management   to increase their ESG knowledge. 
fees to organisations contributing to a circular 
economy. The first beneficiary in 2020  
was Close the Gap, an international social 
We are dedicated to answering  
enterprise that bridges the digital divide by 
this need and strive to continue adding 
offering high-quality, pre-owned computers 
donated by companies, to social projects   new modules on more specific  
in Europe and in developing countries. and advanced subjects. This is what 
compelled our decision to organise 
10
regular ESG Talks, our ESG  
% roundtables that have consistently 
gathered large audiences (around  
of net management fees earned on several   500 members) to listen and exchange 
sustainable and thematic strategies set aside   with industry experts on current 
for the CANDRIAM Institute’s Initiatives
sustainability challenges, which  
are part of their daily lives.
* Gold Standards for Global Goals certification is a standard implemented 
Forest Green  by the WWF, several NGOs and various other bodies in academia  
and the private sector, and is designed to quantify the extent to which 
these projects match up to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals 
Rovers Community 
(SDGs) ** Not within the remit of Candriam Institute, but financed through 
the company’s sponsoring budget *** https://www.fgr.co.uk. **** https://
scores big**  academy.candriam.fr.
Building on its partnership with the  delivered nearly 900 meals to 
Forest Green Rovers***, described by  vulnerable families and individuals, 
the United Nations as the ‘greenest  held school holiday activities, and is 
football club in the world’, in 2020  tackling the risk of children being 
CANDRIAM financed the CANDRIAM  recruited into County Lines drug 
Kids Fund. With the support of this  networks.
fund, the FGR Community team 
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 - 35
CSR AWARDS
CANDRIAM garnered more than 60 awards in 2020, doubling  
the achievements recognised in the previous year, despite  
the pandemic. Awards included recognition of CEO  
Naïm Abou-Jaoudé’s corporate leadership, with a Silver award  
from Financial News for Industry Leader of the Year 2020.
UN Principles   ESG Investing Awards  Hirschel & Kramer
for Responsible 
The ESG Investing Awards assess  The Hirschel & Kramer 
Investment
and evaluate the best companies  Responsible Investment Brand 
The UN-backed Principles for  involved in ESG investing around  Index analysed 284 European 
Responsible Investment network  the world. In 2020, CANDRIAM  asset managers for their ability  
awarded CANDRIAM A+ for its  was ranked the best ESG ETF  to embed responsible investment 
overall PRI transparency report   Provider for the UK. approaches in their brand. 
and invited CANDRIAM to join   CANDRIAM ranked third for best 
the Leaders’ Group for climate  overall score, repeating its 2019 
practices, recognising our   achievement. 
climate reporting.
Hedge Funds Review  Broadridge Fund  Environmental Finance
Brand 50
CANDRIAM was among top   The online news and analysis 
ESG/SRI management companies  service Environmental Finance 
in the UK/Europe region at   In Broadridge’s annual report on  named CANDRIAM’s oncology 
the annual Hedge Funds Review  the brand success of European  strategy fighting against cancer  
European Performance Awards.  asset managers, CANDRIAM  as Social Fund of the Year. 
The citation underscored  ranked second in the Best ESG 
CANDRIAM’s pioneering role   brand category, and climbed  
in sustainable and responsible  to a record-high of 24 as Best 
investment since 1996. European Brand. 
36 - Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020
Sustainable value created 
for our key stakeholders
To our employees
Notes & reference  
KPI* (%) 2018 2019 2020 Target
to disclosure standards
GRI (102-8) ; GRI (405-1b); SASB  
Women share of total workforce 34% 33% 34% 40% in 2023
(FN-AC-330a.1) 
GRI (102-22) ;  
Women in top management (EXCO) 17% 16% 16% 30% by 2025
SASB (FN-AC-330a.1)
GRI (405-1b);  
Women in Management Committee  23%  22% 24% 30% in 2025
SASB (FN-AC-330a.1)
Women Men Equality Index  
(French indicator based on CANDRIAM   -  84% 75%  -  GRI (405-2)
France figures only)**
GRI (401-1a) / Minimum of 50% women  
for <30 yrs professionals from 2021 - 50% 
50% < 30 years 
Women in the new hirees 35% 35% 45% of all graduates hired are women / 
in 2021
Shortlists for searches need to have  
at least 2 women
Staff having followed  
non-mandatory training during    -  81% 87% 80%
the year
Staff CANDRIAM Academy Accredited  -  55% 51% 100% in 2022
Sustainable investing
Notes & reference to disclosure 
KPI* (%) 2018 2019 2020 Target
standards
ESG Bonds*** in total fixed income 
assets - Green/Social/Sustainability  4.2% 6.5% 8.2%  - 
bonds
Sustainable investments  
31% 33% 63%  -  PRI OO 16
in total AUM
AUM carrying  a formal ESG/SRI 
4% 6% 17%  -  PRI OO 16.1
certification or label****
AUM targeted low-carbon or  
7% 9% 40%  -  PRI OO 17
climate resilient investment
Carbon footprint Candriam SRI 
149,4 109,4 145,8  - 
funds (tCO2-eq/Mio € Revenues) *****
Carbon footprint Candriam SRI 
funds’ benchmark  282,7 220,5 222,4  - 
(tCO2-eq/Mio € Revenues)*****
* All figures calculated by CANDRIAM except otherwise mentioned 
** https://travail-emploi.gouv.fr/droit-du-travail/egalite-professionnelle-discrimination-et-harcelement/indexegapro
*** source: Bloomberg
**** funds carrying at least one the national French SRI label, the Belgian Towards sustainability label or the ESG Luxflag label
***** Candriam SRI and Sustainable funds range covering Equity, Fixed Income and Asset allocation funds - total AUM : 9.6 bn € 2020, 2019 6.2 € bn, 3.5 bn € 2018- 
for more details https://www.candriam.com/en/professional/market-insights/topics/sri/montreal-carbon-pledge--candriam-discloses-its-carbon-footprint-2020/
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 - 37
Sustainable value created 
for our key stakeholders
To the environment
Notes & reference  
KPI* 2018 2019 2020 Target
to disclosure standards
 -30%   GRI (305 1-2-3) 
CANDRIAM total carbon emissions  in 2025  CDP (C6) 
11,464 12,812 12,065
scope 1-2-3 upstream (tCO2 eq) versus  GHG Protocol - 2020 data 
2019 impacted by covid crisis
GRI (305 1-2-3) 
CANDRIAM Business Travel Emissions  CDP (C6) CDP (C7) 
1,088 1,178 139  - 
(tCO2 eq) GHG Protocol - 2020 data 
impacted by covid crisis
GRI (305 1-2-3) 
CANDRIAM Energy   CDP (C6) CDP (C7) 
249 159 132  - 
Footprint (tCO2 eq) GHG Protocol - 2020 data 
impacted by covid crisis
GRI (305-1-2-3) 
CANDRIAM Vendors Related Footprint  CDP (C6) CDP (C7) 
3,906 4,198 4,266  - 
(tCO2 eq) GHG Protocol - 2020 data 
impacted by covid crisis
9,393   12,812   12,065  
(82% of   (100% of   (100% of  
total footprint  total footprint  total footprint 
of the  of the  of the  coverage of CANDRIAM 
CANDRIAM Offset Program (tCO2 eq)  - 
operational  operational  operational  operational emissions 
value chain,  value chain,  value chain, 
excluding  excluding  excluding 
investments)  investments)  investments) 
GRI (305-4)  
CDP (C6.10) 
CANDRIAM carbon footprint scope 
47.9 45.8 42.6  -  GHG Protocol - 2020 data 
1-2- 3 upstream (tCO2 eq/m€ revenues)
impacted by the Covid-19 
crisis
-90%  
in 2025 
Paper Consumption (tonnes) 3.5 3.6 1.5  - 
versus 
2019
* All figures calculated by Candriam and Trucost except otherwise mentioned
38 - Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020
CANDRIAM’s policies 
Investment pillar Governance pillar
Proxy Voting Policy Policy for identifying, preventing  
and managing conflicts of interests
Stewardship Policy  
Remuneration Policy
CANDRIAM Exclusion Policy
  ESG Promotion & Policy Influence
Responsible Investment policy
 
ESG integration policy
Climate Policy
Investment strategy transparency codes
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 - 39
Contents
www.candriam.com Photos credits : Olivier Monge/MYOP, Shutterstock, iStock - Design & production: All  Photos credits: Getty image, Shutterstock, Alys Thomas - Design & production: All Contents