
     
   
 
 
 
    
RRRRoooobbbbeeeeccccoooo    IIIInnnnssssttttiiiittttuuuuttttiiiioooonnnnaaaallll    AAAAsssssssseeeetttt    
MMMMaaaannnnaaaaggggeeeemmmmeeeennnntttt    BBBB....VVVV....     
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annual Report 
 
    
    
 
    
 
 
CCCCoooonnnntttteeeennnnttttssss    
 
 
GGGGeeeennnneeeerrrraaaallll    iiiinnnnffffoooorrrrmmmmaaaattttiiiioooonnnn     2222 
RRRReeeeppppoooorrrrtttt    ooooffff    tttthhhheeee    EEEExxxxeeeeccccuuuuttttiiiivvvveeee    CCCCoooommmmmmmmiiiitttttttteeeeeeee     3333 
RRRReeeeppppoooorrrrtttt    ooooffff    tttthhhheeee    SSSSuuuuppppeeeerrrrvvvviiiissssoooorrrryyyy    BBBBooooaaaarrrrdddd     22221111 
FFFFiiiinnnnaaaannnncccciiiiaaaallll    SSSSttttaaaatttteeeemmmmeeeennnnttttssss    2222000022220000     22224444 
Income Statement  25 
Balance Sheet as at 31 December  26 
Notes to the financial statements  27 
General information  27 
OOOOtttthhhheeeerrrr    iiiinnnnffffoooorrrrmmmmaaaattttiiiioooonnnn     44447777 
Articles of Association rules regarding profit appropriation  47 
Branches  47 
IIIInnnnddddeeeeppppeeeennnnddddeeeennnntttt    aaaauuuuddddiiiittttoooorrrr’’’’ssss    rrrreeeeppppoooorrrrtttt     44448888 
 
 
   
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   1 
GGGGeeeennnneeeerrrraaaallll    iiiinnnnffffoooorrrrmmmmaaaattttiiiioooonnnn    
 
 
    
EEEExxxxeeeeccccuuuuttttiiiivvvveeee    CCCCoooommmmmmmmiiiitttttttteeeeeeee    ((((‘‘‘‘EEEExxxxCCCCoooo’’’’)))) 
G.O.J.M. (Gilbert) Van Hassel (CEO)* 
K. (Karin) van Baardwijk (Deputy CEO)* 
A.J.M. (Lia) Belilos – Wessels  
M.C.W. (Mark) den Hollander*  
M.F. (Mark) van der Kroft (since 1 September 2020)  
M.O. (Martin) Nijkamp 
H-Ch.(Christoph) von Reiche 
V. (Victor) Verberk 
P.J.J. (Peter) Ferket (until 22 May 2020) 
 
* also statutory director 
 
 
SSSSuuuuppppeeeerrrrvvvviiiissssoooorrrryyyy    BBBBooooaaaarrrrdddd     
M.F. (Maarten) Slendebroek (since 13 August 2020, Chair) 
S. (Sonja) Barendregt – Roojers (Vice Chair) 
S.H. (Stanley) Koyanagi (since 13 August 2020) 
M.A.A.C. (Mark) Talbot  
R.R.L. (Radboud) Vlaar  
J.J.M. (Jeroen) Kremers (until 30 March 2020) 
    
 
More information on the Supervisory Board and the ExCo can be found on the website www.robeco.com.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IIIInnnnddddeeeeppppeeeennnnddddeeeennnntttt    AAAAuuuuddddiiiittttoooorrrr     
KPMG Accountants N.V.  
Papendorpseweg 83 
3528 BJ Utrecht 
The Netherlands  
 
    
AAAAddddddddrrrreeeessssssss     
Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V.  
Weena 850, 3014 DA Rotterdam 
P.O. Box 973, 3000 AZ Rotterdam 
The Netherlands  
Tel: +31 10 224 1224  
Internet : www.robeco.com 
E-mail  : fundinfo@robeco.nl 
RRRRooootttttttteeeerrrrddddaaaammmm    CCCChhhhaaaammmmbbbbeeeerrrr    ooooffff    CCCCoooommmmmmmmeeeerrrrcccceeee    nnnnuuuummmmbbbbeeeerrrr    22224444111122223333111166667777    
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   2 
RRRReeeeppppoooorrrrtttt    ooooffff    tttthhhheeee    EEEExxxxeeeeccccuuuuttttiiiivvvveeee    CCCCoooommmmmmmmiiiitttttttteeeeeeee    
    
    
General  
We are pleased to present the financial statements of Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. (also referred 
to as ‘Robeco' or ’the Company’) for the financial year 2020 along with the report of the Executive Committee. 
 
Established in Rotterdam in 1929, Robeco offers investment management and advisory services to institutional 
and private investors, and manages UCITS1 and alternative investment funds. As such, Robeco acts as the 
manager of investment funds (and as director in case the funds are in the form of Dutch legal entities) in the 
Netherlands, and for its Luxembourg-based investment funds from 1 January 2021. It also operates as the direct 
distribution channel in the Dutch retail market for Robeco funds. 
 
Robeco has both an AIFMD license as referred to in Article 2:65 of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (‘Wft’) and 
a license to act as manager of UCITS as referred to in Article 2:69b of the Wft and to offer the additional services 
within the meaning of Article 2:97 (3). Total client assets2 (assets managed, sub-advised or distributed by the 
Company) amounted to approximately EUR 176 billion as at 31 December 2020 (EUR 172 billion on 31 
December 2019).  
 
 
Corporate structure 
The Company is established in the Netherlands. Robeco Holding B.V. holds 100% of the shares of the Company 
and also holds 100% of the shares in Robeco Nederland B.V., the Dutch central service company of Robeco.  
ORIX Corporation in Japan is the sole shareholder of ORIX Corporation Europe N.V., the domestic parent 
company of Robeco Holding B.V.  
Robeco Nederland B.V. is the formal employer of almost all Robeco staff based in the Netherlands, who are 
provided to Robeco by Robeco Nederland B.V. on the basis of an intercompany service agreement. 
 
ORIX Corporation Europe N.V. is also the direct or indirect (unless otherwise indicated) sole shareholder of the 
following other main operating companies within the ORIX Europe group (without limitation): Boston Partners 
Global Investors Inc., Gravis Capital Management Ltd., Harbor Capital Advisors Inc. and Transtrend B.V. 
 
 
CCCCoooorrrrppppoooorrrraaaatttteeee    ggggoooovvvveeeerrrrnnnnaaaannnncccceeee    
The Company has a two-tier board: an Executive Committee (also referred to as the ‘ExCo’) of which three 
members are also statutory directors (members of the Management Board), and a Supervisory Board. The 
governance principles of the Company are laid down in its Articles of Association, Supervisory Board Rules, 
Management Board and ExCo Rules and in the Charters of the Supervisory Board committees: the Audit & Risk 
Committee and the Nomination & Remuneration Committee. In addition, ORIX Corporation Europe N.V., Robeco 
Holding B.V., Robeco Nederland B.V. and the Company agreed a governance protocol in 2016. One of the 
agreements in this protocol is that the management boards of Robeco Holding B.V., Robeco Nederland B.V. and 
Robeco have the same composition. 
 
As the so-called ‘moderate version’ of the ‘Large Company Scheme’ (Structuurregime, Article 2:265 of the Dutch 
Civil Code) applies, a Supervisory Board has been established for Robeco. In addition to performing general 
duties relating to supervision and advice, the Supervisory Board must also approve certain resolutions of the 
Management Board/ExCo.  
 
   
 
1 Undertaking for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities 
2 Related to all Robeco entities 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   3 
Executive Committee 
According to its Articles of Association, the Company is managed by the Management Board under the 
supervision of the Supervisory Board. The Articles of Association also provide that the Management Board may 
establish an Executive Committee, consisting of one or more statutory directors and one or more other members, 
to support the Management Board in performing its tasks. Based on this provision, five persons have been 
appointed, who, together with the members of the Management Board, constitute the ExCo. The ExCo is 
responsible for the daily management of the Company.  
 
As of 31 December 2020, the ExCo consisted of Gilbert Van Hassel (Chairman and CEO), Karin van Baardwijk 
(COO and Deputy CEO), Lia Belilos-Wessels (Chief Human Resources Officer), Mark den Hollander (Chief Financial 
& Risk Officer), Mark van der Kroft (CIO Fundamental and Quant Equity), Martin Nijkamp (Head of Strategic 
Product & Business Development), Christoph von Reiche (Head of Global Distribution & Marketing) and Victor 
Verberk (CIO Fixed Income and Sustainability).  
Statutory directors are appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The Supervisory Board must be 
consulted on an intended appointment, which is subject to the prior approval of the Dutch Authority for the 
Financial Markets (Autoriteit Financiële Markten, ‘AFM’). The appointment of ExCo members by the Management 
Board also needs prior approval from the AFM, because an ExCo member is considered to be a ‘daily policymaker’ 
of Robeco. An intended appointment to the ExCo must be submitted to the Works Council for advice. So far, the 
Works Council has always issued a positive opinion on proposed appointments. 
 
Supervisory Board 
By law, and according to the Company’s Articles of Association, the role of the Supervisory Board is to oversee 
the policies of the Management Board and the general course of the Company’s affairs and its business 
operations, and to support the Management Board by providing advice. The Supervisory Board has two 
committees: the Audit & Risk Committee and the Nomination & Remuneration Committee. The tasks and 
responsibilities of the committees are laid down in their respective Charters. In summary, the role of the 
committees is to prepare decisions to be taken by the Supervisory Board and to take decisions and carry out 
responsibilities that are delegated to them by the Supervisory Board. As of 31 December 2020, the Supervisory 
Board consisted of Maarten Slendebroek (Chairman), Sonja Barendregt-Roojers, Stan Koyanagi, Mark Talbot and 
Radboud Vlaar.  
 
According to the 'Large Company Scheme', the General Meeting of Shareholders and the Works Council may 
recommend nominees for the position of supervisory director to the Supervisory Board. The Works Council has 
an enhanced right of recommendation for one-third of the supervisory directors. The Works Council’s nominee 
can only be rejected in exceptional circumstances. Given the total number of members, one member of the 
Supervisory Board (Sonja Barendregt-Roojers) was appointed on the Works Council's recommendation. 
 
The Supervisory Board and the Executive Committee meet regularly. The meetings can include all members or, 
if desired, only the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, the CEO and the relevant member of the Executive 
Committee responsible for the specific topics or matters to be discussed. Members of the Executive Committee 
will be invited to and will in principle attend the meetings of the Supervisory Board; however, the Supervisory 
Board may also decide to meet without (one or more of) these members. 
 
 
Strategy 2017-2021 
Robeco’s strategy for the period 2017-2021 is aimed at monetizing the company’s intellectual property in 
combination with a continued focus on providing our clients with the best possible investment performance and 
services. During this strategic period, Robeco is striving to accelerate its growth in the UK, US, Italy, Australia, 
Japan and in the Asia-Pacific region. These countries offer the best opportunities for growth in the years to come.  
 
Global financial institutions are also an important growth segment. In other countries, regions and market 
segments where the Company has a sales presence, the aim is to maintain current growth levels. In China, 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   4 
Robeco continues to strengthen its presence so that it will be prepared when the market opens up further.  Total 
net inflows of client assets in 2017 – 2020 amounted to EUR 42.1 billion. 
 
In terms of products and solutions, the focus is on further increasing the scale of those investment capabilities 
that are currently among the world’s best in terms of performance, investment process and consultant ratings. 
These include quant equities (including factor investing), credits, emerging markets equities, Asia-Pacific equities 
and trends & thematic investing. Also, in response to an increase in client interest, Robeco’s fundamental global 
equities, global macro fixed income, fundamental multi-asset and quant allocation capabilities will continue to 
be strengthened. In addition, Robeco intends to build, buy or seek strategic partnerships for capabilities that 
institutional investors are looking for in their search for yield. Due to strong inflows, it was announced in July 
2020 that Robeco’s High Yield bonds fund had reached maximum capacity, and would therefore close. 
 
Sustainable investing (SI) is also a key strength, and sustainability is integrated across Robeco’s investment 
capabilities. We have historically carried this out in close collaboration with RobecoSAM, and together we have 
a leading position in this area. In 2020, a number of changes took place that have brought our two companies 
ever closer. In January 2020, the successful completion was announced of the sale of RobecoSAM’s ESG ratings 
and benchmarking business to S&P Global, including the SAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA). We 
continue to have access to the CSA data for use in investment strategies, and continue to provide advice on the 
CSA methodology. The transaction allows us to focus on the interpretation and application of ESG data, as well 
as sustainable investing research for our core asset management activities. 
 
In November 2020, it was announced that Robeco would integrate the name “RobecoSAM” into its global brand 
strategy. As a result, “RobecoSAM” will no longer be used as a corporate brand, but will serve as a Robeco 
ingredient brand to reflect how Robeco uses RobecoSAM SI expertise in its investment processes. And, while 
there was no change to the business activities in Switzerland, these are now carried out under a new legal name: 
Robeco Schweiz AG. Robeco Schweiz AG is a sister company of Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V.  
Also in November, all RobecoSAM-named funds were transferred to the Robeco Capital Growth Fund platform, 
so that both Robeco and RobecoSAM-named funds run on one strong, unified platform. The RobecoSAM name 
is used for our thematic, equity and fixed income Impact Investing strategies.  
 
Robeco also decided to exclude investments in companies that derive 25% or more of their revenues from 
thermal coal (power generation or mining) or oil sands, or 10% from Arctic drilling. The process of excluding 
fossil fuel companies engaged in these activities was completed by the end of Q4 2020. The move is aimed to 
contribute to Robeco’s efforts to lower the carbon footprint of its investments.  
 
Sustainability will be further integrated throughout our entire company, not only in our products and services 
but also in our operations and our people. To set the next step, our SI focused investment professionals were 
united in a single SI Center of Expertise in May 2020. This Center will help to improve alignment and expand our 
expertise and thought leadership in SI. It will also improve information flows to our investment professionals and 
communication with clients. The Center consists of four pillars: SI Thought Leadership, SI Client Portfolio 
Managers (CPMs), SI Research, and Active Ownership: 
•  A new team will maintain and advance our SI thought leadership position, with specific attention to 
climate change and the SDGs. We will also strengthen our connections with academia and even more 
robustly embed our SI work in academic research. 
•  SI CPMs will aim to increase alignment in communication towards clients regarding our SI activities, 
and build SI knowledge in the existing CPM teams and across the broader organization. 
•  SI Research will continue to focus on generating high-quality sustainability research related to 
companies and sectors. 
•  Active Ownership is responsible for our global voting and engagement activities. 
 
Besides analyzing and integrating climate-related risks, we also seek opportunities to contribute positively with 
our investment strategies to mitigate climate change. In December 2020, we launched two fixed income funds 
which apply the EU Regulation on Paris-aligned Benchmarks.  
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   5 
A number of strategic organizational changes were made or completed in 2020. The outsourcing of Robeco’s 
operations and administration activities to JP Morgan, announced in 2018, was completed in July. The 
outsourcing of operations activities did not lead to changes in investment policies and teams. Client portfolios 
continue to be managed according to their investment policies by the responsible portfolio managers and 
portfolio management teams. Furthermore, Robeco decided to merge Robeco Luxembourg S.A. into Robeco 
Institutional Asset Management B.V., which took effect per 1 January 2021. As of that date, the responsibilities 
for managing and overseeing Robeco’s Luxembourg domiciled funds was transferred to the Netherlands. There 
will be no change to the services provided to Robeco’s investors.  
 
Finally, following a review of the strategic positioning of its private equity business, Robeco announced in June 
2020 that Stafford Capital Partners had acquired its private equity business. 
 
In February 2021, Robeco announced its new strategy for the coming 5-year period which aims to build on the 
success of  our current trajectory and further focus on our key strengths: Sustainable Investing, Quant, Credits, 
Trends & Thematic and Emerging Markets. Robeco will also establish an ambitious climate strategy, including a 
decarbonization trajectory and forward-looking indicators. Carbon objectives will be set for all our funds, aiming 
for an average of 7% reductions per annum, to help meet our net-zero 2050 ambition. Also, new areas of growth 
potential have been identified to support the acceleration achieved in our key distribution markets. We will aim 
to grow our penetration of the insurance market, and broaden our coverage of wholesale markets in targeted 
areas. 
 
 
Sustainable investing and corporate responsibility 
Our corporate mission is to enable our clients to achieve their financial and sustainability goals by providing 
superior investment returns and solutions. We are convinced that integrated sustainability leads to better-
informed investment decisions and enhanced risk-adjusted returns. We also believe that exercising our voting 
rights and engaging with the companies in which we invest will have a positive impact on both our investment 
results and on society. As part of our sustainable investing approach, Robeco aims to contribute to the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and we are convinced that we can create socioeconomic benefits in 
addition to competitive financial returns. Robeco has also implemented an exclusion policy for companies 
involved in the production of, or trade in, controversial weapons such as cluster munition and anti-personnel 
mines, along with tobacco, controversial behavior in relation to the production of palm oil and companies that 
structurally and severely breach the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and/or the Organization for 
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. In 2020, we extended 
our exclusions to fossil fuels. 
 
SSSSuuuussssttttaaaaiiiinnnnaaaabbbblllleeee    iiiinnnnvvvveeeessssttttiiiinnnngggg    iiiinnnn    ffffiiiigggguuuurrrreeeessss      
 
((((yyyyeeeeaaaarrrr    eeeennnndddd    2222000022220000))))    
Assets in Sustainability Inside  EUR  138.5 billion 
Assets in Sustainability Focus  EUR  9.1 billion 
Assets for Impact Investing  EUR  12.7 billion 
Assets ‘under engagement 3   EUR  259.3 billion 
Assets ‘under voting’ 4  EUR  114.9 billion 
 
ESG integration into the investment process  
In 2020, we continued to see a strong demand for sustainability solutions from clients, despite the challenging 
social and economic circumstances. We offer our clients a consistent sustainability approach across three ranges:  
•  Sustainability Inside: the majority of Robeco strategies fall into this category, which includes full ESG 
integration, proprietary research, exclusions and voting and engagement. 
 
3   A total of 246 engagement cases covering 23 different themes were handled in 2020.  
4   In 2020, Robeco voted at 7,802 shareholder meetings 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   6 
•  Sustainability Focus: these strategies have more specific sustainability targets for ESG profiles and seek 
environmental footprints that are better than their benchmarks. 
•  Impact Investing: these strategies invest in sustainable themes such as energy or mobility, and/or the UN’s 
Sustainable Development Goals. 
 
All Robeco’s investment activities comply with the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investing (UNPRI). 
In 2020, Robeco was awarded the highest possible score (A+) for all PRI modules of sustainable investing. 
Robeco obtained the highest score for the majority of the modules assessed by PRI for the seventh year in a row. 
 
At the end of 2020, ESG integration was applied to EUR 160.3 billion of Robeco's assets under management.  
 
Engagement and enhanced engagement  
Robeco is involved in engagement activities with companies worldwide, in relation to both equity and credit 
portfolios. Our engagement program is focused on financially material ESG issues and executed in collaboration 
with analysts and portfolio managers. One part of Robeco's active ownership strategy focuses on companies that 
structurally and severely breach the UN Global Compact and/or the OECD Guidelines. This engagement approach 
is called enhanced engagement. If an enhanced engagement dialogue does not lead to the desired result, the 
Sustainability and Impact Strategy Committee (SISC) can decide to make an addition to the exclusion list5. The 
process for enhanced engagement is a formal part of Robeco's exclusion policy. 
 
Managing Robeco’s own operations 
Robeco's sustainability policy describes our attitude and approach towards stakeholders, the environment and 
society as a whole. In this policy, we address sustainable investing, our sustainability governance structure and 
the integration of sustainability in Robeco’s own operations. We recognize that our people are key to achieving 
our goals and employee relations is therefore a key focus. We actively promote diversity, equal opportunity and 
human capital development to ensure a positive working environment for our employees. We value initiatives 
by our employees to support societal projects and have programs in place for financial support and/or active 
participation. We are conscious of our use of resources and therefore strive to reduce our use of energy, water 
and paper. Sustainability is also a key feature of Robeco’s housing policy and is integrated in our purchasing 
decisions. By offsetting the remaining footprint, we are able to conduct our operations in a carbon-neutral 
manner. Our efforts to integrate sustainability in our own operations are governed by our commitment to the 
UN Global Compact and progress is reported yearly in our sustainability report. 
 
 
Product development  
Within the strategic framework, Robeco product development focuses on:  
•  suitability of new and existing products and services for clients  
•  devising new strategies to invest in future growth opportunities for clients 
•  growing existing investment capabilities and products, to optimally leverage Robeco's current strengths for 
its clients and prospects 
•  enhancing the global appeal of Robeco's investment strategies for investors by exploring new fund 
structures, domiciles or other means of distributing Robeco's intellectual property, and professionally 
catering to specific client preferences 
•  developing/co-developing new customized products in collaboration with clients 
•  onboarding institutional clients via single client mandates or funds 
•  ensuring  high-quality  processes  and  operational  excellence  as  a  prerequisite  for  effective  product 
development and life cycle management, together with an up-to-date framework of fund structures to 
support commercial growth 
•  performing key maintenance of products and fund processes, including product reviews and product quality 
procedures. 
 
5   https://www.robeco.com/docm/docu-exclusion-policy-and-list.pdf   
The joint SISC was established in July 2018 as one of the initiatives to drive the evolution of Robeco and RobecoSAM and aims to support 
decision making on SI topics. The governance of the exclusion policy rests with the ExCo of Robeco. 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   7 
Sustainability and impact investing are an integral part of Robeco's investment strategies and important 
components of the product development responsibilities. Robeco aims to further grow the offering and 
development  of  ESG-integrated6  strategies,  products  and  solutions,  thus  leveraging  on  the  combined 
sustainability expertise within Robeco for the benefit of investors. 
 
Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation 
In March 2018, the European Commission announced the adoption of the European Union’s Sustainable Finance 
Action Plan, set out in response to the landmark signing of the Paris Agreement, and the United Nations 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development. This plan aims to bring in harmonized rules on sustainability related 
disclosures and policies, and to make it easier for end investors to ultimately assess the underlying sustainability 
criteria of an individual investment vehicle. In 2020, Robeco has been preparing for the implementation of Level 
1 of the Regulation on sustainability-related disclosures in the financial services sector (SFDR), that sets out which 
sustainability related disclosures must be made for an investment product. These disclosures have been made as 
of 10 March 2021 in the prospectus and other key investor documents, on the website and in annual reports. 
 
 
Financial results 
The Company’s gross margin over the reporting year was EUR 375.6 million, EUR 16.3 million (5%) higher than 
last year. The main drivers for this are higher performance and service fees combined with a shift to higher fee-
generating assets under management. This is partly compensated by fee compression and the discontinuation 
of Robeco’s fiduciary management services. 
The operating result increased from EUR 78.5 million in 2019 to EUR 99.7 million in 2020, due to lower travel 
costs, lower severance costs, less financial support costs and more recharges to group companies partly off set 
by higher project-related costs. The financial markets in 2020 were mostly bullish and the related market impact 
on the assets under management of the Company were positive. This made up for the significant market 
downturn in February and March 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Total client assets (assets managed, sub-
advised or distributed by the Company) amounted to around EUR 176 billion as at 31 December 2020 (EUR 172 
billion as at 31 December 2019).  
 
The tax expense in 2020 was EUR 25.1 million (2019: EUR 20.5 million) implying an effective tax rate of 25.3% 
(2019: 26.2%). Due to the sale of Robeco’s private equity business the result from investments in group 
companies in 2020 was nil (2019: EUR 8.1 million).  
 
The result after tax 2020 was EUR 74.4 million, an increase of EUR 8.3 million (13%) compared to the previous 
year.  
 
Management considers the financial position of the Company to be sound. During the financial year, a EUR 33 
million dividend was distributed to the shareholder. The equity of the Company, before profit appropriation, 
amounts to EUR 235.2 million as at 31 December 2020 (2019: EUR 193.8 million). 
 
The Company submits FINREP and COREP reports to the Dutch Central Bank (De Nederlandsche Bank, 'DNB') on 
a quarterly basis as required by CRD  IV rules, and did so most recently as at 31 December 2020. Furthermore, 
the Company reports the information required by the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive ('AIFMD') 
to the AFM. The most recent reporting relates to 31 December 2020 and has been  submitted to both DNB and 
AFM through one combined filing. All capital requirements were met as at these reporting dates and are met 
continuously. 
 
 
   
 
6 ESG: Environmental, Social and Governance 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   8 
Financial markets environment 
The end of 2019 saw the global economy in a late phase of economic expansion. The pickup in leading indicators 
early on in January 2020, spurred by the long awaited Phase 1 trade agreement between the US and China on 
15 January, seemed promising.  Unfortunately, later that month an exogenous shock emerged as the Covid-19 
virus, which had begun at the end of 2019, started to spread across the globe. At the end of the first quarter of 
2020, the economy plunged into the deepest global recession since the 1930s, peaking around April as a result 
of a widespread economic and social lockdown. This was the result of governments attempting to contain the 
spread of the virus, after the WHO declared a pandemic on 11 March. Real GDP declined by 6.8% in China in the 
first quarter, and 31.4%  at an annual rate in the US GDP in the second quarter. As the Covid-19 infection curves 
started to flatten in response to severe lockdowns, subsequent gradual re-openings led to economic activity 
picking up in May and June, with an early, lopsided recovery extending into the third quarter of 2020. However, 
as the virus re-emerged to kick off a second Covid-19 wave in August, the policy pendulum began to swing back 
and forth between re-openings and lockdowns, leading to economic momentum stalling in the fourth quarter. 
The IMF estimates that global GDP contracted by 3.5% in 2020 despite the global rebound in activity observed 
since April, with China already fully recovering lost output by the fourth quarter of 2020. The economic recovery 
from the Covid-19 pandemic remained uneven and incomplete at the end of 2020. 
 
In the absence of herd immunity, governments continue to face a ‘trilemma’ between solving the health crisis, 
maintaining economic momentum, and safeguarding personal freedoms. The policy stimulus to mitigate the 
damage to the real economy from lockdowns has been significant, with central banks lowering interest rates to 
the effective lower bound, and governments stimulating their economies to such an extent that global sovereign 
debt to GDP levels for advanced G20 economies is now the highest it has been in 150 years.  
 
In addition to Covid-19, 2020 witnessed a number of other major events. Donald Trump lost the US presidential 
election in November, and with the run-off Senate election in Georgia the Democrats now enjoy a majority in the 
House of Representatives and effective control of the Senate. On Christmas Eve, British Prime Minister Boris 
Johnson managed to announce a post-Brexit trade deal. The new trade relations between the EU and the UK will 
resemble the Canadian model with tariff-free flows of goods between the EU and the UK. However, services are 
subject to import and export duties. 
 
 
Outlook for the equity markets 
In 2020 financial markets have clearly been rewarding countries that addressed the pandemic quickly and 
effectively. Though the MSCI World Index only gained 6.3% (unhedged, EUR), countries that managed Covid-19 
well such as South Korea (+ 32.5%) and China (+ 29.5%) enjoyed strong outperformances. As they wait for the 
arrival of vaccines and ensuing herd immunity, the quality of government responses to Covid-19 will remain a 
pricing determinant in cross-country financial market outcomes. 2020 was a truly historic year for many equity 
indices, with a massive, tech-led relief rally after the global recession peaked in March. After falling 34%, the 
S&P500 rallied 47% since the bottom of 23 March. Abundant global liquidity from central banks and swift fiscal 
stimulus from governments led to strong multiple expansion even as the recession lingered.  
 
Looking ahead, the enhanced coordination between monetary and fiscal policy, with central banks acting as 
credible fiscal financiers, will be supportive for equity markets. Excess liquidity and increasingly targeted fiscal 
stimulus will likely sustain equity valuations. Nonetheless, the easy gains have been realized. The onus now is on 
earnings growth to accelerate in order to boost equity returns. We think earnings growth around the 20% mark 
in 2021 is a realistic assumption given the early expansion phase of the business cycle. High private savings, 
increasing optimism among CEOs, positive wealth effects from a resilient housing market, and the continuing 
low interest rate environment will boost consumption and investments as herd immunity against Covid-19 
becomes within reach. Upside risk to our equity outlook is that the global economic recovery is more swift and 
highly synchronized compared to consensus expectations. In the current environment of abundant excess 
liquidity and ongoing fiscal stimulus this could catapult market sentiment from rational exuberance into 
irrational euphoria, stretching valuation levels even further. Downside risks to our equity outlook are an 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   9 
unanticipated slowdown in the trajectory towards herd immunity or an economically unwarranted steep rise in 
(real) long term interest rates due to a hiccup in central bank forward guidance. 
 
 
Outlook for the bond markets 
Central bank and fiscal stimulus and the outlook for the economic recovery due to the vaccine roll-out are now 
at a level where we expect official interest rates to remain low for several years to come with many government 
bond yields remaining range-bound. The US may at some point be the first to raise rates, but we do not expect 
this in 2021. The good news is that inflation is not expected to rise either, as overcapacity in the economy remains 
significant and digitalization will not be reversed this year. 
Still, the reopening of the global economy will lead to a temporary cyclical uplift in inflation due to base effects, 
pent-up demand, and temporary supply bottlenecks. We largely expect most government bond yields to be range 
bound, especially in Europe and Japan, but we do note that the cyclical inflation outlook can put some upward 
pressure on longer dated bond yields. We also expect government bond yields to have more upside potential in 
US and UK as both economies are more inflation sensitive than Europe and Japan. 
 
There are, however, still several opportunities for bond investors. Duration risk can generate some performance 
in emerging markets, for example. In many emerging countries, central bank policy rates are positive and central 
banks still have ample room to lower them. Furthermore, with its new policy framework, the US Federal Reserve 
will keep interest rates very low and set the tone for a weak US dollar, which will support emerging market assets 
to a certain degree. 
 
2021 sees us taking a conservative approach in corporate bonds as we think risk premiums in that asset class 
are insufficient compensation for the risk since credit spreads are approaching multi-year lows at the time of 
writing. We think high yield bonds are particularly vulnerable as they might suffer much higher default rates than 
rating agencies are projecting as these companies do not have access to the same government and monetary 
stimulus that high grade companies have.  
 
As coronavirus fears recede in 2021 and 2022, catching up with the goals of the Paris Agreement means an 
acceleration of re-allocation of financial resources to green initiatives so we expect that green and social bond 
financing will be an opportunity of great interest.  
 
 
Market impact Covid-19 
Robeco considers the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic as a significant event which may impact the investment funds 
under management. The impact of the pandemic on people, companies and the economy at large remain 
uncertain. Pending herd immunity as a result of a substantial vaccination rate, the global economy will, however, 
still be impacted by opening and closing of (business) operations. Furthermore, a slowdown in the trajectory 
towards herd immunity as a result of risks relating to vaccine logistics, vaccine side effects, reduced effectiveness, 
or public resistance to (mandatory) vaccination, may have a negative impact on markets. 
 
 
Investment performance 
Of all portfolios managed or sub-advised by the Company, 53%7 (2019: 62%) outperformed compared to the 
relevant benchmark over a three-year period; and 42% (2019: 56%) outperformed over a one-year period. For 
detailed information, please refer to the annual reports of the respective investment funds. 
In 2020, equity markets in most developed and emerging economies posted positive returns, with 34% of the 
equity portfolios outperforming their benchmark. The percentage of outperforming equity portfolios over the 
past three years was 42% (52% in 2019). 
 
 
7    All returns are gross of fees. 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   10 
Fixed income had a positive year in both absolute and relative terms. At the Company level, 79% of fixed-income 
portfolios outperformed the benchmark over a three-year period (2019: 88%). Over a one-year period, this 
figure was 59%. 
In the table below, the returns and relative performance of the most relevant funds are shown as examples of 
the figures mentioned above. The outperformance (+) or underperformance (–) compared to the relevant index 
is indicated and the Sharpe8 ratio is shown for conservative equity funds investing in low volatility stocks with 
lower expected downside risk. 
 
  FFFFuuuunnnndddd     PPPPeeeerrrrffffoooorrrrmmmmaaaannnncccceeee          OOOOuuuuttttppppeeeerrrrffffoooorrrrmmmmaaaannnncccceeee    ////    uuuunnnnddddeeeerrrrppppeeeerrrrffffoooorrrrmmmmaaaannnncccceeee    
Equities  Robeco Asia-Pacific Equities (EUR)  0.9%     - 8.9% 
  Robeco BP Global Premium Equities (EUR)          - 3.5%     - 9.8% 
  Robeco BP US Large Cap (USD)  1.6%    - 1.2% 
  Robeco BP US Premium Equities (USD)  5.2%    + 2.3% 
  Robeco BP US Select Opportunities (USD)  6.2%    + 1.2% 
  Robeco Chinese Equities (EUR)  51.3%    + 31.3% 
  Robeco Emerging Markets Equities (EUR)  7.9%     - 0.7% 
  Robeco Emerging Stars Equities (EUR)  1.8%     - 6.7% 
  Robeco Fin Tech Equities (EUR)  17.8%    + 11.2% 
  Robeco Global Consumer Trends Equities (EUR)  38.5%    + 31.8% 
  Robeco New World Financial Equities (EUR)  4.1%    + 15.8% 
  Robeco QI Emerging Conservative Equities (EUR)  - 11.3%    - 19.8% (Sharpe ratio -0.5 vs 0.4)  
  Robeco QI Emerging Markets Active Equities (EUR)  5.4%    - 3.1% 
  Robeco QI European Conservative Equities (EUR)  - 5.8%    - 2.5% (Sharpe ratio -0.3 vs -0.1) 
  Robeco QI Global Multi-Factor Equities (EUR)  - 2.4%    - 9.0% 
  Robeco QI Inst. Emerging Markets Enhanced Fund (EUR)  6.9%    - 1.6% 
  Robeco QI Inst. Global Dev. Conservative Equities (EUR)  - 8.0%    - 14.3% (Sharpe ratio -0.4 vs 0.3) 
  Robeco Sustainable European Stars Equities (EUR)  - 5.8%     - 2.5% 
  Robeco Sustainable Global Stars Equities Fund (EUR)  18.1%    + 11.8% 
  RobecoSAM Smart Energy Equities  48.5%    + 42.2% 
  RobecoSAM Smart Materials Equities  21.2%    + 14.8% 
  RobecoSAM Sustainable Water Equities  13.9%    + 7.6% 
  Rolinco (EUR)  21.9%     + 15.2% 
Fixed income  Robeco All Strategy Euro Bonds (EUR)  7.8%    + 3.8% 
  Robeco Euro Credit Bonds (EUR)  4.2%    + 1.4% 
  Robeco Euro Government Bonds (EUR)  6.2%    + 1.2% 
  Robeco European High Yield Bonds (EUR)  2.5%    + 0.1% 
  Robeco Financial Institutions Bonds (EUR)  3.2%    + 0.7% 
  Robeco Global Credits (EUR)  9.9%    + 3.2% 
  Robeco Global Total Return Bond Fund (EUR)  7.7%    + 3.5% 
  Robeco High Yield Bonds (EUR)  3.8%    - 0.8% 
  Robeco QI Global Dynamic Duration (EUR)  1.5%    - 3.4% 
  Robeco QI Global Multi-Factor Credits (EUR)  6.8%     + 0.1% 
  RobecoSAM SDG Credit Income (EUR)  6.5%    no official index 
  RobecoSAM Euro SDG Credits (EUR)  3.8%    + 1.1% 
  RobecoSAM Global SDG Credits (EUR)  9.3%    + 2.6% 
Multi-Asset  Robeco ONE Neutral (EUR)  5.6%    no official index 
 
8  The Sharpe ratio is a measure of the risk-adjusted return. The Sharpe ratio of the portfolio and the benchmark is shown for conservative 
equity funds investing in low volatility stocks with lower expected downside risk. It is calculated by taking the annualized return minus the 
annualized return of the risk-free rate divided by the annualized volatility of the portfolio or index. 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   11 
Staff 
All Robeco staff active in the Netherlands is provided by Robeco Nederland B.V. by way of an intercompany service 
agreement. Thus, from a legal standpoint, the staff carrying out the Company’s activities in the Netherlands is 
employed by Robeco Nederland B.V. In 2020, the average number of staff active on behalf of Robeco in the 
Netherlands was 641 (2019: 689). In addition, the Company also directly employs a number of staff that are 
active abroad at its international branch offices. In 2020, the average number of employees formally and directly 
employed by Robeco at the international branch offices of the Company was 48 (2019: 51). 
 
Impact of Covid-19 
Robeco’s staff were impacted by this year’s Covid-19 pandemic and the related measures. We put the health and 
safety of our people first from the moment the pandemic began. Working from home was facilitated quickly and 
smoothly; including working flexible hours if necessary. In the Netherlands we had a skeleton crew working from 
our crisis center office. The challenge was to adapt our way of working: collaborate while working remotely; keep 
a good work-life balance; and continue to operate effectively for our clients. We paid and continue to pay special 
attention to our people’s (mental) health as they work from home. Their well-being is monitored specifically by 
their managers, offering special share & learning sessions about working remotely, and giving online advice on 
ergonomics. Our people rose to the challenge with good spirit and dedication and have been able to adjust, 
developing effective new ways of working.  
 
Learning & Development 
Committed and empowered employees are essential for the Company to achieve its long-term goals and adhere 
to its core values. In 2020 we continued with our existing programs but changed them into remote courses. We 
also launched a new learning platform which makes online courses and training available to all employees 
globally. This platform provides more content in different languages for our offices around the world. It also 
enables the creation of online programs and courses, using our own materials and materials which are available 
via LinkedIn and other providers.  
 
Part of our learning and development is a mandatory Compliance program for new joiners. It is vital that we 
continue to build a culture of integrity and compliance, and this course support our aim. All our people are 
required to complete Compliance awareness training on a regular basis.  
 
Diversity and Inclusion 
Besides a focus on development, we continue to strive for diversity and inclusion. Robeco recognizes that the 
ability of a company to attract and retain talent is an important driver for promoting diversity and inclusion.  
Robeco aims for a diverse global workforce that reflects diversity of all aspects of society. This will lead to much 
richer debates and help us arrive at better decisions, come up with better ideas and, ultimately, achieve better 
results for our clients. In 2020 we set up a global Diversity Committee, existing of a diverse group of employees 
from different Robeco offices around the world, that advises Robeco’s Executive Committee on the development 
and execution of initiatives to further increase diversity and enhance inclusion throughout the Company. 
 
 
Remuneration policy  
Introduction and scope 
The remuneration policy of Robeco as described below applies to all of the employees of Robeco. 
 
Goals of the remuneration policy 
The Robeco Remuneration Policy has the following objectives: 
•  to stimulate employees to act in our clients’ best interests and avoid taking undesirable risks 
•  to promote a healthy corporate culture, focused on achieving sustainable results in accordance with the 
long-term objectives of Robeco and its stakeholders 
•  to attract and retain good employees, and to reward talent and performance fairly. 
 
   
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   12 
Responsibility for and application of the policy 
The Robeco remuneration policy is determined and applied by and on behalf of Robeco with the approval, where 
applicable, of the Supervisory Board on the advice of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee, a committee 
of the Supervisory Board. 
 
Fixed remuneration 
Each individual employee’s fixed salary is determined on the basis of their function and/or responsibility and 
experience and with reference to the benchmarks of the investment management industry in the relevant region. 
The fixed salary is deemed to be adequate remuneration for the employee to properly execute their 
responsibilities, regardless of whether the employee receives any variable remuneration.  
 
Besides the fixed salary, a temporary allowance may be granted for a maximum of five years. The purpose of 
such an allowance is to attract and retain employees, for example, in a scarce labor market (market-driven 
scarcity allowance), to set up business activities in new countries or markets (new business market allowance) or 
to secure key staff for a strategic investment capability. The temporary allowance is solely function and/or 
responsibility based and is not related to the performance of the employee or Robeco. 
 
Variable remuneration 
The amount of the variable remuneration pool is determined annually by and on behalf of Robeco and approved 
by the Supervisory Board. The pool is, in principle, determined by taking a certain percentage of the operational 
profit. To ensure that the total variable remuneration is an accurate reflection of performance and does not 
adversely affect Robeco’s financial situation, the total amount of variable remuneration is determined with due 
consideration of the following factors: 
•  the financial result compared to the budgeted result and long-term objectives 
•  the required risk-minimization measures and the measurable risks. 
 
To the extent that the variable remuneration pool allows, each employee’s variable remuneration will be 
determined at the reasonable discretion of Robeco, taking into account the employee’s behavior and individual 
and team and/or the department’s performance, based on the pre-determined financial and non-financial 
performance factors (business objectives). Poor performance or unethical or non-compliant behavior will reduce 
individual awards or may even result in no variable remuneration being awarded at all. 
 
The business objectives for investment professionals are based on the risk-adjusted excess returns over one, three 
and five years and are mainly non-financial. For sales professionals, the financial business objectives are related 
to the net run rate revenue, whereas non-financial business objectives are mainly related to client relationship 
management. The targets for business objectives should not encourage excessive risk-taking. The business 
objectives for support professionals are mainly non-financial and function and/or responsibility specific. At least 
50% of all employees’ business objectives are non-financial. The variable remuneration of all Robeco staff is 
appropriately balanced with the fixed remuneration.  
 
Payment and deferral of variable remuneration and conversion into instruments 
Unless stated otherwise in this paragraph, variable remuneration up to EUR 50,000 is paid in cash immediately 
after being awarded. If an employee’s variable remuneration exceeds EUR 50,000, 60% is paid in cash 
immediately and the remaining 40% is deferred and converted into instruments, as shown in the table below. 
The value of this non-cash instrument is derived from the EBIT9 of Robeco. These instruments are ‘Robeco Cash 
Appreciation Rights’ (R-CARs), the value of which reflects the financial results over a rolling eight-quarter period.  
 
  Year 1   Year 2  Year 3   Year 4 
Cash payment  60%       
R-CARs redemption    13.34%  13.33%  13.33% 
 
 
9 Earnings Before Interest and Tax 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   13 
Until 2017, Robeco occasionally granted ‘long-term incentives’ ('LTI') to staff who were key to achieving the 
group’s strategic goals. The awarded LTIs were converted in full into CARs/R-CARs and were redeemed four years 
after the date on which they were granted, provided the employee was employed with Robeco without 
interruption and several other conditions were met. 
 
Additional rules for Identified Staff and Monitoring Staff 
The rules below apply to Monitoring Staff and Identified Staff. These rules apply in addition to the existing rules 
as set out above and will prevail in the event of inconsistencies. Monitoring Staff refers to senior employees who 
perform control functions (Human Resources, Compliance, Risk Management, Business Control, Internal Audit 
and Legal). Identified Staff is defined as employees who have a material impact on the risk profile of Robeco 
and/or the funds it manages.  
 
Identified Staff includes: 
•  members of the governing body, senior management, (senior) portfolio management staff and the heads of 
the control functions 
•  other risk-takers as defined in the AIFMD and UCITS V, whose total remuneration places them in the same 
remuneration bracket as the group described above. 
 
Monitoring Staff 
The following rules apply to the fixed and variable remuneration of Monitoring Staff:  
•  The fixed remuneration is sufficient to guarantee that Robeco can attract qualified and experienced staff. 
•  The business objectives of Monitoring Staff are predominantly function and/or responsibility-specific and 
non-financial. 
•  The financial business objectives are not based on the financial results of the part of the business that the 
employee oversees in their own monitoring role. 
•  The appraisal and the related award of remuneration are determined independently of the business they 
oversee.  
•  The above rules apply in addition to the rules which apply to the Identified Staff if an employee is considered 
to be part of both the Monitoring Staff and Identified Staff. 
•  The remuneration of the Head of Compliance and the Heads of Risk Management falls under the direct 
supervision of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee. 
 
Identified Staff 
The following rules apply to the fixed and variable remuneration of Identified Staff:  
•  The fixed remuneration is sufficient to guarantee that Robeco can attract qualified and experienced staff. 
•  Part of the variable remuneration is paid in cash and part of it is deferred and converted into instruments, 
based on the more stringent payment/redemption table below. The threshold of EUR 50,000 does not 
apply. In the rare event that the amount of variable remuneration is more than twice the amount of fixed 
remuneration, the percentages between brackets (*) in the table below will apply. 
•  Individual variable remuneration is approved by the Supervisory Board.  
 
  Year 1   Year 2  Year 3   Year 4  Year 5 
Cash payment  30% (20%*)  6.67% (10%*)  6.66% (10%*)  6.66% (10%*)   
R-CARs redemption    30% (20%*)  6.67% (10%*)  6.66% (10%*)  6.66% (10%*) 
* see abovementioned rule 2 
 
Risk control measures 
Robeco has identified the following risks that must be taken into account in applying its remuneration policy:  
•  misconduct or a serious error of judgement on the part of employees (such as taking undue risks, violating 
compliance guidelines or exhibiting behavior that conflicts with the core values) in order to meet business 
objectives or other objectives 
•  a considerable deterioration in Robeco's financial result becomes apparent  
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   14 
•  a serious violation of the risk management system is committed 
•  evidence that fraudulent acts have been committed by employees 
•  behavior that results in considerable losses.  
 
The following risk control measures apply, all of which require the approval of the Supervisory Board. 
 
Clawback – for all employees 
Robeco may reclaim all or part of the variable remuneration paid if (i) this payment was made on the basis of 
incorrect information, (ii) in the event that fraud has been committed by the employee, (iii) in the event of serious 
improper behavior on the part of the employee or serious negligence in the performance of their tasks, or (iv) in 
the event of behavior that has resulted in considerable losses for the organization.  
 
Ex-post malus – for Identified Staff 
Before paying any part of the deferred remuneration, Robeco may decide, as a form of ex-post risk adjustment, 
to apply a malus on the following grounds:  
•  misconduct or a serious error of judgement on the part of the employee, such as committing a serious 
violation of the internal code of conduct, taking undue risks, violating the compliance guidelines or 
exhibiting behavior that conflicts with the core values 
•  a considerable deterioration in Robeco’s financial results that changes the circumstances as assessed at the 
time the relevant variable remuneration was awarded 
•  a serious violation of the risk management system which changes the circumstances as assessed at the time 
the relevant variable remuneration was awarded 
•  fraud committed by the relevant employee as a result of which the award of variable remuneration was 
based on incorrect and misleading information. 
 
Ex-ante test at individual level – for Identified Staff 
Individual variable remuneration for Identified Staff requires the approval of the Supervisory Board, taking into 
account the advice of the Monitoring Committee and the Nomination & Remuneration Committee. 
 
Shareholder approval 
Shareholder approval is obtained where required in accordance with the governance. 
 
Annual audit 
Internal Audit annually audits the Robeco Remuneration Policy, the implementation of possible amendments to 
this policy, and whether remuneration practice has been in compliance with the policy.  
 
 
Remuneration figures 
 
  FTE *  Headcount *  Fixed remuneration  Variable remuneration**  Total  
    in EUR million  in EUR million  in EUR million 
Current and former 
statutory directors  4  4  2.2  3.8  6.0 
Other employees  684  715  71.0  31.1  102.1 
TTTToooottttaaaallll     688  719  73.2     34.9     108.1    
 * Situation as at 31 December 2020 
**Based on the awarded amounts 
 
In 2020, remuneration amounting to over EUR 1 million was paid to a total of 5 employees. 
The above figures are disclosed on the basis of Article 1:120 of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (Wet op het 
financieel toezicht, ‘Wft’). Furthermore, the table above includes the remuneration of the FTEs for the 
performance of services on behalf of Robeco, either on a full- or part-time basis. The total full-time remuneration 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   15 
for these FTEs is included in the table, which therefore means that for several of them the remuneration for the 
services performed for mutual funds managed by Robeco or legal entities other than Robeco Institutional Asset 
Management B.V. has been included. 
 
The 2019 remuneration figures have been corrected, the accounting consequences are recorded in 2020. The 
2019 variable remuneration awards have been revised to EUR 1.6 million for the current and former statutory 
directors and to EUR 27.6 million for other employees. Subsequently a total of 2 employees was paid 
remuneration amounting to over EUR 1 million in 2019.  
It was decided to raise the contribution to the Robeco Foundation in 2020 for the same amount for which the 
2019 variable remuneration was lowered.  
 
An integral review of the remuneration framework and policy has taken place. 
 
 
Risk management 
The following section presents an overview of the Company’s approach to risk management and highlights the 
main risks for Robeco. 
 
Governance  
At Robeco, risk management is based on the principles of sound management, as formulated in the Dutch 
Corporate Governance Code and in the COSO Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) principles. This ensures that 
risks are managed according to what are currently considered to be the best business practices. 
 
Robeco’s risk management is built on the ’three lines of defense’ model. The primary risk management and 
compliance responsibility rests with the line management in their day-to-day decision-making process. The 
second-line functions are fulfilled by Compliance and Risk Management (RM), which develops, maintains and 
monitors  adherence  to  the  relevant  policies  to  enable  line  management  to  effectively  perform  their 
responsibilities. Moreover, the second line monitors the risk management practices of the business and regularly 
reports about them to various internal committees as well as to external stakeholders. The Internal Audit function 
(IA) acts as the third line of defense and provides independent assurance of internal control by means of various 
audits and reviews. Both the second-line and third-line activities operate independently. There are also several 
cross-functional committees that have specific decision-making powers. 
 
Audit & Risk Committee  
Robeco’s Supervisory Board has an Audit & Risk Committee (A&RC) in place to supervise the financial reporting 
process, the control environment, the system of internal controls, risk management and internal audits. The 
A&RC also reviews the process used to monitor compliance with legislative and regulatory requirements and 
Robeco’s own internal policies. In its oversight, the A&RC relies on reporting from Risk Management, 
Compliance, Internal Audit, Legal Affairs, Finance and the external auditor and on updates from the business. 
 
Enterprise Risk Management Committee  
Several risk management committees ensure comprehensive and consistent risk oversight throughout Robeco. 
The Enterprise Risk Management Committee (ERMC) is the highest body within the Company that focuses on 
risks and consists of the members of the ExCo and the relevant staff departments. The ERMC is chaired by the 
CFRO and is responsible for evaluating and approving company-wide policies relating to risk management and 
compliance. The ERMC also assesses whether the risks relating to Robeco's activities remain within the defined 
risk tolerance levels. If risks exceed these levels, the ERMC has the power to decide to remedy the situation. The 
ERMC is supported by a dedicated risk management committee in respect of the financial risks associated with 
client portfolios and by committees and sub-committees that focus on specific issues (e.g. valuation, security, 
crisis management and new products). 
 
   
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   16 
Risk Management Committee 
The Risk Management Committee (RMC) of Robeco is responsible for monitoring the quality and completeness 
of risk oversight for Robeco’s clients. More specifically, the RMC is responsible for the development of policies 
and procedures for client portfolio risk management and the implementation of methodologies, systems and 
infrastructures for the measurement and monitoring of all relevant financial risk types within client portfolios. It 
is chaired by an ExCo member responsible for Investments and consists of representatives of the relevant staff 
and investment departments. The RMC reports to the ERMC. The financial risks in client portfolios (funds and 
mandates) are managed and regulated by means of the Company’s financial risk management policies for client 
portfolios. For all portfolios, Limit and Control Structures (LCS) and investment restrictions have been established 
that reflect the clients’ risk appetite. LCS and investment restrictions are monitored through the risk management 
and compliance functions and reported to portfolio managers and the RMC. If risks exceed the pre-defined limits, 
the RMC can take steps to remedy this. 
 
Other committees 
In addition to the RMC, the Company has established committees focusing on specific types of risk. The 
Information Risk Committee governs the effectiveness of all information risk management activities and makes 
decisions regarding information security that is consistent with the overall risk framework. As part of its approach 
to business continuity management, Robeco set up a Crisis Management team that is mobilized in cases 
involving operational crises regarding facilities, IT and staff. The Product Approval Committee (PAC) formally 
decides on the development and implementation of new products as well as significant changes to existing 
products. The PAC consists of the members of the ExCo, and representatives of Product Management and 
Compliance. There is a clear distinction between the assessment of new products performed by the PAC Robeco 
and the RMC Robeco. The RMC (or sub-RMCs) ensures that a limit and control structure is in place for each 
individual product prior to the launch that complies with the relevant rules and regulations, with agreements 
entered into with clients, and is in line with Robeco’s internal risk appetite. The PAC assesses the client suitability, 
the commercial attractiveness and the technical feasibility of the product, and reviews the product on the basis 
of market risk, reputation risk and liability risk. Finally, the ORMC is integrated in the organization to serve as a 
gatekeeper for the ERMC in relation to discussions on operational topics. In this way, the detailed knowledge at 
hand in the ORMCs is used. While the ERMC Robeco has a strategic role, the ORMCs have a more tactical role.  
 
Risk and control 
Robeco has developed a comprehensive control framework (RCF) which enables the Company to maintain 
integrated control of its operations and helps ensure compliance with laws and regulations. The RCF consists of 
several components that form a seamless process in which all significant risks are identified, assessed, controlled 
and monitored. Robeco’s risk appetite plays a central role in the RCF, as it provides high-level guidance for 
determining the significance of risks and defining the appropriate control levels. The RCF is assessed regularly to 
determine whether the controls in place are adequate to mitigate all material risk and whether they are 
operating effectively. 
 
The categories of risk described below are regarded by Robeco as the most relevant in terms of their potential 
impact on the Company’s ability to pursue its strategy and business activities and to maintain a good financial 
status. 
 
Strategic risks  
Strategic risks can be external or internal. External circumstances such as macroeconomic developments or 
increasing fee pressure or competition may negatively affect the profitability of the Company. Continuous 
monitoring of these developments and diversification of clients, assets and products can help mitigate the 
resulting impact. Underperformance of the Company’s products or a dependence on a limited number of key 
products can pose a strategic risk. The Company is sufficiently able to address this risk through its formal review 
and approval procedure for new products and business initiatives and by maintaining an adequately diversified 
product range. As part of the Strategy 2017-2021, Robeco focuses on a number of points, but these still ensure 
a wide range of products and markets are targeted, which guarantees sufficient diversity. 
 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   17 
Organizational risk  
Organizational risks consists of operational risk, HR risk, legal and compliance risk and fraud risk. Operational 
risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from the inadequacy or failure of internal processes, people and 
systems, or from external events. The Company manages a broad range of services and products for different 
types of clients in various parts of the world. This means it is an organization which is exposed to risks linked to 
high operational costs and operational errors. In order to mitigate these risks and achieve excellence in its 
operations, Robeco continuously searches for ways to simplify processes and reduce complexity. The RCF is 
assessed periodically to verify that the risks that are identified are mitigated by the controls in place and that 
those controls are effective. 
 
Furthermore, the number of regulations and supervisory body policies in the asset management industry10 has 
been increasing since the financial crisis. Dealing with the uncertainty associated with new regulations is also 
demanding, as their interpretation and the timeframes for implementation are often not clear. Hence, part of 
the Company’s operational risk stems from the regulatory environment. To manage these risks, the Company is 
actively  involved  in  the  regulatory development  process  at  an  early  stage, both  directly  and  through 
representative associations such as the European Fund and Asset Management Association (EFAMA), and Dutch 
Fund and Asset Management Association (DUFAS). The monitoring activities and impact analyses of planned 
regulations and policies are performed at an early stage. The relevant staff departments initiate and/or monitor 
the subsequent implementation of new or amended laws and regulations. Having a strong reputation for 
integrity is crucial for Robeco to safeguard market confidence and public trust. Fraud can undermine this 
confidence and trust. Therefore it is important to have an effective approach to mitigate fraud risk, including 
assessments on the effectiveness of internal controls to reduce fraud risk. To further strengthen management of 
Fraud risk, two Anti-Fraud Officers (AFOs) within Operational Risk Management (ORM) and Compliance have 
been appointed. The HR risk is defined as the risk of not having an suitable or appropriate employee  base – for 
example, too small, not fit for the job, not trustworthy – to fulfil our services.  
 
Financial risk  
The Company is exposed to counterparty credit risk in respect of its cash balances and receivables. Default risk 
concerns the risk that a counterparty will not honor its obligations towards Robeco. To mitigate this risk, a 
comprehensive counterparty risk policy is in place, which is maintained by the Risk Management function. The 
guiding principle is that counterparty risk is mitigated wherever possible, through the selection of counterparties 
(i.e. banks or other financial institutions) with high creditworthiness (based on strict rating criteria) and 
diversification. 
 
Market risk is the risk of undesirable fluctuations in market prices of financial instruments that result in financial 
loss. Robeco has limited direct market risk exposure, resulting fluctuations in foreign currency rates in respect of 
its financial positions and cash flows, (primarily related to receivables and payables, revenue to be received and 
expenses to be paid), and from interest rate risk in relation to its current account balances. The interest rate risk 
in very low given the short duration of these positions and foreign currencies are directly converted to euros to 
mitigate FX risk.  
 
Indirect market risk is more important as fee income is related to assets under management, which fluctuates in 
line with financial markets. In case of sharply declining financial markets this can reduce profitability as a result 
of lower income from management fees. This risk is mitigated among others by offering a broad and diversified 
range of products and services, in various regions, currencies and asset classes and a sound capital position. 
 
Liquidity risk is the risk that Robeco would be unable to honor short-term obligations due to a lack of liquidity. 
Robeco has no substantial liquidity risk, as the majority of its obligations are operational liabilities to Robeco 
Nederland B.V., which (through Robeco Holding B.V.) is a wholly owned operating subsidiary of ORIX Corporation 
Europe N.V. To mitigate liquidity risk, cash positions are closely monitored by the Finance department and 
reported to the ERMC on a periodic basis.  
 
 
10 e.g. Financial Markets Amendment Act 2016 (Wijzigingswet financiële markten 2016), UCITS V, MAR, SFDR, EMIR, MiFID II 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   18 
Capital is held to cover counterparty, operational and business- and strategic risk. In respect of both counterparty 
and operational risk, the capital is calculated based on regulatory requirements. The capital requirement for 
business risk is based on an internal model that focuses on the key determinants of Robeco’s revenues and costs 
while taking into account extreme market scenarios and flow assumptions.  
 
Management review  
The ongoing monitoring of risk management and internal control systems is embedded in Robeco's risk 
governance. This provides insight into the key risks affecting the Company. In the ERMC, the relevant staff 
discusses these risks with the ExCo. In addition, reports are submitted to and discussed regularly with the ExCo 
and Supervisory Board of the Company. 
 
It is important to note that the proper design and implementation of internal risk management and control 
systems significantly reduces, but cannot eliminate, the risks associated with poor judgment, human error, 
control  processes  being  deliberately  circumvented,  management  overriding  controls  and  unforeseen 
circumstances.  
 
Based on the monitoring of risk management and internal control systems, and an awareness of their inherent 
limitations as described above, we have concluded that there is reasonable assurance that the Company has 
sufficient insight into the extent to which its objectives will be realized and the reliability of its internal and 
external financial reporting.  
 
Specific attention: Corona crisis 
The Covid-19 pandemic has put markets in unchartered territory. Almost all countries put their societies under 
different forms of lockdown. As a result, business activities and supply chains are under pressure, causing a severe 
economic impact.  
 
This has presented Robeco with multiple challenges: we need to ensure that our employees work in a safe 
environment and meet with local lockdown requirements. Employees worldwide have to work from home. Most 
of our offices are (partially) closed, including headquarters in Rotterdam. This creates an inherent risk to the 
efficiency and effectiveness of processes, including processes that ensure that investment portfolios are managed 
in the best way to protect clients’ interests. Also the risk exists that our ability to raise AuM is impacted by risk 
appetite of clients, travel restrictions and social distancing globally. All of these developments may impact the 
profitability of Robeco and the capital requirements. Robeco has taken measures to ensure continuation of 
Robeco’s processes and protect our clients’ interests. 
 
Crisis organization 
Robeco has several governance bodies and processes in place to cope with crisis situations. The Covid-19 
outbreak was managed by different bodies including the Robeco Crisis Team, Business and Continuity 
Management, the Financial Crisis Committee, and the Valuation Committees. Each committee has a different 
focus and is therefore able to take sufficient and appropriate measures to deal with the situation at hand.   
 
At the end of the first wave, the different crisis bodies were scaled down and the impact of the pandemic is being 
dealt with by and within the regular governance structure. These bodies can and will of course be scaled up again 
if necessary. 
 
 
Outlook 
As mentioned under the heading 'Strategy 2017-2021', Robeco's strategy for these years is aimed at monetizing 
the Company’s intellectual property, while also preparing for market headwinds and other challenges, such as 
ongoing pressure on fees, regulation-driven cost increases and disruptive developments in demographics and 
technology. As the Company moves into a new strategic period, a new strategy was announced in February 2021. 
This will build on the solid foundations laid over the past five years, and will aim to successfully steer the Company 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   19 
through the current challenges brought on by the global Covid-19 pandemic, as well as the persistent market 
challenges facing the asset management industry.   
 
Robeco decided to merge Robeco Luxembourg S.A. into Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V., which took 
effect per 1 January 2021. As of that date, the responsibilities for managing and overseeing Robeco’s 
Luxembourg domiciled funds transferred to the Netherlands. There will be no change to the services provided to 
Robeco’s investors.  
As a consequence of the merger an amount of EUR 12.9 million will be added to the equity of Robeco Institutional 
Asset Management B.V. in 2021. 
 
At the beginning of 2020, the implementation started of Workday, a cloud-based software platform to oversee 
HR management, employee data, procurement, financial accounting, and expense management to replace 
current HR and finance tooling. Implementation for HR applications was completed globally in early November 
2020,  followed by the implementation of all finance-related processes in the Netherlands and Switzerland in 
January 2021. Further roll-out to other offices will take place in the course of 2021. 
 
In 2020, the AFM has determined that Robeco must undertake a number of remedial measures to improve the 
processes in relation to the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing (Prevention) Act (‘Wwft’) and the 
Sanctions Act (‘Sw’) in Robeco Retail, Robeco’s on-line execution-only platform for Dutch retail customers. The 
improvements have commenced in 2020 and are scheduled to be completed by the end of 2021.  
Subsequent to the above, and as a separate matter, the AFM has indicated that it has concerns about the way in 
which Robeco has set up its business operations. Robeco has engaged with the AFM to substantiate Robeco’s 
views in this respect. 
 
The Corona virus, which emerged at the beginning of 2020, developed into a global Pandemic in mid-February 
2020, followed by sharp declines in the stock markets worldwide. In the remainder of 2020, the equity markets 
have recovered strongly, prompted, amongst others, by the result of the presidential election in the United States 
and positive reports on the progress in developing vaccines. As a result of the Covid -19 Pandemic and the 
decisions taken by the Dutch government, Robeco decided in mid-March 2020 to let all staff (in the Netherlands) 
work from home and this still applies today. Despite these difficult and challenging developments, Robeco 
managed to achieve a higher operating result in 2020. This has been a result of positive net client flows, 
increasing fee income due to a shift to high fee generating equity assets and cost measures taken.  
 
Given the still ongoing Covid -19 Pandemic, it remains difficult to predict what the equity markets will do in 2021 
and the possible consequences for our revenues and results in 2021. Other industry developments will have 
impact on the future profitability of the Company such as ongoing fee pressure due to the rise of passive asset 
management, regulatory pressure and an increasing competition amongst active managers. Furthermore, costs 
face an upward pressure, amongst others because of increasing regulation affecting the industry, necessary 
investments in e.g. new technology and a war for talent. Nevertheless, the Company is well positioned to face 
the almost unprecedented market challenges under the Covid-19 Pandemic. The Company's financial position 
in terms of equity and financial resources is sound, but will carefully monitor the impact of the Pandemic on our 
capital position. For 2021 the ExCo anticipates a positive net result. 
 
The ExCo thanks all employees for their commitment and resilience in challenging times throughout 2020. 
 
 
Rotterdam, 22 April 2021 
 
The Executive Committee 
      
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   20 
RRRReeeeppppoooorrrrtttt    ooooffff    tttthhhheeee    SSSSuuuuppppeeeerrrrvvvviiiissssoooorrrryyyy    BBBBooooaaaarrrrdddd    
 
Composition of the Supervisory Board 
As the so-called ‘moderate version’ of the Large Company Scheme (Structuurregime, Section 2:265 of the Dutch 
Civil Code) applies to the Company, and also with a wider view to strong governance, a Supervisory Board has 
been established. In 2020, the Supervisory Board consisted of Maarten Slendebroek (Chair; appointed 13 August 
2020), Sonja Barendregt-Roojers (Vice-chair since 30 March 2020), Stan Koyanagi (appointed 13 August 2020), 
Mark Talbot, Radboud Vlaar, and Jeroen Kremers (Chair until 30 March 2020).  
 
Members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders upon nomination by 
the Supervisory Board. According to the Large Company Scheme, the General Meeting of Shareholders and the 
Works Council may recommend nominees for the position of supervisory director to the Supervisory Board. The 
Works Council has an enhanced right of recommendation to make a binding recommendation for one-third of 
the supervisory directors. Pursuant to Section 2:268-6 of the Dutch Civil Code, one member (Sonja Barendregt-
Roojers) was appointed on the Works Council's recommendation. 
 
 
Supervision by the Supervisory Board 
The Supervisory Board supervises the duties with respect to the general affairs of the Company and its business 
as executed by the Management Board and Executive Committee and the policy of the Company and its 
businesses. The Supervisory Board oversees the activities of Robeco as well as the activities of other companies 
that fall within the scope of Robeco’s management, in other words, the business conducted by RIAM itself and 
other subsidiary legal entities owned directly or indirectly by RIAM, as well as the business conducted by Robeco 
Nederland B.V. (“RNL”), and certain parts of the business of legal entities owned and controlled by Robeco 
Holding B.V. 
 
 
Meetings of the Supervisory Board 
In 2020, the Supervisory Board met in person as well as remotely when necessary, due to Covid-19 restrictions. 
Ten Supervisory Board meetings were held throughout the year. The Audit & Risk Committee and the 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee met six and nine times respectively. The meetings were attended by 
all Supervisory Board members and, where applicable, by members of the Executive Committee (ExCo) and other 
guests. The Supervisory Board also met in closed sessions, mostly without any of the ExCo members and 
sometimes without the Company Secretary.  
 
At the meetings of the Supervisory Board and those of its committees, due consideration was given to 
developments in the financial markets – especially in the exceptional market conditions resulting from the Covid-
19 crisis. Performance of products, and the financial results were also discussed. With regard to changes in rules 
and regulations, the Supervisory Board adheres to regulatory control and ensures due consideration of 
regulatory developments. The interests of clients are considered to be a key issue and, consequently, an 
important point of focus.  
 
The Supervisory Board has ensured the application of Robeco’s Principles on Fund Governance, which have been 
defined by Robeco to address conflicts of interest between Robeco as fund manager and the investors in the 
funds. In this context, quarterly reports and an annual overview of fund governance-related monitoring activities 
have been prepared by Robeco’s Compliance function and have been discussed by the Supervisory Board.  
 
Another subject that comes up on a regular basis in the Supervisory Board’s discussions is the developments on 
the financial markets in connection with the strategic challenges for Robeco that result from these developments. 
International political developments are also discussed, for example, the consequences and impact of Brexit. In 
terms of human resources, the Supervisory Board acknowledges the importance of recruiting, training, 
developing and retaining talent as a key element in successfully running an asset management company. That 
means providing professionals with appropriate opportunities while pursuing a remuneration policy in line with 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   21 
market standards and complying with applicable laws and regulations. Developments in human resources are 
therefore also monitored and discussed regularly in Supervisory Board meetings. 
 
The Supervisory Board has discussed the Company’s results with the ExCo on the basis of periodic reports. It has 
focused on the realization of the budgetary targets, the investment results, the development of assets under 
management as a result of market movements and net new money flows, the cost/income ratio, the overall 
profitability, and risk management, compliance, legal and operational matters. The Supervisory Board was 
regularly updated on and involved in Robeco’s strategic projects throughout the year.  
 
We have been informed that in 2020 the AFM has determined that Robeco must undertake a number of remedial 
measures to improve the processes in relation to the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing (Prevention) Act 
(‘Wwft’) and the Sanctions Act (‘Sw’) in Robeco Retail, Robeco’s on-line execution-only platform for Dutch retail 
customers. Robeco has informed us that the improvements have commenced in 2020 and are scheduled to be 
completed by the end of 2021.  
Subsequent to the above, and as a separate matter, we understand that the AFM has indicated that it has 
concerns about the way in which Robeco has set up its business operations. Robeco has informed us that they 
have engaged with the AFM to substantiate Robeco’s views in this respect. 
 
 
Supervisory Board committees 
There are two Supervisory Board committees: the Audit & Risk Committee (A&RC) and the Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee (N&RC). 
 
Audit & Risk Committee  
The members of this committee are Sonja Barendregt-Roojers (Chair), Stan Koyanagi (since 13 August 2020), 
Maarten Slendebroek (since 13 August 2020), Mark Talbot, Radboud Vlaar, and Jeroen Kremers (until 30 March 
2020). Prior to some of the meetings of the committee, closed sessions were held with the independent auditor, 
KPMG. Audit, risk, compliance and legal matters were discussed in the committee and where relevant also in the 
Supervisory Board meetings. The meetings were attended by some of the members of the ExCo as well as the 
heads of Internal Audit, Compliance, Risk Management, Legal and by representatives of KPMG. On the basis of 
quarterly reports from the respective departments, the A&RC discussed various internal audit, compliance, legal 
and risk management related issues. The (interim) financial reports and the independent auditor’s reports were 
regular agenda items.  Among other subjects, various risk management-related issues were discussed, as well 
as monitoring of fund principles, investment results, internal and external audit plans, a review of Robeco 
products, and the Robeco funds’ annual and semiannual reports. In the context of the Covid-19 pandemic, the 
A&RC was informed on matters of health and safety and other aspects of business continuity. The improvement 
of the compliance framework regarding client due diligence and related requirements in the area of our retail 
fund distribution activities was closely monitored. 
 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
The members of this committee are Mark Talbot (Chair), Sonja Barendregt-Roojers, Stan Koyanagi (since 13 
August 2020, Maarten Slendebroek (since 13 August 2020), Radboud Vlaar, and Jeroen Kremers (until 30 March 
2020). Nomination and remuneration matters were discussed several times in 2020. The CEO and the Chief 
Human Resources Officer also attended the meetings. One of the recurring items on the agenda is fixed and 
variable remuneration. The results of the Employee Engagement Survey were also reported and discussed. 
Amongst other items, the N&RC reported to the Supervisory Board regarding KPIs of the ExCo members and 
periodically assessed the performance of the individual members of the ExCo. 
 
 
Composition of the ExCo 
During the year 2020, the ExCo consisted of Gilbert Van Hassel (Chair), Karin van Baardwijk (Vice-Chair), Lia 
Belilos-Wessels, Mark den Hollander, Mark van der Kroft (appointed 1 September 2020), Martin Nijkamp, 
Christoph von Reiche, Victor Verberk and Peter Ferket (until 22 May 2020). We thank Peter Ferket for his loyalty 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   22 
and valuable contribution to the Company during the more than twenty years he worked for Robeco in several 
roles, and we thank the ExCo as well as the Company’s staff for their efforts and dedication. 
 
 
Recommendation to adopt the annual financial statements  
The Supervisory Board has taken note of the contents of the report presented by KPMG, who issued an 
independent auditor's report on the 2020 annual financial statements. We recommend approval of the annual 
financial statements by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and we concur with the ExCo’s proposal to 
pay out the 2020 profit of EUR 74.4 million as a dividend to the shareholder, which proposal will be submitted 
to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.  
 
 
Rotterdam, 22 April 2021      
The Supervisory Board
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   23 
    
    
    
FFFFiiiinnnnaaaannnncccciiiiaaaallll    SSSSttttaaaatttteeeemmmmeeeennnnttttssss    2222000022220000    
 
 
   
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   24 
IIIInnnnccccoooommmmeeee    SSSSttttaaaatttteeeemmmmeeeennnntttt    
for the year ended 31 December 
 
           
EUR x million  Notes  2020  2019 
       
Net revenues  1  571.0  565.2 
Distribution and subadvisory costs  2  -195.4  -205.9 
GGGGrrrroooossssssss    mmmmaaaarrrrggggiiiinnnn          333377775555....6666     333355559999....3333    
       
Administrative expenses  3  227.6  240.7 
Wages and salaries  4  13.2  14.2 
Social security expenses  4  1.4  1.5 
Depreciation and amortization   7-9  2.3  2.2 
Other expenses  5  31.4  22.2 
TTTToooottttaaaallll    ooooppppeeeerrrraaaattttiiiinnnngggg    eeeexxxxppppeeeennnnsssseeeessss       222277775555....9999     222288880000....8888    
       
OOOOppppeeeerrrraaaattttiiiinnnngggg    rrrreeeessssuuuulllltttt       99999999....7777     77778888....5555    
       
Finance income and similar income    0.2  0.3 
Finance expense and similar expenses    -0.4  -0.3 
        
RRRReeeessssuuuulllltttt    bbbbeeeeffffoooorrrreeee    ttttaaaaxxxx       99999999....5555     77778888....5555    
       
Income tax expense  6  25.1  20.5 
       
Result from investments in group and associated companies after tax  10  0.0  8.1 
       
RRRReeeessssuuuulllltttt    ffffoooorrrr    tttthhhheeee    yyyyeeeeaaaarrrr          77774444....4444     66666666....1111    
 
 
 
 
      
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   25 
BBBBaaaallllaaaannnncccceeee    SSSShhhheeeeeeeetttt    aaaassss    aaaatttt    33331111    DDDDeeeecccceeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr        
before profit appropriation 
 
 
EUR x million  Notes  2020  2019 
                   
AAAASSSSSSSSEEEETTTTSSSS                   
       
FFFFiiiixxxxeeeedddd    aaaasssssssseeeettttssss                   
Intangible assets  7  1.4  2.6 
Tangible fixed assets  8  0.5  0.6 
Right-of-use assets  9  2.0  1.3 
Investment in group and associated companies  10  -  - 
Loans  11  -  1.6 
Deferred tax assets  12  2.6  0.8 
TTTToooottttaaaallll    ffffiiiixxxxeeeedddd    aaaasssssssseeeettttssss          6666....5555     6666....9999    
       
CCCCuuuurrrrrrrreeeennnntttt    aaaasssssssseeeettttssss                   
Trade receivables  13  15.2  18.0 
Receivables from group companies  14  126.4  136.2 
Other receivables  15  15.5  24.8 
Cash and cash equivalents  16  168.6  106.4 
TTTToooottttaaaallll    ccccuuuurrrrrrrreeeennnntttt    aaaasssssssseeeettttssss          333322225555....7777  222288885555....4444    
       
TTTToooottttaaaallll    aaaasssssssseeeettttssss          333333332222....2222     222299992222....3333    
       
EEEEQQQQUUUUIIIITTTTYYYY    AAAANNNNDDDD    LLLLIIIIAAAABBBBIIIILLLLIIIITTTTIIIIEEEESSSS                   
       
EEEEqqqquuuuiiiittttyyyy     17           
Issued capital    0.1  0.1 
Share premium    31.5  31.5 
Other reserves    129.2  96.1 
Unappropriated result financial year    74.4  66.1 
TTTToooottttaaaallll    eeeeqqqquuuuiiiittttyyyy       222233335555....2222     111199993333....8888    
                
    
PPPPrrrroooovvvviiiissssiiiioooonnnnssss     18  11112222....9999     7777....6666    
                   
NNNNoooonnnn----ccccuuuurrrrrrrreeeennnntttt    lllliiiiaaaabbbbiiiilllliiiittttiiiieeeessss    
Employee benefits  19     1.9  2.1 
Lease liabilities  9  1.3  0.5 
Other liabilities    -  0.9 
TTTToooottttaaaallll    nnnnoooonnnn----ccccuuuurrrrrrrreeeennnntttt    lllliiiiaaaabbbbiiiilllliiiittttiiiieeeessss          3333....2222     3333....5555    
       
CCCCuuuurrrrrrrreeeennnntttt    lllliiiiaaaabbbbiiiilllliiiittttiiiieeeessss                   
Liabilities to group companies  20  31.9  46.7 
Lease liabilities  9  0.6  0.7 
Other liabilities  21  48.4  40.0 
TTTToooottttaaaallll    ccccuuuurrrrrrrreeeennnntttt    lllliiiiaaaabbbbiiiilllliiiittttiiiieeeessss          88880000....9999     88887777....4444    
       
TTTToooottttaaaallll    eeeeqqqquuuuiiiittttyyyy    aaaannnndddd    lllliiiiaaaabbbbiiiilllliiiittttiiiieeeessss          333333332222....2222     222299992222....3333    
 
   
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   26 
NNNNooootttteeeessss    ttttoooo    tttthhhheeee    ffffiiiinnnnaaaannnncccciiiiaaaallll    ssssttttaaaatttteeeemmmmeeeennnnttttssss    
    
GGGGeeeennnneeeerrrraaaallll    iiiinnnnffffoooorrrrmmmmaaaattttiiiioooonnnn    
Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. (also referred to as “the Company”) is established in the 
Netherlands, having its legal seat in Rotterdam. The main activities of the Company are regular investment 
management activities on behalf of clients, including investment funds. The Company receives management 
fees and other fees for these activities. Offering alternative investments, including structured investment 
products, can also be considered as main activities of the Company. The Company also offers investment products 
to retail clients directly. The product range encompasses equity and fixed-income investments and also facilitates 
saving products through Rabobank (Coöperatieve Rabobank U.A). Sales relate mainly to funds which are legally 
located in the Netherlands and Luxembourg.  
 
All shares of the Company are held by Robeco Holding B.V. The domestic ultimate parent of the Company is ORIX 
Corporation Europe N.V. ORIX Corporation (ORIX), with registered office in Tokyo, Japan, holds a 100% stake in 
ORIX Corporation Europe N.V. 
 
In these financial statements, Robeco Group Companies refer to those subsidiaries of ORIX Corporation Europe 
N.V. that have transactions with the Company.  
 
The Company has both an AIFMD license as referred to in article 2:65 of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act 
(‘Wft’) and a license to act as manager of UCITS as referred to in article 2:69b of the Wft and to offer the 
additional services within the meaning of article 2:97 under 3.  
 
GGGGeeeennnneeeerrrraaaallll    ppppoooolllliiiicccciiiieeeessss,,,,    aaaaccccccccoooouuuunnnnttttiiiinnnngggg    ppppoooolllliiiicccciiiieeeessss    aaaapppppppplllliiiieeeedddd    ttttoooo    tttthhhheeee    vvvvaaaalllluuuuaaaattttiiiioooonnnn    ooooffff    aaaasssssssseeeettttssss    aaaannnndddd    lllliiiiaaaabbbbiiiilllliiiittttiiiieeeessss    aaaannnndddd    
pppprrrriiiinnnncccciiiipppplllleeeessss    ffffoooorrrr    tttthhhheeee    ddddeeeetttteeeerrrrmmmmiiiinnnnaaaattttiiiioooonnnn    ooooffff    tttthhhheeee    rrrreeeessssuuuulllltttt    
 
The financial statements of the Company are prepared in accordance with Dutch law (section 2:9 of the Dutch 
Civil Code) and the firm pronouncements in the Dutch Accounting Standards, as published by the Dutch 
Accounting Standards Board (‘Raad voor de Jaarverslaggeving’). 
 
The financial statements cover the year 2020, which ended at the balance sheet date of 31 December 2020. 
 
The valuation principles and method of determining the result are the same as those used in the previous year, 
except for the effects of changes in accounting policies. 
 
CCCChhhhaaaannnnggggeeeessss    iiiinnnn    aaaaccccccccoooouuuunnnnttttiiiinnnngggg    ppppoooolllliiiicccciiiieeeessss    
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year.  
 
CCCCoooonnnnssssoooolllliiiiddddaaaattttiiiioooonnnn    
For the annual financial statements of Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. a company balance sheet 
and income statement will suffice. In accordance with the provisions in article 2:408 of the Dutch Civil Code 
consolidated financial statements are not part of the financial statements of the Company. Consolidation of the 
financial information of Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. and its participating interests in group 
companies is performed in the financial statements 2020 of ORIX Corporation Europe N.V., statutory established 
in Rotterdam.  
 
BBBBaaaassssiiiissss    ooooffff    pppprrrreeeeppppaaaarrrraaaattttiiiioooonnnn    
The accounting policies applied for measurement of assets and liabilities and determination of results are based 
on the historical cost convention, unless otherwise stated in the further accounting principles. 
 
The financial statements are presented in euros. The euro is the functional and presentation currency of Robeco 
Institutional Asset Management B.V. Numbers are rounded to the nearest tenth of a million and all amounts 
disclosed in the notes to the income statement and the balance sheet are in millions, except when explicitly 
stated otherwise.  
 
The financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the going concern assumption. 
 
SSSSiiiiggggnnnniiiiffffiiiiccccaaaannnntttt    aaaaccccccccoooouuuunnnnttttiiiinnnngggg    jjjjuuuuddddggggmmmmeeeennnnttttssss,,,,    eeeessssttttiiiimmmmaaaatttteeeessss    aaaannnndddd    aaaassssssssuuuummmmppppttttiiiioooonnnnssss    
The preparation of financial statements requires the use of judgment and estimates. This affects the recognition 
and valuation of assets, provisions and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities as of the date of the 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   27 
financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting period. Although 
these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of current events and actions, the actual results 
may differ ultimately from these estimates. 
 
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates 
are recognized in the period in which the estimate is revised. 
 
The following accounting policy is in the opinion of management the most critical in preparing these financial 
statements and require judgements, estimates and assumptions: 
- Restructuring and other provisions. 
 
FFFFoooorrrreeeeiiiiggggnnnn    ccccuuuurrrrrrrreeeennnncccciiiieeeessss    
At initial recognition, transactions denominated in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency 
of the Company using the exchange rates at the date of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in other currencies are translated into euros at the spot rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. 
Non-monetary items measured at historical cost are translated using the exchange rates prevailing at the date 
of the initial recognition of the transaction. Non-monetary items measured at fair value are converted using the 
exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined. The assets and liabilities of foreign operations 
are translated into euros at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.  
 
Income and expenses are converted at the average exchange rate of the relevant month. The exchange rate 
differences are taken to the income statement and are recorded in the other expenses. Changes in the valuation 
of investments in foreign entities are recorded in equity as part of the translation reserve. Translation reserves 
are restricted by nature (and according to Dutch law).  
    
CCCCaaaasssshhhh    fffflllloooowwww    ssssttttaaaatttteeeemmmmeeeennnntttt    
According to RJ 360.104, a cash flow statement is not required in the financial statements of the Company since 
the cash flows are included in the consolidated statement of cash flows of ORIX Corporation Europe N.V., the 
domestic ultimate parent of the Company are available at with the Dutch Chamber of Commerce. 
 
IIIInnnnccccoooommmmeeee    aaaannnndddd    EEEExxxxppppeeeennnnsssseeee    rrrreeeeccccooooggggnnnniiiittttiiiioooonnnn    
Income is recognized in the profit and loss account when an increase in future economic potential related to an 
increase in an asset or a decrease of a liability arises, of which the size can be measured reliably. Expenses are 
recognized when a decrease in the economic potential related to a decrease in an asset or an increase of a 
liability arises, of which the size can be measured with sufficient reliability. Revenues and expenses are allocated 
to the respective period to which they relate. 
    
NNNNeeeetttt    rrrreeeevvvveeeennnnuuuueeeessss    
Net revenues include management fees, service fees, subadvisory fees, performance fees, administration fees, 
fees from clients, revenues from marketing and sales activities and other fees. Revenues from services rendered 
are recognised in the profit and loss account when the amount of the revenue can be determined reliably, 
collection of the related compensation to be received is probable, the extent to which the services have been 
performed on the balance sheet date can be determined reliably, and the costs already incurred and (possibly) 
yet to be incurred to complete the service can be determined reliably. Management and service fees are primarily 
based on predetermined percentages of the market values of the assets under management and are affected by 
changes in assets under management, including investment performance, net subscriptions or redemptions and 
fluctuations in exchange rates. Performance fees are calculated as a percentage of the performance of the 
relevant assets under management and recorded when earned. Securities lending fees, administration fees, fees 
from clients, revenues from marketing and sales activities and other fees are recognized in the period in which 
the services are rendered. 
    
DDDDiiiissssttttrrrriiiibbbbuuuuttttiiiioooonnnn    aaaannnndddd    ssssuuuubbbbaaaaddddvvvviiiissssoooorrrryyyy    ccccoooossssttttssss    
Distribution and subadvisory costs include trailer fees and subadvisory costs payable to third- and related parties. 
Trailer fees and subadvisory costs are recognized when the services have been provided. Trailer fees are primarily 
based on predetermined percentages of the market values of the average assets under management of the 
investments, including investment performance and net subscriptions or redemptions. Subadvisory costs are 
paid to third party asset managers. These costs are mainly based on predetermined percentages of the market 
values of the average assets under management of the investments.  
    
CCCCaaaarrrrrrrriiiieeeedddd    iiiinnnntttteeeerrrreeeesssstttt    
The Company is entitled to receive a share of the realized profits of certain Private Equity Investee Funds (carried 
interest). Carried interest is calculated based on a share of profits taking into account the cash already distributed 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   28 
by the Investee Funds and the amount of divestment proceeds receivable or to be received upon disposal as 
estimated by the Company. Proceeds are distributed by the Investee Funds in such a manner that the Company 
will not receive a distribution of carried interest before the Partners of the Investee Fund have received their 
Contributed Capital and an agreed upon return on their investments.  
 
Since only the carried interest amounts received in cash are to be regarded as reasonably assured, carried interest 
is recognized as revenue in the Income Statement as from the actual distribution by the Investee Funds. The paid 
out carried interest amounts are to be regarded as advances on the final amount calculated upon liquidation of 
the Investee Funds, since they are subject to claw back until a point in time toward the end of life of the Investee 
Funds. 
    
EEEEmmmmppppllllooooyyyyeeeeeeee    bbbbeeeennnneeeeffffiiiittttssss    eeeexxxxppppeeeennnnsssseeee    
Employee benefits are charged to the profit and loss account in the period in which the employee services are 
rendered and, to the extent not already paid, as a liability on the balance sheet. If the amount already paid 
exceeds the benefits owed, the excess is recognized as a current asset to the extent that there will be a 
reimbursement by the employees or a reduction in future payments by the Company. 
 
Relating to the deferred variable remuneration of employees the projected costs are taken into account during 
the employment e.g. service period. The following main assumptions are taken into consideration for the costs 
accrued: 
-  The service period is split into 75% (current year) and 8,33% for the next three years (deferred part). 
-  The value of the deferred variable remuneration – predominantly ‘Robeco Cash Appreciation Rights’ 
(R-CARs) – is based on a rolling eight-quarter period of Robeco’s operational result.  
    
Termination benefits are employee benefits provided in exchange for the termination of the employment. These 
are included in Employee benefits expenses and are recognized as an expense when the Company is 
demonstrably and unconditionally committed to make the payment of the termination benefit. If the termination 
is part of a restructuring, the costs of the termination benefits are part of the restructuring provision. See the 
policy under the heading ‘Provisions’. 
 
Termination benefits are measured in accordance with their nature. When the termination benefit is an 
enhancement to post-employment benefits, measurement is done according to the same policies as applied to 
post-employment plans. Other termination benefits are measured at the best estimate of the expenditures 
required to settle the liability. 
    
DDDDuuuuttttcccchhhh    ppppeeeennnnssssiiiioooonnnn    sssscccchhhheeeemmmmeeee    
Domestic staff is made available to the Company through an intercompany service agreement. Robeco 
Nederland B.V. is legally the employer of personnel, recharging related expenses to the Company. Robeco 
Nederland B.V. has a pension scheme for its employees with Stichting Pensioenfonds Robeco, a company 
pension fund.  
 
The provisions of the Dutch Pension Act (‘Pensioenwet’) are applicable for the Dutch pension scheme. Premiums 
are paid for the Company and are based on (legal) requirements, a contractual or voluntary basis to its pension 
fund. The Company applies the liability approach for all pension schemes. Premiums are recognized as employee 
cost when they are due.  
    
FFFFoooorrrreeeeiiiiggggnnnn    PPPPeeeennnnssssiiiioooonnnn    ppppllllaaaannnnssss    
Pension plans that are comparable in design and functioning to the Dutch pension system, having a strict 
segregation of the responsibilities of the parties involved and risk sharing between the said parties (the Company, 
the fund and its members) are recognized and measured in accordance with Dutch pension plans. 
 
FFFFiiiinnnnaaaannnncccceeee    iiiinnnnccccoooommmmeeee    aaaannnndddd    eeeexxxxppppeeeennnnsssseeee    aaaannnndddd    ssssiiiimmmmiiiillllaaaarrrr    iiiinnnnccccoooommmmeeee    aaaannnndddd    eeeexxxxppppeeeennnnsssseeeessss    
Finance income and expense are recognized as earned or incurred. Finance income comprises of income related 
to cash and short-term loans. Finance expense comprises of interest payable on interest-bearing loans. 
 
CCCCoooorrrrppppoooorrrraaaatttteeee    iiiinnnnccccoooommmmeeee    ttttaaaaxxxx        
Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. is part of a fiscal unity for Dutch corporate income tax purposes 
headed by ORIX Corporation Europe N.V. within the meaning of the Dutch Corporate Income Tax Act 1969. The 
Company is jointly and severally responsible for the resulting tax liability, as are the other companies that are 
part of the tax group. Some foreign offices of the Company are considered to be permanent establishments. 
These offices are therefore subject to corporate income tax in the country they operate and file their own 
corporate income tax returns. The profits made by these foreign offices will not be taxable in the Netherlands 
due to participation exemption rules avoiding double (corporate income) taxation.  
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   29 
The calculation of corporate income tax is made as if the Company is an independent taxpayer. Payable 
corporate income taxes have been settled, through Robeco Holding B.V, with ORIX Corporation Europe N.V. via 
the current account under the heading Group companies. The taxes are calculated on the basis of the applicable 
rate for tax, taking into account tax-exempt profit constituents and deductible items.    The tax rates and laws used 
to compute taxable amounts are those enacted or substantially enacted at the reporting date. 
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognized in the 
income statement. 
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences at the reporting date between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for tax purposes. 
 
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realization or settlement of the carrying 
amount of assets and liabilities, at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realized 
and the liability is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting 
date. 
A deferred tax asset is recognized for tax benefits relating to the carry forward of unused tax losses when it is 
probable that estimated future taxable profits will be available to offset these losses. 
 
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed annually and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset 
to be realized. Unrecognized deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date and are 
recognized to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset 
to be recovered. 
 
A deferred tax liability is provided for the recognized taxable temporary differences between the tax base and 
the carrying amount for financial reporting purposes at the reporting date. Deferred tax liability is also provided 
in respect of loss recapture due to double tax relief regulations. The deferred tax liability is recorded at nominal 
value.  
 
RRRReeeessssuuuulllltttt    ffffrrrroooommmm    iiiinnnnvvvveeeessssttttmmmmeeeennnnttttssss    iiiinnnn    ggggrrrroooouuuupppp    aaaannnndddd    aaaassssssssoooocccciiiiaaaatttteeeedddd    ccccoooommmmppppaaaannnniiiieeeessss    aaaafffftttteeeerrrr    ttttaaaaxxxx    
Income from investments in group and associated companies after tax is the Company’s share in the net result 
of the investments in associated companies determined in accordance with the accounting policies applied in 
these financial statements. 
 
RRRReeeeccccooooggggnnnniiiittttiiiioooonnnn    aaaannnndddd    ddddeeeerrrreeeeccccooooggggnnnniiiittttiiiioooonnnn    ooooffff    aaaasssssssseeeettttssss    
An asset is recognized in the balance sheet when it is probable that the future economic benefits will flow to the 
entity and the asset has a cost or value that can be measured reliably. It remains on the balance sheet if a 
transaction (with respect to the asset) does not lead to a major change in the economic reality with respect to 
the asset. Such transactions will not result in the recognition of results. When assessing whether there is a 
significant change in the economic circumstances, the economic benefits and risks that are likely to occur in 
practice are taken into account. The benefits and risks that are not reasonably expected to occur, are not taken 
in to account in this assessment. 
 
An asset is no longer recognized in the balance sheet when a transaction results in all or substantially all rights 
to economic benefits and all or substantially all of the risks related to the asset being transferred to a third party.  
In such cases, the results of the transaction are directly recognized in the profit and loss account, taking into 
account any provisions related to the transaction. If assets are recognized of which the Company does not have 
the legal ownership, this fact is being disclosed. 
    
IIIInnnnttttaaaannnnggggiiiibbbblllleeee    aaaasssssssseeeettttssss    
Intangible assets are measured at acquisition cost less any accumulated amortization and any accumulated 
impairment losses determined individually for each asset. 
 
Intangible assets consist of customer relations acquired in business combinations. Intangible assets which have 
been acquired in business combinations are recognized at fair value at the date of acquisition. Following initial 
recognition, intangible assets are carried at initial fair value less accumulated amortization and any accumulated 
impairment losses. The useful lives of customer relations are finite and such assets are amortized on a straight-
line basis over their estimated useful lives, with amortization being charged to the income statement.  
 
The amortization period and the amortization method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed 
at least at the end of the annual reporting period. Amortization is effected on a straight-line basis. The 
amortization period is 3 years. 
 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   30 
The accounting principles for the determination and recognition of impairments are included under the section 
Impairments of fixed assets. 
    
TTTTaaaannnnggggiiiibbbblllleeee    ffffiiiixxxxeeeedddd    aaaasssssssseeeettttssss    
Tangible fixed assets are measured at acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
Tangible assets are depreciated over their estimated useful lives, on a straight-line basis. The depreciation period 
is 3 to 10 years. 
 
The accounting principles for the determination and recognition of impairments are included under the section 
Impairments of fixed assets. 
    
IIIImmmmppppaaaaiiiirrrrmmmmeeeennnntttt    tttteeeessssttttiiiinnnngggg    ooooffff    ffffiiiixxxxeeeedddd    aaaasssssssseeeettttssss        
In accordance with RJ 121, Impairment of Assets, the Company reviews the carrying amounts of its non-financial 
assets (other than deferred tax assets) to determine whether there is any indication of impairment, at each 
reporting date. If such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.  
 
The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. Value in 
use is based on the estimated future cash flows, discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. An 
impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment 
losses are recognized in profit or loss.  
 
Reversal of a previously recognized impairment loss only takes place when there is a change in the assessment 
used to determine the recoverable amount since the recognition of the last impairment loss. In such case, the 
carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount, but not higher than the carrying amount 
that would have applied if no impairment loss had been recognized in previous years for the asset.    
    
SSSShhhhaaaarrrreeee    iiiinnnn    rrrreeeessssuuuulllltttt    ooooffff    ppppaaaarrrrttttiiiicccciiiippppaaaattttiiiinnnngggg    iiiinnnntttteeeerrrreeeessssttttssss    
The share in the result of participating interests consists of the share of the Company in the results of these 
participating interests, determined on the basis of the accounting principles of the Company. Results on 
transactions, where the transfer of assets and liabilities between the Company and the non-consolidated 
participating interests and mutually between non-consolidated participating interests themselves, are not 
recognized as they can be deemed as not realized. 
 
FFFFiiiinnnnaaaannnncccciiiiaaaallll    iiiinnnnssssttttrrrruuuummmmeeeennnnttttssss        
A financial asset or a financial liability is recognized in the balance sheet when the contractual rights or 
obligations in respect of that instrument arise. Financial instruments (and individual components of financial 
instruments) are presented in the separate financial statements in accordance with their legal form. 
 
The following financial instruments are recognized in the financial statements: investments in group and 
associated companies, loans, trade and other receivables, cash items and (other) financial liabilities. Financial 
instruments are initially measured at fair value, including discounts/premium and any directly attributable 
transaction costs, with involving parties who are well informed regarding the matter. If instruments are not 
subsequently measured at fair value with value changes recognized in the profit and loss account, any directly 
attributable transaction costs are included to the initial measurement. 
 
After initial recognition, financial instruments are valued in the manner described below. Loans and (other) 
receivables are valued at amortized cost on the basis of the effective interest method less impairment losses. 
(Other) financial liabilities are measured after their initial recognition at amortized cost on the basis of the 
effective interest rate method. The effective interest is directly recorded in the profit and loss account.  
 
A financial instrument is no longer recognized in the balance sheet when there is a transaction that results in a 
transfer to a third party of all or substantially all of the rights to economic benefits and all or substantially all of 
the risks related to the position. 
 
A financial asset and a financial liability are offset when the entity has a legally enforceable right to set off the 
financial asset and financial liability and the Company has the firm intention to settle the balance on a net basis, 
or to settle the asset and the liability simultaneously. 
 
Trade and other receivables found not to be individually impaired are collectively assessed for impairment by 
grouping together receivables with similar risk characteristics. In assessing collective impairment, the Company 
uses historical trends of the probability of default and the increase of the number of receivables in its portfolio 
that are past due for more than 90 days. The outcome is adjusted when management is of the opinion that 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   31 
current economic and credit conditions are such that it is probable that actual losses will be higher or lower than 
the historical trends are suggesting. The carrying amount of receivables is reduced by an allowance for doubtful 
debts. Receivables that appear to be irrecoverable are written off against the allowance. Other additions to and 
withdrawals from the allowance are recognized in the profit and loss account. 
 
When, in a subsequent period, the amount of an impairment loss decreases, and the decrease can be related 
objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognized, the decrease in impairment loss is reversed 
through profit or loss (up to the amount of the original cost). 
 
IIIInnnnvvvveeeessssttttmmmmeeeennnntttt    iiiinnnn    ggggrrrroooouuuupppp    aaaannnndddd    aaaassssssssoooocccciiiiaaaatttteeeedddd    ccccoooommmmppppaaaannnniiiieeeessss    
Participating interests where significant influence can be exercised over the business and financial policy are 
valued according to the equity method on the basis of net asset value. If measurement at net asset value is not 
possible because the information required for this cannot be obtained, the participating interest is measured 
according to the visible equity. In assessing whether the Company has significant influence over the business and 
financial policies of a participating interests, all facts and circumstances and contractual relationships, including 
potential voting rights, are taken into account. 
 
CCCCuuuurrrrrrrreeeennnntttt    aaaasssssssseeeettttssss    
The accounting policies applied for the valuation of the current assets are described under the heading ‘Financial 
instruments’.  
 
CCCCaaaasssshhhh    aaaannnndddd    ccccaaaasssshhhh    eeeeqqqquuuuiiiivvvvaaaalllleeeennnnttttssss    
Cash and cash equivalents are valued against nominal value. 
 
Cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the balance sheet date in the 
functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at that date. The accounting policies applied for cash and cash 
equivalents in foreign currencies are described under the heading ‘Foreign currencies’.  
 
PPPPrrrroooovvvviiiissssiiiioooonnnnssss    
A provision is recognized when the Company has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, for 
which it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. If the effect of the time value of money is material, 
provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the 
liability. Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognized as a 
finance cost. Provisions are stated at nominal value of the best estimate of the expenditures that are expected 
to be required to settle the liabilities and losses. In case the duration of the provision is more than one year and 
the time value is material, provisions are stated at the present value. 
 
A provision for claims, disputes and lawsuits is established when it is expected that the Company will be 
sentenced in legal proceedings. The provision ‘possible loss of income’ represents the best estimate of the 
amount for which the claim can be settled, including the costs of litigation. The other provisions are carried at 
the nominal value of the expenditure that is expected to be necessary in order to settle the obligation, unless 
stated otherwise. 
    
A restructuring provision is recognized when at the balance sheet date the entity has a detailed formal plan and 
ultimately at the date of preparation of the financial statements a valid expectation of implementation of the 
plan has been raised in those that will be impacted by the reorganization.  
A valid expectation exists when the implementation of the reorganization has been started, or when the main 
elements of the plan have been announced to those for whom the reorganization will have consequences. 
The provision for restructuring costs includes the costs that are directly associated with the restructuring, which 
are not associated with the ongoing activities of the Company. 
    
LLLLeeeeaaaassssiiiinnnngggg        
The Company leases various offices at its branch offices. Robeco Nederland B.V. leases the office in the 
Netherlands and recharges the housing costs to the Company based on the intercompany service agreement. 
Lease accounting of this office is limited to Robeco Nederland B.V. Rental contracts are typically made for fixed 
periods of 3 to 10 years but may have extension options. Lease terms are negotiated on an individual basis and 
contain a wide range of different terms and conditions. The lease agreements do not impose any covenants, but 
leased assets may not be used as security for borrowing purposes. 
 
Leases are recognized as a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability at the date at which the leased asset 
is available for use by the Company. Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance cost. The 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   32 
finance cost is charged to profit or loss over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest 
on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. The right-of-use asset is depreciated over the shorter of 
the asset's useful life and the lease term on a straight-line basis. 
 
Liabilities arising from a lease are initially measured on a present value basis. The lease liability is subsequently 
measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. It is remeasured when there is a change in future 
lease payments arising from a change in an index or rate, if there is a change in the Company’s estimate of the 
amount expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee, if the Company changes its assessment of 
whether it will exercise a purchase, extension or termination option or if there is a revised in-substance fixed 
lease payment. Lease liabilities include the net present value of the following lease payments: 
-  fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives receivable, 
-  variable lease payment that are based on an index or a rate, 
-  (if applicable) amounts expected to be payable by the lessee under residual value guarantees, 
-  (if applicable) the exercise price of a purchase option if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that 
option, and 
-  (if applicable) payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee 
exercising that option. 
 
The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be determined, 
the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate is used, being the rate that the lessee would have to pay to borrow the 
funds necessary to obtain an asset of similar value in a similar economic environment with similar terms and 
conditions. The Company uses the incremental borrowing rate for calculating the discounted value of future lease 
payments.  
 
Assets arising from a lease are initially measured on a cost basis. The right-of-use asset is subsequently 
depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement date to the end of the lease term. 
unless the lease transfers ownership of the underlying asset to the Company by the end of the lease term or the 
cost of the right-of-use asset reflects that the Company will exercise a purchase option. In that case the right-of-
use asset will be depreciated over the useful life of the underlying asset, which is determined on the same basis 
as those of property and equipment. In addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically reduced by 
impairment  losses,  if  any,  and  adjusted  for  certain  remeasurements  of  the  lease  liability.  
Right-of-use assets are measured at cost comprising the following: 
-  the amount of the initial measurement of lease liability, 
-  any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received, 
-  any initial direct costs, and 
-  restoration costs. 
 
Payments associated with short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are recognized on a straight-line basis 
as an expense in profit or loss. Short-term leases are leases with a lease term of 12 months or less. Low-value 
assets comprise IT-equipment and small items of office furniture. The Company uses the practical expedients and 
therefore not to recognize the amounts in regard to short-term leases, non-lease components and low-value 
assets on balance.  
 
Extension and termination options are included in several lease agreements across the Company. These terms 
are used to maximise operational flexibility in terms of managing contracts. The majority of extension and 
termination options held are exercisable only by the Company and not by the respective lessor. None of the lease 
payments made in the current year were optional. 
    
RRRReeeeccccooooggggnnnniiiittttiiiioooonnnn    aaaannnndddd    ddddeeeerrrreeeeccccooooggggnnnniiiittttiiiioooonnnn    ooooffff    lllliiiiaaaabbbbiiiilllliiiittttiiiieeeessss    
A liability is recognized in the balance sheet when it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic 
benefits will result from the settlement of a present obligation and the amount at which the settlement will take 
place can be measured reliably. It remains on the balance sheet if a transaction (with respect to the liability) does 
not lead to a major change in the economic reality with respect to the liability. Such transactions will not result 
in  the  recognition  of  results.  When  assessing  whether  there  is  a  significant  change  in  the  economic 
circumstances, the economic benefits and risks that are likely to occur in practice are taken into account. The 
benefits and risks that are not reasonably expected to occur, are not taken in to account in this assessment 
 
A liability is no longer recognized in the balance sheet when a transaction results in all or substantially all rights 
to economic benefits and all or substantially all of the risks related to the liability being transferred to a third 
party. In such cases, the results of the transaction are directly recognized in the profit and loss account, taking 
into account any provisions related to the transaction.    
      
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   33 
EEEEqqqquuuuiiiittttyyyy    
Amounts contributed by the shareholder of the Company in excess of the nominal share capital, are accounted 
for as share premium. This also includes additional capital contributions by existing shareholders without the 
issue of shares or issue of rights to acquire or acquire shares of the Company. 
 
RRRReeeellllaaaatttteeeedddd    ppppaaaarrrrttttiiiieeeessss    
Transactions with related parties are assumed when a relationship exists between the Company and a natural 
person or entity that is affiliated with the Company. This includes, amongst others, the relationship between the 
Company and its subsidiaries, shareholders, directors and key management personnel. Transactions are 
transfers of resources, services or obligations, regardless whether anything has been charged. 
Transactions with related parties are disclosed in the notes insofar as they are not transacted under normal 
market conditions. The nature, extent and other information is disclosed if this is necessary in order to provide 
the required insight. 
 
SSSSuuuubbbbsssseeeeqqqquuuueeeennnntttt    eeeevvvveeeennnnttttssss    
Events that provide further information on the actual situation at the balance sheet date and that appear before 
the financial statements are being prepared, are recognized in the financial statements.  
 
Events that provide further information on the actual situation at the balance sheet date and that appear after 
the financial statements have been prepared but before the adoption of the financial statements, are recognized 
in the financial statements only if it is essential for the true and fair view. 
 
Events that provide no information on the actual situation at the balance sheet date are not recognized in the 
financial statements. When those events are relevant for the economic decisions of users of the financial 
statements, the nature and the estimated financial effects of the events are disclosed in the financial statements. 
 
 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   34 
NNNNooootttteeeessss    ttttoooo    tttthhhheeee    iiiinnnnccccoooommmmeeee    ssssttttaaaatttteeeemmmmeeeennnntttt    
 
1111  NNNNeeeetttt    rrrreeeevvvveeeennnnuuuueeeessss    
The net revenues can be specified as follows:  
 
EUR x million  2222000022220000          2222000011119999 
       
Management and service fees   515.3    513.4 
Fees from clients   15.3    14.0 
Revenues from marketing and sales activities  13.2    11.3 
Subadvisory fees   9.1    13.1 
Performance fees  8.2       3.9 
Administration fees  2.0       2.4 
Other income  7.9       7.1 
TTTToooottttaaaallll    nnnneeeetttt    rrrreeeevvvveeeennnnuuuueeeessss     555577771111....0000          555566665555....2222 
 
The Company receives the management fees and service fees for its asset management activities directly from 
funds and mandates or (in case of sub advisory activities) indirectly from group companies in the amount of EUR 
393.5 million (2019: EUR 364.1 million). Service fees increased because of the introduction of the fixed service 
fee model during 2020, also increasing fund (related) costs in 2020 (note 5).  
 
Revenues from marketing and sales activities and Subadvisory fees are received from other Robeco Group 
companies.  
 
Administration fees decreased due to revised contract terms as of October 2020. 
 
Other income also includes revenues from third parties for marketing and sales activities.  
 
SSSSeeeeggggmmmmeeeennnntttt    iiiinnnnffffoooorrrrmmmmaaaattttiiiioooonnnn    
The following information about revenues is included to comply with Section 380 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil 
Code. The revenues are allocated based on the legal entities where the revenues are recognized. 
 
EUR x million    2222000022220000    2222000011119999 
            
TTTToooottttaaaallll    rrrreeeevvvveeeennnnuuuueeee    bbbbyyyy    rrrreeeeggggiiiioooonnnn            
Luxembourg     69%  394.0  65%  365.0 
Netherlands  27%  156.5  31%  177.3 
Rest of Europe  1%  8.3  1%  7.8 
Outside Europe  2%  12.2  3%  15.1 
TTTToooottttaaaallll    nnnneeeetttt    rrrreeeevvvveeeennnnuuuueeeessss     111100000000%%%%     555577771111....0000     111100000000%%%%     555566665555....2222    
 
 
 
   
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   35 
2222  DDDDiiiissssttttrrrriiiibbbbuuuuttttiiiioooonnnn    aaaannnndddd    ssssuuuubbbbaaaaddddvvvviiiissssoooorrrryyyy    ccccoooossssttttssss    
The costs can be broken down as follows:  
 
EUR x million  2222000022220000          2222000011119999    
       
Distribution costs  151.0    140.3 
Subadvisory costs  44.4    65.6 
TTTToooottttaaaallll    ddddiiiissssttttrrrriiiibbbbuuuuttttiiiioooonnnn    aaaannnndddd    ssssuuuubbbbaaaaddddvvvviiiissssoooorrrryyyy    ccccoooossssttttssss         111199995555....4444          222200005555....9999    
 
Distribution costs paid to other Robeco Group companies amount to EUR 46.4 million (2019: EUR 43.9 million).  
Subadvisory costs paid to other Robeco Group companies amount to EUR 43.7 million (2019: EUR 56.9 million). 
 
 
3333  AAAAddddmmmmiiiinnnniiiissssttttrrrraaaattttiiiivvvveeee    eeeexxxxppppeeeennnnsssseeeessss    
Administrative  expenses  consist  of  costs  charged  from  other  group  companies  in  the  amount  of  
EUR 227.6 million (2019: EUR 240.7 million). These costs are mainly charged from Robeco Nederland B.V. 
Robeco Nederland B.V. charges operating costs in the amount of EUR 222.8 million (2019: EUR 222.9 million), 
relating to the management of investment funds and mandates and related financial services. The cost allocation 
includes indirect organizational costs and direct business-related costs, which, amongst others, include costs for 
staff,  information  technology,  marketing  and  housing.  Part  of  the  operating  costs  charged  by  
Robeco Nederland B.V. is disbursed to other group companies.  
 
Domestic  staff  is  made  available  to  the  Company  through  an  intercompany  service  agreement.  
Robeco Nederland B.V. is legally the employer of personnel, recharging related expenses to the Company. The 
charge concerns 641 FTE’s as per 31 December 2020 (2019: 689 FTE’s) direct and indirect personnel. These 
expenses also include disbursements by other entities within Robeco Group. Robeco Nederland B.V. is a wholly 
owned (indirect) subsidiary of ORIX Corporation Europe N.V., the domestic ultimate parent company of  
Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V.  
 
Administrative expenses also include EUR 7.9 million expenses to support the set-up of distribution opportunities 
in China, Japan, Singapore and the US, recharges of Robeco entities of EUR 4.9 million to the company and vice 
versa of EUR 8.0 million (2019: EUR 14.0 million, EUR 3.8 million respectively nil). 
 
 
4444  EEEEmmmmppppllllooooyyyyeeeeeeee    bbbbeeeennnneeeeffffiiiittttssss    eeeexxxxppppeeeennnnsssseeee    
The staff of Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V is employed in two different ways. Domestic staff is 
located in the Netherlands and is legally employed by Robeco Nederland B.V., the group's domestic service 
company. See note 3 for the recharge of the domestic staff expenses. International staff is formally employed by 
the Company and is located in the Company's international offices. Staff costs can be specified as follows: 
 
EUR x million  2222000022220000          2222000011119999 
       
Wages and salaries  13.0    12.4 
Social security and pension costs  1.4    1.5 
Other employee benefits expenses  0.2    1.8 
TTTToooottttaaaallll    eeeemmmmppppllllooooyyyyeeeeeeee    bbbbeeeennnneeeeffffiiiittttssss    eeeexxxxppppeeeennnnsssseeee     11114444....6666          11115555....7777    
 
In 2020 there was a release of EUR 0.6 million related to a restructuring plan was included under Other employee 
benefits expenses (2019: addition of EUR 1.0 million).  
 
During 2020, on average 48 FTE’s (2019: 51 FTE’s) international staff was executing operational activities on 
behalf of the Company. The pensions of legally employed staff are based on defined contribution plans. These 
plans are provided by external insurance companies. The pension costs concern the paid insurance premiums by 
the Company.  
 
 
   
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   36 
The distribution of the average international staff by country is as follows:  
 
Average FTE’s  2222000022220000          2222000011119999    
       
Germany   14    14 
United Kingdom  16    18 
Spain   8    8 
United Arab Emirates  4    5 
Italy         6    5 
Norway  0    1 
TTTToooottttaaaallll    aaaavvvveeeerrrraaaaggggeeee    nnnnuuuummmmbbbbeeeerrrr    ooooffff    eeeemmmmppppllllooooyyyyeeeeeeeessss     44448888          55551111    
    
    
5555  OOOOtttthhhheeeerrrr    eeeexxxxppppeeeennnnsssseeeessss    
Other expenses can be specified as follows: 
 
EUR x million  2222000022220000          2222000011119999    
       
Fund and client related costs  13.8    11.4 
Marketing  2.4    4.0 
Housing and furniture  0.5    0.6 
Audit costs  1.2    1.6 
Travel and accommodation  0.3    1.1 
Advisory  8.1    0.5 
Information technology  0.5    0.5 
Foreign exchange rate differences  0.1    0.0 
Other  4.5    2.5 
TTTToooottttaaaallll    ooootttthhhheeeerrrr    eeeexxxxppppeeeennnnsssseeeessss     33331111....4444          22222222....2222    
 
The increase in fund and client related costs relate to the outsourcing of operations and administration activities 
to JP Morgan and related to the introduction of the fixed service fee model in the course of 2020. The advisory 
costs increased and is explained in note 18 provisions.  
 
With reference to Section 2:382a of the Netherlands Civil Code, the following fees for the financial year have 
been charged by KPMG (and its network of offices) to the Company. 
 
EUR x million  2222000022220000          2222000011119999    
       
Audit financial statements  0.2    0.3 
Other audit engagements  1.0    1.3 
TTTToooottttaaaallll     1111....2222          1111....6666    
 
Other audit engagements mainly comprises of audits of funds and services related to assurance reports on 
controls at the Company (ISAE 3402). 
 
 
 
 
    
      
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   37 
6666  IIIInnnnccccoooommmmeeee    ttttaaaaxxxx    eeeexxxxppppeeeennnnsssseeee    
The tax on the result, amounting to EUR 25.1 million, can be specified as follows: 
 
EUR x million  2222000022220000          2222000011119999    
       
RRRReeeessssuuuulllltttt    bbbbeeeeffffoooorrrreeee    ttttaaaaxxxx     99999999....5555          77778888....5555    
Tax at the Netherlands tax rate of 25% (2019 – 25%)   24.8    19.6 
Difference in overseas tax rates   0.2    0.7 
Non-deductible costs  -0.1    -0.1 
Deferred corporate income tax  0.1    - 
Corporate income tax previous financial years  0.1    0.3 
TTTTaaaaxxxx    oooonnnn    rrrreeeessssuuuulllltttt     22225555....1111          22220000....5555    
       
Effective tax rate  25%    26% 
Applicable tax rate  25%    25% 
 
The Dutch statutory tax rate in 2020 was 25% (2019: 25%). The current tax is settled monthly, through Robeco 
Holding B.V., with ORIX Corporation Europe N.V., the head of the Dutch fiscal unity (see note 21). 
 
The income tax expense in 2020 was EUR 25.1 million (2019: EUR 20.5 million). In 2020 the effective tax rate 
was 25% (2019: 26%).     
NNNNooootttteeeessss    ttttoooo    tttthhhheeee    bbbbaaaallllaaaannnncccceeee    sssshhhheeeeeeeetttt                             
 
 
7777  IIIInnnnttttaaaannnnggggiiiibbbblllleeee    aaaasssssssseeeettttssss 
Movements in intangible assets were as follows: 
 
EUR x million  2222000022220000 2222000011119999
    
CCCCoooosssstttt    aaaatttt    1111    JJJJaaaannnnuuuuaaaarrrryyyy,,,,    nnnneeeetttt    ooooffff    aaaaccccccccuuuummmmuuuullllaaaatttteeeedddd    aaaammmmoooorrrrttttiiiizzzzaaaattttiiiioooonnnn    aaaannnndddd    iiiimmmmppppaaaaiiiirrrrmmmmeeeennnntttt     2222....6666 1111....0000
Additions  - 2.8
Amortization  -1.2 -1.2
NNNNeeeetttt    ccccaaaarrrrrrrryyyyiiiinnnngggg    aaaammmmoooouuuunnnntttt    aaaatttt    33331111    DDDDeeeecccceeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr         1111....4444 2222....6666
  
AAAAtttt    33331111    DDDDeeeecccceeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr      
 
Cost   2.0 2.8
Accumulated amortization and impairment  -0.6 -0.2
NNNNeeeetttt    ccccaaaarrrrrrrryyyyiiiinnnngggg    aaaammmmoooouuuunnnntttt    aaaatttt    33331111    DDDDeeeecccceeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr  1111....4444 2.6
 
The intangible assets relates to software and a transfer of Austrian client relationships from Robeco Switzerland 
AG to the Company’s branch Robeco Germany as of 1 July 2017 and is to be fully depreciated within 3 years and 
a transfer of Austrian and German client relationships from RobecoSAM AG to the Company’s branch Robeco 
Germany as of 1 July 2019 and is to be fully depreciated within 3 years. 
 
 
      
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   38 
8888  TTTTaaaannnnggggiiiibbbblllleeee    aaaasssssssseeeettttssss    
Movements in tangible assets were as follows: 
 
EUR x million  2222000022220000 2222000011119999
    
CCCCoooosssstttt    aaaatttt    1111    JJJJaaaannnnuuuuaaaarrrryyyy,,,,    nnnneeeetttt    ooooffff    aaaaccccccccuuuummmmuuuullllaaaatttteeeedddd    aaaammmmoooorrrrttttiiiizzzzaaaattttiiiioooonnnn    aaaannnndddd    iiiimmmmppppaaaaiiiirrrrmmmmeeeennnntttt     0000....6666 0000....6666
Additions  0.1 0.2
Depreciation  -0.2 -0.2
NNNNeeeetttt    ccccaaaarrrrrrrryyyyiiiinnnngggg    aaaammmmoooouuuunnnntttt    aaaatttt    33331111    DDDDeeeecccceeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr         0000....5555 0000....6666
  
AAAAtttt    33331111    DDDDeeeecccceeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr      
Cost   1.4 1.4
Accumulated depreciation  -0.9 -0.8
NNNNeeeetttt    ccccaaaarrrrrrrryyyyiiiinnnngggg    aaaammmmoooouuuunnnntttt    aaaatttt    33331111    DDDDeeeecccceeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr  0000....5555 0000....6666
 
The tangible assets fully relates to leasehold improvements and hardware.  
 
 
9999  LLLLeeeeaaaasssseeeessss        
This note provides information for leases where the Company is a lessee. 
 
AAAAmmmmoooouuuunnnnttttssss    rrrreeeeccccooooggggnnnniiiizzzzeeeedddd    iiiinnnn    tttthhhheeee    bbbbaaaallllaaaannnncccceeee    sssshhhheeeeeeeetttt    
The balance sheet shows the following amounts relating to leases: 
 
EUR x million  2222000022220000 2222000011119999
    
RRRRiiiigggghhhhtttt----ooooffff----uuuusssseeee    aaaasssssssseeeettttssss    rrrreeeellllaaaatttteeeedddd    ttttoooo    pppprrrrooooppppeeeerrrrttttyyyy    ((((ooooffffffffiiiicccceeee    bbbbuuuuiiiillllddddiiiinnnnggggssss))))    
Cost at 1 January, net of accumulated amortization and impairment    1.3  2.1 
Additions    1.5  0.0 
Depreciation  -0.8  -0.8 
NNNNeeeetttt    ccccaaaarrrrrrrryyyyiiiinnnngggg    aaaammmmoooouuuunnnntttt    aaaatttt    33331111    DDDDeeeecccceeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr         2222....0000     1111....3333    
 
AAAAtttt    33331111    DDDDeeeecccceeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr        
Cost   3.0  2.1 
Accumulated depreciation  -1.0  -0.8 
NNNNeeeetttt    ccccaaaarrrrrrrryyyyiiiinnnngggg    aaaammmmoooouuuunnnntttt    aaaatttt    33331111    DDDDeeeecccceeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr  2222....0000     1111....3333    
  
LLLLeeeeaaaasssseeee    lllliiiiaaaabbbbiiiilllliiiittttiiiieeeessss    
                   
CCCCoooonnnnttttrrrraaaaccccttttuuuuaaaallll    ((((uuuunnnnddddiiiissssccccoooouuuunnnntttteeeedddd))))    mmmmaaaattttuuuurrrriiiittttiiiieeeessss    aaaatttt    33331111    DDDDeeeecccceeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr                       
Less than 1 year  0.7  0.7 
Between 1 and 5 years  1.4  0.6 
Over 5 years  -  - 
TTTToooottttaaaallll    ccccoooonnnnttttrrrraaaaccccttttuuuuaaaallll    ccccaaaasssshhhh    fffflllloooowwwwssss  2222....1111     1111....3333    
 
CCCCaaaarrrrrrrryyyyiiiinnnngggg    aaaammmmoooouuuunnnntttt    aaaatttt    33331111    DDDDeeeecccceeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr    
Current  0.6  0.7 
Non-current  1.4  0.5 
      2222....0000     1111....2222    
 
      
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   39 
AAAAmmmmoooouuuunnnnttttssss    rrrreeeeccccooooggggnnnniiiizzzzeeeedddd    iiiinnnn    tttthhhheeee    iiiinnnnccccoooommmmeeee    ssssttttaaaatttteeeemmmmeeeennnntttt        
The income statement shows the following amounts relating to leases:  
 
EUR x million       2222000022220000     2222000011119999    
       
Depreciation of right-of-use assets (office buildings)              0.8     0.8  
 
In determining the lease term, management considers all facts and circumstances that create an economic 
incentive to exercise an extension option, or not exercise a termination option. Extension options (or periods 
after termination options) are only included in the lease term if the lease is reasonably certain to be extended 
(or not terminated). Extension options in office leases have not been included in the lease liability, because the 
Company can replace the assets without significant cost or business disruption. 
 
 
11110000  IIIInnnnvvvveeeessssttttmmmmeeeennnntttt    iiiinnnn    ggggrrrroooouuuupppp    aaaannnndddd    aaaassssssssoooocccciiiiaaaatttteeeedddd    ccccoooommmmppppaaaannnniiiieeeessss    
The Company had 100% shareholdings in 11 subsidiaries, being the general partner entities of its Private Equity 
business. In May 2020 Robeco sold its Private Equity business to a third party, including the mentioned 
subsidiaries.  
 
The book value of the investments in group and associated companies developed as follows during the year: 
 
EUR x million      2222000022220000          2222000011119999    
                
BBBBooooooookkkk    vvvvaaaalllluuuueeee    ooooffff    iiiinnnnvvvveeeessssttttmmmmeeeennnnttttssss    iiiinnnn    ggggrrrroooouuuupppp    aaaannnndddd    aaaassssssssoooocccciiiiaaaatttteeeedddd    ccccoooommmmppppaaaannnniiiieeeessss    aaaatttt    1111    JJJJaaaannnnuuuuaaaarrrryyyy     0000....0000          5555....2222    
Dividend distribution and capital reduction  0.0    -13.3 
Result current year  0.0    8.1 
BBBBooooooookkkk    vvvvaaaalllluuuueeee    ooooffff    iiiinnnnvvvveeeessssttttmmmmeeeennnnttttssss    iiiinnnn    ggggrrrroooouuuupppp    aaaannnndddd    aaaassssssssoooocccciiiiaaaatttteeeedddd    ccccoooommmmppppaaaannnniiiieeeessss    aaaatttt    eeeennnndddd    ooooffff    
0000....0000          0000....0000    
ppppeeeerrrriiiioooodddd    
 
The Company holds two shares in Canara Robeco Asset Management Co. Ltd.  
 
 
11111111  LLLLooooaaaannnnssss    ttttoooo    rrrreeeellllaaaatttteeeedddd    ppppaaaarrrrttttiiiieeeessss    
For cash management purposes, the Company granted loans to Stichting Effectengiro RAM of EUR 1.2 million 
and to Stichting Robeco Funds of EUR 0.4 million. These loans have been repaid in 2020. 
    
    
11112222  DDDDeeeeffffeeeerrrrrrrreeeedddd    ttttaaaaxxxx    aaaasssssssseeeettttssss    
The deferred tax asset relates to temporary differences in the company and its branches that are deductible in 
determining taxable profit of future periods in total of EUR 2.6 million (2019: EUR 0.8 million). The current part 
amounts of EUR 2.0 million (2019: EUR 0.8 million). 
 
 
11113333  TTTTrrrraaaaddddeeee    rrrreeeecccceeeeiiiivvvvaaaabbbblllleeeessss    
Trade receivables relate to outstanding invoices and fees from funds, which are collected without invoicing. The 
fair value of the receivables approximates the carrying amount due to their short-term character. No provisions 
for bad debt is recognized, trade receivables have no history of non-performance.  
 
 
11114444  RRRReeeecccceeeeiiiivvvvaaaabbbblllleeeessss    ffffrrrroooommmm    ggggrrrroooouuuupppp    ccccoooommmmppppaaaannnniiiieeeessss    
This item relates to current accounts and current account loans with Robeco Group companies. The current 
accounts  are  settled  periodically  and  amounted  to  EUR  46.4  million  at  31  December  2020  (2019:  
EUR 56.2 million).  
 
The Company has granted current account loans to Robeco Holding B.V. These loans are receivable on demand 
in  order  to  meet  the  liquidity  requirements  of  the  regulator.  The  balance  was  EUR  80.0  million  at  
31 December 2020 (2019: EUR 80.0 million). The loans are granted for cash management purposes and the 
interest rate is based on Euribor and a risk premium. The effective interest rate in 2020 was 0.4% (2019: 0.4%). 
The fair value of the receivables approximates the carrying amount due to their short-term character. 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   40 
11115555  OOOOtttthhhheeeerrrr    rrrreeeecccceeeeiiiivvvvaaaabbbblllleeeessss    
Other receivables can be specified as follows:  
 
EUR x million      2222000022220000              2222000011119999    
       
Accrued fees   10.9    18.3 
Accrued client fees   3.2    3.2 
Prepaid expenses   0.6    0.7 
Current tax receivable   0.4    0.1 
Other   0.4    2.5 
TTTToooottttaaaallll    ooootttthhhheeeerrrr    rrrreeeecccceeeeiiiivvvvaaaabbbblllleeeessss     11115555....5555          22224444....8888    
 
Accrued fees mainly consist of accruals for management fees, performance fees and other fees. All outstanding 
amounts are expected to be received within 12 months. Following the actual invoicing to clients, the 
management fee related costs are netted with the management fee. The fair value of the receivables 
approximates the carrying amount due to their short-term nature. 
 
 
11116666  CCCCaaaasssshhhh    aaaannnndddd    ccccaaaasssshhhh    eeeeqqqquuuuiiiivvvvaaaalllleeeennnnttttssss    
Cash and cash equivalents consist of immediately available credit balances at banks. 
 
 
11117777  EEEEqqqquuuuiiiittttyyyy    
At 31 December 2020, the Company’s placed and paid in full share capital amounted to EUR 41 thousand 
(90 ordinary shares). 
 
IIIIssssssssuuuueeeedddd     SSSShhhhaaaarrrreeee     OOOOtttthhhheeeerrrr     RRRReeeessssuuuulllltttt     TTTToooottttaaaallll    
ccccaaaappppiiiittttaaaallll     pppprrrreeeemmmmiiiiuuuummmm        rrrreeeesssseeeerrrrvvvveeeessss     ffffiiiinnnnaaaannnncccciiiiaaaallll    
EUR x million   yyyyeeeeaaaarrrr    
                             
AAAAtttt    1111    JJJJaaaannnnuuuuaaaarrrryyyy    2222000022220000  0000....1111  33331111....5555  99996666....1111  66666666....1111  111199993333....8888 
Result 2019  -  -  66.1  -66.1  - 
Dividend distribution  -  -  -33.0  -  -33.0 
Add: result 2020  -  -  -  74.4  74.4 
AAAAtttt    33331111    DDDDeeeecccceeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr    2222000022220000     0000....1111     33331111....5555     111122229999....2222     77774444....4444     222233335555....2222    
 
 
IIIIssssssssuuuueeeedddd     SSSShhhhaaaarrrreeee     OOOOtttthhhheeeerrrr     RRRReeeessssuuuulllltttt     TTTToooottttaaaallll    
ccccaaaappppiiiittttaaaallll     pppprrrreeeemmmmiiiiuuuummmm        rrrreeeesssseeeerrrrvvvveeeessss     ffffiiiinnnnaaaannnncccciiiiaaaallll    
EUR x million   yyyyeeeeaaaarrrr    
                             
AAAAtttt    1111    JJJJaaaannnnuuuuaaaarrrryyyy    2222000011119999  0000....1111  33331111....5555  77774444....7777  88887777....5555  111199993333....8888 
Result 2018  -  -  87.5  -87.5  - 
Dividend distribution  -  -  -66.0  -  -66.0 
Rounding*  -  -  -0.1  -  -0.1 
Add: result 2019  -  -  -  66.1  66.1 
AAAAtttt    33331111    DDDDeeeecccceeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr    2222000011119999     0000....1111     33331111....5555     99996666....1111     66666666....1111     111199993333....8888    
*All amounts are rounded to the nearest tenth of a million, the remaining difference is presented under rounding. 
 
The Company reports to the DNB on a quarterly basis the FINREP and COREP reports as required by CRD IV rules. 
The most recent reporting was done as of 31 December 2020. All capital requirements were met.  
      
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   41 
11118888  PPPPrrrroooovvvviiiissssiiiioooonnnnssss    
Movements in provisions were as follows:  
 
PPPPoooossssssssiiiibbbblllleeee    lllloooossssssss     RRRReeeessssttttrrrruuuuccccttttuuuurrrriiiinnnngggg     OOOOtttthhhheeeerrrr     TTTToooottttaaaallll    
EUR x million   ooooffff    iiiinnnnccccoooommmmeeee    
                        
CCCCoooosssstttt    aaaatttt    1111    JJJJaaaannnnuuuuaaaarrrryyyy    2222000022220000  1111....6666     6666....0000     0000....0000     7777....6666    
Additions  -  -  9.6  9.6 
Usage   -  -2.0  -1.7  -3.7 
Release   -  -0.6  -  -0.6 
NNNNeeeetttt    ccccaaaarrrrrrrryyyyiiiinnnngggg    aaaammmmoooouuuunnnntttt    aaaatttt    33331111    DDDDeeeecccceeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrr    2222000022220000     1111....6666     3333....4444     7777....9999     11112222....9999    
 
In 2016 the Company has recorded a provision of EUR 1.6 million for an estimated loss of income. It is expected 
that the period of uncertainty is between one to five years. As per 31 December 2020 no amounts were used.  
 
The provision for restructuring pertains to a plan to outsource back office operations to a third party. This plan, 
which was formalized in 2017 was completed early in the second half of 2020. The formal end date of the last 
employment contract expected to be terminated is planned for end of May 2021 (this implies that all payments 
will be made before the end of 2021). The provision covers the estimated costs for outplacement and redundancy 
based on existing social plan terms and conditions; contract termination fees related to service providers and 
other unavoidable expenses irrevocably related to the restructuring. The restructuring provision is due within one 
year.  
 
In 2020, the AFM has determined that Robeco must undertake a number of remedial measures to improve the 
processes in relation to the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing (Prevention) Act (‘Wwft’) and the 
Sanctions Act (‘Sw’) in Robeco Retail, Robeco’s on-line execution-only platform for Dutch retail customers. The 
improvements have commenced in 2020 and are scheduled to be completed by the end of 2021.  
Subsequent to the above, and as a separate matter, the AFM has indicated that it has concerns about the way in 
which Robeco has set up its business operations. Robeco has engaged with the AFM to substantiate Robeco’s 
views in this respect. 
The Company has taken a provision based on the estimated, incremental external costs involved. The other 
provision is due within one year, except for an amount of EUR 1.3 million. 
 
 
11119999  EEEEmmmmppppllllooooyyyyeeeeeeee    bbbbeeeennnneeeeffffiiiittttssss    
Employee benefits consists of deferred incentives of personnel employed by the Company. We refer to Note 21 
Other liabilities for the current portion of the Employee benefits. 
 
 
22220000  LLLLiiiiaaaabbbbiiiilllliiiittttiiiieeeessss    ttttoooo    ggggrrrroooouuuupppp    ccccoooommmmppppaaaannnniiiieeeessss    
This item relates to current accounts with Robeco Group companies, which are settled periodically.  
 
 
22221111  OOOOtttthhhheeeerrrr    lllliiiiaaaabbbbiiiilllliiiittttiiiieeeessss    
Other current liabilities can be specified as follows:  
 
EUR x million      2222000022220000              2222000011119999    
       
Distribution costs, subadvisory costs and other accrued liabilities  37.6    30.4 
Employee benefits  6.3    6.6 
Current tax liabilities  1.2    1.2 
Social security cost, wage tax and sales tax payable   0.3    0.4 
Other liabilities  3.0    1.4 
TTTToooottttaaaallll    ooootttthhhheeeerrrr    lllliiiiaaaabbbbiiiilllliiiittttiiiieeeessss     44448888....4444          44440000....0000    
   
All outstanding liabilities are expected to be paid within 12 months. The fair value of the current liabilities 
approximates the book value due to their short-term character. Other liabilities include mainly creditors. 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   42 
22222222  CCCCoooonnnnttttiiiinnnnggggeeeennnntttt    aaaasssssssseeeettttssss    aaaannnndddd    lllliiiiaaaabbbbiiiilllliiiittttiiiieeeessss    
The amount of accrued carried interest, which is not yet distributed by the Investee Funds, is to be marked as a 
contingent asset of EUR 3.2 million as per 31 December 2020 (as per 31 December 2019: EUR 5.3 million). The 
final amount of the carried interest to be distributed by the Investee Funds may be significantly different from 
the amount earlier marked as contingent assets. 
    
In a few recent judgments, the Brussels Court of Appeal confirms the previous case law of the Court of First 
Instance that Belgium is not entitled to levy Belgian subscription tax under the double tax treaties with the 
Netherlands and Luxembourg. The Belgian state has recently appealed to the Belgian High Court. If the Belgian 
High Court rules in favor of the asset management industry, the Company is entitled to receive this disputed 
Belgian tax amounting to EUR 0.7 million (excluding interest) (2019: EUR 0.6 million). Given the uncertain 
outcome of the legal proceedings this is marked as a contingent asset. 
    
The Company has issued a guarantee in which the Company commits itself to fulfill the obligations of Stichting 
Robeco Funds towards their clients. As per 31 December 2020, Stichting Robeco Funds has cash in the amount 
of EUR 23.9 million (2019: EUR 1.2 million) that relate to items to be settled in the short term. 
 
As mentioned in note 18 a provision is recorded for the estimated, incremental external costs for a number of 
improvements that Robeco needs to undertake. Next to these costs, management does not consider other 
related cash outflow, if any, to be material.  
 
In consideration of the Monetary Authority of Singapore granting a license to Robeco Singapore Private Limited, 
the Company has confirmed that it accepts full responsibility for all operations of Robeco Singapore and ensures 
that Robeco Singapore maintains sound liquidity and a sound financial position at all times. 
 
The Company has commitments regarding IT-related contracts of EUR 0.1 million (2019: EUR 0.1 million). These 
commitments have remaining terms of between 1 and 2 years.  
 
For a few clients where a sister company acts as formal manager, the Company covers for certain liabilities 
resulting from that formal manager role.  
 
The Company has irrevocable credit facilities related to guarantees of EUR 0.1 million (2019: EUR 0.1 million).  
 
The Company is part of a tax group headed by ORIX Corporation Europe N.V.    and is jointly and severally 
responsible for the resulting tax liability, as are the other companies that are part of the tax group. 
 
 
22223333  FFFFiiiinnnnaaaannnncccciiiiaaaallll    rrrriiiisssskkkk    mmmmaaaannnnaaaaggggeeeemmmmeeeennnntttt    oooobbbbjjjjeeeeccccttttiiiivvvveeeessss    aaaannnndddd    ppppoooolllliiiicccciiiieeeessss 
The Company is exposed to several financial risk types which are detailed in this paragraph. For these risk types 
policies and, where relevant, limits are in place which are subject to approval by the Enterprise Risk Management 
Committee (ERMC) and endorsed by the Audit & Risk Committee. The financial risk types are discussed below. 
The Company is not directly exposed to financial risks in client portfolios.  
 
CCCCrrrreeeeddddiiiitttt    rrrriiiisssskkkk    
Credit risk is defined as the risk that counterparties cannot fulfil their contractual obligations. A policy is in place 
prescribing counterparty exposure limits and the careful selection and monitoring of financial counterparties.  
 
As the Company manages assets on behalf of clients and funds and management fees are typically charged to 
and paid from the underlying funds managed by the Company, there is a very low credit risk of default on 
management fees and other third parties’ revenues and related trade receivables, who do not have a history of 
non-performance.  
 
For banks and financial institutions, only independently rated parties with a minimum rating of ‘A-’ are accepted. 
In case eligible counterparties are not available in certain countries ERMC approves these counterparties on an 
individual basis, with a maximum exposure threshold. 
 
The company also has loans and current account positions with related parties, group companies and the direct 
parent company.  
 
LLLLiiiiqqqquuuuiiiiddddiiiittttyyyy    rrrriiiisssskkkk    
Liquidity risk is defined as the risk to the Company's earnings or capital arising from its inability to meet its 
financial obligations as they fall due, without incurring significant costs or losses. Liquidity risk arises from the 
general funding of the Company's activities and in the management of its assets and liabilities. The Company 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   43 
maintains sufficient liquidity to fund its day-to-day operations. Hence, liquidity is managed in a manner that 
addresses known as well as unanticipated cash funding needs. The liquidity of the Company is monitored by the 
Finance function on a regular basis, so that cash positions can be optimized when necessary. Cash and cash 
equivalents balances are reported to ERMC on a regular basis.  
    
MMMMaaaarrrrkkkkeeeetttt    rrrriiiisssskkkk    
Market risk is defined as the potential change in the market value of its financial position due to adverse 
movements in financial market variables. The Company is exposed to the impact of fluctuations in the prevailing 
foreign currency rates on its financial positions and cash flows. The Company’s exposure relates primarily to the 
revenue to be received and expenses to be paid denominated in foreign currency. At group, limits are set and 
monitored on the level of exposure by currency and in total. Next to currency risk the Company is exposed to 
interest rate risk on its cash position and on the current account loan granted to Robeco Holding B.V. The interests 
received on the bank accounts and the current account loans are based on market rates. The Company does not 
conclude on derivatives for the incurred interest rate risk.  
 
 
22224444  RRRReeeellllaaaatttteeeedddd    ppppaaaarrrrttttiiiieeeessss    
ORIX Corporation and entities under common control of ORIX Corporation Europe N.V.    form a related party. 
During 2020, similar to previous year, there were no operational transactions with ORIX Corporation, outside 
Robeco Group. 
 
Robeco Group companies are identified as related parties. All transactions and balances with Robeco Group 
companies are included in the notes to the income statement and the notes to the balance sheet. Transactions 
are performed at arms’ length. 
 
Stichting Robeco Pensioenfonds also is a related party. The client relationship consists of mandate investments 
and/or direct investments in retail and institutional funds. The fees for these activities are in line with market 
rates. 
 
In addition to the mentioned companies, the statutory directors can be identified as related parties. The 
remuneration of the managing and supervisory directors is included in note 25 and 26.  
 
Besides the services of other market parties, the Company also uses the services of several related parties to 
treasury and custody. Transactions are executed at market rates.  
 
The Company has granted current account loan to its parent, Robeco Holding B.V. 
 
The Company has not created a provision for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties (2019: 
EUR nil), because the risks involved are not considered to be material.  
 
 
22225555  RRRReeeemmmmuuuunnnneeeerrrraaaattttiiiioooonnnn    ooooffff    ssssttttaaaattttuuuuttttoooorrrryyyy    ddddiiiirrrreeeeccccttttoooorrrrssss    
The members of the Executive Committee, who are also statutory directors are not entitled to salaries and 
benefits from the Company, as the members are employed by Robeco Nederland B.V., which is indirect part of 
ORIX Corporation Europe N.V.    The applicable remuneration recharged by Robeco Nederland B.V. and recognized 
as an expense during the reporting period, was as follows:  
    
(EUR x thousand)  2222000022220000 2222000011119999
 
Base salary 1  2,183 2,006
Variable remuneration (short- and long-term components)  2,897 2,509
Pension costs and other costs 2  680 572
TTTToooottttaaaallll         5555,,,,777766660000 5555,,,,000088887777
1 Includes vacation allowance. 
2 Includes severance payments, social-security costs, social allowance, mortgage suppletion, car lease and other allowances. 
 
The emoluments, including pension costs as referred to in Section 2:383(1) of the Netherlands Civil Code, are 
charged in the financial year to the Company. The remuneration costs are included in Administrative expenses 
and relate to current and former statutory directors. 
 
The accounting consequences of the revision of the 2019 variable awards of the current and former statutory 
directors are recorded in 2020.  
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   44 
22226666  RRRReeeemmmmuuuunnnneeeerrrraaaattttiiiioooonnnn    ooooffff    mmmmeeeemmmmbbbbeeeerrrrssss    ooooffff    tttthhhheeee    SSSSuuuuppppeeeerrrrvvvviiiissssoooorrrryyyy    BBBBooooaaaarrrrdddd    
The total remuneration for the members of the Supervisory Board amounted to EUR 0.5 million (2019: EUR 0.4 
million). The remuneration costs are included in Administrative expenses. 
 
 
22227777  SSSSuuuubbbbsssseeeeqqqquuuueeeennnntttt    eeeevvvveeeennnnttttssss    
Robeco decided to merge Robeco Luxembourg S.A. into Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V., which 
took effect on 1 January 2021. As of that date, the responsibilities for managing and overseeing Robeco’s 
Luxembourg domiciled funds transferred to the Netherlands. There will be no change to the services provided to 
Robeco’s investors. Because of the merge an amount of EUR 12.9 million will be added to the equity of Robeco 
Institutional Asset Management B.V. in January 2021.   
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   45 
PPPPrrrrooooppppoooosssseeeedddd    pppprrrrooooffffiiiitttt    aaaapppppppprrrroooopppprrrriiiiaaaattttiiiioooonnnn    
 
The Executive Committee, with consent of the Supervisory Board, proposes to distribute EUR 74.4 million of the 
result for the year as dividend. 
 
The Company meets the requirements according to the distribution and balance sheet test as referred to in 
Section 2:216 of the Netherlands Civil Code. 
 
    
    
    
Rotterdam, 22 April 2021 
 
 
The Executive Committee: 
 
Gilbert Van Hassel  
Karin van Baardwijk  
Lia Belilos – Wessels  
Mark den Hollander  
Mark van der Kroft 
Martin Nijkamp 
Christoph von Reiche 
Victor Verberk 
 
Supervisory Board: 
  
Maarten Slendebroek  
Sonja Barendregt – Roojers  
Stanley Koyanagi 
Mark Talbot 
Radboud Vlaar 
 
 
   
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   46 
OOOOtttthhhheeeerrrr    iiiinnnnffffoooorrrrmmmmaaaattttiiiioooonnnn    
AAAArrrrttttiiiicccclllleeeessss    ooooffff    AAAAssssssssoooocccciiiiaaaattttiiiioooonnnn    rrrruuuulllleeeessss    rrrreeeeggggaaaarrrrddddiiiinnnngggg    pppprrrrooooffffiiiitttt    aaaapppppppprrrroooopppprrrriiiiaaaattttiiiioooonnnn    
 
According to article 4.1 of the Articles of Association, the profit shown in the financial statements will be at the 
disposal of the General Meeting of Shareholders. 
 
 
BBBBrrrraaaannnncccchhhheeeessss    
 
The Company has the following branches: 
 
 
BBBBrrrraaaannnncccchhhh     CCCCoooouuuunnnnttttrrrryyyy    
   
Robeco Dubai  United Arab Emirates 
Robeco Germany  Germany  
Robeco Italy  Italy 
Robeco Spain  Spain  
Robeco United Kingdom  United Kingdom 
   
 
      
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   47 
IIIInnnnddddeeeeppppeeeennnnddddeeeennnntttt    aaaauuuuddddiiiittttoooorrrr’’’’ssss    rrrreeeeppppoooorrrrtttt    
 
To: the General Meeting and the Supervisory Board of Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 
 
    
RRRReeeeppppoooorrrrtttt    oooonnnn    tttthhhheeee    aaaauuuuddddiiiitttt    ooooffff    tttthhhheeee    aaaaccccccccoooommmmppppaaaannnnyyyyiiiinnnngggg    ccccoooommmmppppaaaannnnyyyy    ffffiiiinnnnaaaannnncccciiiiaaaallll    ssssttttaaaatttteeeemmmmeeeennnnttttssss    
OOOOuuuurrrr    ooooppppiiiinnnniiiioooonnnn    
We have audited the company financial statements 2020 of Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V., based 
in Rotterdam. 
In our opinion the accompanying company financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position 
of Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. as at 31 December 2020, and of its result 2020 in accordance 
with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. 
The company financial statements comprise: 
1.  the income statement 2020; 
2.  the balance sheet as at 31 December 2020; and 
3.  the notes comprising a summary of the accounting policies and other explanatory information. 
BBBBaaaassssiiiissss    ffffoooorrrr    oooouuuurrrr    ooooppppiiiinnnniiiioooonnnn    
We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our 
responsibilities under those standards are further described in the 'Our responsibilities for the audit of the 
company financial statements' section of our report. 
We are independent of Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. in accordance with the Wet toezicht 
accountantsorganisaties (Wta, Audit firms supervision act), the 'Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van 
accountants bij assurance-opdrachten' (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with 
respect to independence) and other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we 
have complied with the 'Verordening gedrags- en beroepsregels accountants' (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics). 
We believe the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
RRRReeeeppppoooorrrrtttt    oooonnnn    tttthhhheeee    ooootttthhhheeeerrrr    iiiinnnnffffoooorrrrmmmmaaaattttiiiioooonnnn    iiiinnnncccclllluuuuddddeeeedddd    iiiinnnn    tttthhhheeee    aaaannnnnnnnuuuuaaaallll    rrrreeeeppppoooorrrrtttt    
In addition to the company financial statements and our auditor's report thereon, the annual report contains 
other information that consists of: 
-  General information; 
-  Report of the Executive Committee; 
-  Report of the Supervisory Board; and 
-  other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. 
Based on the following procedures performed, we conclude that the other information: 
-  is consistent with the company financial statements and does not contain material misstatements; 
-  contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. 
We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained through our audit of 
the company financial statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other information contains 
material misstatements. 
By performing these procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code 
and the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of the procedures performed is less than the scope of those performed 
in our audit of the company financial statements. 
The Executive Committee is responsible for the preparation of the other information, including the annual report, 
in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 
of the Dutch Civil Code. 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   48 
DDDDeeeessssccccrrrriiiippppttttiiiioooonnnn    ooooffff    tttthhhheeee    rrrreeeessssppppoooonnnnssssiiiibbbbiiiilllliiiittttiiiieeeessss    ffffoooorrrr    tttthhhheeee    ccccoooommmmppppaaaannnnyyyy    ffffiiiinnnnaaaannnncccciiiiaaaallll    ssssttttaaaatttteeeemmmmeeeennnnttttssss    
RRRReeeessssppppoooonnnnssssiiiibbbbiiiilllliiiittttiiiieeeessss    ooooffff    tttthhhheeee    EEEExxxxeeeeccccuuuuttttiiiivvvveeee    CCCCoooommmmmmmmiiiitttttttteeeeeeee    aaaannnndddd    tttthhhheeee    SSSSuuuuppppeeeerrrrvvvviiiissssoooorrrryyyy    BBBBooooaaaarrrrdddd    ffffoooorrrr    tttthhhheeee    ccccoooommmmppppaaaannnnyyyy    
ffffiiiinnnnaaaannnncccciiiiaaaallll    ssssttttaaaatttteeeemmmmeeeennnnttttssss    
The Executive Committee is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the company financial 
statements in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore, the Executive Committee 
is responsible for such internal control as the Executive Committee determines is necessary to enable the 
preparation of the company financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to 
errors or fraud. 
As part of the preparation of the company financial statements, the Executive Committee is responsible for 
assessing the company's ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting framework 
mentioned, the Executive Committee should prepare the company financial statements using the going concern 
basis of accounting unless the Executive Committee either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Executive Committee should disclose events and 
circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the company's ability to continue as a going concern in the 
company financial statements. 
The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the company's financial reporting process. 
OOOOuuuurrrr    rrrreeeessssppppoooonnnnssssiiiibbbbiiiilllliiiittttiiiieeeessss    ffffoooorrrr    tttthhhheeee    aaaauuuuddddiiiitttt    ooooffff    tttthhhheeee    ccccoooommmmppppaaaannnnyyyy    ffffiiiinnnnaaaannnncccciiiiaaaallll    ssssttttaaaatttteeeemmmmeeeennnnttttssss    
Our objective is to plan and perform the audit engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and 
appropriate audit evidence for our opinion. 
Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not have 
detected all material errors and fraud during our audit. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or errors and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, 
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the 
company financial statements. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and 
the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion. 
We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional scepticism throughout the audit, 
in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Our 
audit included amongst others: 
-  identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the company financial statements, whether 
due to errors or fraud, designing and performing audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining 
audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not 
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from errors, as 
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal 
control; 
-  obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the 
effectiveness of the Company's internal control; 
-  evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates and related disclosures made by the Executive Committee; 
-  concluding on the appropriateness of management's use of the going concern basis of accounting and 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. If we 
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor's report to 
the related disclosures in the company financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to 
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our 
auditor's report. However, future events or conditions may cause the company ceasing to continue as a 
going concern; 
-  evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the company financial statements, including 
the disclosures; and 
-  evaluating whether the company financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in 
a manner that achieves fair presentation. 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   49 
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant findings in internal control that we 
identify during our audit. 
 
Utrecht, 22 April 2021 
 
KPMG Accountants N.V. 
G.J. Hoeve RA 
Annual Report Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2020   50 