
Sustainability 
Report 
2019
Table of Contents
Introduction Energy ........................................................30 Our Supply Chain
Contents .................................................................2 Emissions ...................................................32 Approach .............................................66
About This Report ..................................................3 Water ..........................................................35 Transportation Stewardship ................68
Message from Our Chief Sustainability Officer ......4 Waste ..........................................................39 Procurement/Logistics ........................70
Q&A with Our Chairman and CEO .........................5
Our People Governance
New Targets ............................................................9
Approach ....................................................41 Values ..................................................73
Our Business Ethics ...................................................74
Inclusion & Diversity ...................................42
Company Highlights .............................................10 Oversight .............................................77
Benefits ......................................................46
Business Overview ...............................................12 Defined Benefit Plan Obligations ........78
Learning & Development ............................48
Risk Management ...............................79
Talent Attraction & Management ................49
Sustainability Overview
Materiality ............................................83
Employee Health & Safety ..........................52
Sustainability Priorities .........................................17
Stakeholder Engagement ....................85
Focus Areas ..........................................................18
Global Citizenship
2025 Sustainability Goal Updates ........................23 Additional Information
Focus Areas ................................................60
Alignment to UN Sustainable  Report Information ..............................88
Advancing Sustainable Solutions ...............61
     Development Goals .........................................25 Independent Assurance Statement .....89
Building Inclusive Communities .................62
GRI Content Index ...............................91
Developing Tomorrow’s Innovators ............63
Environmental Impact
Empowering Sustainable and  
Management Approach ........................................26
    Resilient Communities ............................64
Summary Metrics .................................................27
Engaging for Impact ...................................65
Materials ...............................................................28
2
About This Report
The 2019 Sustainability Report is Dow’s 17th annual report.    Additional reporting that may be of interest to the reader can be 
GRI 102-52
This report reflects the Company’s performance for the calendar year  found at corporate.dow.com:
ended December 31, 2019. This Sustainability Report is a combined 
• Downloadable version of this report
report being filed by Dow Inc. and The Dow Chemical Company and 
• Dow’s most recent previous report, covering the year ending 
its consolidated subsidiaries (“TDCC” and together with Dow Inc., 
December 31, 2018, and archive of earlier annual sustainability 
“Dow” or the "Company"). 
GRI 102-50 
reports 
GRI 102-51
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global  • 2019 Annual Report
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Comprehensive option.   
GRI 102-54 • 2019 Dow Form 10-K
The Comprehensive option requires that the Company report all of 
• 2020 Proxy Statement
the General Disclosures described in the GRI Standards as well as 
• 2019 Shine Inclusion Report
all of the Specific Disclosures related to issues material to us. This 
document also serves as Dow’s UN Global Compact Communication  GRI 102-53
on Progress for 2019. Mary Draves, chief sustainability officer and  Thank you for your interest in our report. We welcome your 
vice president, Environment, Health & Safety, provides formal internal  questions, comments and feedback. You may contact us at:
approval of the report followed by review by the Environment, Health, 
Jennifer Princing 
Safety & Technology Committee of the Board.    We have also 
GRI 102-32
Dow Sustainability Reporting 
sought independent assurance to verify compliance with the GRI 
j.l.princing@dow.com 
standards. See the Independent Assurance Statement near the 
989-496-7154
end of this report.
3
LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
Message from  Mary Draves
Our Chief  Chief Sustainability Officer and 
Vice President of Environment, 
Sustainability  Health & Safety
Officer
Delivering 
on Our 
Commitments
Find out how we 
continue to make 
positive impact in our 
focus areas of Circular 
Economy, Climate 
Protection and Safer 
Materials. 
4
Helping Lead the Transition to a Sustainable Future
LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
Chairman and CEO Jim Fitterling shares how Dow is accelerating its sustainability strategy to meet 
Q&A 
tomorrow’s challenges, and how newly announced sustainability targets will help drive us forward.
with Our  Q
As you look ahead – 5, 10, 20 years down the road – what do you see as Dow’s main 
sustainability challenges?  
Chairman 
A The greatest sustainability challenge for Dow is ensuring that our actions continually reflect the 
and CEO  world’s sustainability needs. In every way, we need to align our business with the world around 
GRI 102-14 us …  and provide leadership where we can. 
The next decade will be critical in how we respond to environmental challenges and limit global 
temperature rise. Making the most informed, sustainable and systemic decisions now will ensure 
we have clean air, clean water, a stable climate and safe food tomorrow. We think a sustainable 
future is attainable, but it will take collaboration across all sectors of society, including business.
That’s why we’ve built Dow’s sustainability strategy on three focus areas that are not only critical 
to our business but where we believe we can make a difference: climate protection, advancing 
a circular economy … and innovating safer materials for our world. These areas get right to the 
heart of our license to operate … plus they represent substantial opportunities to grow value for 
Dow and society. 
The challenge going forward is to remain focused on addressing these big, critical and complex 
issues – like climate change and ocean waste – that demand answers. And then find a way to use 
our scale, science and collaborations to help.
Q
So, you’re not just talking about inside-the-fenceline solutions?
A Implementing sustainability solutions inside the fenceline is important. And we’re working on 
those and we’ll continue to find ways to make our manufacturing facilities more efficient and 
aligned with our larger sustainability efforts.
But increasingly we’re thinking bigger and more broadly. We want to drive transformational 
change. Our ambition is to be the most innovative, customer-centric, inclusive and sustainable 
materials science company in the world. And we can’t do that if we only focus on inside-the-
fenceline solutions.
So, we’re taking a long look throughout our value chain. Our approach to creating a more circular 
economy is a great example. We want to close the loop on plastic waste by ensuring our products 
Jim Fitterling 
have the potential to be recycled. But that’s just part of the equation. To be truly successful, we 
also need to help find a way to stop the waste in the first place by ending the linear “take-make-
Chairman and  
and-dispose” economy that’s so common today. 
Chief Executive Officer
We can’t do that by ourselves. That’s why we’re collaborating with value chain partners, 
governments, and other stakeholders across the globe for waste management solutions and 
advanced recycling solutions that can be tested and scaled.
5
Q
Dow just announced new sustainability targets. How do these new sustainability 
LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
targets help address our sustainability priorities and move us forward?
Q&A 
A
The new targets we just announced are all about advancing a circular economy and climate 
protection. The targets build on our commitment to lead the transition to a more sustainable 
with Our 
future by putting Dow on a path to achieve carbon neutrality and eliminate plastic waste in our 
environment. You can read more about our targets here.
Chairman 
Q
Talk a little about Dow’s path to realizing these new targets. How will Dow get there?
and CEO
A These targets are ambitious. Realizing them is going to be challenging. It will take investment, 
innovation and collaboration, and it will require a real step-change in how we work. For example, 
meeting our commitment to reduce our 2030 annual emissions by 5 million metric tons from our 
current baseline, which is about a 15% reduction, will only be possible through technological 
innovation.
Dow already has had a lot of success in reducing emissions. In the past 15 years, we’ve reduced 
our overall greenhouse gas emissions by 15%. Dow is among the top 25 global corporations 
in terms of renewable power use. We have contracts for wind, solar, biomass, landfill gas and 
hydropower. In fact, Dow is on track to achieve our 2025 Sustainability Goal target of sourcing 
750 MW of renewable power capacity. But to achieve the reliability and efficiency we need to 
meet our future energy needs and reduce our emissions, we’ll need new solutions that we haven’t 
designed yet. 
To meet our targets, we’re accelerating our work to implement and advance technologies 
to manufacture our products using fewer resources. For example, at our Plaquemine site in 
Louisiana, we are retrofitting a mixed-feed cracker to produce propylene with our proprietary 
fluidized catalytic dehydrogenation technology. The project will reduce energy use and 
greenhouse gas emissions by up to 20% versus conventional technology. We also will work to 
increase the share of our products that enhance environmental performance for our customers 
and society.  
Honing our focus: Introducing  
targets aimed at:
Today’s  Circular Economy
Ambitious  
Carbon  
challenges 
2025  Reduction
demand  
Climate Protection
Sustainability  accelerated 
Goals  action Eliminating  
Safer Materials Plastic Waste
Jim Fitterling 
Chairman and  
Continuing 
Chief Executive Officer
our 
progress:
Leading the  Delivering  Advancing  Valuing  Safe  Engaging  World-Leading 
Blueprint Breakthrough  a Circular  Nature Materials for  For Impact:  Operations 
Innovations Economy a Sustainable  Communities,  Performance
Planet Employees,  6
Customers
LEADERSHIP MESSAGES Q
Has the COVID-19 pandemic changed Dow’s immediate focus on sustainability? 
Q&A 
A Not at all. I’ve seen some people predict that sustainability efforts worldwide may suffer 
setbacks as organizations reprioritize. But our view is that our work on sustainability simply 
with Our 
cannot wait. We are leaning in.
Chairman  If anything, this pandemic has amplified how important it is to put our corporate sustainability 
principles into action. It’s demonstrated how interdependent we all are, and how we all depend 
and CEO on one Earth for our prosperity. And it’s showcased the role business can play in solving real-
world challenges.
More than anything, it’s underlined how meaningful collaborations are necessary to tackle 
tough challenges. A crisis of this magnitude needs everyone working together, and business 
plays an important role. I couldn’t be prouder of Team Dow and how we’ve responded to the 
needs of our customers, suppliers, communities and government partners to supply materials 
for life-critical applications, such as hand sanitizer, disinfectants, IV bags and personal 
protective equipment. 
When we emerge from this pandemic, I hope we all carry forward the lessons of how sharing 
our skills, compassion and know-how makes society stronger and our collective actions more 
effective – whether we face a pandemic or a global challenge such as climate change.
Q
Why is Dow rolling out these targets now, especially with the immediate business 
challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic? 
A Even as we operate business in this new reality, we can’t lose sight of challenges such as 
climate change and plastic waste. These are issues that affect all of us. 
In fact, we can learn from the high levels of collaboration and information-sharing that we’re 
seeing to meet the challenges of this pandemic and apply that mindset to sustainability. 
The world needs leadership in environmental sustainability. As a global materials science 
company, we have the responsibility to help reduce carbon emissions and use our science to 
lead into a carbon-neutral future.
Our materials science expertise can help brand owners design and manufacture more 
sustainable, circular-driven products. And because of our scale, we also can lead collaborations 
that drive positive value for the environment, society, and our business.
Jim Fitterling 
Setting aggressive targets like this help us demonstrate and drive our commitment. They 
challenge us to use our innovation and expertise to find scalable and replicable business 
Chairman and  
Chief Executive Officer solutions that will support systematic, sustainable transformation.
7
Q
LEADERSHIP MESSAGES You often talk about how the issues of climate protection and a circular economy are 
intertwined. How do Dow’s targets around plastic waste also help address carbon 
Q&A  neutrality? 
A They’re definitely inter-related. A circular economy — keeping materials in use — can reduce 
with Our 
emissions and plastic pollution. Research shows that recycling a metric ton of plastic can reduce 
carbon emissions by 1-3 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents, compared to virgin plastic 
Chairman 
production.  
and CEO
Plastics, too, are an indispensable part of a lower-carbon economy. Think about the auto industry 
alone – where lighter-weight plastics have helped increase auto fuel efficiency by 29% while 
decreasing related greenhouse gas emissions by 23%. Plastics also provide the world’s growing 
population with more access to fresh foods and safe drinking water while reducing food spoilage 
and waste. That translates directly into lower carbon emissions in the supply chain, plus a better 
and healthier quality of life for people.
In that regard, plastics have been a tremendous positive for mankind. But there’s a negative side 
to this success – and that’s plastic waste. It not only is harming our Earth’s biosystems, it’s doing 
so at a steep economic cost. The amount of plastic the world wastes every year has an inherent 
raw material value ranging from $80-120 billion. 
As a society globally, we lack the infrastructure to deal with the amount of waste that 
we generate, and that’s what we’re trying to tackle. We’re working with and standing up 
organizations like the Alliance to End Plastic Waste to invest in proof-of-concept projects to 
drastically improve waste collection, particularly in South Asia where the issue is so critical. We’re 
also looking for ways to create demand for recycled plastics. In fact, Dow was named to Forbes’ 
2019 “Change the World” list of companies for our use of recycled plastics in roads. We’ve 
worked with partners across the world to make polymer-modified asphalt roads with recycled 
plastic. 
Q
Do you think that Dow will meet its ambition to become the most sustainable 
materials science company?
A Absolutely. We’re going to be carbon neutral. We’re going to close the loop on water. We’re going 
to reduce our energy intensity. We’re going to use renewable or recycled feedstocks instead of 
using virgin feedstocks from a natural gas well. And we’re working on projects that are advancing 
these goals today. 
Jim Fitterling 
The many projects you’ll read about in our 2019 Sustainability Report are based on decades of 
practical experience in sustainability. We are currently on our third set of sustainability goals – and 
Chairman and  
from each set of goals, we've improved, we’ve learned and we've decided to challenge ourselves 
Chief Executive Officer
even further.
I have complete faith that Team Dow will find the answers to meet our targets – and, more 
importantly, advance the solutions we need to achieve the sustainable future we desire. 
8
INTRODUCTION
New 
Targets
Accelerating Our Sustainability Agenda
With the publication of this report, we are announcing new, progressive, multi-decade targets around 
advancing a circular economy and climate protection. Building on our 2025 Sustainability Goals, these 
targets are designed to put us on a path to achieve carbon neutrality, eliminate plastic waste in our 
environment and increase our positive impacts for our customers, society and our business. We understand 
Learn more about 
that achieving these ambitious targets will take commitment, investment, innovation and collaboration. 
our approach 
New Targets
to eliminating 
Today, more than ever, the world needs leadership in environmental sustainability. That is why we are 
plastic waste and 
focusing on reducing our impact on the environment by working simultaneously on two closely linked issues: 
reducing carbon  reducing carbon emissions and eliminating plastic waste.
emissions.
Climate Protection Advancing a Circular Economy
We are committed to implementing and advancing technologies  We set these ambitious targets around a central idea: to 
to manufacture our products using less resources. make the world’s plastic waste problem a thing of the past. 
Find out more 
about our 
2019 progress 
against our 2025 
Sustainability 
Goals.
Protect the Climate Stop the Waste Close the Loop
9
OUR BUSINESS
Company 
Highlights
Company Profile 
  GRI 102-1, GRI 102-5, GRI 102-7, GRI 201-103
At Dow, our people use science and collaboration to create what matters most to our customers, society 
and the planet. Our ambition to be the world’s most innovative, customer-centric, inclusive and sustainable 
materials science company drives best-in-class performance and a culture where new ideas thrive. We 
combine global breadth, asset integration and scale, focused innovation and leading business positions 
to achieve profitable growth. Our portfolio of plastics, industrial intermediates, coatings and silicones 
businesses delivers a broad range of differentiated, science-based products and solutions in high-growth 
market segments such as packaging, infrastructure and consumer care.
2019 NET SALES
Dow Inc. had 741,678,966 shares of common stock outstanding at January 31, 2020.
$43B
INNOVATIVE CUSTOMER-CENTRIC
Alongside our customers, we create materials  We collaborate closely with our customers 
and solutions for a better tomorrow. to help invent solutions to their toughest 
challenges and strive to make it easier, more 
enjoyable and more effective to do business 
C
I N N O V A T I V E GOALU:STOMER-CENT with us – in person or virtually.
RI
C
VALUE GROWTH
EMPLOYEES
& BEST-IN-CLASS
I PERFORMANCE B L E
~36,500 We champion a fully  NCLUSIV U S T A I N A We are committed to 
E S
inclusive workforce that reflects  leading the transition to a 
the world in which we do business.  more sustainable planet – through our 
Bringing the best minds to the table empowers  operations, product innovations and 
our employees to exceed customer expectations  partnerships – as we strive to make a 
every day. positive impact on society and the world.
INCLUSIVE SUSTAINABLE
10
OUR BUSINESS
Company 
Highlights
2019 Business Highlights
In 2019, Dow delivered net sales of $43.0 billion, down 13% from $49.6 billion in 2018.
APR 2
Financial Highlights (Millions of Dollars) GRI 102-7, GRI 201-1
2019
Economic value generated, distributed and retained 2019 20181
Net sales $42,951 $49,604
Pro forma net sales $42,998 $49,852
Dow Inc. begins  Operating costs $31,534 $35,774
Wages/benefits $5,322 $5,708
trading on the 
Payments to providers of capital $3,098 $4,862
NYSE
Payments to governments $1,386 $2,003
Community investments $342 $41
Economic value retained $1,758 $1,216
after the 
Total debt $16,996 $19,889
Materials  Total equity $14,094 $33,621
Total capitalization $31,090 $53,510
Science Division 
1 Applicable values for 2018 have been updated in accordance with the Current Report on Form 8-K for Dow Inc. and TDCC, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on July 25, 
2019, which recast portions of the TDCC Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 to reflect the results of Dow and its consolidated subsidiaries, after giving effect to 
separates from 
the distribution to DowDuPont of TDCC’s agricultural sciences business and specialty products business and the receipt of DuPont's ethylene and ethylene copolymers businesses (other than its 
ethylene acrylic elastomers business) from the closing of the Merger on August 31, 2017.
DowDuPont 2 Includes charitable cash and in-kind donations and represents only a portion of the total value of Dow community contributions, which also includes volunteer time as well as other forms of 
financial support.
Pro Forma Net Sales by Geographic Region (Millions of Dollars) 2019 Taxes (Payments to Governments)
$4,115
Latin America 543 U.S. & Canada
$15,582 493
$8,683 EMEAI
U.S. & Canada
Asia Pacific
$42,998 195 Asia Pacific
155
Latin America
$14,618 0 100 200 300 400 500 600
 EMEAI Millions of Dollars
11
109 12
OUR BUSINESS
Company 
manufacturing sites  Innovation Centers in  
Highlights
in 31 countries 10 countries on 4 continents
Location of Operations
   GRI 102-3, GRI 102-4
With global headquarters in Midland, Michigan, Dow operates 109 manufacturing sites in 31 countries. Major manufacturing operations are 
located in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, The Netherlands, Spain, Thailand, United Kingdom, and the United States.
Europe, Middle East, Africa & India
37 manufacturing sites 
in 15 countries
North America
35 manufacturing sites  Asia Pacific
in 2 countries
19 manufacturing sites 
in 10 countries
Latin America
18 manufacturing sites 
in 4 countries
12
OUR BUSINESS Business Segments and Products 
GRI 102-2, GRI 102-6
Dow combines chemistry, biology and physics to create innovative products in several key markets. We 
Business 
work with experts in almost every industry to help solve materials science challenges that help advance 
our customers’ business goals and contribute to a more sustainable world. Our portfolio includes six global 
Overview
businesses that are organized into the three following operating segments: 
Innovating 
Breakthrough, 
Sustainable 
Products
Plant-based emulsions 
that enable paints 
with higher renewable 
content. Reworkable 
silicone gels that allow 
for easy disassembly 
so smartphones can 
$42,998MM
be repaired or their 
components recycled. 
Polyols made from 
end-of-life mattresses 
that find new life in 
construction applications. 
These new Dow products 
were recognized as 
breakthrough, sustainable 
innovations by Business 
Insider in 2019.  
LEARN MORE
2019 Pro Forma Net Sales
Results for the first quarter of 2019 and periods prior are prepared on a pro forma basis. Results for the second quarter of 
2019 and subsequent periods are prepared on an as-reported basis. 2019 Corporate Segment pro forma sales were $343MM. 13
OUR BUSINESS
Business 
Overview
Packaging & Specialty Plastics
Our Plastics franchise consists of two highly integrated global businesses:
14
OUR BUSINESS
Business 
Overview
Industrial Intermediates & Infrastructure
Industrial Intermediates & Infrastructure consists of two customer-centric global businesses that develop important 
intermediate chemicals that are essential to manufacturing processes, as well as downstream, customized materials 
and formulations that use advanced development technologies.
15
OUR BUSINESS
Business 
Overview
Performance Materials & Coatings
Performance Materials & Coatings includes industry-leading franchises that deliver a wide array of solutions into 
consumer and infrastructure end-markets. The segment consists of two global businesses:
16
SUSTAINABILITY 
OVERVIEW
Sustainability 
Priorities
Partnering to Solve Global Challenges
The world is changing. As populations increase, consumption patterns change and resources diminish, societies across the globe 
need to find new ways to balance economic progress with sustainability. One of the great challenges of our time is reconciling 
the needs of a growing population for food, clean water and energy with our planet’s limited resources. We believe a sustainable 
future is attainable, but only if we all come together to drive forward science- and technology-based solutions to address global 
challenges. 
We are doing this by connecting and collaborating to find new options for materials that make life better for everyone. Our 2025 
Sustainability Goals continue to guide us in driving meaningful change and scaling business solutions that will help lead the 
transition to a sustainable planet and society, and our World-Leading Operations performance is foundational to our progress.
Our Focus Areas
Our sustainability efforts are focused on three areas that are critical to our business and where we believe we can make a 
difference.
Circular  Climate  Safer
Economy Protection Materials
17
SUSTAINABILITY 
OVERVIEW
Focus 
Areas
Advancing a Circular Economy
Because of our leadership position in manufacturing and materials technology, as well as our global reach 
across many sectors, we have the opportunity to take a leading role in supporting the development and 
implementation of the circular economy, taking into account a product’s lifecycle – from creation to use 
to disposal – in everything we do and create. As we transform to a circular economy, we’re thinking about 
waste as a resource and investing in new product technology, value chain partnerships, business models, 
logistics and infrastructure to help discover and scale sustainable solutions.
Our Successes
Innovating  Partnering to  Working Across the 
Sustainable  Recycle Wastewater Value Chain
Packaging
See how we’re working with  Find out how we’re taking 
our partners to reuse and  steps to put an end to 
Learn how we’re designing 
recycle water so there’s more  mattress waste. 
products for recyclability.
for communities.
18
SUSTAINABILITY 
OVERVIEW
Focus 
Areas
Advancing a Circular Economy
Working to Create a Circular World for  Our Approach
Plastic As the world’s largest producer of plastics, we are committed to find 
ways in which we can continue to provide the convenience, protection, 
Plastics have revolutionized the lives of people everywhere by helping 
affordability and safety of plastics, while also ensuring that none of the 
make goods lighter weight and thus saving emissions, improving 
plastic ends up in the environment or is lost to the landfill.
health and hygiene, extending the freshness of food and dramatically 
reducing food waste. However, insufficient global waste management  In the past year, Dow has engaged in more than 100 projects to 
and recycling infrastructure and low recycling rates have resulted in too  promote a more circular economy for plastics, including those 
much plastic being lost to waste and entering our natural environment.  described below.
Keeping Plastic Out of the Environment Increasing Impact Through Partnerships Delivering Circular Economy Solutions
Hefty® EnergyBag® Program:  
LEARN  Fuenix Ecogy Partnership:  
Teaming up with Keep America 
MORE Partnership for the supply of a  
Beautiful, Reynolds Consumer Products 
new feedstock made from recycled 
to collect hard-to-recycle plastics at  Founding member of the Alliance to End Plastic Waste, 
plastic waste to  
curbside and convert them to resources  an initiative to accelerate efforts to drive innovation, 
produce new  
LEARN 
such as fuel >400,000 households provide much-needed resources and take decisive 
Dow polymers MORE
LEARN  458 tons to U.S. waste action to put an end to plastic waste in the environment
MORE
UPM Biofuels Partnership: 
Circulate Capital Ocean Fund: 
Recycled Plastic Roads: Collaborating 
Partnering to commercialize a 
Founding investor in $100MM effort 
across the globe to construct polymer-
plastic for packaging made from  
to incubate and finance companies 
modified asphalt roads with post-
a bio-based  
and infrastructure that prevent 
consumer recycled plastic LEARN 
renewable feedstock
LEARN  ocean waste MORE
MORE
#PullingOurWeight:  
RecycleReady Technology:
Project MASARO: Combining  Working with the Ocean Conservancy, 
Worked with Kellogg’s Bear 
education, technology and  Dow employees, customers and other 
Naked® granola division and 
infrastructure to turn waste into  partners are cleaning up trash in their 
Berry Global to develop the 
valuable materials for   communities
first fully-recyclable stand-up 
local communities   >18,000 participants LEARN 
LEARN  MORE barrier pouch made for food 
in Indonesia MORE 175 cleanups globally packaging 19
SUSTAINABILITY 
OVERVIEW
Focus 
Areas
Contributing to Climate Protection
Addressing climate change is one of the major challenges to achieving a sustainable future. As both a major user of energy and a producer 
of technologies that are essential to a lower-carbon economy, we have a responsibility to act. Within our own operations, we are optimizing 
efficiency, investing in renewable energy sources and innovating new low-emission production processes. We also are collaborating with our 
customers to produce products that contribute to a lower carbon footprint. 
Our Successes
Optimizing Our  Increasing  Evaluating  Developing  Deploying 
Facilities and  Renewables in  Investments in  Low-Carbon  Materials to Help 
Processes Our Purchased  Carbon Capture,  Technologies  Reduce Emissions 
Power Mix Usage and Storage  for Emission  for Customers and 
We continue to look 
for ways to improve  (CCUS) Reductions Industries
We are the No. 1 user 
energy and emissions 
of clean energy in our  CCUS is a critical  We’re working to  We’re collaborating 
savings in our 
industry. transitioning technology  innovate next- with the International 
operations.
that will assist in the  generation technologies  Olympic Committee to 
transition to a lower- that could potentially  harness the power of 
carbon economy  enable us to make  sports and science to 
while new low- a step-change in  accelerate the adoption 
emission technology is  reducing our emissions. of lower-carbon 
developed. technologies across 
various industry value 
chains.
20
Our Climate Strategy: Reducing Our Impact 
GRI 201-2
SUSTAINABILITY 
We aspire to become carbon neutral* by 2050. Through our 2025 Goals, we are seeking to keep our 
OVERVIEW
absolute greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions below our 2006 baseline, although we continue to grow our 
Focus  company globally. In addition, we are committed to obtaining 750 MW of our power from renewable 
resources by 2025. In the past 15 years, we have reduced our overall GHG emissions by 15%. 
Areas
While we have made progress with our 2025 Sustainability Goals, we are taking bigger and bolder actions 
to lesson our impact moving forward. In June 2020, we announced a new, multi-decade carbon target 
to reduce our net annual carbon emission by 5 million metric tons versus our 2020 baseline, which is 
approximately a 15% reduction. Learn more.
Our Approach
The Executive Sustainability Team ensures progress is made against our 2025 Sustainability Goals. In 
Highlight
addition, our carbon focus group aligns senior leadership from across our businesses and functions, and 
drives all aspects of our initiatives around carbon emissions. Specific steering teams under the carbon focus 
group's direction address all aspects of Dow’s strategy to achieve these objectives. Read more about our 
We’re planting seeds to 
risk management strategy.
slow climate change.
Partnering for Progress
In addition to optimizing our own operations, we are working on next-generation GHG management 
technologies and strategies for mitigating climate change. Collaboration in this space is essential, as 
four-fifths of our Scope 1-3 emissions are indirect. As both a major user of energy and a producer of 
technologies that are essential to a lower-carbon economy – and as the No. 1 user of clean energy in our 
industry – we can bring a unique perspective. Among our actions:
Climate change has 
serious consequences 
for the global economy 
and people’s health 
and well-being. We 
also support the Paris 
Agreement and are  Climate 
committed to achieving  CCaarrbboonn     Industry 
Mitigation 
its goal of keeping 
PPrriicciinngg Collaborations
global temperature rise 
Strategies
well below 2ºC, and to 
pursue efforts to limit the 
increase to 1.5ºC.  
* Scopes 1, 2, 3, plus product benefits
21
SUSTAINABILITY 
OVERVIEW
Focus 
Areas
Innovating Safer Materials
Did You 
A sustainable future can’t be achieved without considering chemistry – the foundation upon which countless 
Know?
products are built. More than 96% of the world’s manufactured goods are enabled by chemistry, and the 
potential of chemistry to bring social and environmental value is limitless. We are committed to innovating 
sustainable materials and improving the way the world understands and considers science in decision-
48%
making to maximize benefits to businesses, society and the planet.
  
Read more about how we continually look for improvement opportunities at each stage of the life cycle of 
OF SALES are from 
our products.
products that address 
world challenges
Our Successes
76%
  
OF R&D PROJECTS 
address world challenges
2019 results based on SCI reporting
Innovating  Advancing  Promoting Open 
Sustainable  Product Safety  and Transparent 
Materials Chemistry
Find out how we’re 
collaborating with diverse 
We’re using our materials  Discover how we’re working 
stakeholders to advance 
science to help innovate  with value chain partners to 
product safety information.
more sustainable solutions  advance product safety and 
for our customers and the  transparency.
planet.
22
SUSTAINABILITY 
OVERVIEW
Goal 
Updates
2025 Sustainability Goals
In 2015, we announced our 2025 Sustainability Goals, a set of strategic 10-year goals that aim to expand our positive impact around the 
world by driving unprecedented collaborations to facilitate the transition to a sustainable planet and society. These goals, the Company’s third 
set of sustainability-related goals since 1995, build upon its previous two decades of goals. Our 2005 Environment, Health & Safety Goals 
resulted in $5 billion in waste, water, energy and safety-related savings. Our 2015 Sustainability Goals focused on providing more sustainable 
products and solutions addressing global challenges related to food waste and security, energy, sustainable water supply and health.
Our Sustainability Journey
Our 2025 Sustainability Goals support progress against our focus areas of Climate Protection, Circular Economy and Safer Materials. We’ve 
also continued to refine the goals and targets as our business and the expectations of our stakeholders has changed.
2025 Sustainability Goals
Dow’s Thought Leadership and Actions
2015 Sustainability Goals
Dow’s Blueprint
Product Solutions to World Challenges Changes in technology, public policy and the value
chain that lead human society toward sustainability
2005 EH&S Goals
Dow’s Handprint
Journey to EH&S Excellence
Products and services that help customers meet their challenges
Dow’s Footprint and EH&S Culture
World-leading operations and supply chain performance
1995 2006 2016 2025
23
SUSTAINABILITY 
OVERVIEW
Goal 
Updates
2025 Sustainability Goal Updates
Nearing the halfway point of our 2025 Sustainability Goals, we have made significant progress.
24
SUSTAINABILITY 
OVERVIEW
Alignment 
to UN SDGs
Alignment to UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
Dow’s 2025 Sustainability Goals were developed at the same time and with an awareness of the process for defining the UN SDGs. The 
UN SDGs help us identify several different paths to support business goals and our ambition to be the most sustainable materials science 
company in the world. At some level, our 2025 Goals impact each of the 17 UN Development Goals. Dow’s high-level alignments to the SDGs 
are described here.
SDGs that are an opportunity 
for Dow to lead
SDGs that are an opportunity 
to engage and contribute
BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY BUSINESS RISK
SDGs that present business 
opportunities and risks
SDGs that Dow currently 
negatively impacts
25
ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT
Management 
Approach
A Commitment to World-Leading Environmental Performance
   
ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH  GRI 305-103, GRI 307-103
AND SAFETY POLICY
Dow is committed to world-class environmental, health and safety (EH&S) performance, as demonstrated 
At Dow, protecting people  by industry-leading results, a long-standing commitment to Responsible Care® and a strong commitment to 
and the environment is a  achieve the Company’s 2025 Sustainability Goals.
part of everything we do 
To meet the Company’s public commitments, as well as the laws and government regulations related to 
and every decision we 
environmental protection and remediation to which its global operations are subject, Dow has well-defined 
make. Each employee 
policies, requirements and management systems. 
has a responsibility in 
ensuring that our products 
Managing EH&S Performance
and operations meet 
applicable government or  Dow’s EH&S Management System (EMS) defines the “who, what, when and how” needed for the 
Dow standards, whichever  businesses to achieve the Company’s policies, requirements, performance objectives, leadership 
is more stringent. Our  expectations and public commitments. To ensure effective utilizations, the EMS is integrated into a 
goal is to eliminate all  company-wide management system for EH&S, Operations, Quality and Human Resources.
injuries, prevent adverse 
Responsible Care
environmental and 
Dow believes third-party verification and transparent public reporting are cornerstones of world-class EH&S 
health impacts, reduce 
performance and building public trust. Numerous Dow sites in Europe, Latin America, Asia Pacific, the 
waste and emissions, 
United States and Canada have received third-party verification of Dow’s compliance with Responsible Care 
and promote resource 
and with outside specifications such as ISO-14001. Dow continues to be a global champion of Responsible 
conservation at every 
Care and has worked to broaden the application and impact of Responsible Care around the world through 
stage of the life cycle 
engagement with suppliers, customers and joint venture partners.
of our products. We will 
report our progress and be  Waste and Emissions Inventory
responsive to the public.
Dow manages environmental data for reporting with a Waste and Emissions Inventory system. All emitting 
manufacturing sites globally record their emissions into the system annually. The data is reviewed at the 
facility level and then by global coordinators before being aggregated for corporate reporting.
26
ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT
Summary 
Metrics
Summary Metrics
Metric Unit 2018 2019
Energy intensity Btu per lb of production 4,756 4,711
Scope 1 GHG emissions Millions of metric tons CO e 28.7 27.6
2
Scope 2 GHG emissions Millions of metric tons CO e 6.82 6.05
2
Combined Scope 1 and 2 GHG intensity Lb of CO e per lb of production 0.76 0.74
2
Scope 3 GHG emissions Millions of metric tons CO e 76.3 91.4
2
Ozone-depleting compound emissions Metric tons as CFC-11e 1.74 1.51
Nitrogen oxide emissions Metric tons 19,864 18,534
Sulfur oxide emissions Metric tons 2,614 2,573
Volatile organic compounds (VOC) emissions Metric tons 7,583 7,534
Chemical emissions to air and water Metric tons 12,625 13,914
Emissions of priority chemicals to air and water Metric tons 258 248
Freshwater intake Millions of cubic meters 2,040 2,075
Wastewater Millions of metric tons 130.6 129.3
Wastewater intensity Lb of wastewater per lb of production 2.80 2.83
Waste Millions of metric tons 1.44 1.32
Waste intensity Lb of waste per lb of production 0.031 0.029
27
ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT
Materials
Materials Used 
GRI 301-1, GRI 301-2, GRI 301-103
The Company operates in an integrated manufacturing environment. Basic raw materials are processed 
through multiple operations to make products that are sold to external customers and used as intermediates 
to further downstream Dow operations. The major raw material stream that feeds the production of the 
Company’s finished goods is hydrocarbon-based raw materials.
Dow’s Integrated Manufacturing Environment
High-Throughput 
Siloxanes & Silicones 
Ethylene Oxide
Research
Acrylic Acid 
GAS Catalyst Discovery &  s Packaging
n Architectural Coatings    
Propylene Oxide Ligand Synthesis r
s o o
ms Polyolefins &  itie Polymer Science ositi PPrrooppyylleennee  GOlxyicdoel ns fets
erials atfor Elastomers apabil Materials Science bal P Purified PEothlyyolelsn e Oxide  olutioMark
t OIL Pl Silicones C o Se  Infrastructure
Ma s  y  Formulation Sciences Gl Amines e iv
  al g g  Solvents vct
Raw ateri Polyurethanes nolo Process Engineering adin Ethylene  ovatiAttra
M h e Polyethylene  n
c L n
Acrylics e High-Performance    Ethylene Copolymers I
T 1
MINERALS Computer Modeling # Consumer
Elastomers & Plastomers
Cellulosics Application Development  Polyethylene Licensing
28
ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT
Materials
Raw Material Efficiency 
Did You 
Total quantity of raw material is not aggregated across the corporation, as it would not provide a metric 
Know?
that would drive improvements. We do track raw material efficiency as one of the metrics that comprise the 
Environmental Stewardship Index, one of the four indices tracked under our World-Leading Operations 
Performance Goal. To assess the raw material efficiency index, each of the company’s business units 
In 2019, businesses  determines a relevant material efficiency metric, sets annual commitments that translate into monetary 
savings, and reports regularly on progress to business and corporate leadership.
achieved raw 
material savings of Measuring material efficiency provides a direct driver to improve activities such as:
•  Process parameter adjustments to improve yield
$65.3MM
•  Increased frequency of tracking and internal reporting of specific materials use
•  Raw material quality improvements that result in more efficient use
•  Waste minimization through equipment reliability improvements
A circular economy is one of the three sustainability focus areas that we've identified as critical to our 
business and where we can make a difference. In June 2020, we announced new targets aimed at 
eliminating plastic waste:
•  By 2030, Dow will STOP THE WASTE by enabling 1 million metric tons of plastic to be collected, reused 
or recycled through its direct actions and partnerships.
•  By 2035, Dow will CLOSE THE LOOP by enabling 100% of Dow products sold into packaging 
applications to be reusable or recyclable.
We will report on progress toward these targets in future reports.
29
Energy and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Management
 GRI 302-103
Dow operates our manufacturing assets safely and reliably, and to create value for all our stakeholders. Our 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
Energy Business, as a part of the Feedstocks & Energy business, manages the commercial relationships 
IMPACT
for the power, steam, emission credits and industrial gases required for Dow’s operations. Many of Dow’s 
Energy initiatives around carbon and emissions are also managed by the Energy Business. The business is led by a 
Global Energy & Climate Change Director, and a team of regional directors and energy managers who define 
the best integrated asset and commercial strategies for major sites and the company exposures. The Energy 
Technology Center supports the efforts to optimize energy use and emissions through the implementation 
of energy efficiency projects within Dow’s sites. Dow’s Energy Business manages a portfolio of power and 
steam production assets, as well as fuel, steam and power purchases.
Most of the power  Energy Consumption Within the Organization  GRI 302-1
and steam consumed  In 2019, our energy intensity was 4711 Btu/lb produced. This represents total energy, power, steam, 
compressed air, cooling water pumps and other equipment used by manufacturing facilities. Energy intensity 
for operation of 
has remained relatively flat since 2005. 
our manufacturing  GRI 302-3
Purchased electricity includes renewable sources
processes comes from 
Fuel Source Capacity (MW) Consumption (Million GJ)
combined heat and 
Source Million GJ
Wind 375 4.356
power (CHP) plants. 
Purchased Natural Gas  373
Hydro 147 4.222
The CHP plants 
Off Gas from Feedstock 261
Biomass 17 0.134
provide power and 
Purchased Electricity  38
Landfill Gas 3 0.045
steam to production 
Power Sold 29
Solar 0.5 0.002
facilities using  
Net Purchased Power 9
Total 542 8.760
20-40%  Purchased Steam 41
Net Use 684
Purchased steam includes renewable sources*
less fuel Fuel Source Consumption (Million GJ)
Biomass 5.958
 
Total 5.958
than conventional power 
External Energy Consumption (Million GJ)
* Previous year’s representation did not separate purchased sources of 
generation – emitting 
renewable electricity and renewable steam.
11
fewer GHGs.
24 44 Energy Consumption Outside of the Organization
 GRI 302-2
142
Energy consumption outside of the organization is estimated 
Fossil
using primary data for purchased quantities of raw materials 
Nuclear
and representative datasets for cumulative energy demand from 
Biomass
2173
Wind, Solar, the Ecoinvent v3 database. In previous estimates based on 
Geothermal secondary data, purchased goods was identified as the largest 
Hydro
contributor to energy consumption outside of the organization. 
For 2019, only this category was calculated.
1952
30
ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT
Energy
Clean Energy
Did You 
Under our 2025 Sustainability Goals, Dow has committed to obtain 750 MW of its power demand from 
Know?
renewable sources by 2025. Dow purchases renewable energy in Europe, Latin America, U.S. and Canada. 
Because the economics for renewables vary, we utilize wind, solar, hydropower, biomass and land fill gas, 
depending on the location. All projects are selected based on the lowest long-term cost of power or steam 
Dow is the No. 1 user 
from available alternatives. We support contract-based additionality of renewable power where our assets 
of clean energy in the 
operate, helping industry and residents alike. 
chemicals industry 
and ranks among the  In 2019, we added to our renewable capacity by implementing a wind power contract for 20 MW to support 
our Bahia Blanca site in Argentina. We also laid groundwork for an additional 25 MW of solar power capacity 
TOP 25
to support our Carrollton, Kentucky, site beginning in 2022, and for approximately 143 MW of wind power 
capacity to support our Aratu, Brazil, site beginning in 2021. By the end of 2019, we had in place contracts 
global corporations 
for 542 MW of renewable power, as well as 244 MW of renewable steam.
in terms of renewable 
power use.
In 2019, Dow engaged with the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development’s (WBCSD) REscale team, which brings together leading 
companies representing the full renewable energy value chain to 
accelerate deployment of renewables and the transition to a low-
carbon electricity system. Dow participated in REscale Brazil deep-dive 
workshops designed to increase the understanding and use of corporate 
renewable power purchase agreements.
31
ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT
Emissions
Emissions and Carbon Intensity
  GRI 305-4
In 2019, our greenhouse gas intensity was down approximately 3% from 2018 and by a total of approximately 13% since the baseline year of 2006. In 
pursuit of our 2025 Sustainability Goals target to hold our absolute greenhouse gas emissions to our 2006 baseline, we are focused on a wide range of 
strategies to reduce emissions in our operations while increasing our energy efficiency. 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG Emissions 
GRI 305-1, GRI 305-2
Greenhouse gases are accounted for in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and using 
emission factors from the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report. Historic data takes into account any divestitures, mergers and acquisitions, and may change 
to reflect those activities.
Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG Emissions Intensity
50 1.000
n
  o 0.900
2
f  42.1 Goal Maximum    ti .80
 o 40 (2006 baseline) pe uc 0.800 .77 .76 .76 .74
s
tric Tonvalents 30 6.0.055 IE(nMmdiliilrsieoscniots nG osrf e aMesn eChtrOoicu2 esT eo nGsa)s  1 + Sco nit Prod 00..760000 TItnhotetea nsl usGimtHy  Goisf   
Mequi 27.5 Non-Kyoto GHGs as CO2e  pe  r U 0.500 direct and 
of  E 20 (Millions of Metric Tons) co pe 0.400 indirect 
s O2 Kyoto GHGs as CO e  S s  0.300 emissions 
onC (Millions of Metric To2ns) of  on (Scope 1 + 
Milli 10 Sum  missi 00..210000 Specro punei t2 o) f 
E
production.
0
0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
32
ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT
Emissions
Scope 3 Emissions 
Scope 3 Greenhouse  GRI 305-3 
Gas Emissions Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions occur from sources not owned or controlled by Dow. We have assessed 
all Scope 3 categories according to the GHG Protocol’s Corporate Accounting Standard and the Corporate 
(in Million Metric Tons CO e)
2 Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard, and the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development’s Guidance for Accounting and Reporting Corporate GHG Emissions in the Chemical Sector Value 
8
4 Chain. The results are summarized in the chart on the left. Differences from values reported in 2018 are largely 
Purchased Goods & Services
4 a result of updated calculation methodologies. Purchased raw materials continues to be the largest category of 
FueSlc &o pEen e3r egmy iRsseiloantesd f oAr cDtiovwiti.e Tshe most significant change from prior calculations is in the absolute quantity and 
7
fraction of the total for the end-of-life treatment category. This is due to replacing a broad assumption about end-
End-of-Life Treatment of 
of-life treatment method with more precise information collected from our business units as part of the Sustainable 
Sold Products
Chemistry Index survey process.
8 Investments
DoRwnesdtreuamc tTiroannsp oorfta Etionn e  rgy Consumption and GHG Emissions 
GRI 302-4,GRI 305-5 
& Distribution
Dow tracks energy and GHG intensity and consumption year over year as key metrics. While many projects 
60 Othimerplemented throughout the year have an impact in reducing both energy consumption and GHG emissions, the 
8
following table outlines projects executed in 2019 that have had a material impact:
4
Purchased Goods & Services
4
Type of Energy  Amount (in millions of  Scope in Which  Approx. Amount of GHG 
Fuel & Energy Related Activities
Project Summary Location Reduced kJ/Yr) Reduction Took Place Reduced (Metric Tons/Yr)
7
End-of-Life Treatment of 
Use of hydrogen byproduct  Hahnville Fuel 2,100,000 Scope 1, Scope 2 100,000
Sold Products
from ethylene cracker in 
8 Investments
site gas turbines
Downstream Transportation  
Steam venting optimization  Oyster  Purchased power  1,100,000 Scope 2 160,000
& Distribution
project Creek and fuel
60 Other
Amines and butanol energy  Hahnville Purchased power  640,000  Scope 1, Scope 2 32,000
efficiency improvements and fuel
Flare reduction from  Multiple  Fuel, raw material,  3,100,000 (net  Scope 1 290,000 (net reduction 
Ethylene Crackers Locations product flaring reduction across  across cracker fleet)
cracker fleet)
Total 6,940,000 582,000
Note: Energy and emission savings were determined by comparing plant operating conditions before projects were implemented to conditions 
after implementation. 33
In addition to the reduction of energy consumption and GHG emissions, in 2019, an industrial 
demonstration project of a steam re-compressor was implemented at our Terneuzen site. The project 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
upgrades excess low-pressure steam, generated as a byproduct of an exothermal polymerization reaction, 
IMPACT to useful steam that can support the site. The use of this technology on a larger scale has the potential to 
reduce energy usage for steam generation in boilers and thus GHG emissions.
Emissions
Air Emissions 
GRI 305-6, GRI 305-7
Ozone-Depleting  NOx SOx
Substances
In 2019, Dow was a key 
2017 2017 2017
contributor in providing 
2.87 20,117 2,837
insights into reports 
published by the Center 
for Climate and Energy  2018 2018 2018
Solutions (C2ES), a nonprofit  1.74 19,864 2,614
environmental organization.
2019 2019 2019
•  The first report, 
Pathways to 2050:  1.51 18,534 2,573
Alternative Scenarios for 
Decarbonizing the U.S. 
Metric tons CFC-11e Metric tons Metric tons
Economy, is the product 
of a collaborative exercise 
led by C2ES that sought 
to examine potential 
VOC Chemicals to Air and  Priority Compounds 
scenarios that could 
enable the achievement 
Water to Air and Water
of mid-century 
decarbonization goals.
2017 2017 2017
•  The second report, 
7,205 11,717 257
Getting to Zero: A U.S. 
Climate Agenda, outlines 
2018 2018 2018
a comprehensive agenda 
for decarbonizing the U.S.  7,583 12,625 258
economy by 2050, with 
an emphasis on priority  2019 2019 2019
actions needed over the 
7,534 13,914 248
coming decade.
Metric tons Metric tons Metric tons
34
ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT
Water
Water Use Across Dow Facilities 
GRI 303-103
As one of the largest manufacturing companies in the world, we depend on a steady supply of water to create the 
products that are essential for everyday life and human progress. The global challenge of protecting this supply 
is addressed through a broad range of activities by the company – from understanding the specific watershed 
stressors to recognizing the needs of other water users and required base environmental flows. In 2019, we 
made significant progress in quantifying the full value of water to our operation and embedding it in business 
decisions. We also prioritized water conservation and reuse investments based on site-specific water risks. These 
actions are required to define the path and costs associated with meeting our 2025 Sustainability Goals target of 
reducing freshwater intake at key water-stressed sites by 20%.
This section focuses primarily on the water footprint of our global operations. It also highlights examples of where 
we leverage solutions from our own portfolio of business offerings and partner with others to improve sustainable 
water management.
Sustainable Water Management
Developing sustainable water management practices is critical to our business. Establishing a long-term vision 
for water is also a key part of our water management strategy and is reflected in several of our 2025 Dow 
Sustainability Goals.
Dow 2025 Goal  Alignment with Water Strategy
Leading the Blueprint Blueprint for Sustainable Watershed Management
Enabling a Circular Economy Water recycle projects at Dow manufacturing sites
Valuing Nature Projects that deliver value for Dow and for ecosystems
World-Leading Operations Performance Goal to reduce freshwater intake intensity by 20% at key water-stressed sites
Water-Stressed Sites
The Company has identified six of our manufacturing sites as key water-stressed sites. These sites are 
designated based on a number of factors, including their location in a water-stressed watershed, water quality, 
competition among users of the same watershed, local experience at the site and long-term projections. 
Because water supply issues are evolving and not isolated to water-stressed sites, Dow also keeps track of 
sites that are under a “watch list” where water challenges may occur.
35
ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT
Water
Water Stewardship in Action   
GRI 303-1, GRI 306-5
A Ramsar site is a wetland site designated to be of international importance under the Ramsar Convention, 
an international treaty for the conservation and sustainable use of wetlands. Among Dow’s six designated 
water-stressed sites, two sites withdraw river water near sensitive wetlands areas listed in the Ramsar 
wetlands database. In both cases, Dow has collaborated with a variety of stakeholders, including nearby 
municipalities, to put in place strategies to reduce water stress in these regions.
Utilizing an “every drop counts” mindset, we are contributing to water resilience in the areas of Terneuzen, 
The Netherlands, and Tarragona, Spain, by recycling and reusing wastewater in our operations to reduce 
our water footprint. Currently, our recycle and reuse rate is about 20%. Because Dow has been working on 
these endeavors for many years, we continue to look for innovative approaches to further progress.
Highlight
Constructed 
wetlands still 
performing after 
25 years.
36
ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT
Water
Water Withdrawals   
Total Water Intake, All Sources
GRI 303-3
Water is used for a variety of purposes in Dow production facilities across the globe. Surface 
3,300
water withdrawals are 65% freshwater and 35% seawater/brackish. The majority of the 
s 3,189
freshwater intake is used for cooling and most of it is evaporated in cooling towers, returning  er 3,200
t
e
the water to the environment. In locations such as coastal production facilities where sea/ M 3,100
 
c
brackish water is readily available, it is used for cooling and accounts for the high proportion of  bi 3,000
u
seawater/brackish water in use at some locations. Rainwater is recovered in multiple locations  C
  2,900
and reused for firewater and other purposes, but its volume compared to other intakes is  of
 
s
relatively small.  n 2,800
o
Only a small proportion of the water intake ends up in product (e.g. consumption). Past  Milli 2,700
assessment of water use in the sites with the highest freshwater intake showed that more than  2,600
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
85% of the source water was returned within the watershed at equal or better quality than at 
withdrawal. The total volume of water intake globally has been relatively consistent as a result 
of the combined impact of process efficiencies, business portfolio changes and growth.
Freshwater Withdrawals, Breakdown by Source, 
Freshwater intake intensity is tracked for the Dow’s six water-stressed sites described here. In 
Millions of Metric Tons
2019, the freshwater intake intensity at these sites was 12.64, an increase of 7% over the 2015 
Total All Sites Water-Stressed Sites
baseline. As seen in the graph showing our freshwater goal, we had made many improvements 
in this area. However, 2019 water intensity is up due to a series of turnarounds that decreased  Groundwater 36 0.5
production while still requiring water (mainly used for cooling purposes). In addition, less 
Purchased 
98 29
rainwater was captured in our reservoirs due to drier conditions in 2019. This speaks to the  water
sensitivity of the water metric to parameters that are within our control, such as required 
Surface water 1,876 205
maintenance of assets, and those that are not, such as rain availability and evaporation 
Total 2,010 234.5
from reservoirs. (An analysis of our Freeport site, our largest manufacturing facility, indicates 
available water storage can have a significant impact on water intensity, roughly 20% from a 
dry year to wet year.) To highlight our major efforts to improve water resiliency at the watershed 
level at our key water-stressed sites, additional breakdowns of water withdrawals that reflect 
basin context also are being considered. As noted on the previous page, the company has 
implemented mitigation strategies to reduce freshwater intake at those facilities or leverage 
new technologies allowing recycling of various sources of impaired water both within Dow’s 
fenceline and externally.
37
ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT
Water
Water Discharges    Wastewater Intensity
GRI 306-1 (2016), GRI 306-103
Once water has been used in Dow facilities, it is typically 
3.5
treated at a wastewater treatment plant and discharged. The 
total volume of wastewater discharged in 2019 was 129 million  b.  3.0 2.91 2.90 2.89 2.80 2.83
L
r 
metric tons. The majority of the water is discharged as surface  e 2.5
p
n
r o
water, with a small portion returned to oceans. At a few sites,  atecti 2.0
wu
Dow site wastewater goes to a third party for treatment before  d
e
stro 1.5
discharge (typically to surface water).  aP
Wf 
o
f  1.0
o
Wastewater intensity is the ratio of pounds of wastewater  s. 
b 0.5
per pound of production. Over many years, our wastewater  L
intensity has been relatively consistent at approximately three  0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
pounds of wastewater discharged per pound of product.
 
Major Wastewater 
  Wastewater quality is strictly governed by local  Key Water-Stressed Sites
GRI 303-2 Discharge Sites
regulations, and parameters are set specifically for each 
Plaquemine, LA Terneuzen, The Netherlands
watershed. Dow’s operations abide by these local regulations.  Stade, Germany Böhlen, Germany
Therefore, wastewater discharge quality is not reported  Freeport, TX Freeport, TX
consistently across all Dow sites. Total Suspended Solids  Aratu, Brazil Tarragona, Spain
(TSS) and Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) are reported  Midland, MI Bahía Blanca, Argentina
Deer Park, TX Seadrift, TX
for the sites listed here, which account for more than 85% of 
Texas City, TX
Dow’s wastewater discharge. 
Our seven major wastewater discharge sites were identified 
Discharge Destination
to establish the baseline for the 2015 Sustainability Goals 
and account for more than 80% of our total discharge. The  3%
14%
six key water-stressed sites were added to the wastewater 
discharge quality reporting with the inclusion of the 2025 
Surface Waters
Sustainability Goal to reduce freshwater intake intensity at key  Ocean
POTW
water-stressed sites by 20%. The TSS discharge concentration 
across the sites has been relatively consistent (2016 TSS was 
0.005%, and the BOC concentration was 0.004%.) 83%
38
ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT
Waste
Waste 
GRI 306-2 Waste Intensity
It is Dow’s policy to adhere to a waste management hierarchy that minimizes the impact 
0.045
of wastes and emissions on the environment. First, we work to eliminate or minimize the 
n 0.04
o
generation of waste and emissions at the source through research, process design, plant  ucti 0.035 0.032 0.032 0.033 0.031
operations and maintenance. Second, we also find ways to reuse and recycle materials.  d 0.029
o
r 0.03
Next, unusable or non-recyclable hazardous waste is treated before disposal to eliminate or  P
of  0.025
reduce the hazardous nature and volume of the waste. Treatment may include destruction  t 
ni 0.02
U
by chemical, physical, biological or thermal means. Disposal of waste materials in landfills is  r 
e 0.015
p
considered only after all other options have been thoroughly evaluated. Total waste disposed  e 
t 0.01
s
of in 2019 was 1.32 million metric tons. a
W 0.005
0
Most 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Source reduction Preferred
Waste Distribution
Use, reuse or recycle at or near
the point of waste generation
0.8 Non-Hazardous
Use, reuse or recycle external 0.7
s
to the site or company   n Hazardous
o 0.6
T
generating the waste c 
ri 0.5
t
e
M 0.4
of 
s  0.3
Waste treatment n
o
Milli 0.2
0.1
0
Proper
Combustion Landfill
disposal
Underground Injection Other Treatment
Energy Recovery Waste to Wastewater
Least
Preferred
39
ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT
Waste
Significant Spills 
GRI 306-3
Beginning in 2016, Dow began using a new metric, Process Safety Containment Event (PSCE). Our PSCE metric is derived from an industry 
best practice, API RP-754. As an industry leader in sustainability performance, Dow has been heavily involved in the development of this 
metric. We believe aligning to this measure will help us achieve an even higher level of performance related to the containment and control of 
the materials we handle and produce.
Similar to the approach we are now taking with injury and illness measurement, our PSCE metric focuses on both incidents that have the 
greatest impact, as well as incidents with the greatest potential for significant impact, including process damage, interruption or possible 
impact on our surrounding communities. We have defined levels 1–4, with Level 1 incidents having the highest actual or potential impact. By 
2025, our goal is to reduce the number of Level 1 and Level 2 events by more than 80% from our 2015 baseline. 
• In 2019, the company had 27 significant process safety containment events, achieving a 30% performance improvement over the prior year. 
This represents truly breakthrough performance in the overall number of events. Unfortunately, this total included two very significant events 
that led to extended downtime. 
• The breakthrough in overall number of events is realization of the shift in focus  Process Safety Containment Event 2025 Goal Curve
to put more energy into understanding near misses with greater potential. The 
100
two significant events are stark reminders that work remains to be done to 
Target
recognize and address potential risk before an unplanned event occurs. The 
80
events in 2019 remind us of the critical nature of the interface between work  PSCE L1 + L2 Count
and process control, especially when maintenance and unplanned outages 
60
impact the availability of safety systems. A project was initiated in 2019 to 
expand the scope of our Safety System Impairment standard while simplifying 
40
language to drive more robust implementation.  
20
0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Baseline
40
OUR PEOPLE
Approach
Our Approach 
GRI 401-103
Every Dow story starts with our people. Together, our 36,500 employees form an inclusive community 
of problem-solvers that help us deliver innovative solutions and an optimal customer experience, while 
transforming industries and shaping a sustainable future. We’re invested in fostering a culture of inclusion, 
diversity and continuous learning to ensure every Dow employee is respected, valued and encouraged to 
make their fullest contribution. A commitment to safety, employee health and world-leading environmental 
performance is engrained in our culture and central to how we work.
Highlights
In 2019, we continued to make progress against key areas to improve our employee experience.
Employee Sentiment Employee Resource Group Diversity Representation
(ERG) Participation
Female representation on our  
84%
of employees agree
Leadership Team increased from
Dow is a safe &  10  42% 
healthy workplace 9% 31%
 to 
Dow ERGs employee participation 
rate in ERGs in 2017 in 2020
78% agree the  
workplace is fair
Percentage of U.S. minorities on our  
Leadership Team increased from
increase in employee 
10%
9% 31%
participation in ERGs 
73% agree the  
from 2018  to 
work is meaningful
in 2017 in 2020
41
OUR PEOPLE
Inclusion 
& Diversity
Inclusion & Diversity
In an increasingly global business environment, we consider inclusion and diversity (I&D) to be a competitive 
driver. I&D is the smart thing to do, but it is also the right thing to do. It not only helps make Dow a great 
place to work, but it enhances our innovation, customer experience and understanding of the communities 
we serve. In 2017, we took actions to make our I&D efforts more strategic and intentional. We appointed our 
first inclusion officer, established an Office of Inclusion and implemented a three-tiered governance structure 
that engages employees at all levels of the company. Our inclusion strategy is based on seven foundational 
pillars and includes supporting behaviors and actions. Additionally, our I&D metrics are embedded in the 
same scorecard where we measure our financial and safety results.
Governance Customers Talent
Institutionalize an inclusive culture Deliver an unparalleled  Increase engagement and create an 
customer experience  environment where everyone can thrive 
People Leaders Suppliers Communities Reputation
Cultivate an inclusive culture Achieve top benchmark performance  Strengthen communities where we live,  Establish a leadership position and be 
in supplier diversity  work and do business  recognized as a great place to work  
42
OUR PEOPLE
Inclusion 
& Diversity
Board Diversity
Diversity of Employees and Governance Bodies
   GRI 405-1, GRI 405-103
0%
As of June 1, 2020
At Dow, we believe a diverse, experienced, independent and active board leads to improved decision-making, 
27%BY GENDER:
financial performance and shareholder value. As of June 1, 2020, the Dow Board was comprised of Chairman 
0%
and Chief Executive Officer Jim Fitterling and 10 independent directors who represent different professions and 
27%
industries, and a diversity of ethnicity, gender and global experience. In addition to five continuing heritage Dow 
independent directors, five new independent directors have joined the board.
73%
Employee Diversity
73%
Male
INDIVIDUAL SENIOR
Female Male
Not DeclaFreemdale CONTRIBUTOR MANAGEMENT LEADERS TOTAL
Not Declared
BY AG0E% GROUP: EMEAI 73% 27% 70% 30% 83%17% 73% 27%
9%
0%
LATIN 
9% 74% 26% 63% 37% 44% 56% 73% 27%
AMERICA
U.S. &
74% 26% 67% 33% 69% 31% 73% 27%
CANADA
ASIA 
66% 34% 65% 35% 56% 44% 66% 34%
91% PACIFIC
91%
Under 30 Under 30
30-50
30-50
Over 50 UNDER 35% 65% 35% 65% 0% 0% 0% 36% 64%
Over 50
AGE 30
BY U.S. MINOR2IT7Y%:
AGED
27% 29% 71% 36% 64% 40% 60% 29% 71%
30-50
OVER
73% 21% 79% 25% 75% 20% 80% 21% 79%
73% AGE 50
U.S. minorUit.yS. minority
Non-minority Male Female Not Declared
Non-minority
43
OUR PEOPLE New Hire Diversity Indicators 
GRI 401-1
Inclusion 
& Diversity
New Employee Hires  New Employee Hires 
by Gender by Age
New Employee Hires – Gender and Job Category by Region
EMEAI LATIN AMERICA U.S. & CANADA ASIA PACIFIC
0% 0% 0% 0%
r
e 27%
d
n 36% 35%
e
G 48% 52%
 
y
B 64% 65%
73%
Male Female Not Declared
0% 0% 0% 0%
y
r 2% 0% 1% 2%
o
g
e
t
a
C
 
b
o
J 98%
  98% 100% 99%
y
B
Individual Contributor Management Senior Leaders
44
OUR PEOPLE
Inclusion 
& Diversity
Diversity of Employees by Full- and Part-Time Status
Workforce Representation by Gender – 
TEMPORARY AND PERMANENT BY GEOGRAPHY
Workforce Representation by Gender –  
FULL TIME AND PART TIME BY GEOGRAPHY
There is not a significant portion of the organization’s activities performed by workers that are non-employees. Dow does utilize contract employment for some functions where the temporary roles 
due to projects or production may turn into full-time Dow roles if the demand is there or performance is exceptional. There are no significant variations in employment due to tourism or agricultural 
industries; however, based on economic fluctuations, employment may decline or increase.
The workforce data is gathered through a centralized database containing all employee information. The employee data is updated by Human Resources and managers when employee 
information changes occur. The data represent the global employee population as of December 31, 2019, and include all permanent, full-time and part-time employees. Temporary employees, 
contractors and manual additions are excluded unless otherwise stated.
45
Benefits Provided to Full-Time Employees that Are Not Provided to 
Temporary or Part-Time Employees 
 GRI 401-2
OUR PEOPLE
Regular full-time and less-than-full-time employees are provided a wide variety of benefits,* while only 
Benefits temporary employees are not eligible to receive these benefits. Dow’s benefit plans are designed to build on 
the social security benefits provided in each country and, as a result, vary by country. In all significant Dow 
locations, we offer the following benefits to employees:
• Pension plans – either defined benefit or defined  • Disability protection
contribution plans
• Accident insurance
• Medical plans – often including prescription drug 
• Paid vacation, holiday and leave programs
coverage and dental
• Business travel accident insurance
• Life insurance
Collective Bargaining Agreements 
GRI 102-41
Approximately 10.5% of Dow’s workforce was covered by either formal collective bargaining agreements or 
works councils in 2019. The percentage decrease from last year’s report is primarily due to reduction in the 
union workforce in the United States as a result of the changed composition of the Company following the 
separation from DowDuPont.
Parental Leave 
GRI 401-3
Dow’s Global Parental Leave Policy is intended to provide greater flexibility and work-life balance for 
mothers and fathers. Birthing parents have a minimum 12 weeks of paid leave, and the non-birthing parent 
has two weeks of paid leave, which can be taken during the 12 months following the birth of a child.
Return from Leave Rates Male Female Not Declared Total
Number of employees who were entitled to parental leave 19,624 7,989 2 27,615
Number of employees who took parental leave 500 312 0 812
Number of employees who returned to work in the reporting period 
499 279 0 778
after parental leave ended
Due to the transfer to Workday, our Human Capital Management system, in 2019, the reporting was not available to compare all of the return to 
work and retention rates. Data reflects U.S. & Canada, Asia Pacific and Latin America (excluding Colombia and Mexico) and excludes EMEAI.
*Note that in all Latin American countries, there is no difference in benefits packages offered to regular and temporary employees. Colombia only 
offers a savings plan (no pension), and Costa Rica, Peru and Chile do not have pension or savings plans. 
46
Ratio of Basic Salary and Remuneration of Women to Men 
GRI 405-2
Global pay equity studies have been conducted at Dow for over 20 years to assess fair treatment and ensure 
OUR PEOPLE
our pay practices are being implemented appropriately. The most recent full analysis was conducted in 2018, 
following our annual global pay planning cycle. The impact of gender on pay decisions is examined globally, 
Benefits
and the impact of ethnicity is examined in the United States. Dow’s three components of compensation are 
reviewed (base pay, annual performance award and long-term incentives). The study examines impact on pay 
differences that cannot be explained by legitimate factors (e.g., performance ratings, job level, education, years 
of service, time since promotion and/or geography). 
The 2018 pay equity study found no meaningful difference in base pay, performance award or long-term 
incentives between genders or between U.S. minorities and non-minorities for employees within the same job 
level. Pay differences were attributable to the legitimate factors listed above and were not related to gender or 
ethnicity. These results demonstrate that compensation guidelines are being applied appropriately. The 2020 
analysis was delayed until the end of 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
2018 Pay Equity Summary Results1  Base Pay2  Performance Award3  Long-Term Incentives4 
Global Female Pay to Male Pay Ratio 1.005 : 1.000  1.000 : 1.000  1.003 : 1.000 
U.S. Minority Pay to Non-Minority Pay Ratio 1.005 : 1.000 0.999 : 1.000  0.996 : 1.000 
1 The reported ratios are based on the standardized mean differences when controlling for legitimate business reasons for the differences (e.g., geography, job level) in accordance 
with the applicable laws. 
2 Base pay is calculated based on average position in the pay range. 
3 Performance award is calculated based on the actual value granted. 
4 Long-Term Incentives (LTI) analysis includes only those eligible and excludes other roles. LTI is calculated based on the actual value granted. 
Annual Total Compensation Ratio 
GRI 102-38
As required by Section 953(b) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and Item 
402(u) of Regulation S-K, Dow is providing the following information:
 For 2019: 
• The annual total compensation for the median employee was $109,556.
• The annual total compensation of Chairman and CEO Jim Fitterling, as reported in the Summary 
Compensation Table of our Annual Proxy, was $15,878,639.
Based upon the calculation for both the CEO and median employee, the ratio of the CEO pay to median 
employee pay for 2019 was approximately 145:1.
The pay ratio presented above is a reasonable estimate. To determine the median annual total compensation for all employees other than 
the CEO, a median employee was identified from the population of all employees worldwide as of November 30, 2019, utilizing base pay and 
annual incentive at target as the consistently applied compensation measure. The company calculated annual base pay based on a reasonable 
estimate of hours worked during 2019 for hourly workers, and upon salary levels for the remaining employees. The company used a valid 
statistical sampling methodology to identify employees who the company expected to be paid within a 0.1% range of the median. The company 
selected a representative employee from that group as the median employee for purposes of preparing the ratio of CEO pay to median employee 
pay. Because SEC rules for identifying the median employee and calculating the pay ratio allow companies to use different methodologies, 
exemptions, estimates and assumptions, the pay ratio may not be comparable to the pay ratio reported by other companies.
47
OUR PEOPLE
Learning & 
Development
Learning and Development 
GRI 404-1, GRI 404-103
According to our 2019 Our world is changing at a pace never seen before. To continue to compete and lead, we need to think and 
act in new ways. A successful future for Dow and our employees will be built on learning. Throughout an 
employee’s career, the Company supports people in their personal development through a mix of online and 
digital learning platforms, on-the-job training and a series of leadership development academies. Employees 
 Annual Survey, 
are encouraged to invest in themselves, and the technologies we deliver enable employees to access 
resources in real-time through mobile applications. 
73% 
Digital Learning
of Dow employees 
With a strong continuous improvement and learning culture, and in alignment with the Company’s focus 
felt encouraged to 
on technology and innovation, digital platforms are continuing to be incorporated and expanded. Diamond 
continuously learn and  Learning, the company’s global learning management system, offers a simple, engaging user experience 
develop in their role. and integrates modern learning technology solutions to digitalize and enhance employee learning 
capabilities. Diamond Learning supports Dow’s strategy of providing learning that is simple, continuous and 
On average, there were value-added. It emphasizes our desire to recognize and appreciate employee growth.
63.5 hours
Our employees select and manage curriculum that aligns with their core role responsibilities and personal 
development interests. Dow can also ensure compliance on any necessary safety training. More than 30,000 
of training logged per  courses are currently available, from internal content to LinkedIn Learning courses, keeping our learning 
employee in 2019. experience diverse and engaging.
Dow issues training by role and not by gender. Gender statistics for learning are not within our learning 
system; however, as part of our process to close any diversity gaps for employee and leadership readiness, 
underrepresented individuals may be invited to specific trainings to increase the diversity pool.
48
OUR PEOPLE
Talent 
Attraction & 
Management
Programs for Upgrading Employee Skills 
GRI 404-2 My HR
Dow supports employee engagement through My HR Portal, an online people 
resource launched in 2019. My HR Portal allows all employees to access 
development resources, online internal job postings, compensation and benefit 
Top Employer 
information, and health and wellness programs. Employees take advantage of 
Recognition these offerings to develop their careers, enhance their employee experience 
and plan for career changes. In addition, Dow supports lifelong learning through specific skill building 
Dow’s efforts and 
provided through functions, externally licensed development tools and an internal talent review process 
commitment to creating 
focused on differentiated development.  
a workplace that fosters 
Examples of development resources include:
innovation, collaboration, 
inclusion, safety and 
well-being for all Dow  • Diamond Learning, a learning management  • Global Educational Assistance that supports 
employees is reflected  system, for tailored learning curricula aligning to  employees in pursuing external training/
through 2019’s Top  role responsibilities and personal development  educational opportunities for career 
Employers Institute  development 
• Total health, nutrition and wellness centers and 
accolades in 11 countries.
associated programs and counseling  • Access to Human Resource (HR) call centers for 
personalized answers to HR questions for both 
EGYPT NETHERLANDS
• Employee Resource Groups that support a 
employees and retirees
GERMANY NIGERIA variety of development opportunities 
• Benefits counseling for employee retirement 
GHANA RUSSIA
• Employee toolkits exploring personal and career 
planning purposes 
KENYA SAUDI ARABIA values, preferences and orientations 
• Financial planning seminars for all employees 
NETHERLANDS  SOUTH AFRICA
• Toolkits to prepare for employee career 
DOW BENELUX 
SWITZERLAND development discussions  • Career transition assistance benefits including 
INTEGRATED 
CENTER (DBIC) outplacement counseling services
UAE
49
OUR PEOPLE
Talent 
Attraction & 
Management
Percentage of Employees Receiving Regular Performance and Career 
According to our 2019  Development Reviews 
GRI 404-3
Both leaders and employees play a key role in ensuring the effectiveness of our performance culture (PC) 
by establishing SIMple (specific, important, measurable) goals, encouraging continuous development 
feedback and dialogue, and reviewing progress on an on-going basis throughout the year. Our leaders 
Annual Survey, 
are encouraged to partner with their employees to identify their strengths as well as opportunities for 
development. The PC cycle concludes with an annual review. In preparation, leaders gather multi-rater 
82% 
feedback throughout the year to enhance the quality of the discussion and ensure multiple inputs before 
making compensation decisions.
of employees reported 
In 2019, 92.8% of employees were eligible to receive an Annual Performance Review, and 89.4% of those 
they have had a 
employees received one. There is no difference in eligibility by gender. There were 7.2% of employees who 
meaningful performance 
were ineligible including students, interns, co-ops, those who were part of divestitures and specific joint 
conversation with their  ventures, and other Dow employees based on local contractual agreements. 
leader in the past three 
months. Dow adapted a new HCM, Workday, which is still in the roll-out phase. Some data is not available due to the transition to Workday. 
77% 
of employees reported 
discussing goals with 
their leaders throughout 
the year.
50
Programs for Transition Assistance 
OUR PEOPLE GRI 404-2
In 2019, employees separated from Dow were offered support services including career coaching, resume 
Talent 
optimization, networking and interview preparation at no cost. 
Attraction & 
Total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender and 
Management
region
 GRI 401-1
Total Attrition
VOLUNTARY   58% 42%  INVOLUNTARY
Voluntary Attrition
By Gender By Region By Age Group
1%
13%
19%
22%
29%
35%
6%
70%
59%
46%
Male EMEAI U.S. & Canada Under 30
Female Latin America Asia Pacific 30-50
Not Declared Over 50
Involuntary Attrition
By Gender By Region By Age Group
7%
17%
0% 27%
35%
56% 37%
8%
48%
65%
EMEAI U.S. & Canada Under 30
Male Latin America Asia Pacific 30-50
Female
Over 50
Not Declared
Involuntary attrition includes the impact of divestitures
51
OUR PEOPLE Employee Health and Safety 
GRI 403-1, GRI 403-103
Worker protection has been a priority at Dow since the Company’s earliest days. With the goal of having 
Employee 
every worker go home safely at the end of their work shift, Dow uses a comprehensive, integrated 
operating discipline management system that includes policies, requirements, processes, best practices 
Health & 
and procedures associated with Environment, Health and Safety, as well as Quality, Operations and related 
external standards. Within this system, we lay the foundational expectations of hazard assessment and risk 
Safety
mitigation, aligned to Responsible Care®. 
At the highest level, we expect each organization within Dow to implement and use Health and Safety 
Programs to: 
• Identify, assess, and eliminate or mitigate hazards
• Prevent unsafe acts and conditions 
• Maintain and improve the health of personnel 
• Foster communication on health and safety issues
Our Global Health & Safety Management System 
Our management system is grounded in requirements of the U.S. EPA and OSHA, but incorporates ideas 
from other global regions, as well as our own more stringent requirements.
Global and 
Stringent Comprehensive
Site-Specific
52
OUR PEOPLE Leading Indicators  
GRI 403-2
Leading indicators of Occupational Health and Safety performance are a cornerstone of Dow’s worker 
Employee 
protection program. A consistent set of globally applied leading indicators is complemented by locally 
defined leading indicators.
Health & 
Globally applied leading indicators include: Our routine hazardous analysis programs 
Safety
include:
• Non-injury (near miss) situations with potential 
to cause a life-altering impact or fatality had the  • Periodic health exams informed by the 
situation been only slightly different (“non-injury  employee’s role and potential exposure to 
pLIFE event”)  specific workplace hazards 
• Percent completion of training for Life Critical  • Qualitative exposure assessment for chemical, 
Standards  physical, ergonomic and biological hazards 
overseen by professional industrial hygienists 
• Internal EH&S management system audit results 
• Regular evaluation and periodic re-evaluation 
• Open actions from Reactive Chemical and 
of process safety hazards via our Layers of 
Process Hazard Analysis reviews 
Protection Analysis 
• Loading rate for management of change 
• Personal safety risk analysis performed as a 
actions – a measure of the amount of change 
part of numerous work processes (e.g., permit 
work managed by a work group, normalized by 
to work, safe work permit, pre-task analysis and 
worker capacity to implement such actions 
pre-startup safety reviews)
Teaching Safe Behaviors through Technology
Can technology identify an injury before it occurs? At our Kendallville, Indiana, site, workers 
used wearable sensors that alerted them if they were using an unsafe posture during an 
eight-week pilot. At the end of their shifts, they received a safety score summary and 
recommendations to improve their score. During the pilot, safety scores improved over the 
testing period, and workers reported they took the information they learned to improve their 
ergonomic behavior and apply it to daily living tasks outside the job. Data analytics also 
allowed for insights into trends by time of day, job and shift. Dow is now testing a broader 
proof of concept to see if the technology can help identify high-risk ergonomic job tasks 
and identify controls for improvement.
53
OUR PEOPLE Reporting and Investigating  Workers Covered by an 
Safety Issues Occupational Health and Safety 
Employee 
Management System 
Workers have direct line of sight to potential 
GRI 403-8
Health &  hazards. They are expected and encouraged 
All employees and workers who are not employees 
to identify, report and intervene when unsafe or  but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by 
Safety unhealthy work conditions are observed. They also  Dow are required to comply with 100% of health 
positively recognize coworkers making safe choices.  and safety management system requirements. We 
Worker input on hazards and solutions is part of  employ a comprehensive permit-to-work system 
local near-miss programs and leveraged where  that facilitates a robust dialogue around hazards and 
appropriate. Workers are protected from reprisal  mitigation of such hazards for each task. 
via our global Ethics policy, part of our Diamond 
Regular review of our health and safety management 
Standard. 
is built in to evaluate its efficacy. Additionally, we 
Apollo™ Root Cause Investigation methodology  maintain an independent internal audit process, with 
is used for all recordable injuries and near-miss  accountability flowing directly to our chief executive 
situations where potential existed for a LIFE- officer, independent of the Operations organization. 
impacting injury had something been different.  The audit process ensures that every Company 
Consistent use of the methodology ensures we  location, regardless of purpose, is audited every 
3-5 years. Audit frequency is determined based on 
understand the cause and take corrective actions 
the relative risk of the activities at each location. 
at the point of the problem, as well as at the 
Auditors are trained and certified in each topic area 
strategy and management system levels. Significant 
that they evaluate. Gaps identified in these internal 
learnings are shared globally through our Learning 
audits are addressed via corrective or preventative 
Experience Report process. 
actions captured in our global corrective and 
Once hazards are identified, we follow the hierarchy 
preventive action (CAPA) repository, with gap 
of controls to identify feasible and effective  closure encouraged within 12 months of the audit. 
solutions. Two loss-of-life incidents in 2018 triggered 
In addition, more than 85% of our manufacturing 
a global response and changes to our management 
sites globally receive some periodic external 
system in 2019. A truck-rail collision at a crossing 
audit. These vary broadly depending on specific 
at one of our sites led to significant adjustments 
government requirements. For example, more than 
to our rail crossing warning and barrier systems, 
85% of our large U.S. & Canada manufacturing 
and the use of technology to monitor and improve 
sites participate in either OSHA Voluntary Protection 
traffic behaviors at our sites. An improved machine-
Programs or Canadian Federation of Construction 
guarding risk-assessment methodology was put in 
Safety Associations’ Certificate of Recognition 
place globally in response to the second loss-of-life 
program (COR™). More than 50% of external audits 
incident.
globally cover most topics within the Responsible 
Care Code or ISO-14001.
54
OUR PEOPLE
Employee 
Health & 
Safety
Every Dow employee  Employee Health and Well-Being  
GRI 403-3 
has access to 
With more than a century of experience in occupational health, Dow is committed to worker health 
occupational services at 
protection. We have honed an effective, systematic approach to Total Worker Health™ that comprehensively 
no cost through an on- controls workplace health risks, protects workers and improves the health of Dow people:
site, Company-managed 
clinic or an offsite 
Recognizing  Reducing  Screening  Confirming the 
provider managed by 
Hazards Risks for Illness Effectiveness 
Dow Health Services.
of Our System
Clinical treatment 
is available to all 
employees for work-
related injury or illness, 
and employees can 
Crisis Planning: Putting Worker Safety First
access occupational 
health care on paid 
We maintain active crisis planning teams to monitor needs and 
Some of the measures put in place 
worktime.
ensure appropriate plans are in place for emerging health risks 
included: 
and/or pandemic. Crisis plans are activated when necessary and 
In 2019, we had • Redoubling cleaning efforts across our 
may include direct support for the community. With the COVID-19 
sites
60 clinic  pandemic in 2020, we took action to implement strict hygiene 
practices and take precautionary practices to protect the health  • Temperature screening
locations and safety of our employees. Because the chemical sector is 
• Providing hand sanitizers and anti-
. designated as critical infrastructure in many of the world's largest 
bacterial surface wipes
economies, our manufacturing sites were widely excluded from 
• Promoting personal hygiene
governmental shutdown orders. We followed all guidelines issued by 
the World Health Organization and U.S. Centers for Disease Control  • Ensuring ongoing stock and supply 
and Prevention as we managed daily operations. Local laws and  of employee personal protection 
restrictions in specific countries around the world also were followed. equipment
55
OUR PEOPLE
Employee 
Health & 
Safety
Employee Health and Safety Teams 
GRI 403-4
At all Dow locations globally, workers can participate in Health and Safety teams at the facility and site level. 
At the local level, employees participate in incident root cause investigations, “fresh eyes” assessments, 
internal audits and numerous other continuous improvement activities. In most cases, these committees 
meet at least monthly with the primary purpose of reviewing and acting upon worker safety data and 
concerns, and developing implementation plans for new or improved government or Company health and 
safety requirements. 
More than 80% of Dow workers globally are represented in joint-management worker safety committees 
as a result of government requirements or Company union agreements. In most cases, these committees 
meet at least monthly to review and act upon worker safety data and concerns, and develop implementation 
plans for new or improved government or Company health and safety requirements. 
Employee 
Feedback for 
Safety Training
Continuous 
GRI 403-5
Improvement
56
OUR PEOPLE
Employee 
Health & 
Safety
Employee Wellness 
GRI 403-6 
Our commitment to worker health is not limited to occupational health risks. We started a comprehensive 
wellness program more than 30 years ago because we recognized the value of good health to our 
employees, their families and our communities. 
Our well-being strategy is framed across four dimensions – physical, mental, community and financial well-
being – for an approach that is holistic, global, employee-centered and outcome-driven. 
A Multi-Faceted Approach to Employee Well-Being
We support well-being across four pillars:
WORK PEOPLE PLACE WORLD
Change job  Foster supportive and  Create a supportive  Realizing we can’t 
characteristics  valued relationships  and thriving  achieve optimal 
detrimental to well- between employees  environment  well-being alone, we 
being and help  and between  that enables the  seek to create and 
employees use their  employees and  well-being of all  implement solutions 
work to optimize   leaders; protect  employees and is  with our vendors, 
well-being. workers. conducive to healthy  communities, peers, 
choices. customers and 
governments.
57
OUR PEOPLE
Employee 
Health & 
Safety
Supporting Employee Well-Being
Our well-being objective is that 100% of Dow employees are their best self for work, home and play. Here’s 
a look at a few ways that we support employee well-being.
Employee Assistance 
Healthy Culture Index Case Management Health Benefits
Program (EAP)
We track each site’s  EAP is available to all  We help employees  We seek to improve the 
alignment with evidence- employees and their  maneuver the healthcare  health of Dow employees 
based best practice well- families globally for help  systems, return to health  by removing barriers 
being strategies, including  with general stress,  as soon as possible  to access and pay for 
access to healthy foods,  substance use, financial  and maintain their  appropriate, quality 
relaxation spaces,  struggles and family  progress. This is offered  healthcare around the 
lactation support, peer and  relations. Our EAP  globally through Dow  world. This is done 
leader support for health,  program also provides  Health Services and  through both medical 
and access to physical  on-site emotional health  where available by local  insurance and other health 
activity.  support in response to a  insurance or worker  offerings for employees. 
personal or work-related  compensation providers.  The level of support is 
incidents.  determined based on the 
needs of our workforce 
within a given geography.
58
OUR PEOPLE
Employee 
Health & 
Safety
Work-Related Injury and Illness 
GRI 403-9, GRI 403-10
It is core to our injury measurement and prevention efforts that we classify incidents by their potential to 
result in LIFE-altering consequences. This allows us to see and focus our prevention efforts on hazards 
that pose a greater likelihood of a high-consequence injury. We have a robust, globally tracked near-miss 
program for situations that did not result in an injury but could have been high consequence had something 
been slightly different. This non-injury potential LIFE event (pLIFE) data is reviewed weekly at the corporate 
level to ensure adequate investigation and to identify broadly leverageable learnings. This data is visible 
to all employees and built into dashboards along with actual injury information for every site, region and 
business across the Company. Our Corrective and Preventative Action (CAPA) program ensures that each 
incident investigated, including all that have a high-consequence potential, has robust corrective and 
preventative actions applied.
Employee Opinion on Health & Safety
Highlight
Our annual employee opinion survey shows that employees have high confidence in Dow’s approach to 
safety and health. 
In 2019, the top 130 
leaders of Dow traveled to 
various Dow sites globally 
as part of our Global 
Leadership Team safety 
visit initiative.
% % %
97 92 69
     
indicated that they are held  of people in my work area are  indicated that the Dow culture 
accountable for doing their  protected from health and  encourages employees to 
work in a manner that is safe safety hazards be their best self both 
mentally and physically
59
GLOBAL 
CITIZENSHIP
Focus 
Areas
Global Citizenship
Through social investments, shared purpose and meaningful engagement, we are collaborating across the globe to build more 
sustainable and resilient communities where we live and work. Aligned to Dow’s ambition and fueled by volunteer service, our 
global citizenship strategy seeks to apply our innovative technology, employee expertise and culture of inclusion to generate 
transformational social impact. 
Our Areas of Focus:
How We Make an Impact
CHARITABLE INVESTMENTS are one of  EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERISM is 
the ways Dow gives back. In 2019, Dow  supported across the Dow world to 
gave more than $32 million in grants and  advance economic and social progress 
$1.5 million in gift-in-kind donations. in our communities.
60
GLOBAL 
CITIZENSHIP
Focus 
Areas
Advancing Sustainable Solutions
We believe that sustainable business creates positive social 
change. By combining Dow products, technology and expertise  $2.5 10
with social impact, we create value for both business and 
$2.0 8
society.
s $1.5 6
n
o
Dow Business Impact Fund  Milli $1.0 4
The Dow Business Impact Fund unlocks business opportunities 
$0.5 2
by solving social problems through our technology and 
expertise. Launched in 2016, the fund provides Dow businesses 
$0 0
and partners significant seed funding to support social impact  2016 2017 2018 2019
projects. In 2019, Dow distributed nearly $1.5 million in seed 
Total Disbursed Grants Awarded
money through its Business Impact Fund.
+ + =
SOCIAL IMPACT BUSINESS IMPACT EXTERNAL PARTNERS CONCEPT IDEA
• Food waste • Value chain  • Nonprofits (e.g., Habitat for  • New uses for recycled 
enhancements Humanity, Food Bank, USAID, etc.) plastics
• Waste infrastructure
• New/improved  • School systems • Sustainable practices in 
• Digital access
partnerships the textile industry
• Local governments
• Recycling/upcycling
• New markets • Telecommunications 
• Universities
• Entrepreneur support
access to impoverished 
• New uses for Dow 
• Customers
• Safety communities
innovation
• Brand owners
• Carbon mitigation • Sustainable and affordable 
• Affordable housing • Industry partners housing
• Value chain partners
• Quality education
• Suppliers
• Consultants 61
GLOBAL 
CITIZENSHIP
Focus 
Areas
Building Inclusive Communities
By generating awareness of diversity-related challenges and supporting organizations that respect unique differences and  
perspectives, we cultivate inclusion in our communities. We also support future key community change makers – educators and students –  
in creating more inclusive environments in schools.
ALL IN ERG Fund
The ALL IN ERG Fund provides Dow Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) with $200,000 in seed grants to support inclusion programming in 
Dow communities across the globe. ERGs compete for funds and submit grant requests on an annual basis. In its first year, the ALL IN ERG 
Fund generated strong interest among our ERGs, with more than 140 grant requests submitted from across the globe. Twelve projects were 
chosen as finalists. 
• Entrepreneurship Support for  • Plastic for Wheelchairs (South Africa):  • LGBTQ+ Strategy/Approach (Texas): This 
Immigrants (Switzerland): Dow ERGs  Together with the support of corporations,  project supports and guides the creation 
are partnering with the Capacity Launch  schools and volunteers, the Sweethearts  of the first Brazoria County LGBTQ+ 
Programme, an entrepreneurship  Foundation provides wheelchairs to those  organization in partnership with the 
program for people with refugee and  in need through a Tops & Tags initiative, in  nonprofit Montrose Center to support all 
migrant backgrounds. Through pro  which plastic bottle tops and bread tags  intersectional groups of the local LGBTQ+ 
bono volunteerism as career coaches  are recycled in exchange for wheelchairs.  community, including youth, seniors and 
and mentors, Dow employees will  Dow employees will work with local  families.
provide support and expertise to early- schools to expand collection sites, educate 
stage businesses. and build awareness of the plastics waste 
crisis, and help support the diversity and 
inclusion needs of people with disabilities.
62
GLOBAL 
CITIZENSHIP
Focus 
Areas
Developing Tomorrow’s Innovators
Developing the Workforce of Tomorrow 
Increasing access to science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) can inspire students and foster 
problem-solvers who will help create answers to tomorrow’s world challenges. We aim to develop a diverse 
and ready workforce by increasing interest and preparedness in skilled manufacturing careers and by 
creating the next generation of diverse chemists and engineers.
Boosting the Manufacturing  Encouraging Tomorrow’s 
Workforce Problem-Solvers
63
GLOBAL 
CITIZENSHIP
Empowering 
Sustainable 
and Resilient 
Communities
Empowering Sustainable and Resilient Communities 
Across the world, we are taking action to spark positive and meaningful change in our communities, and we’re 
collaborating with a variety of stakeholders to increase our impact and support local needs. We are committed 
to increasing the resiliency and vibrancy of the communities in which our employees and their families live, 
work, learn and play. In each community, our employees act as a catalyst for this positive change.
Strengthening Community Resilience
In every geography, Dow volunteers are contributing to projects that are helping catalyze more inclusive and 
resilient communities. 
64
GLOBAL 
CITIZENSHIP
Engaging 
for Impact
#TeamDow Engaging for Impact
We believe that an engaged team of employee volunteers can not only transform our communities but also 
positively impact our company culture and advance Dow’s ambition. Dow’s volunteer strategy, designed 
to support our 2025 Sustainability Goal Engaging Employees for Impact, activates our Global Citizenship 
priorities and investments, and promotes a positive employee experience.
CASE STUDY: #PullingOurWeight
In 2019, more than 18,000 volunteers collected more than 175,000 pounds of trash at 175 different locations 
during our #PullingOurWeight campaign, a unique initiative that aims to increase awareness around 
responsible waste management and engage our employees and communities in addressing plastic pollution. 
This was the largest employee volunteer event for a single cause in Dow’s history and demonstrated our 
View the video here.
company’s commitment to a cleaner environment and a better world. 
65
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
Approach
GRI 102-9
Sustainability is one of the four key tenants of our Integrated supply chain strategy and is a guiding factor 
in driving improvements throughout our global value chain. It guides how we source raw materials, manage 
the storage and transportation of our intermediates and products, and select, engage and manage our 
supplier partnerships. With operations across the globe, supply chain sustainability is critical to our success 
and core to our customer experience.
Strategy in Action
We continue to put our supply chain strategy into action by driving forward our Green Transportation 
Strategy, executing our Transportation Stewardship Program, and advancing digitalization. We also 
recognize the importance of collaboration for long-term success and have further enhanced our already 
deep-rooted relationships with our logistic service providers, suppliers and customers by proactively 
identifying opportunities for sustainability-related supply chain projects and initiatives.
>1,300 >400 100B 9,000
SERVICE PROVIDERS  WAREHOUSES POUNDS
AND TERMINALS DELIVERIES
ACROSS ALL  PER YEAR
PER DAY
GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS
Following separation from DowDuPont, our total volume of shipments has reduced, but our network remains as a global integrated supply chain 
servicing a similar geographic footprint. GRI 102-10
Partnering through the Value Chain
Our supply chain success depends on partnerships throughout our end-to-end value chain with all of our 
stakeholders, from suppliers and logistics service providers to customers. By engaging in collaborations, we 
can drive sustainable business practices while improving supply chain capability and transparency through 
opportunities for sustainability-related supply chain projects and initiatives.
66
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
Approach
Green Transportation
Dow’s Green Transportation strategy consists of both internal activities to actively manage and reduce our 
impact, as well as external engagement to drive and promote sustainable logistics.
• Sustainability Awards
Present a United Front on • Global Framework (GLEC)
• Public-Private Partnerships
Transportation CO  
2 • Logistics Purchasing
• ISC Sustainability Training
Measure and Actively 
• Modification of internal tools to include CO  
2
Manage Emissions  as KPI
• Embedding Sustainability into ISC Project 
Footprint
Trackers
Leverage Long-Term  • Stay informed on industry trends
• Partner with carriers on advanced 
Regulation and Technology 
technologies
Improvements
There are a number of different ways that Dow is advancing this strategy:
67
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
Transportation 
Stewardship
World-Leading Transportation 
Transportation Stewardship Culture
Stewardship and Performance
Dow’s Transportation Stewardship Program is an 
extensive, holistic program focused on driving the 
industry toward a new standard of transportation 
Leading-Edge Programs
safety and security. Dow achieved a number 
to Inﬂuence the Industry
of milestones in 2019 by implementing several 
initiatives that support our commitment to strengthen  Risk Management Across
transportation safety to reduce risk to people and the 
the Value Chain
planet.
Incident-Free Performance
There are a number of different ways that Dow is advancing this strategy:
68
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
Transportation 
Stewardship
Breakthrough Innovations in  
Supply Chain Design 
At Dow, a key pillar of our Integrated Supply Chain strategy is our 
next-generation end-to-end supply chain capabilities. We are focused 
on revolutionizing our supply chain by investing in exploratory 
solutions that make big step changes, while seamlessly integrating 
these solutions with our traditional way of improving processes and 
operating models. To accomplish this, we are exploring, evaluating 
and experimenting with new and innovative technologies that will help 
us transform, while also continuing to provide stability and implement 
incremental solutions to meet the needs of today. Providing our 
employees with the resources and tools available to think outside of 
the box is key to advancing this strategy.
Advancing Transportation Safety and Sustainability with Technology
Dow is an industry recognized leader when it comes to safety and sustainability. In order to maintain our 
leadership role in industry, Dow is utilizing technology in new ways to quantify and improve our safety and 
sustainability metrics. These tools and technologies will improve the customer experience through increased 
transparency and identification of improvement opportunities.
69
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
Procurement/
Logistics
Engaging Our Supply Chain Partners
Dow has approximately 38,000 suppliers in its supply chain and in approximately 100 countries, with a 
purchased managed spend of approximately $20 billion. Our Procurement organization manages supplier 
relations, and we have Procurement Centers across the world to help establish effective relationships with 
global and local suppliers of goods and services. We work with our suppliers to pursue the principles of 
sustainability through Responsible Care®.
2019 Supplier Diversity Highlights
>$1B Tier II Reporting captured Supplier Diversity
delivered  
$80MM+
in spend with small or 
$7MM
diverse suppliers since 
inception of program Driving diversity through the value chain
in EBIT
1,000+
Expanded International Presence
Increased  
10 countries
engagement
small and diverse suppliers
through  
sponsorship  Benchmarked  
and event   Advanced Process
attendance 4 out of 5
with Ralph G. Moore  
DiversityInc.
& Associates
Top 50  
Companies for 
Increased Certified Spend 
Diversity
37
50%+
Ranked
70
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
Procurement/
Logistics
Supplier Diversity
We are committed to promoting supplier diversity to advance equitable and sustainable business practices, 
support economic growth in the communities in which we work and live, and unlock innovative business 
practices and bottom-line value. Dow’s Supplier Diversity initiative includes small businesses and diverse 
businesses identified as being owned by minorities, women, veterans (including service-disabled), LGBTQ+ 
and persons with disabilities. 
Our Supplier Diversity initiative is part of our overall Inclusion & Diversity efforts with defined deliverables 
and key measures of success aligned to Corporate objectives. In 2019, we implemented a Tier II Reporting 
Program, influencing diversity throughout our value chain. We launched regional advisory councils to drive 
supplier diversity across 10 countries in which we live, work and do business. We also created a balanced 
scorecard, with a focus on the value proposition of Supplier Diversity, resulting in an approximately 50% 
increase in spend with third party Certified Diverse Suppliers. We will continue to measure, track and report 
our small and diverse business spend, which currently represents nearly $1 billion of our total spend in the 
United States. 
Code of Business Conduct for Suppliers
Through the Dow Code of Conduct, we continue to engage new suppliers globally and communicate 
our expectations that all suppliers are compliant with regulations and Dow’s values. We also continually 
review and refresh the Code of Business Conduct for Suppliers, completing a full analysis of our current 
standards and industry best practices to ensure that we’re holding our suppliers to the highest standards 
regarding sustainability, human rights and environmental health and safety. The requirements of the Code 
of Business Conduct for Suppliers are built into all new and existing supplier contracts, to ensure they are 
contractually enforceable. Dow reserves the right to audit supplier compliance at any time. In the case where 
we identify less than adequate supplier practices, we reserve the right to discontinue business with the 
supplier. Annually, we’ve identified compliance issues in less than 0.1% of our supplier base, resulting in the 
immediate cessation of business.
71
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
Procurement/
Logistics
External Manufacturing
External Manufacturing (EM) refers to manufacturing services that are performed by an outside party on 
Dow’s behalf using Dow’s intellectual property. All external manufacturing suppliers are managed through 
a robust, risk-based work process that begins at project conception and extends through the conclusion 
of the business agreement. This work process includes a screening of process risks, a supplier selection 
process in which an initial on-site Environment, Health & Safety (EH&S) assessment is conducted, and 
regular EH&S audits. Criteria reviewed in these audits include the implementation of safety management 
systems and safe work practices, compliance with local regulations and permits, environmental and waste 
management practices, and incident history. EM contract agreements also specify that the manufacturer 
comply with Dow’s Code of Business Conduct and the Fundamental EH&S Expectations for External 
Manufacturers.
Logistic Service Providers
Leveraging our approach to our suppliers and external manufacturing suppliers, we also set high standards 
for our Logistic Service Providers (LSPs) by having in place an extensive risk-based program in order to 
qualify providers and established periodic follow-up assessments. These assessments include reviewing 
health and safety practices, labor practices, and environmental compliance and security. Assessments 
Highlight
are conducted via work processes and external initiatives such as the Safety & Quality Assessment 
System, Chemical Distribution Institute Responsible Care® and Anti-Corruption Due Diligence. We also 
operate a detailed Distribution Risk Review process to ensure risks are adequately mitigated. Through our 
In 2019, Dow collaborated 
collaborative partnerships with our upstream and downstream stakeholders, we are able to implement 
with >200 external 
sustainable business practices across our entire value chain.
manufacturers globally, 
spending >$0.5B on 
a diverse portfolio of 
technologies.
72
GOVERNANCE 
GRI-102-46
Values
Providing a Framework for Engagement and Progress
In everything we do, we are committed to respecting people, working with integrity and protecting the 
world’s resources. These are the values that inspire us daily and shape how we work with one another 
and with our partners. We integrate sustainability deeply into our business to create greater value for our 
company, society and the planet, and we engage a wide variety of stakeholders to ensure we’re focused 
on what matters most. To help us fulfill our commitments, we’ve put in place a strong governance structure 
to ensure our global sustainability program meets our business needs and support our company’s 
environmental and social goals.
Dow Values
Respect  Protecting 
Integrity
for People Our Planet
73
GOVERNANCE
Ethics
Values, Principles, Standards and Norms of Behavior
  GRI 102-16
Our people hold themselves and each other accountable to operate with integrity. As the global economy 
expands and the business environment increases in complexity, the Dow Code of Conduct provides a 
framework to focus our employees, officers and directors on our Values of Integrity and Respect for People, 
abide by the law and be highly principled and socially responsible in all of our business practices.
Dow Code of Conduct
Dow’s Code of Conduct (Code) summarizes the ethical principles and policies intended to deter and prevent 
corrupt activity such as bribery, and models appropriate ethical conduct. It also provides Dow’s position on 
a wide array of topics including equal employment opportunity, respect in the workplace, and environment, 
health and safety. All Dow employees are expected to understand and comply with all Company policies 
and applicable laws, and must certify compliance with the Code annually. The Code was developed by the 
Office of Ethics and Compliance (OEC) and key stakeholders, and approved by Dow’s Board of Directors 
upon the separation of Dow as an independent company on April 1, 2019. The Code is available in 
16 languages. 
Office of Ethics and Compliance (OEC)
Dow established its OEC in September 1998 to reinforce the Company’s long-standing commitment to 
ethical business conduct. The OEC communicates the Company’s standards, provides guidance on issue 
related to ethical conduct and has oversight over mechanisms for action. This includes promoting lawful 
activity everywhere we do business, as well as helping the Company to manage risk, maintain a positive 
reputation and avoid litigation. 
74
GOVERNANCE
Ethics
Mechanisms for Advice and Concerns about Ethics
  GRI 102-17
Our employees are expected to behave in a way that protects our business interests, our reputation and 
each other. This includes taking action to promptly report any conduct inconsistent with our Code of 
Conduct, our values or the law. The Office of Ethical Conduct (OEC) is responsible for communicating to 
all stakeholders the mechanisms that are in place to seek advice and report potential misconduct. These 
options are listed on Dow’s website and intranet page, on the OEC’s ethics and compliance training website, 
and in many other communications. We respect those who raise concerns about potential misconduct, and 
we will not tolerate retaliation against anyone who reports a potential violation in good faith.
2019 Ethics Reports
396
58%
 of matters unsubstantiated
matters 
27%
 of matters substantiated
reported to 
OEC 15%
 unsubstantiated but other 
issues requiring action were uncovered
317
Types of issues: Conflicts of Interest, Environmental Health 
& Safety, Human Resources, Misuse of Assets and Others. All 
issues that require corrective action are appropriately addressed.
warranted an 
investigation
NOTE: Data excludes matters investigated or reported in the first quarter of 2019 
related to DuPont or Corteva businesses.
75
GOVERNANCE
Ethics
Conflicts of Interest 
GRI 102-25
All employees and others working for Dow are expected to avoid personal activities and financial interests 
that could conflict with their Company responsibilities.
Code of  Annual 
Corporate 
Conduct/Code  Ethics and 
Governance 
of Financial  Compliance 
Committee
Ethics Certification
LEARN MORE LEARN MORE LEARN MORE
Delegating Authority 
GRI 102-19
Dow employs a systematic delegation of authority structure from the Dow Executive Leadership Team 
through the Company through a chain of command. Generally, this occurs from vice presidents to business 
directors, to leaders and then to specialists.
The full text of Dow’s Code of Conduct and Code of Financial Ethics is available here.
76
GOVERNANCE
Oversight
Review of Economic, Environmental and Social Topics and 
Communicating Critical Concerns
  GRI 102-31, GRI 102-33, GRI 102-34
Dow's reputation and license to operate are impacted by economic, environmental and societal events and 
developments over time and across geographies. We work to proactively identify trends and their impact, 
to establish enterprise-wide competencies and infrastructure, and to engage the appropriate internal and 
external expertise needed to minimize the impact of issues and events on Dow's reputation or business 
results. 
Throughout the year, management reviews any critical concerns and actual results compared to the 
strategic plan with the Board and relevant committee(s). Executive management also is available to 
discuss company strategy, plans, results and issues with the committees and the Board. The independent 
Directors meet in executive session in connection with each regularly scheduled meeting of the Board, and 
at other times as they may determine appropriate, and the committees typically meet in executive session 
in connection with every committee meeting. In addition, the Audit Committee holds separate executive 
sessions with the lead client service partner of the independent registered public accounting firm, internal 
auditor, general counsel and other management as appropriate. 
The Board and members of the management team continued extensive outreach to stockholders throughout 
the year, engaging with investors who collectively held more than 50% of outstanding shares of common 
stock of the company. Through this outreach, the management team updated investors on a range of 
topics, including the separation with DowDuPont, the overall business strategy, current business conditions, 
corporate citizenship and sustainability, corporate governance practices and executive compensation. 
They also gained an understanding of the perspectives and concerns of each investor. The Board and 
management team carefully consider the feedback from these meetings when reviewing the business, 
corporate governance and executive compensation profiles.
77
GOVERNANCE
Defined 
Benefit Plan 
Obligations
Defined Benefit Plan Obligations and Other  Detailed disclosure about pension plans and other post-retirement 
benefits can be found in the 2019 10-K. Updates to the 2020 
Retirement Plans 
GRI 201-3
contribution estimates can be found within the Dow 1Q2020 10-Q.
We have both funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans 
Restatements of Information 
that cover employees in the United States and a number of other 
GRI 102-48 
countries. The U.S. qualified plan is the largest plan. Benefits for 
Applicable values in the Financial Highlights table on page 11 values 
employees hired before January 1, 2008, are based on length of 
for 2018 have been updated in accordance with the Current Report 
service and the employee’s three highest consecutive years of 
on Form 8-K for Dow Inc. and TDCC, filed with the U.S. Securities 
compensation. Employees hired after January 1, 2008, earn benefits 
and Exchange Commission on July 25, 2019 (“Form 8-K”), which 
that are based on a set percentage of annual pay plus interest.
recast portions of the TDCC Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
Our funding policy is to contribute to the plans when pension laws  year ended December 31, 2018 (“2018 10-K”) to reflect the results 
and/or economics either require or encourage funding. of Dow and its consolidated subsidiaries, after giving effect to the 
distribution to DowDuPont of TDCC’s agricultural sciences business 
• In 2019, 2018 and 2017, we contributed $261 million, $1,651 
and specialty products business and the receipt of DuPont's 
million and $1,672 million, respectively, to our continuing 
ethylene and ethylene copolymers businesses (other than its 
operations pension plans, including contributions to fund benefit 
ethylene acrylic elastomers business) from the closing of the Merger 
payment for our non-qualified pension plans ($266 million, $1,656 
on August 31, 2017. The information included in the Form 8-K is not 
million and $1,676 million, including contributions to plans of 
an amendment to or restatement of the 2018 10-K.
discontinued operations).
Environmental metrics reported over several years have been 
• In the third quarter of 2018, we made a $1,100 million discretionary 
recalculated to reflect the scale of the organization following 
contribution to our principal U.S. pension plan, which is included 
separation from DowDuPont. The restatements of data can be seen 
in the 2018 contribution amount above. The discretionary 
by comparing the summary chart on page 27 with the corresponding 
contribution was primarily based on our funding policy, which 
summary chart on page 83 of the 2018 Dow Sustainability Report 
permits contributions to defined benefit pension plans when 
and comparing charts throughout the Environmental Impacts section 
economics encourage funding, and reflected considerations 
of this report on pages 28 through 40 with pages 86 through 95 of 
relating to tax deductibility and capital structure.
the 2018 Dow Sustainability Report.
• The Company expects to contribute approximately $290 million to 
its pension plans in 2020.
78
GOVERNANCE
Risk 
Management
Managing Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities 
 GRI 102-29, GRI-102-30
Did You 
To deliver value to our customers, employees, communities and shareholders, we must understand and 
Know?
manage the impacts, risks and opportunities faced across our entire enterprise. We use a number of 
tools to identify and prioritize risks and opportunities, including a sustainability materiality assessment, a 
stakeholder engagement process and our Enterprise Risk Management process.
Risk management is a strategic activity within Dow, and our ability to manage risk creates opportunity 
Because 
as well. Corporate-level identification and management of risk is systematically accomplished using 
96%
an integrated Enterprise Risk Management approach. The Board of Directors oversees the overall risk 
 of all  management process. Responsibility for managing risk rests with executive management. Potential 
manufactured goods  risks include the impact of weather-related events, access to credit, effect of foreign currency exchange 
rate movements, and volatility in purchased feedstock and energy costs. Risk management results are 
are directly touched 
regularly communicated to the chief financial officer. The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing 
by the business of 
that management implements and follows this risk management process and for coordinating the 
chemistry, our industry 
outcome of reviews by the other committees in their respective risk areas, including the Environment, 
has a significant role  Health, Safety & Technology Committee for risk relating to safety, health or the environment. This includes 
to play in addressing  regulatory developments, sustainability trends, intellectual property protection and significant operational 
events, among others. A formal review of Enterprise Risk Management is conducted annually by the Audit 
sustainable issues such 
Committee and the Board.
as climate change and 
food waste.
79
GOVERNANCE
Risk 
Management
Risk factors that have been determined to be financially material to the company related to sustainability 
include:  
GRI 102-15
A complete statement of risk factors can be found on 
page 17 of the 2019 10-K, which can be downloaded 
here.
80
Safer Materials 
GRI 416-1
GOVERNANCE All products are assessed in an appropriate manner – depending upon EH&S profile, application and 
exposure potential – for improvement opportunities as part of Dow’s EH&S management approach at each 
Risk  stage of the product life cycle.
Management
Risk 
Business Risk  Engaging 
Characterization 
Review Process Stakeholders
Tool
Precautionary Principle or Approach 
 GRI 102-11
As a responsible corporate citizen, Dow continues to use a well-defined process for assessing and managing 
risks in the face of uncertainty. This process is science-based, ensuring decision-making includes an 
appropriate evaluation of risk and benefits. It applies to current products as well as those under development.
We support a precautionary approach as set out in Principle 15 of the Rio Declaration on Environment and 
Development and view the precautionary principle as an application of the principles of risk assessment and 
risk management. Risk assessment includes hazard identification, characterization, exposure assessment 
and risk assessment. Risk management encompasses the identification, selection and implementation of 
alternative actions for addressing risk through the control of identified hazards(s) and/or exposure.
We believe that approaches should be risk-based and cost-effective. Additionally, the selected chemical 
management approach should be:
•  Proportional to the objective being pursued.
•  Provisional.
•  The least burdensome option that provides adequate protection from the risk.
81
Climate Change Risks and Opportunities 
GRI 201-2
GOVERNANCE In order to evaluate risks and opportunities associated with climate change, we have analyzed various 
climate change scenarios. Four boundary scenarios have been considered in evaluating the impacts of 
Risk  climate change and the impacts to Dow:
Management Climate Change Scenarios
Hot Air Pollution Mitigation Carbon Cap Carbon Tax
n • World energy grows at  • China: aggressive coal  • Temp increase below 2°C • U.S. implements a $40/ton 
o
pti historic rate and with the  reduction and NG growth • Global cap on carbon  CO2 wellhead tax
ri same fuel mix • Less polluting fossil  emissions • Import tariff retaliation 
c
es • Temp increase of 6°C  fuels in residential and  • Digital and technological  from EU – China
D
above pre-industrial levels transportation innovation • Global policies fractured
RenewOabt3hle%esr H2y%dro B11io%mass RenewOabt6hle%esr H5y%dro Biomass RenO1e2twh%aebrles H4y%dro RenewOabt4hle%esr H3%ydro Biomass
& Waste 10%
Nuclear 11%
4%
x Nuclear Nuclear
Mi 2O8%il Oil 5% Bi2o0m%ass Oil 9%
  25% Oil 29 %
el Natural 21%
Fu Gas Natural N1u1c%lear Natural
  24% Gas Gas
0 Coal Coal 26% Coal Natural Coal 23%
4 28% 22% 12% Gas 22%
0
2 20%
Demand: 840 EJ Demand: 840 EJ Demand: 620 EJ Demand: 790 EJ
Energy  40% 40% 10% 33%
Demand 
Growth
Sources for fuel mix: • Carbon Tax: MIT Joint Program on the Science and Policy of Global 
• Hot Air: International Energy Agency, Energy Technology Perspectives 2015  Change.
– https://www.iea.org/etp/etp2015/ – 6D Scenario.  • Carbon Cap: International Energy Agency, Energy Technology Perspectives 
• Pollution Mitigation: Dow analysis. 2015 – https://www.iea.org/etp/etp2015/ – 2D Scenario. 
Climate-Related Risk Management
The potential implications of our climate-related issues on a regulatory front include but are not limited to an 
increased cost of purchased energy, additional capital costs for installation of GHG-emitting equipment, and 
direct costs associated with GHG emissions. We proactively incorporate a carbon price into our business 
planning and risk management strategies, even in jurisdictions without existing carbon legislation. We 
also have a dedicated commercial group to handle energy contracts and purchases, including managing 
emissions. Operationally, climate change may result in severe weather events, such as storms and droughts, 
which can disrupt operations. We have engineered our susceptible facilities, particularly on the U.S. Gulf 
Coast, to better withstand severe weather and rising sea levels, and we continue to study the long-term 
implications of changing climate parameters on water availability, plant siting issues and other impacts.
82
GOVERNANCE
Materiality
2019 Materiality Assessment
  GRI 102-46
As a result of the team’s 
After completing our separation from DowDuPont, Dow conducted a comprehensive update to our materiality assessment in 
assessment, four topics 
2019 to determine topics that are material for disclosure based on their impact on economies, the environment, society and 
were added to Dow’s  our stakeholders. 
prior list of material 
A team of subject matter experts who provided the voice of stakeholders were asked to describe each potential material 
topics: 
GRI 102-49 topic as it relates to Dow’s products and activities, including where the impacts occur. Questions included:
•  How do Dow’s products and activities impact economies?
•  How do Dow’s products and activities impact the environment?
•  How do Dow’s products and activities impact society?
•  How do Dow’s products and activities impact the decisions of our stakeholders?*
Team Representation Expertise Stakeholder Voice Represented
Sustainability Directors and  Sustainability context, frequent external engagement on  Employees, customers, suppliers, community/
Managers sustainability topics and the impact of Dow and the industry society, regulators, shareholders/investors
VP of Investor Relations ESG as a driver of investment decisions Shareholders/investors
Energy and Climate Change  Energy and climate policy, impact of Dow  Suppliers, customers, regulators, community/
Directors and Managers society
Corporate Reporting Manager External disclosure requirements,   Regulators, shareholders/investors
corporate reputation
We will assess our 
Finance Director Financial impact of Dow’s activities Community/society, shareholders/investors
ability to report on the 
Enterprise Risk Management  Integrated risk management process Community, regulators, shareholders/investors
required disclosures  Manager
through 2020. Commercial and Customer  How sustainability topics relate to Dow’s business unit  Customers
Experience Director decisions
Environmental Directors Environmental regulations, impacts Regulators, customers, community/society
2025 Sustainability Goal Team  Impact of Dow’s activities Community/society, employees
Leaders
*Including suppliers, employees, customers, community/society, regulators, shareholders/investors
83
GOVERNANCE
Materiality
Assessing Our Material Impacts 
GRI 102-44, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47
The chart below indicates the scale of impact of Dow’s products and activities on economies, the environment and society, and the scale of 
influence on the assessments and decisions of our stakeholders for each of our identified material topics.
Impact of Dow’s products and activities on   Impact of Dow’s products and activities on the assessments and 
For each topic, the scale of impact 
the economy, environment and society decisions of our stakeholders
is indicated as low, medium, or high 
/
baTsoasspeeisdcs omne inntp tueta omf .the materiality  Economy Environment Society Suppliers Employees Customers Community/Society Regulators Shareholdersnvestors
I
Safe chemistry
Low impact
Circular economy
Plastic waste in the environment
Economic performance Medium impact
Materials
Energy
High impact
Water and effluents
Biodiversity*
Emissions
Effluents and waste
Environmental compliance
Supplier environment assessment*
Employment
Occupational health and safety
Training and education*
Diversity and equal opportunity *Topics determined to be 
material for inclusion in Dow’s 
Local communities
sustainability reporting for the 
Supplier social assessment*
first time in 2019.
Customer health and safety
84
GOVERNANCE
Stakeholder 
Engagement
Engaging Our Stakeholders
Did You 
Engaging stakeholders and establishing collaborative partnerships is an essential element of our 
Know?
sustainability strategy. By engaging with a wide variety of stakeholders on a regular basis, we build a clearer 
understanding of complex global challenges and of the local conditions in the countries where we do 
business. 
When launched in 1992, 
The fundamental principles of Dow’s ongoing engagement strategy are:
Dow’s Sustainability 
External Advisory Council  • Information sharing and disclosure
(SEAC) was the first of its 
• Participating in active dialogue
kind in the petrochemical 
• Collaborating on issues of mutual interest
industry.
The overall purpose of engagement is to advance business objectives while building Dow’s reputation.  
GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43
Stakeholder Group  Mechanism and Frequency of Engagement
GRI 102-40
Customers Customers are engaged frequently throughout the year through events, meetings, emails, surveys 
and social media. Dow’s commercial and sustainability functions work together to provide appropriate 
engagement to customers on sustainability topics.
Suppliers Suppliers are engaged frequently throughout the year through calls, emails and surveys.
Employees (and prospective  Employees are engaged frequently throughout the year through surveys, emails, internet postings, individual 
Highlight
employees) conversations, meetings, training and others. Numerous opportunities are provided for employees at all 
levels to provide input to sustainability practices and strategy. 
Community/Society Communities are engaged regularly through meetings and other communication with groups including 
In 2019, we implemented a 
Community Advisory Panels, United Way, Habitat for Humanity, Keep America Beautiful and others. 
company-wide employee  Wider communication with communities is through social media.
listening strategy to gather 
Regulators Regulators are engaged as part of normal operations for Dow teams through meetings, emails and calls.  
more frequent and relevant  These engagements can be standard sharing of information or more detailed conversations about 
particular regulatory issues of interest.
feedback from employees.
Shareholders/Investors Shareholders and investors are engaged regularly through meetings, conferences and the media. Dow’s 
Investor Relations function works to deliver relevant information about Dow’s activities and collect 
information about shareholder and investor sustainability priorities and strategies. 
The key topics of interest to each stakeholder group are mapped to material sustainability topics here.
85
GOVERNANCE
Stakeholder 
Engagement
3
> 8 CAPs in Dow  Engaging Communities 
GRI 413-103, GRI 413-1, GRI 413-2
communities
At Dow, we believe our decision-making processes are improved when we involve the community. With 
sites in 31 countries, Dow has a daily presence in small towns and cities around the world as a neighbor, 
REPRESENTING:
community leader, employer and manufacturer. Understanding the needs of the communities where Dow 
has locations, and responding in a constructive and appropriate way, is part of our role as a community 
member and one to which we are deeply committed.
Healthcare Business Community Advisory Panels (CAPs)
Dow has been an industry leader in establishing and using CAPs in the communities where we have 
operations. Dow’s CAPs represent a broad cross-section of local interests, including healthcare, education, 
civic engagement, law enforcement and local business. The CAPs operate in more than 38 of our global 
Education Nonprofits
manufacturing communities and help us engage in ongoing and open communication regarding Dow’s 
operations, safety programs, environmental conditions, community interaction and other aspects of the 
company and plant.
Law Enforcement Feedback from CAPs enables Dow to be responsive in addressing a community’s quality of life needs and 
helps identify where the company can have the greatest impact. Dow continually refreshes its CAPs to 
maximize value for both Dow and the community. To find new ways to expand their reach, CAP members 
PROVIDING FEEDBACK FOR: also engage other community residents by inviting them to Dow-hosted events. This results in greater 
feedback by residents and more awareness-building about Dow within the community.
Community Surveys
Dow’s  Safety Dow also measures its impact as a corporate citizen and identifies concerns through periodic community 
Operations
assessment surveys at select sites. These surveys generate feedback related to quality of life issues, Dow’s 
“rightful role” in a community and also provide direct recommendations on opportunities where Dow can 
have a positive impact. We address these and many more issues through our local site Community Success 
Environmental  Community  Plans.
Priorities Involvement
86
Engaging Globally
GOVERNANCE
Our collaborations help expand the impact of our actions and take an innovative approach to the challenges 
facing our industry and the world. 
Stakeholder 
External Initiatives 
GRI 102-12
Engagement
Responsible Care   Voluntary initiative of the global chemical industry, a requirement of membership in the American 
Management System Chemistry Council.
United Nations Global  Voluntary participant since 2007. Requires commitment to meet fundamental responsibilities 
Compact (UNGC) and report progress in four areas: human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Caring 
for Climate signatory.
Sustainable Packaging  Founding partner. Helped initiate a store drop-off program for hard-to-recycle plastics.
Coalition
Trash Free Seas Alliance  Founding member of this voluntary, by-invitation alliance in 2012. The Alliance unites industry, 
(TFSA) science and conservation leaders who share a common goal for a healthy ocean free of trash. 
The Alliance provides a constructive forum focused on identifying opportunities for cross-sector 
solutions that drive action and foster innovation.
Keep America Beautiful  Voluntary corporate partner. Greg Jozwiak, corporate vice president of Integrated Supply Chain, 
(KAB) is a board member. Howard Ungerleider, chief financial officer, is honorary chair.
CEO Water Mandate Voluntary participant since 2008. The CEO Water Mandate mobilizes a critical mass of business 
leaders to address global water challenges through corporate water stewardship, in partnership 
with the United Nations, governments, civil society organizations and other stakeholders.
Ellen MacArthur  Voluntary member of the Circular Economy 100 (CE100) since 2016. The CE100 network 
Foundation (EMF) facilitates market-making by providing collaborative and pre-competitive opportunities that bring 
together business, innovators, cities and governments, universities and thought leaders.
Operation Clean Sweep  Pledged partner in this initiative of the American Chemistry Council designed to prevent and 
(OCS) help keep plastic out of the marine environment.
Alliance to End Plastic  Founding member of organization with the goal to develop and scale solutions that manage 
Waste (AEPW) plastic waste and promote post-use solutions of plastic.
Circulate Capital Founding investor in effort to incubate and finance companies and infrastructure that prevent 
waste in oceans.
Task Force on Climate- In June 2017, Dow committed to implement the recommendations of the Task Force to 
Related Financial   be transparent about risks due to climate change and our corporate response.  Our chief 
Disclosures (TCFD) sustainability officer serves as a member of the Task Force.
World Business Council for  WBCSD is a global, CEO-led organization of over 200 leading businesses working together to 
Sustainable Development  accelerate the transition to a sustainable world.  Dow experts participate on numerous WBCSD 
(WBCSD) work groups.
87
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
Report 
Information
Significant Changes to the Organization and its Supply Chain 
GRI 102-10
On April 1, 2019, DowDuPont Inc. (“DowDuPont” and effective June 3, 2019, n/k/a DuPont de Nemours, Inc. 
or “DuPont”) completed the separation of its materials science business and Dow Inc. became the direct 
parent company of TDCC and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The separation was contemplated by the merger of equals transaction effective August 31, 2017, under the 
Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 11, 2015, as amended on March 31, 2017. TDCC 
and E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company and its consolidated subsidiaries (“Historical DuPont”) each 
merged with subsidiaries of DowDuPont and, as a result, TDCC and Historical DuPont became subsidiaries 
of DowDuPont (the “Merger”). Subsequent to the Merger, TDCC and Historical DuPont engaged in a series 
of internal reorganization and realignment steps to realign their businesses into three subgroups: agricultural 
sciences, materials science and specialty products. Dow Inc. was formed as a wholly owned subsidiary of 
DowDuPont to serve as the holding company for the materials science business.
Basis of Presentation
The information in this Report reflects the activities conducted by the materials science business of Dow 
and its consolidated subsidiaries for the full reporting period from January 1 to December 31, 2019, after 
giving effect to the distribution to DowDuPont of TDCC’s agricultural sciences business and specialty 
products business and the receipt of Historical DuPont’s ethylene and ethylene copolymers business (other 
than its ethylene acrylic elastomers business).
Additional details can be found in the 2019 Dow Form 10-K and the 2020 Proxy Statement.
88
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
Independent 
Assurance 
Statement
Independent Assurance Statement to Dow Inc 
GRI 102-56
Dow Inc (Dow) engaged ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) to provide limited assurance in relation to the Dow 2019 
Sustainability Report (the Report), as set out below.
Engagement summary
Scope of our assurance  Whether Dow has prepared the Report in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option.
engagement  Whether Dow’s reported progress against its 2025 Sustainability Goals is fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with its internal reporting criteria.
GRI Standards (2016) except for GRI 403 (2018): Occupational Health and Safety and GRI 303 (2018): Water and Effluents.
Reporting criteria 
Dow Chemical 2025 Sustainability Goals.
Assurance standard ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised).
Assurance level Limited assurance.
Dow is responsible for preparing the Report and for the collection and presentation of the information within it.
Respective responsibilities
ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgement.
Our conclusions • Webex and conference calls with Dow corporate employees to:
Based on our activities, as described below:
– Interview management representatives in order to understand 
• Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the report  Dow’s sustainability strategy, policies and management systems 
has not been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards:  for the relevant disclosures;
Comprehensive option;
– Interview 2025 Sustainability Goal project teams in order to 
• Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that reported  understand the current status and progress of the goals and the 
progress against Dow’s 2025 Sustainability Goals is not fairly  basis on which performance is determined;
presented, in all material respects, in accordance with internal 
– Review internal reporting guidelines, including reporting 
reporting criteria.
databases as well as any associated conversion factors used;
Our assurance activities 
– Review the completeness of data reported by all sites and the 
We planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and 
effectiveness of the internal review (QA/QC processes), including 
explanations that we believe were necessary to provide a basis for our 
the consolidation process;
assurance conclusions. A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and 
assurance specialists performed the following assurance procedures: – Review performance during the reporting period against the 2025 
Sustainability Goals; and 89
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
Independent 
Assurance 
Statement
– Review a sample of qualitative and quantitative evidence  During our assurance engagement, travel restrictions were imposed 
supporting the reported information; following the outbreak of COVID-19. As a result of this we replaced 
the planned ‘in person’ head office visit with a ‘virtual’ visit via video 
• Checking consistency of financial data and other information with 
calls for this year’s assurance engagement. 
Dow’s 2019 10K report;
• Confirming the consistency of the reported information with 
our understanding of Dow’s business, operations, sustainability 
strategy and prior reporting;
• Reviewing external media reporting relating to Dow to identify 
      
relevant sustainability issues in the reporting period;
• Reviewing the report content and GRI Content Index for  Jennifer Iansen-Rogers
completeness and accuracy against the criteria for ‘in accordance 
Head of Corporate Assurance
with GRI Standards: Comprehensive option’; and
 
• Checking the presentation of the information relevant to the scope 
16 June 2020
of our work in the Report to ensure consistency with our findings. 
The limitations of our engagement
ERM Certification and Verification Services, London
The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, 
www.ermcvs.com; email: post@ermcvs.com
given the available methods for determining, calculating or 
estimating the underlying information. We did not undertake 
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is 
source data verification at any operated facilities. It is important to  solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes are 
designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias 
understand our assurance conclusions in this context.
and conflict of interest. ERM CVS staff that have undertaken this engagement have provided 
no consultancy related services to Dow in any respect.
Our independent assurance statement provides no assurance on 
statements in the report regarding future performance or on whether 
Dow will achieve its stated goals.
90
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
GRI Content 
Index
GRI Content Index
We prepared this report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Comprehensive option. This Index of Content 
serves as a navigation tool for the GRI standards. 
GRI 102-55 
Corresponding SASB 
 GRI Standard/Disclosure Page Number(s)/Location  Omission
Disclosure
1. Organizational Profile 
102-1 Name of the organization 10  
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 13-16   RT-CH-000
102-3 Location of headquarters 12  
102-4 Location of operations 12
102-5 Ownership and legal form 10  
102-6 Markets served 13-16  
Confidentiality constraints. In the interest 
of confidentiality and competitiveness, 
102-7 Scale of the organization 10-11
Dow does not report quantity of products 
or services provided.
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 45  
102-9 Supply chain 66  
Significant changes to the organization and its 
102-10 88, 66  
supply chain
102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 81  
102-12 External initiatives 87  
102-13 Membership of associations 87  
2. Strategy
102-14 Statement from key decision-maker 5-8  
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 79, 80  
3. Ethics and Integrity
Values, principles, standards and norms of 
102-16 74  
behavior
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 75  
91
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
GRI Content 
Index
Corresponding SASB 
 GRI Standard/Disclosure Page Number(s)/Location  Omission
Disclosure
4. Governance
The governance structure of the organization, including 
committee responsibility is described at https://investors.dow.
com/en/corporate-governance/default.aspx. The Environment, 
Health, Safety & Technology Committee of the Board assists 
102-18 Governance structure
the Board of Directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities 
with respect to environment, health, safety, corporate social 
responsibility, public policy, philanthropy, corporate reputation, 
and science and technology as described in its charter.
102-19 Delegating authority 76  
Mary Draves, chief sustainability officer and vice president 
of Environment, Health & Safety (EH&S), is responsible for 
Executive-level responsibility for economic, 
102-20 EH&S and leading the definition and implementation of the 
environmental and social topics
Company’s sustainability strategy. Draves reports directly to 
Jim Fitterling, chairman and chief executive officer.
Refer to Page 6 of the 2020 Dow Proxy Statement which can be 
Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental 
102-21 downloaded here: https://investors.dow.com/en/financial-reporting/
and social topics
default.aspx#sec-filings.
The composition of the Board and its Committees can be found 
at https://investors.dow.com/en/corporate-governance/default.
Composition of the highest governance body and its 
102-22 aspx and summarized starting on page 2 of the 2020 Dow Proxy 
committees
Statement which can be downloaded here: https://investors.dow.
com/en/financial-reporting/default.aspx#sec-filings.
Prior to the separation from DowDuPont, Jeff M. Fettig served as 
non-employee executive chairman of the board of DowDuPont 
while Dow operated as the Materials Science Division of 
DowDuPont. From April 1, 2019, Jeff M. Fettig served as the 
non-employee executive chairman of the board of Dow. Jim 
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Fitterling was appointed Chairman of the Board in addition to his 
role as chief executive officer on April 9, 2020. At that time, the 
independent Directors elected Jeff M. Fettig as Lead Director with 
significant responsibilities detailed on page  2 of the Corporate 
Governance Guidelines which can be downloaded at https://
investors.dow.com/en/corporate-governance/default.aspx.
Refer to the Dow Corporate Governance Guidelines and 
Nominating and selecting the highest governance 
102-24 Bylaws which can be downloaded at https://investors.dow.
body
com/en/corporate-governance/default.aspx.
92
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
GRI Content 
Index
Corresponding SASB 
 GRI Standard/Disclosure Page Number(s)/Location  Omission
Disclosure
102-25 Conflicts of interest 76
Refer to the Dow Corporate Governance Guidelines, page 1, The 
Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, 
102-26 Role of the Board, which can be downloaded at https://investors.
values and strategy
dow.com/en/corporate-governance/default.aspx.
Biographies of Directors can be found at https://investors.
dow.com/en/corporate-governance/board-of-directors/default.
aspx. Refer to the Corporate Governance Guidelines, page 
102-27 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body
5, Director Orientation and Continuing Education which can 
be downloaded at https://investors.dow.com/en/corporate-
governance/default.aspx.
Refer to the Corporate Governance Guidelines, page 4, Board 
Evaluating the highest governance body's 
102-28 Self-Evaluation which can be downloaded at https://investors.
performance
dow.com/en/corporate-governance/default.aspx.
Identifying and managing economic, environmental 
102-29 79
and social impacts
102-30 Effectiveness of risk-management processes 79
102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social topics 77
Highest governance body's role in sustainability 
102-32 3
reporting
102-33 Communicating critical concerns 77
Information unavailable. While we are able 
to describe our mechanism to address 
102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 77
and resolve concerns, we do not track a 
number of critical concerns.
Refer to 2020 Dow Proxy Statement which can be downloaded 
here: https://investors.dow.com/en/financial-reporting/default.
102-35 Remuneration policies
aspx#sec-filings, the section titled “Compensation Discussion & 
Analysis” on pages 21-42.
Refer to 2020 Dow Proxy Statement which can be downloaded 
here: https://investors.dow.com/en/financial-reporting/default.
102-36 Process for determining remuneration
aspx#sec-filings, the section titled “Compensation Discussion & 
Analysis” on pages 21-42.
Refer to 2020 Dow Proxy Statement which can be downloaded 
here: https://investors.dow.com/en/financial-reporting/default.
102-37 Stakeholders' involvement in remuneration
aspx#sec-filings, the section titled “Compensation Discussion & 
Analysis” on pages 21-42.
93
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
GRI Content 
Index
Corresponding SASB 
 GRI Standard/Disclosure Page Number(s)/Location  Omission
Disclosure
Confidentiality constraints. In the interest 
of confidentiality and competitiveness, 
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 47 Dow does not report ratios based on 
individual compensation at the country 
level.
Data unavailable. Since this is the first 
year of reporting compensation ratios 
Percentage increase in annual total compensation 
102-39 as Dow following the separation from 
ratio
DowDuPont, we are unable to report 
change.
5. Stakeholder Engagement 
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 85  
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 46  
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 85  
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 85  
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 84  
6. Reporting Practice 
The complete list of entities included in Dow’s consolidated 
Entities included in the consolidated financial 
102-45 financial statements can be found as Exhibit 21 to the 2019 10-K,   
statements
starting on page 262. None of these are not covered by this report.
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 84
102-47 List of material topics 84  
102-48 Restatements of information 78
102-49 Changes in reporting 83  
102-50 Reporting period 3  
102-51 Date of most recent report 3  
102-52 Reporting cycle 3  
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 3  
Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 
102-54 3  
Standards
102-55 GRI Content Index 91-100  
102-56 External assurance 89 - 90  
94
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
GRI Content 
Index
Corresponding SASB 
 GRI Standard/Disclosure Page Number(s)/Location  Omission
Disclosure
Economic Performance 
201-103  Management Approach 10
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 11
Financial implications and other risks and 
201-2 82 RT-CH-110a.2
opportunities due to climate change
Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement 
201-3 78
plans
Confidentiality constraints. We disclosed 
grants information. However, tax 
related information for this disclosure 
201-4 Financial assistance received from government 87
is confidential in many instances as we 
have agreements with governments that 
include non-disclosure provisions.
Materials 
301-103 Management Approach 28
Not disclosed as aggregate quantity is 
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 28 impractical due to multiple purchasing 
arrangements and delivery mechanisms.
Information unavailable: Our businesses 
report estimates of recycled raw 
materials used and fraction of their 
portfolio of products that are ultimately 
recycled as part of our Sustainable 
301-2 Recycled input materials used 28
Chemistry Index Survey process. In 2019, 
businesses reported small percentages 
for both questions. These results are 
not aggregated at the corporate level or 
reported publicly.
Information unavailable: Our businesses 
report estimates of recycled raw 
materials used and fraction of their 
portfolio of products that are ultimately 
recycled as part of our Sustainable 
301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 28
Chemistry Index Survey process. In 2019, 
businesses reported small percentages 
for both questions. These results are 
not aggregated at the corporate level or 
95
reported publicly.
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
GRI Content 
Index
Corresponding SASB 
 GRI Standard/Disclosure Page Number(s)/Location  Omission
Disclosure
Energy 
302-103 Management Approach 30
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 30 RT-CH-13a.1
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 30
302-3 Energy intensity 30
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 33
Reductions in energy requirements of products and  Not applicable. Virtually all Dow products 
302-5
services do not require energy in use.
Water and Effluents 
303-103 Management Approach 35 RT-CH-140a.3
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 36
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 38
303-3 Water withdrawal 37 RT-CH-140a.1
Disclosed to GRI 306-1 (2016) as 
we transition to the new 3030 water 
303-4 Water discharge
disclosure, which is required for reports 
published on or after Jan. 1, 2021.
Disclosed to GRI 306-1 (2016) as 
we transition to the new 3030 water 
303-5 Water consumption
disclosure, which is required for reports 
published on or after Jan. 1, 2021.
Biodiversity
Information unavailable. This topic was 
identified as material for reporting for the 
first time in 2019. We will develop our 
304-103 Management Approach
capability to disclose through 2020 and 
expect to report in the 2020 Sustainability 
Report.
Information unavailable. This topic was 
identified as material for reporting for the 
Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or 
first time in 2019. We will develop our 
304-1 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 
capability to disclose through 2020 and 
biodiversity value outside protected areas
expect to report in the 2020 Sustainability 
Report.
96
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
GRI Content 
Index
Corresponding SASB 
 GRI Standard/Disclosure Page Number(s)/Location  Omission
Disclosure
Information unavailable. This topic was 
identified as material for reporting for the 
Significant impacts of activities, products and services  first time in 2019. We will develop our 
304-2
on biodiversity capability to disclose through 2020 and 
expect to report in the 2020 Sustainability 
Report.
Information unavailable. This topic was 
identified as material for reporting for the 
first time in 2019. We will develop our 
304-3 Hobitats protected or restored
capability to disclose through 2020 and 
expect to report in the 2020 Sustainability 
Report.
Information unavailable. This topic was 
identified as material for reporting for the 
IUCN Red List species and national conservation list  first time in 2019. We will develop our 
304-4
species with habitats in areas affected by operations. capability to disclose through 2020 and 
expect to report in the 2020 Sustainability 
Report.
Emissions  
305-103 Management Approach 26
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 32   RT-CH-110a.1
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 32  
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 33  
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 32  
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 33  
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 34  
Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx) and other 
305-7 34   RT-CH-120a.1
significant air emissions
Effluents and Waste 
306-103 Management Approach 38, 39 150a.1
306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 38
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 39
306-3 Significant spills 40 541a.1
97
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
GRI Content 
Index
Corresponding SASB 
 GRI Standard/Disclosure Page Number(s)/Location  Omission
Disclosure
Information unavailable. We will be 
reviewing ways to address this disclosure 
on a yearly basis as we define the need to 
306-4 Transport of hazardous waste
capture this information. See page 68 for 
discussion of our Transportation Safety 
Index.
Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or 
306-5 36
runoff
Environmental Compliance  
307-103 Management Approach 26
Non-compliance with environmental laws and  Report by reference to the 2019 Dow 10-K, pages 21-22, Item 3, 
307-1 RT-CH-140a.2
regulations Legal Proceedings.
Supplier Environmental Assessment 
Information unavailable. This topic was 
identified as material for reporting for the 
first time in 2019. We will develop our 
308-103 Management Approach
capability to disclose through 2020 and 
expect to report in the 2020 Sustainability 
Report.
Information unavailable. This topic was 
identified as material for reporting for the 
New suppliers that were screened using  first time in 2019. We will develop our 
308-1
environmental criteria capability to disclose through 2020 and 
expect to report in the 2020 Sustainability 
Report.
Information unavailable. This topic was 
identified as material for reporting for the 
Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain  first time in 2019. We will develop our 
308-2
and actions taken capability to disclose through 2020 and 
expect to report in the 2020 Sustainability 
Report.
Employment  
401-103 Management Approach 41
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 44, 51
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 
401-2 46
provided to temporary or part-time employees
98
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
GRI Content 
Index
Corresponding SASB 
 GRI Standard/Disclosure Page Number(s)/Location  Omission
Disclosure
Due to the transfer to Workday, our 
Human Capital Management system, 
401-3 Parental leave 46 in 2019, the reporting was not available 
for retention after 12 months following 
parental leave.
Labor/Management Relations – Occupational Health and Safety 
403-103 Management Approach 52
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 52
Hazard identification, risk assessment and incident 
403-2 53
investigation
403-3 Occupational health services 55
Worker participation, consultation and communication 
403-4 56
on occupational health and safety
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 56
403-6 Promotion of worker health 57
Reference the narrative on Safer Materials on page 82 for 
Prevention and mitigation of occupational health  prevention of occupational health and safety impact of our 
403-7 and safety impacts directly linked by business  products. Refer to page 68 for the discussion of transportation  320a.2
relationships stewardship for prevention of safety impact of our transportation 
operations.
Workers covered by an occupational health and safety 
403-8 54
management system
403-9 Work-related injuries 59 320a.1
403-10 Work-related ill health 59
Training and Education 
404-103 Management Approach 48
Information unavailable. We are unable to 
produce breakdown of training hours by 
gender or employee category. We will be 
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 48
reviewing ways to address this disclosure 
on a yearly basis as we define the need to 
capture this information.
Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 
404-2 49, 51
assistance programs
Percentage of employees receiving regular 
404-3 50
performance and career development reviews
99
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
GRI Content 
Index
Corresponding SASB 
 GRI Standard/Disclosure Page Number(s)/Location  Omission
Disclosure
Diversity and Equal Opportunity 
405-103 Management Approach 43
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 43
Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to 
405-2 47
men
Local Communities 
413-103 Management Approach 85
Operations with local community engagement, impact 
413-1 86 210a.1
assessments and development programs
Operations with significant actual and potential 
413-2 86
negative impacts on local communities
 Supplier Social Assessment
Information unavailable. This topic was 
identified as material for reporting for 
the first time in 2019. We will develop 
414-103 Management Approach
our capability to disclose through 
2020 and expect to report in the 2020 
Sustainability Report.
Information unavailable. This topic was 
identified as material for reporting for the 
first time in 2019. We will develop our 
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria
capability to disclose through 2020 and 
expect to report in the 2020 Sustainability 
Report.
Information unavailable. This topic was 
identified as material for reporting for 
Negative social impacts in the supply chain and  the first time in 2019. We will develop 
414-2
actions taken our capability to disclose through 
2020 and expect to report in the 2020 
Sustainability Report.
Customer Health and Safety 
416-103 Management Approach
Assessment of the health and safety impacts of 
416-1 83, 84
product and service categories
Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health 
416-2
and safety impacts of products and services
100
®™Trademark of The Dow Chemical Company or an affiliate company