
ANNUAL REPORT 
2020-21
CONNECT
COMMUNICATE
COLLABORATE
CONNECT. COMMUNICATE. COLLABORATE
As you go through life, you will see that there is so much that we don’t understand. 
And the only thing we know is things don’t always go the way we plan. 
– Simba in the Lion King
Last year taught us that even though things don't always go according to plan. We 
are in this together and as long as we stay connected, we can discover new paths 
as well as move forward. 
We all went through a cycle of unlearning and then learning. Every person, from the 
owner of a kirana store in the neighbourhood to our grandparents living in another 
city, took on the challenge to embrace Zoom or Teams to talk to each other and 
figure out ways to get-together without actually getting together. Friends who 
weren't in touch for over a decade called to just check in. Teachers and students 
navigated the brave new world of online schooling. Our parents embraced the trend 
of ordering food and groceries online. Companies replaced chats by the water 
cooler with virtual team building sessions and went out of their way to engage with 
customers.  
We found ways to communicate, stay digitally connected and collaborated to use 
our resources and unleashed the power of a large community. If there is one thing 
to celebrate this year, it is this human spirit which has held us together.
Edelweiss Mutual Fund in its Annual Report, celebrates this spirit and applauds the 
ability of people to connect, communicate and collaborate. 
About the cover 
This year, we have taken inspiration from Warli Art. Synonymous 
A20N2N0U-2A1L REPORT 
with the Warli tribes of Maharashtra who believe in the power of 
community, celebrating together and staying connected to their 
roots. Edelweiss Mutual Fund is a brand which believes in doing 
CONNECT
COMMUNICATE
COLLABORATE things for the community, is approachable, connected and always 
accessible to customers.
While staying rooted to our core values, we have moved ahead to 
adopt the latest technology to give our partners and investors the 
best experience. We are a homegrown Indian brand and a new age 
financial service company. Our Annual Report reflects these values.
Contents
Our Vision 02
AMC at a Glance  03
Our Solutions 05
Our Stories 08
Letter from CEO 12
Our Values  17
Risk and Governance  18
Our People 19
Technology 21
Our Team  23
Board’s Report  28
Management Discussion and Analysis  49
Financial Statements 54
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 l 01
Our Vision
Creating investment
solutions that deliver
enduring value for you.
02 l Edelweiss Asset Management
AMC at a Glance
A proud member of the Edelweiss Group, we are one of India’s youngest and fastest growing asset 
management companies. We believe in listening to our customers, understand their needs and then 
design solutions for them.
AUM (Mutual Funds and Alternatives) Long Tenure Assets
(in INR Cr.) 
50k
20%
92%
Total AUM
5k INR 55k Cr.
8%
80%
Mutual Fund Alternatives Assets over 3 years duration
Assets less than 3 years duration
As on 31st March, 2021
Asset Class Mix Asset Under Management
(AUM INR Cr.) 
10% 1.60%
1.03%
19%
50K
23K
10.5K
 59% 13%
4K
2020 2021
Alternatives Passive Fixed Income
MF AUM Equity AUM Market Share
Equity Active Fixed Income
Data source : Internal  l  *AUM as on March 31, 2021 as per records of the RTA. 
For more details on AUM disclosures, please visit this link - https://content.edelweissmf.com/statutory#AUM ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 l 03
Equity Sales SIP Book*
(in INR Cr.)  (in INR Cr.) 
5.6k
3.5k
125
2.3k
1k 45
2020 2021 2020 2021
Gross Equity Sales Net Equity Sales
Investor Growth Digital Transactions 
5.5L
3.4L
4.2L
2.7L
90%
84%
2020 2021
Number of Investors Number of Folios
2020 2021
Distribution Partnerships
AUM by Segment Number of Active MFDs Geographical spread of 
Independent MFDs
5%
5,577
16%
4,235
41% 21%
2,825
57% 15%
38%
2019 2020 2021
7%
Direct Independent MFD
Bank National Distributors
Independent MFD - Mutual Fund Distributors North South East West
*SIP book includes systematic investment plan and systematic transfer plan
Data source : Internal  l  *AUM as on March 31, 2021 as per records of the RTA. 
04 l Edelweiss Asset Management For more details on AUM disclosures, please visit this link - https://content.edelweissmf.com/statutory#AUM
Our Solutions
Each investor is different. One solution does not ﬁt everyone. We want to help investors meet their goals 
and investment needs through our solutions.
Our Solutions
Equity Hybrid Fixed Income Alternatives 
Domestic 
International
Equity
Our equity solutions help investors to meet their long term goals. We have a basket of innovative 
products in both domestic and international equity that are true to their mandate.
Our equity funds have stood the test of time and have consistently delivered good performance. We 
have maintained the stability of the investment team for more than 10 years.
We are a leading AMC in the international investing space. We have funds covering 80% of world 
geographies with unique themes. We were the first to launch a thematic fund - Edelweiss US Technology 
Fund of Fund. Our international funds are launched in partnership with JP Morgan Asset Management.
Equity AUM & Market Share Net Equity Sales Q-o-Q
(in INR Cr.)  (in INR Cr.) 
0.8%
2,038
0.7%
Edelweiss MF Industry
0.6%
0.5% 968
0.5% 5,640
10.5k
374
8.2k 201
5.4k 5.9k
4.1k
-4,336
-14,336
Mar 20 Jun 20 Sep 20 Dec 20 Mar 21
AUM  AUM Market Share% -42,069
Q1 Q2 Q3  Q4 
Data source : Internal  l  *AUM as on March 31, 2021 as per records of the RTA. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 l 05
For more details on AUM disclosures, please visit this link - https://content.edelweissmf.com/statutory#AUM
Fixed Income 
A great year of equity net sales SIP Book Growth* 
125
Raised 3.5k Cr. of equity AUM  (in INR Cr.)  121
We believe that debt passives are very good for 
in FY 21 (Industry: INR -55k Cr.)
109
investors  due  to  its  low-cost  structure  and 
90 transparency of the portfolio. Within this space, 
Target  Maturity  Structure  will  give  stable 
74 72
67 experience to investors who are used to the 
60
54 Fixed Deposit experience. We want to simplify 
46 44 47 fixed income investing for all investors. 
Edelweiss  Industry
INR 3.5k Cr. INR -55.1k Cr.
We have many firsts in the debt passive 
space.
Apr 20 Mar 21 First AMC to introduce Corporate Bond ETF.
First AMC to introduce Target Maturity
Equity Investment Philosophy 
structure in India
We know that when it comes to managing money, it is important to follow a proper process and structure. 
Launched the Bharat Bond Program in Dec
We believe that it is equally important for our investors to know and understand this process. Our equity 
2019 in partnership with GOI. The program
investment decisions are guided by our investment philosophy based on three strong pillars - bottom-up 
today is 30K+ Cr plus assets.
stock picking, investing in growth and quality and focus on the long term.
Launched Edelweiss PSU SDL Debt Index
Fund in March 2020. This fund is 1000 Cr+
AUM now
Hybrid 
We know that investors need the best of both  The Edelweiss Balanced Advantage Fund 
the worlds, i.e. the growth of equities and the  A unique fund in this category. The past one 
stability of debt. We have a range of hybrid  year  has  not  only  protected  downside  for 
solutions  that  dynamically  manage  equity  investors, but also created wealth in the rising, 
investments based on market conditions. We  most volatile and uncertain markets.
aim to capture growth of rising markets and 
  INR 3,300 Cr. of AUM 
protect in falling markets.
10 year track record
Edelweiss Balanced Advantage Fund - 
AUM Growth & Market Share (%) 
(in INR Cr.)  3.1%
2.8%
2.5%
2.3% 3,329
2.0%
1.8% 1.9%
1.7%
1.6% 1.6% 1.6% 1.6%
1,329
Apr 20 Mar 21
*SIP book includes systematic investment plan and systematic transfer plan
Data source : Internal  l  *AUM as on March 31, 2021 as per records of the RTA. 
06 l Edelweiss Asset Management For more details on AUM disclosures, please visit this link - https://content.edelweissmf.com/statutory#AUM
Fixed Income 
Debt Passive AUM 
(in INR Cr.) 
We believe that debt passives are very good for 
investors  due  to  its  low-cost  structure  and  32k
transparency of the portfolio. Within this space,  30k
Target  Maturity  Structure  will  give  stable  28k
experience to investors who are used to the 
14k 14k
Fixed Deposit experience. We want to simplify 
12k
fixed income investing for all investors. 
We have many firsts in the debt passive  Dec 19 Mar 20 Jun 20 Sep 20 Dec 20 Mar 21
space. 
Our market share in debt passives is approximately 90%
First AMC to introduce Corporate Bond ETF.
  First AMC to introduce Target Maturity Fixed Income Investment Philosophy 
Equity Investment Philosophy 
structure in India Our philosophy is simple and agile to make 
We know that when it comes to managing money, it is important to follow a proper process and structure.  Launched the Bharat Bond Program in Dec sure that we can give investors the stability 
We believe that it is equally important for our investors to know and understand this process. Our equity  2019 in partnership with GOI. The program that they desire from debt investments.
investment decisions are guided by our investment philosophy based on three strong pillars - bottom-up  today is 30K+ Cr plus assets. We manage money with a CLEAR process.
stock picking, investing in growth and quality and focus on the long term.
Launched Edelweiss PSU SDL Debt Index Avoid Credit Risk 
Fund in March 2020. This fund is 1000 Cr+
Ensure Liquidity 
AUM now
Ensure synergy with the Edelweiss principles
Hybrid
Actively manage funds with care and in line 
with the investment mandate
We know that investors need the best of both  The Edelweiss Balanced Advantage Fund
the worlds, i.e. the growth of equities and the  A unique fund in this category. The past one  Maintain the perfect balance between Risk and 
stability of debt. We have a range of hybrid  year  has  not  only  protected  downside  for    reward
solutions  that  dynamically  manage  equity  investors, but also created wealth in the rising, 
investments based on market conditions. We  most volatile and uncertain markets.
aim to capture growth of rising markets and 
INR 3,300 Cr. of AUM 
protect in falling markets. Alternatives
10 year track record We are one of the oldest players in the Alternative Investment solutions space in India. We focus on 
providing investment ideas that have fundamentally driven the investment process and seek to deliver 
returns uncorrelated to traditional investments. We offer well-crafted active equity funds to provide better 
returns aligned to individual risk. 
Edelweiss Alternative Equity Scheme is our flagship fund for over 7 years with a consistent investment 
philosophy and fund management team. The fund aims to provide absolute return with 3-5 years 
investment horizon using a multi strategy approach. Edelweiss Catalyst Opportunities Fund is another 
fund focused on investing in special situation ideas that present change and unlock value in companies. 
The fund has been in existence since 2018 and has a consistent track record. 
Edelweiss Alternative Equity Scheme - won EurekaHedge Best Indian Hedge Fund in the year 2020. 
Data source : Internal  l  *AUM as on March 31, 2021 as per records of the RTA. 
For more details on AUM disclosures, please visit this link - https://content.edelweissmf.com/statutory#AUM ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 l 07
Our Stories
Connect
Staying connected with our partners and investors to share knowledge through 
new age formats is always at the top of our minds. We made sure that physical 
barriers do not come in the way of these connections. Our Konnect Webinar 
programme brought in unique speakers from across industries to share life 
lessons with our community. 
We connected with more than 50K people in the last 6 months. 
Ambi Parameswaran Captain Raghu Raman Dhiren Kumar Dr A Velumani Mohnish Pabrai
Monika Halan Ramesh Nair Sanjeev Bikhchandani Utpal Sheth Vijay Kedia
Community Stories
Mr. Hiten Shah, MFD – Pune 
It is said that a positive mind can win any battle. Today, even as we battle against the 
pandemic, the Jai Jinendra Pratishthan from Pune decided to tackle it head-on with the 
power of positivity. It runs a unique ‘COVID Isolation Centre’ at Najushree Sanskrutik 
Bhavan near Gangadham Chowk that is focused on creating an atmosphere of 
positivity for the COVID patients who have been advised isolation. At the centre, 
positivity for the mind, body and soul is served through daily yoga sessions, regular 
fun-filled activities of music, picnics and nutritious food. Additionally, doctors visit the 
facility daily to monitor the progress of the patients. All of this is given at a reasonable 
cost which includes visits from the doctor, medicines, various tests, injections and 
even oxygen if needed. Partial or full exemptions are available for those who cannot 
afford to pay the lump sum.
Mr. Hiten Shah has been deeply involved in the creation and running of this facility 
along with other Trust members under the guidance of Mr. Achal Jain. So far, the 
facility has had zero casualties. Patients enter the facility scared and anxious, but soon 
learn to smile and be happy. This is what has helped them beat the virus.
08 l Edelweiss Asset Management
Communicate
We are open and transparent about the way we manage our investors money. With that 
in mind, we hosted an open house, a unique initiative in the AMC industry where our 
team members spoke to investors on how we manage their money and how did we 
deliver the growth. 
Simple Communication 
We made our communication simple, conversational and free of jargon across all touchpoints. Our account 
statements, website, transaction and knowledge emailers are simple enough to be understood by anybody.
We believe that everyone can benefit from guidance, especially when it comes to 
making investment decisions. We launched our brand campaign ‘Advice Zaroori Hai’ 
to focus on the importance of guidance and advice. We have launched many digital 
films to communicate this. We will continue to focus on this initiative.
Community Stories
Mr. Chetan Gill, MFD – Chandigarh
The pandemic took everyone by surprise. Even today, a year later we know very little 
about coronavirus. There is a lot of fear and misinformation surrounding the virus and 
vaccines. It is important to realise that unless everybody around us is safe, not a 
single person is safe. All of us are connected and will impact each other. Mr. Chetan 
Gill decided to fight the pandemic by ensuring that people are armed with the right 
information. Owing to many myths and fears around the COVID vaccination, people 
are reluctant to get vaccinated. He started educating and motivating people to get 
vaccinated and in a lot of cases, he helped people with the logistics as well. He 
influenced around 75+ people from the Mutual Fund industry to get vaccinated – right 
from the State Head to the Office Assistant across the industry including the R&T 
employees all by himself. Later, in collaboration with 2 other MFDs – Mr. Kamal 
Bhalla and Mr. Vikas Batra, they expanded their circle of influence together and 
reached out to more people as well as told everyone to not just get themselves 
vaccinated, but spread the word amongst family, friends, employees and even 
domestic help with the slogan –“Vaccination for All. No One is Safe till 
Everyone is Safe”.  Until today's date, they have influenced more than 300 people 
from Chandigarh to get vaccinated.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 l 09
Mr. Nishant Modi, Edelweiss Sales Manager – Pune
The pandemic brought us many challenges. Some were more visible like those related to 
our health, while others were not so obvious like being prepared for emergencies, not 
many of us know how to actually put this into action. Nishant, in his capacity is focusing 
on a very important practical aspect of communicating the right thing at this point of 
time. He is spreading this message and encouraging families to prepare a financial kit for 
each family member. He suggested that families should prepare a separate physical 
folder for each family member which contains their PAN Card copy, Aadhar Card, General 
Insurance, Health Insurance and some cash. This file can be very helpful in emergencies, 
especially when one receives RTPCR/Covid Report and it says that you need to be 
hospitalised. Given our inability to think straight in such situations, having the relevant 
documents in the right place can be a source of mental relief. The bottomline is that 
small things can make a big impact. 
Collaborate
It is our duty to give our investors the best. We recognised and formed partnerships with the right 
partners from India and abroad to offer our investors unique solutions. 
Partnership with the Government of India (GoI) for Bharat Bond Programme
We launched India's first Corporate Bond ETF and today manage 30K Cr. assets under 
this program.
Partnership with JP Morgan
They are one of the world's largest asset managers. We provide a range of 
international solutions across geographies and themes through them.
Partnership with MSCI
MSCI is the world’s largest index provider. We launched India's first passive fund in 
the healthcare sector.
We created Financial Advice Day in 2019 to celebrate our partners and MFDs focusing 
on the importance of guidance in making investment decisions. 
10 l Edelweiss Asset Management
Community Stories
Mrs. Dhanya  V R, CFP, MFD – Thiruvananthapuram 
During the pandemic, people have had varied basic requirements. From getting cloth 
masks to having adequate food. Not all families have been able to meet their basic 
necessities. Many families witnessed financial constraints as they saw a drop or loss of 
income. Mrs. Dhanya  V R, an active member and secretary of the women fellowship run 
by CSI church in Kovalam, undertook several initiatives during the year to help rural 
families earn and and be self sufficient with food. The group manufactured 1,000 cloth 
masks for people in rural areas. They also provided food kits to needy families and 
distributed 25 varieties of vegetable seeds to all families to make them self-sufficient in 
two months. She has helped 17 families earn an income by getting orders for paper 
bags  during  the  lockdown.  During  the  Woman’s  Day  celebration  this  year,  they 
recognised around 600 COVID-19 warriors like doctors, nurses and cleaning staff.
Mr. Abhishek Kumar, Edelweiss Sales Manager – Ranchi
The pandemic has not been kind to anyone. It has hit the people on the streets the 
hardest. They have had to deal with not only the disease itself, but also the scarcity of 
resources and even hunger. Thus, there was a need to ensure that at least people are 
not denied their right to have access to the most basic resources i.e. food. Abhishek 
collaborated with the NGO Round Table and a few other friends to feed around 200-300 
people a simple meal of khichdi everyday. Abhishek’s friend, who owned a restaurant, 
volunteered the services of his cooks who helped in putting these meals together. As 
this initiative gained momentum, they raised funds and started feeding 1,000 people 
daily. More funds were raised and the team started feeding 10,000 people daily through 
the lockdown period of 2-3 months under the name ‘The CM Kitchen’. They have fed 
approximately 5 lakh people through this initiative.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 l 11
Letter from CEO
In the depth of winter, 
I finally learned that within me, 
there was an invincible summer.
Over  the  last  18  months,  I  have  read  and 
re-read these lines written by Albert Camus. 
In  a  financial  services  career  spanning  nearly  two 
decades, never had I imagined that there would be a 
time when we would spend 12 months working from 
the confines of our homes. And that it would happen, 
at scale and virtually glitch free! The last year has not 
been easy for anyone. Each one of us has had to deal 
with the emotional impact of either having lost or 
seeing close friends and colleagues lose their loved 
ones. And despite the benefits of working from home 
and interacting on Zoom, the isolation has taken its 
toll. However, even in the midst of all this, there is a lot 
to be optimistic about. We have learned to live and 
work in ways that were previously unimaginable. We 
have  found  ways  to  feel  connected  while  being 
distanced  and  to  challenge  the  limits  of  our  own 
creativity  and  perseverance.  Offline  in  homes  and 
societies and online on Twitter, we have learned to 
help each other. We are often urged to see the glass as 
half full rather than half empty. However, sometimes 
we should just be grateful to have a glass in the first 
place. Having said that, between empty and full, I see 
the glass very much as half-full. And for us in the 
Mutual Fund business, it is definitely more than half full 
as we have made a quick and comfortable transition to 
business as usual in a work from home environment. 
12 l Edelweiss Asset Management
A tale of 5 years 
At the end of 2016, Edelweiss Mutual Fund acquired JP Morgan Mutual Fund. This was done with the intention 
of ramping up our efforts on the Mutual Fund business. Today, we look back on this journey with a lot of 
affection. Over the last few years, a team of more than 200 people have come together to build an honest asset 
management business, one that is consistent while being disruptive, responsible and yet young, simple but also 
innovative. While our journey is still nascent, the scoreboard in the last 5 years shows a heartening picture.     
 No. of customers
AUM
4.2 Lakh 55k Cr.
INR 
SIP Book* Industry Rank
125 Cr. 15
INR 
(31st March 2021)
Of all the milestones that we have so far achieved, the expansion in our investor family is the most 
heartening. We have expanded from approximately 10,000 investors in 2016 to more than 5 lakh people, 
who trust and invest with this brand today. Our family of distribution partners who are the face of this 
business all over the country has now expanded to 10,000 with 5,000 actively transacting with us every 
month. I am reminded of the famous lines by Majrooh Sultanpuri,
Hum akele hi chale the janib-e-manzil magar, 
Log saath aate gaye aur karwaan banta gaya.
We have also learnt our fair share in this business and used these foundational years to define what we 
will stand for. A few things that stand out for us are:
Managing other people’s  We are not in the business of  We have to be obsessive 
money is a responsibility and  products. We are in the business  about making life easier for 
a privilege. We should say what  of solving financial problems. the customer. 
we do and do what we say.
*SIP book includes systematic investment plan and systematic transfer plan
Data source : Internal  l  *AUM as on March 31, 2021 as per records of the RTA. 
For more details on AUM disclosures, please visit this link - https://content.edelweissmf.com/statutory#AUM ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 l 13
Often, we are told that the AMC business is consolidating and thus, might not provide growth to small players. 
Debt passives is a segment we have been first to market in, introducing to India the concept of target maturity 
We firmly disagree. We believe that the Mutual Fund industry is still in its infancy and that all of us have 
funds with Bharat Bond ETF. We believe debt will move the passive way, as these funds bring more 
tremendous room to grow. Mutual fund penetration in India is less than 10%, where the world average is 40% 
transparency and liquidity to debt investing along with lower costs. The target maturity construct can emerge 
in just matching the world, the pie will expand for all of us.   
as a very liquid and tax efficient alternative to FD because it offers return predictability traditionally missing 
But good things take time and building a good asset management business is definitely a long-term  in debt funds. Building on the success of Bharat Bond program, we launched India’s first debt index fund, the 
proposition. This is a business that takes years to build, day by day, brick by brick and SIP by SIP.  Edelweiss SDL PSU 2026 Index Fund in the same target maturity structure. It has been very well received. We 
have a strong product pipeline and ongoing research agenda and truly believe we can be leaders in this 
Rocky reminded us that, 
space. While many scheme categories will continue to exist, we want to find categories where we can excel. 
   Every champion is a contender that refuses to  We believe that we have an opportunity in debt passives and solution oriented equity categories.
Strengthening the brand has been a big focus over the last five years and our efforts continue in that 
   give up.
direction. We ran a 360 degree campaign to increase awareness of Balanced Advantage Funds as a category, 
that has aided our brand recall in this space particularly in smaller markets. We also continue to use our 
As we prepare for our next leg of growth, a place in the competitive Top 10 club, we carry with us the learnings 
investor education brand, #AdviceZarooriHai, reiterating the importance of financial guidance. Through 
of the last five years. We know that while there will be good and bad years for markets and the industry, we 
topicals and festivals this campaign has won hearts and awards over the year. As a brand that traditionally 
will definitely not refuse to give up.
connected to distribution partners and customers offline, moving our flagship offline property #Konnect 
online has widened our reach significantly. We learnt at home, we learnt at scale and we learnt beyond the 
traditional domain of investing. Konnect is a property we only intend to take from strength to strength over 
The last year in review  the years.
Digital was always important to Edelweiss AMC, but this year it took a different meaning. We completed an 
2020 has been a special year for us at Edelweiss Mutual Fund.  overhaul of our transaction properties, making it easier for investors not only to start investing online but also 
In a year when industry growth was relatively muted. 
to raise services requests like changing a nominee or a phone number. We also focused on bringing 
simplicity to the buying process by redoing the way we communicate, not just on our website but in all forms 
of communication as well. Product pages talk about our funds without the usual investment jargon, an open 
discussion of what can go wrong in the investment process, and a lot of transparency about what we hold and 
why we hold, mark an additional step in helping our customers buy right. We also believe this is just the 
beginning of what we can do to make both investing and learning much easier for customers out of                
their homes. 
Our AUM doubled, crossing the  We had our best equity year with  Lastly, everything we have done this year belongs to our people.  We were quick to adopt the work from home 
INR 50,000 crore  INR 3,500 crore culture last year and having taken a cautious stance about staying at home, till it is safe for our people to 
 
return to their offices. A significant number of our employees got vaccinated at Edelweiss offices, so they feel 
of net equity sales.
safe and sound. We also have found creative ways to engage, learn from each other and from minds in other 
industries through our unique programs like Tryst with Brilliance. Whether it is dealers or tech support teams 
We believe that this growth is a combination of many things over the last ﬁve years coming together. coming to office in the most uncertain times, sales and support people trying to pull off a 10,000+ crore 
tranche of Bharat Bond 2 in complete lockdown or investment professionals steering ships in uncertain 
Consistency of  Product launches  A sustained  A relentless  waters without all the technology of the office, this has been a year where people have risen. 
investment  that were ahead  effort in the  focus on improving 
performance of competition brand service
In particular, we have been champions of the Balanced Advantage fund category which will drive strong 
investor experience. Backed by a differentiated strategy and performance, Edelweiss BAF more than doubled 
in assets in FY21. We also focused on providing access to global investment solutions ahead of the curve, 
leveraging our partnership with JP Morgan Asset Management and as global investing became more 
mainstream in India, we benefitted from a significant share of this pie.   
Data source : Internal  l  *AUM as on March 31, 2021 as per records of the RTA. 
14 l Edelweiss Asset Management For more details on AUM disclosures, please visit this link - https://content.edelweissmf.com/statutory#AUM
Debt passives is a segment we have been first to market in, introducing to India the concept of target maturity 
funds with Bharat Bond ETF. We believe debt will move the passive way, as these funds bring more 
transparency and liquidity to debt investing along with lower costs. The target maturity construct can emerge 
as a very liquid and tax efficient alternative to FD because it offers return predictability traditionally missing 
in debt funds. Building on the success of Bharat Bond program, we launched India’s first debt index fund, the 
Edelweiss SDL PSU 2026 Index Fund in the same target maturity structure. It has been very well received. We 
have a strong product pipeline and ongoing research agenda and truly believe we can be leaders in this 
space. While many scheme categories will continue to exist, we want to find categories where we can excel. 
We believe that we have an opportunity in debt passives and solution oriented equity categories.
Strengthening the brand has been a big focus over the last five years and our efforts continue in that 
direction. We ran a 360 degree campaign to increase awareness of Balanced Advantage Funds as a category, 
that has aided our brand recall in this space particularly in smaller markets. We also continue to use our 
investor education brand, #AdviceZarooriHai, reiterating the importance of financial guidance. Through 
topicals and festivals this campaign has won hearts and awards over the year. As a brand that traditionally 
connected to distribution partners and customers offline, moving our flagship offline property #Konnect 
online has widened our reach significantly. We learnt at home, we learnt at scale and we learnt beyond the 
traditional domain of investing. Konnect is a property we only intend to take from strength to strength over 
the years.
Digital was always important to Edelweiss AMC, but this year it took a different meaning. We completed an 
overhaul of our transaction properties, making it easier for investors not only to start investing online but also 
to raise services requests like changing a nominee or a phone number. We also focused on bringing 
simplicity to the buying process by redoing the way we communicate, not just on our website but in all forms 
of communication as well. Product pages talk about our funds without the usual investment jargon, an open 
discussion of what can go wrong in the investment process, and a lot of transparency about what we hold and 
why we hold, mark an additional step in helping our customers buy right. We also believe this is just the 
beginning of what we can do to make both investing and learning much easier for customers out of                
their homes. 
Lastly, everything we have done this year belongs to our people.  We were quick to adopt the work from home 
culture last year and having taken a cautious stance about staying at home, till it is safe for our people to 
return to their offices. A significant number of our employees got vaccinated at Edelweiss offices, so they feel 
safe and sound. We also have found creative ways to engage, learn from each other and from minds in other 
industries through our unique programs like Tryst with Brilliance. Whether it is dealers or tech support teams 
coming to office in the most uncertain times, sales and support people trying to pull off a 10,000+ crore 
tranche of Bharat Bond 2 in complete lockdown or investment professionals steering ships in uncertain 
waters without all the technology of the office, this has been a year where people have risen. 
I love the lines by Vince Lombardi, 
   Winning means you are willing to go longer, 
   work harder and give more than anyone else.
In particular, we have been champions of the Balanced Advantage fund category which will drive strong 
investor experience. Backed by a differentiated strategy and performance, Edelweiss BAF more than doubled 
in assets in FY21. We also focused on providing access to global investment solutions ahead of the curve,  Thank you to the team of Edelweiss AMC, for doing just this.
leveraging our partnership with JP Morgan Asset Management and as global investing became more 
mainstream in India, we benefitted from a significant share of this pie.   
Data source : Internal  l  *AUM as on March 31, 2021 as per records of the RTA. 
For more details on AUM disclosures, please visit this link - https://content.edelweissmf.com/statutory#AUM
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 l 15
The road ahead 
A colleague of mine once joked that ten years ago, if anyone of us had said we worked in a mutual fund, most 
people would have assumed it is the same thing as a bank or not really known what a mutual fund is. I now hear 
young people on flights talking proudly about how they started an SIP and this is a heartening sign of how 
mainstream mutual funds have begun.  It’s also the reason when people ask me whether it was the right thing to 
move back from the US 10 years ago, I say a resounding yes! This industry has no shortage of opportunities.    
There is tremendous thinking that can be done in terms of bringing simple new products to solve the needs of 
investors, Indian solutions created for Indian needs. There is also tremendous innovation we can make in terms 
of delivery of products and also educating customers in how to use different ideas in our baskets in interesting 
ways. And while once it was believed that large expansion necessitated a huge physical branch infrastructure to 
compete in the post-COVID world, each mobile phone is a branch. Players like us have a real opportunity to be 
meaningful. 
Finally, while there has been a lot to smile about in the business, there is no bigger smile than the one that comes 
from the feedback of our investors. And we are delighted that this family of investors has grown from 2.7 lakh 
to 5 lakh this year. To every investor who trusts us, thank you.
Team Edelweiss AMC continues its journey to do more and more, to go from good to better and great one day.    
All of us have seen our share of bad news in the last year, but as a team we have never been as optimistic about 
what we can build. And in this simple business of asset management, we remind ourselves of these simple two 
words from the Munnabhai series:  
Lage Raho.
Ms. Radhika Gupta
Managing Director & 
Chief Executive Officer
16 l Edelweiss Asset Management
Our Values
Customer First One Team
   
We are about customers. You first, simple. We take care of our biggest asset - 
our people. We love our team. 
Push Boundaries Be Genuine
   
We go above and beyond to solve your  We’re open and transparent in our 
problems and build solutions for you.  communication. We say it like it is, 
no mumbo jumbo.
Respect Risk Think Digital
   
We manage your hard-earned money  Technology should make your life easier. 
with care and honesty. And we make that happen.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 l 17
Risk and Governance
Like everything else in life, investing also carries risk. At Edelweiss AMC, risk management is as important 
as investment management. One cannot exist without the other. 
Strong and 
independent risk 
team
Keen eye on 
Well diversified 
liquidity risks in 
trustee and 
all our funds
AMC board
Risk management 
practices
Product 
committee and  Highest 
formal approval  disclosure 
process for  standards
product launch
Clear conflict 
interest policy
18 l Edelweiss Asset Management
Our People
When different assets come together, 
they build a robust portfolio.
We are the sum of our people. We believe that it is important to go above and beyond for our people. 
Good Health and Well-being
The environment in the last one year has been very challenging. We took the necessary steps to 
ensure safety and well-being of our people. 
Covid-19 Helpline Early Pay Day
Counselling Helpline 24/7 Emergency Calls
Mediclaim Insurance Health focused Webinars
Diversity and Inclusion 
We believe that it is important to create a diverse and inclusive culture where all employees, 
irrespective of their gender are given an opportunity to learn and grow.
Mentoring Circle forum  Writing Her Story - An interactive forum 
for Women Employees with external women achievers 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 l 19
Learning and Development
Consistent investment in knowledge always keeps our people prepared. We introduced several 
training and development programmes to help employees improve their technical and behavioural 
skills focusing on both professional and personal growth.
Tryst with Brilliance with  World of Wisdom with 
leading Industry Experts  Investment Experts
Ashok Kumar Karan Datta Kunal Bahl Neeraj Choksi
Ranveer Allahbadia Renu Basu Sandeep Bhandarkar Tarun Katial
2,410 hours  Hired 19 employees 
in FY21 
of Employee 
47% 
Engagement Activities 
of them are women
Gender 
3,877 
diversity 
manhours
27% 
of training
20 l Edelweiss Asset Management
Technology
Technology makes life easier.
We make that happen. 
A few years back being digital meant having an online presence. Today, especially in light of the pandemic 
being digital means having the ability to do everything from watching a movie online to staying in touch 
with family and starting a business to making an investment in few seconds. 
In FY 20-21, our digital transformation journey gained speed. We enabled our customers, partners and our 
employees to conduct business as usual. We worked on upgrading our digital platforms, enhanced 
customer experience by improving business processes and data usage. We also adopted best practices to 
drive a cultural change within the organisation. We moved to cloud infrastructure that allowed us to scale 
in a secure and robust manner. 
How did we make this happen?
Investors
EdelweissMF.com Quickest account creation time
We completely revamped our website. We  We made the industry’s shortest account 
made it simple, easy to navigate and quick  creation flow, smooth transaction process 
to find information. We made it visually  and easy to raise service tickets online.  
appealing, introduced simple language to 
explain funds, made it accessible through 
multiple devices, made it interactive with 
more charts, graphs and investment tools. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 l 21
Distribution Partners 
Our partners have lot of things to manage. We want to make their life easy. Digital transformation 
helps them in several ways.
Edelweiss Galaxy is an online platform for  Partners  need  help  with  sharing  simple 
our partners. It helps them track, transact  communication with their investors. MF store 
and  monitor  their  customers  portfolio  helps them co-brand all communication we 
anytime, anywhere.  create across different formats personalised 
  Simple navigation with  their  branding.  This  helps  them  stay 
connected with their investors always. 
  Seamless customer onboarding  
  A superior experience on mobile 
Highlights
30%  12%
Increase
of direct transactions
in transaction volume through our website through our website 
195%
5%
of service requests like 
Increase change of bank mandate, 
addition of nominee are 
now received online
in mobile traffic 
22 l Edelweiss Asset Management
Our Team
MANAGEMENT TEAM
Ms. Radhika Gupta
Managing Director & 
Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Amit Malpani Mr. Abdulla Chaudhari Ms. Archita Bhutoria 
Chief Financial Officer Head - Investor Service Head - Risk
Mr. Deepak Jain Mr. Geroge Jose Mr. Manoj Chaudhary 
Head - Sales Head - Operations Head - Human Resources 
Retail & Institutional Business
Mr. Niranjan Avasthi Mr. Prannav Shah Ms. Rashida Roopawalla Mr. Suraj Prakash 
Head - Product, Head - Compliance Chief Operating Officer Chief Technology Officer
Marketing & Digital Business
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 l 23
INVESTMENT TEAM - DEBT
Mr. Dhawal Dalal Mr. Gautam Kaul Mr. Rahul Dedhia
Chief Investment Officer -  Fund Manager Fund Manager
Fixed Income
INVESTMENT TEAM - EQUITY
Mr. Harshad Patwardhan, CFA Mr. Bharat Lahoti Mr. Bhavesh Jain
Chief Investment Officer - Fund Manager Fund Manager
Equity
Mr. Hardik Verma Mr. Harsh Kothari Mr. Pratik Dharmshi
Fund Manager Fund Manager Fund Manager
24 l Edelweiss Asset Management
INVESTMENT TEAM - ALTERNATIVES
Mr. Nalin Moniz, CFA Mr. Nilesh Saha, CFA Mr. Utsav Mehta, CFA
Chief Investment Officer -  Fund Manager Fund Manager
Alternative Equities
INVESTMENT TEAM - PMS
Mr. Gautam Berry, CFA Mr. Sahil Shah
Fund Manager Fund Manager
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 l 25
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Mr. Hemant Daga Mr. Karan Datta Mr. Manjit Singh
Independent Director Independent Director
Ms. Radhika Gupta Mr. Suresh Gurumani
Independent Director
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Mr. Himanshu Kaji Mr. K. Ramaswamy
Mr. Kedar Desai Mr. K. Venugopal Ms. Rubi Arya
26 l Edelweiss Asset Management
Product Riskometer
Edelweiss Balanced Advantage Fund is suitable for investors who are seeking*:
1
To create wealth over long term and prevent capital erosion in medium term 2
0
Investment predominantly in equity and equity related securities including through arbitrage  E 2
opportunities with balance exposure to debt and money market securities N
U
J
* Investors should consult their financial advisers if in doubt about whether the product is suitable for them Investors understand that their principal 
will be at High risk
Edelweiss Arbitrage Fund is suitable for investors who are seeking*:
1
To generate income by predominantly investing in arbitrage opportunities 2
0
Investments predominantly in arbitrage opportunities in the cash and derivative segments of the  E 2
equity markets and the arbitrage opportunities available within the derivative segment and by  N
investing the balance in debt and money market instruments. U
J
* Investors should consult their financial advisers if in doubt about whether the  product is suitable for them Investors understand that their principal 
will be at Low risk
Edelweiss US Technology Equity Fund of Fund is suitable for investors who are 
seeking*:
1
2
0
Long Term Capital Growth E 2
N
Investments predominantly in JPMorgan Funds – US Technology Fund, an equity oriented fund  U
which invests primarily in US technology companies with strong fundamentals  J
Investors understand that their principal 
* Investors should consult their financial advisers if in doubt about whether the  product is suitable for them
will be at Very High risk
Edelweiss NIFTY PSU Bond Plus SDL Index Fund - 2026 is suitable for investors 
who are seeking*:
1
2
0
Income over long term. E 2
N
An open-ended Target Maturity Index Fund that seeks to track the Nifty PSU Bond Plus SDL Apr  U
2026 50:50 Index. J
Investors understand that their principal 
* Investors should consult their financial advisers if in doubt about whether the  product is suitable for them
will be at Moderate risk
Visit www.edelweissmf.com for updated product riskometers
Mutual Fund investments are subject to market risks, read all scheme related documents carefully.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 l 27
Board’s Report
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 28 
Board’s Report
To the Members of Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
The Directors hereby present their 14th Annual Report on the business, operation and state of affairs of the Company 
together with the Audited Financial Statements for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2021.
Financial Highlights
The summary of the financial performance of the Company for the financial year ended on March 31, 2021, is given below:
 (Rs. in Million)
Particulars  2020-21 2019-20
Total Income 1,204.07 1,264.25
Total Expenditure 1,156.25 1,251.60
Profit before tax 47.82 12.65
Provision for tax (including Deferred Tax and fringe benefit tax, if any) 0.00 (0.58)
(Loss)/Profit for the year 47.82 12.07
Other Comprehensive Income 2.15 (1.35)
Total Comprehensive Income 49.97 10.72
Reserves and surplus
Opening Balance 828.61 827.77
Additions during the year 49.97 0.84
Profit available for appropriation 878.58 828.61
Appropriations
Surplus carried to Balance Sheet  878.58 828.61
Dividend
Your Directors have not recommended payment of dividend on equity shares for the year ended March 31, 2021.
Amount Carried to Reserves
No amount is proposed to be transferred to the reserves.
Information on the state of affairs of the Company
a. Edelweiss Mutual Fund:
The Company continued to act as Asset Management Company to Edelweiss Mutual Fund (“the Fund”).
As on March 31, 2021, the consolidated assets under management of the Fund were Rs. 56,426.08 crores. During the 
year under review, the investor base of the Fund increased from 3,39,501 folios to 5,51,680 folios.
During the year, the AMC had launched second tranche of Bharat Bond ETFs viz. Bharat Bond ETF – April 2025 and
Bharat Bond ETF – April 2031 along with two Fund of Fund Schemes which had in turn invested in the aforesaid
Bharat Bond ETFs (2025 and 2031). The New Fund Offers (“NFOs”) for Bharat Bond ETF – April 2025, Bharat Bond
ETF – April 2031, Bharat Bond FOF - April 2025 and Bharat Bond FOF - April 2031 were opened on July 14, 2020 and
closed on June 17, 2020. The Company mobilized approximately Rs. 11,954.41 crores of AUM under the said NFOs.
The Company had received approximately 25,678 applications.
Further, the Fund also launched the following Schemes:
a)  Edelweiss MSCI India Domestic & World Healthcare 45 Index Fund, an Open‐ended Equity Scheme replicating MSCI
India Domestic & World Healthcare 45 Index which raised Rs. 71.25 crores during its new fund offer period; and
b) Edelweiss NIFTY PSU Bond Plus SDL Index Fund – 2026, an open-ended target maturity Index Fund predominantly
investing in the constituents of Nifty PSU Bond Plus SDL Apr 2026 50:50 Index which raised Rs. 330.52 crores
during its new fund offer period.
29 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Board’s Report   
(Continued)
    During the year, the Company continued to strengthen its operations platform by investing in automation and 
technology for future scalability. All these efforts were rewarded too with the Fund’s ranking improving to 15 
from 17 last year.
b.  Alternative Investment Funds (“AIF”):
  During the year, the Company continued to act as Investment Manager for the following Schemes of AIF:
Name of AIF Edelweiss Alpha Fund Edelweiss Multi Strategy  Edelweiss Alternative Investment 
Investment Trust  Opportunities Trust
SEBI Registration No. IN/AIF3/13-14/0047 IN/AIF3/12-13/0004 IN/AIF2/17-18/0502
Date of SEBI Registration  August 14, 2012 April 17, 2013 November 15, 2017
Category of AIF Category III Category III Category II
Schemes of AIF Edelweiss Alpha Fund  1.  Edelweiss Alternative   1.  Edelweiss Crossover 
Scheme-1 Equity Scheme Opportunities Fund
2.  Edelweiss Catalyst  2.  Edelweiss Crossover 
Opportunities Scheme Opportunities Fund – II
  As on March 31, 2021, the total AUM under all the AIF Schemes stands approximately at Rs. 2219.04 Crores.
c.  Portfolio Management Services (“PMS”):
  During the year, the Company continued to act as Portfolio Manager for the various strategies and as on March 31, 
2021, the total AUM under all the Strategies of PMS stands approximately at Rs. 2042.22 Crores.
d.  Industry Performance:
  Mutual Fund:
  Assets managed by the Indian mutual fund industry has increased from Rs. 23.53 trillion in April 2020 to Rs. 32.43 
trillion in April 2021. That represents 37.81% increase in assets over April 2020.
  The proportionate share of equity-oriented schemes is now 42.4% of the industry assets in April 2021, up from 38.8% 
in April 2020. The proportionate share of debt-oriented schemes is 30.5% of industry assets in April 2021, down from 
31.0% in April 2020. Significant increase in ETF market share from 7% in April 2020 to 9.4% in April 2021.
  Individual investors now hold a marginally higher share of industry assets, i.e., 52.6% in April 2021, compared with 
52.1% in April 2020 Institutional investors account for 47.4% of the assets, of which corporates are 96%. The rest 
are Indian and foreign institutions and banks. Equity-oriented schemes derive 88% of their assets from individual 
investors (Retail + HNI) Institutional investors dominate liquid and money market schemes (85%), debt-oriented 
schemes (61%) and ETFs, FOFs (90%). Individual investors primarily hold equity-oriented schemes while institutions 
hold liquid and debt-oriented schemes. 71% of individual investor assets are held in equity-oriented schemes. 71% of 
institutions assets are held in liquid / money market schemes and debt-oriented schemes. The value of assets held 
by individual investors in mutual funds increased from Rs.12.25 lac cr. in April 2020 to Rs. 17.06 lac cr. in April 2021, 
an increase of 39.28%. The value of Institutional assets has increased from Rs.11.28 lac cr. in April 2020 to Rs.15.36 
lac cr. in April 2021, an increase of 36.21%.
  In the Union Budget for the current fiscal, AMFI had proposed the following key reforms: 
  •  Uniform tax treatment for investments in Mutual Funds Units and ULIPs of Life Insurance companies.
  •  Uniformity in Taxation on Listed Debt Securities and Debt Mutual Funds.
  •  Increase in threshold limit of withholding tax (TDS) on Income distribution by Mutual Fund scheme.
  •  Introduce Debt Linked Savings Scheme (DLSS) to help deepen the Indian Bond Market.
  •  Simplify taxation provisions of offshore funds managed by Indian portfolio managers.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 30 
Board’s Report   
(Continued)
Alternate Business:
Alternative Investment Fund has been in existence for more than 10 years now as SEBI (Alternative Investment 
Funds) Regulations were notified in 2012. During these years, Category-III AIFs have garnered the most assets under 
management while the Category II AIFs had the best growth rate in commitment size in the recent past. For the major 
part of this period, Edelweiss Asset Management Limited has continued to be the leader in providing Alternative 
Investments solutions to its investors. Currently we have 4 active alternative investment schemes under the category 
II and Category III. Our flagship strategy namely Edelweiss Alternative Equity scheme has been awarded ‘Best Indian 
Hedge Fund’ award for 2020 by Eurekahedge. It has also been featured as the ‘Top Performing Emerging Market 
Focused Hedge Fund’ in calendar year 2019 in Preqin’s special report on Hedge funds. 
SEBI has done a commendable job for all these years in governing the Alternatives landscape in India. The Regulator is 
continuously seeking feedback from industry participants and working to broad base access, improve the standards 
of disclosure, create new investment avenues and bring global best practices. The most recent of such positive 
initiatives was to standardize the structure of the Private Placement Memorandum and benchmarking for the AIFs 
for which CRISIL is appointed. Increase in effective tax rate due to levy of surcharge, on the other hand, has proved 
to be a dampener for Category III AIFs that engage in trading strategies. Industry players have often come together 
with their recommendations in this regard as well on long pending reforms of granting pass-through tax status to 
Category III AIFs. We strongly believe that flexibility in portfolio construction, shorting and the use of leverage can 
lead to highly attractive risk-adjusted returns and a very interesting client proposition. With such structural tailwinds 
in place, the future for Alternatives looks extremely bright. 
Portfolio Management Services (“PMS”), unlike AIFs, have existed in India since 1993 and has close to Rs. 19.2 lakh 
crores of assets under management as of October 31, 2020. PMS industry has seen their assets growing at 19% over 
the trailing twelve months period. SEBI has introduced a slew of new measures to regulate Portfolio Management 
services including but not limited to increasing the minimum investment amount, doing away with upfront or set 
up fees, bringing direct plans for PMS investors like that in mutual funds and standardizing performance reporting 
methodology. While discretionary PMS continues to remain the stalwart of the Indian Alternatives industry, AIFs have 
emerged as the fastest growing segment. 
Share Capital
As on March 31, 2021, the paid up share capital of the Company stands at Rs. 73,34,32,930 divided into 7,33,43,293 
Equity Shares of Rs. 10 each.
During the year, the Company became the wholly owned subsidiary of Edelweiss Financial Services Limited (“EFSL”) 
wherein Ecap Equities Limited transferred its entire holdings in the Company to EFSL.
COVID – 19
The whole world faced a tail risk event with the 2nd wave of Covid-19 pandemic, coupled with lockdowns. This event 
necessitated unique approaches to mitigate different types of risk. Our advance preparation, along with technology 
enablement, ensured almost all our critical staff could work from home seamlessly for business continuity and 
serving customer deliverables.
Particulars Of Investments Made, Loans And Guarantees Given Or Securities Provided
Particulars of loans given, investments made and guarantees given or securities provided if any, are provided in the 
Financial Statements.
Related Party Transactions
During the financial year under review, all the Related Party Transactions entered into by the Company were on arm’s 
length basis and in the ordinary course of business. All the Related Party Transactions as required under Ind AS - 24 
are reported in the Notes to the Financial Statements. Particulars of contracts or arrangements with related parties 
are provided in Form AOC-2 in Annexure –I.
31 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Board’s Report   
(Continued)
Directors And Key Managerial Personnel
i)   Independent Directors
  The Members of the Company at their 13th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) held on September 25, 2020 regularised 
the appointment of Mr. Suresh Gurumani (DIN- 00636844), Mr. Manjit Singh (DIN: 03563281) and Mr. Karan Datta 
(DIN: 08413809) as Independent Directors.
  The Independent Directors of the Company, have given a declaration that they meet the criteria of independence as 
laid down under Section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”).
  The Board is of the opinion that the Independent Directors of the Company hold high standards of integrity and 
possess requisite expertise and experience including the proficiency required to fulfill their duties as Independent 
Directors.
  In terms of Section 150 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 6 of the Companies (Appointment and Qualification 
of Directors) Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, Independent Directors of the Company have confirmed 
that they have registered themselves with the databank maintained by The Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs, 
Manesar (‘IICA’). The Independent Directors (as applicable) are also in process of completing the online proficiency 
self-assessment test conducted by the IICA which is required to be completed within a period of 2 (two) years from 
the date of inclusion of their names in the data bank, unless they meet the criteria specified for exemption.
ii)  Further, the Board of Directors of the Company at its Meeting held on June 22, 2020 had appointed Ms. Radhika 
Gupta as a Managing Director and CEO of the Company with effect from July 1, 2020 for a period of three years. The 
said matter was also approved by the Members of the Company at their 13th AGM held on September 25, 2020.
iii)   Retirement by Rotation of the Directors
  Mr. Hemant Daga (DIN: 07783248) retires by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, 
offers himself for re-appointment. 
iv)   Key Managerial Personnel
  Mr. Amit Malpani and Mr. Nirav Sanghavi continue to act as Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary, 
respectively, during the year.
Board of Directors and Number of Board Meetings Held
  The Board of Directors of the Company comprises of the following:-
Sr. No.  Name of the Director Designation
1. Mr. Hemant Daga Chairman
2. Mrs. Radhika Gupta Managing Director and CEO
3. Mr. Manjit Singh Independent Director
4. Mr. Suresh Gurumani Independent Director
5. Mr. Karan Datta Independent Director
  During the year under review, the Board met 4 (Four) times on June 22, 2020, August 10, 2020, October 20, 2020 and  
February 8, 2021.
Audit & Risk Committee 
  The Audit & Risk Committee comprises of the following Directors:
  •  Mr. Hemant Daga 
  •  Mr. Suresh Gurumani (Independent Director)
  •  Mr. Manjit Singh (Independent Director)
The terms of reference of the Audit & Risk Committee include the matters specified in Section 177 of the Act.
During the year under review, the Committee met 4 (Four) times on June 22, 2020, August 10, 2020, October 20, 2020 and 
February 8, 2021.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 32 
Board’s Report   
(Continued)
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee comprises of the following Directors:
• Mr. Hemant Daga
• Mr. Suresh Gurumani (Independent Director)
• Mr. Manjit Singh (Independent Director)
The terms of reference of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee include the matters specified in Section 178 of the Act.
During the year under review, the Committee met once on June 22, 2020.
Remuneration Policy
The Company has framed Remuneration Policy pursuant to provisions of Section 178 of the Act. The Policy is provided in 
Annexure II of this Report and is also available on the website of the Company at www.edelweissmf.com
Evaluation of the performance of the Board 
A Board Evaluation Policy (“the Policy”) for evaluating the performance of the Board, the Chairman, the Executive Directors, 
the Independent Directors, the Non-Executive Directors and its Committees has been adopted by the Company. 
The Policy, inter alia, provides the criteria for performance evaluation such as Board effectiveness, quality of discussion, 
contribution at the meetings, business acumen, strategic thinking, time commitment, relationship with the stakeholders, 
corporate governance practices, contribution of the Committees to the Board in discharging its functions, etc.
A separate meeting of the Independent Directors was held during the year under review. Based on the Policy and the 
Parameters adopted by the Company, the Independent Directors evaluated the performance in line with the requirements 
of the Act. 
Internal Financial Controls 
The Company has in place adequate internal financial controls with reference to the Financial Statements. 
Auditors and Auditor’s Report
In accordance with the provisions of Sections 139, 142 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the 
Members at the 11th Annual General Meeting of the Company held on July 25, 2018, had appointed M/s S. R. Batliboi & Co. 
LLP (Firm Registration No. 301003E/E300005), (“SRB”), as the Auditors of the Company for a term of five years from the 
conclusion of 11th Annual General Meeting till the conclusion of the 16th Annual General Meeting to be held in the year 2023.
There are no qualifications, reservations or adverse remarks made by the Auditors in their audit report for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2021. Further, there were no frauds reported by the Auditors under Section 143 of the Act during the 
Financial Year ended March 31, 2021.
Secretarial Audit 
The Board had appointed M/s MC & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries, as the Secretarial Auditor of the Company, 
to conduct the secretarial audit for the Financial Year 2020-21. The Secretarial Auditor’s Report is annexed as Annexure – III 
to this Report.
There are no qualifications, reservations or adverse remarks made by the Secretarial Auditors in their audit report for the 
Financial Year 2020-21.
Prevention of sexual harassment of women at work place
The Company has framed a Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace. During the year under 
review, no cases were reported under the Policy. 
33 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Board’s Report   
(Continued)
Conservation of energy, technology absorption and foreign exchange earnings / outgo
A.  Conservation of Energy:
  a)  the steps taken or impact on conservation of energy- The operations of the Company are not energy-intensive. 
However, adequate measures have been initiated for conservation of energy.
  b)  the steps taken by the company for utilising alternate sources of energy- Though the operations of the Company are 
not energy-intensive, the Company shall explore alternative sources of energy, as and when the necessity arises.
  c)  the capital investment on energy conservation equipments- Nil. 
B.  Technology Absorption:
  a)  the efforts made towards technology absorption- The minimum technology required for the business has been 
absorbed; 
  b)  the benefits derived like product improvement, cost reduction, product development or import substitution- Not 
Applicable
  c)  in case of imported technology (imported during the last three years reckoned from the beginning of the financial 
year)- Not Applicable
    •  the details of technology imported; 
    •  the year of import; 
    •  whether the technology has been fully absorbed; 
    •  if not fully absorbed, areas where absorption has not taken place, and the reasons thereof; and 
  d)  the expenditure incurred on Research and Development- Not Applicable
C.  Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo: 
  Foreign exchange earnings: Rs. 0.65 Million (Previous year - Nil)
  Foreign exchange outgo: Rs. 2.09 Million (Previous year – Nil)
  Other Disclosures
  No disclosure is required in respect of the details relating to the deposits covered under Chapter V of the Companies 
Act, 2013 as there were no transactions on this matter during the year ended March 31, 2021. Further, the Company 
has not accepted any funds from the Director(s) of the Company during the financial year under review. There were 
no significant material orders passed by Regulators or Courts or Tribunal which would impact the status of the 
Company as a going concern and its future operations. 
  Annual Return 
  Pursuant to provisions of Section 92 (3) read with Section 134(3)(a)of the Act and the Rule 12 (1) of the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, the Annual Return as on March 31, 2021 is available on the website 
of the Company at www.edelweissmf.com.
Risk Management 
Audit and Risk Committee of the Company has framed and implemented a Risk Management Policy.
Directors’ responsibility statement
Pursuant to provisions of Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013(“the Act”), your Directors confirm that:
  i.  in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable accounting standards have been followed; 
  ii.  they have selected such accounting policies and applied them consistently and made judgments and estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 34 
Board’s Report   
(Continued)
March 31, 2021 and of the Profit of the Company for the financial year ended on that date;
iii. proper and sufficient care has been taken for the maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance
with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting fraud
and other irregularities;
iv. the annual accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis; and
v. proper systems have been devised to ensure compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and that such
systems were adequate and operating effectively.
Compliances of applicable secretarial standards
During the year under review, the Company has complied with the applicable secretarial standards issued by Institute 
of Company secretaries of India on Meeting of Board of Directors and General Meetings.
  Acknowledgements
Your Directors acknowledge the valuable assistance, support and guidance provided by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India, Reserve Bank of India, Association of Mutual Funds in India, other Regulatory authorities, Company’s 
Bankers, the Custodian, the Registrar, Distributors and the Trustee Company and most importantly, the Investors for 
their patronage and support.
Your Directors also wish to place on record their sincere appreciation of all the employees for their dedication and 
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
Sd/-
Hemant Daga
Mumbai, 26 May 2021
Chairman
DIN - 07783248
35 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Board’s Report   
(Continued)
Annexure – I 
Form AOC-2
(Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
Form for disclosure of particulars of contracts/arrangements entered into by the company with related parties referred to 
in sub-section (1) of section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arms length transactions under third proviso 
thereto: (Currency : Indian rupees)
Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis: Not Applicable
Sr.  Name(s)   Nature of  Duration of  Salient  Justification  Date of  Amount  Date on 
No. of the  contracts/ the contracts/  terms of the  for entering  approval   paid as  which the 
related  arrangements/ contracts or  into such  by the  advances,  special 
arrangements/
party and  transactions arrangements  contracts or  Board if any resolution 
transactions
nature of  or  arrangement  was 
relationship transactions  or  passed in 
including the  transactions general 
value, if any meeting as 
required 
under first 
proviso 
to section 
188
               
II. Details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm’s length basis:
(Rs. in Million)
Sr.  Name(s) of the  Nature of  Duration of  Salient terms of  Date of approval  Amount paid 
No. related party  contracts/  the contracts/  the contracts or  by the Board as advances, 
and nature of  arrangements/  arrangements/ arrangements  if any
relationship transactions transactions or transactions 
including the 
value, if any
1 Edelweiss  Referral and  1 Year 30.41 - -
Broking  other fees, 
Limited (Fellow  Commission 
Subsidiary) Brokerage 
and Marketing 
promotion 
Expenses paid to
2 Edelweiss  Referral and  1 Year 5.82 - -
Securities  other fees, 
Limited (Fellow  Commission 
Subsidiary) Brokerage 
and Marketing 
promotion 
Expenses paid to
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 36 
Board’s Report   
(Continued)
II.Details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm’s length basis:
(Rs. in Million)
Sr.  Name(s) of the  Nature of  Duration of  Salient terms of  Date of approval  Amount paid 
No. related party  contracts/  the contracts/  the contracts or  by the Board as advances, 
and nature of  arrangements/  arrangements/ arrangements  if any
relationship transactions transactions or transactions 
including the 
value, if any
3 Edelweiss  Referral and  1 Year 9.69 - -
Global Wealth  other fees, 
Management  Commission 
Limited (Fellow  Brokerage 
Subsidiary) and Marketing 
promotion 
Expenses paid to
4 Edelweiss  Referral and  1 Year 0.23 - -
Financial  other fees, 
Services Limited  Commission 
(Holding  Brokerage 
Company) and Marketing 
promotion 
Expenses paid to
5 Edelweiss  Cost  1 Year 9.61 - -
Financial  reimbursements 
Services Limited  paid to
(Holding 
Company)
6 Edelweiss Rural  Cost  1 Year 43.39 - -
and Corporate  reimbursements 
Services  paid to
Limited (Fellow 
Subsidiary)
7 Edelweiss  Cost  1 Year 0.39 - -
Global Wealth  reimbursements 
Management  paid to
Limited(Fellow 
Subsidiary)
8 Edelweiss  Cost  1 Year 0.09 - -
Retail Finance  reimbursements 
Limited (Fellow  paid to
Subsidiary)
9 Edelweiss  Cost  1 Year 5.20 - -
Custodial  reimbursements 
Services  paid to
Limited(Fellow 
Subsidiary)
37 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Board’s Report   
(Continued)
II. Details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm’s length basis:
(Rs. in Million)
Sr.  Name(s) of the  Nature of  Duration of  Salient terms of  Date of approval  Amount paid 
No. related party  contracts/  the contracts/  the contracts or  by the Board as advances, 
and nature of  arrangements/  arrangements/ arrangements  if any
relationship transactions transactions or transactions 
including the 
value, if any
10 Edelweiss  Cost  1 Year 0.40 - -
Securities  reimbursements 
Limited(Fellow  paid to
Subsidiary)
11 ECap Equities  Cost  1 Year 0.65 - -
Limited(Fellow  reimbursements 
Subsidiary) paid to
12 Edelweiss  Cost  1 Year 0.62 - -
Broking  reimbursements 
Limited(Fellow  paid to
Subsidiary)
13 ECL Finance  Cost  1 Year 0.15 - -
Limited(Fellow  reimbursements 
Subsidiary) paid to
14 Edelweiss  Cost  1 Year 1.15 - -
Alternative  reimbursements 
Asset Advisors  received from
Limited(Fellow 
Subsidiary)
15 Edelweiss Asset  Cost  1 Year 1.54 - -
Reconstruction  reimbursements 
Company  received from
Limited(Fellow 
Subsidiary)
16 Edelweiss  Cost  1 Year 0.00 - -
Housing Finance  reimbursements 
Limited(Fellow  received from
Subsidiary)
17 Edelweiss  Cost  1 Year 0.20 - -
Gallagher  reimbursements 
Insurance  received from
Brokers 
Limited(Fellow 
Subsidiary)
18 Edelweiss  Cost  1 Year 0.16 - -
Finance and  reimbursements 
Investments  received from
Limited(Fellow 
Subsidiary)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 38 
Board’s Report   
(Continued)
II.Details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm’s length basis:
(Rs. in Million)
Sr.  Name(s) of the  Nature of  Duration of  Salient terms of  Date of approval  Amount paid 
No. related party  contracts/  the contracts/  the contracts or  by the Board as advances, 
and nature of  arrangements/  arrangements/ arrangements  if any
relationship transactions transactions or transactions 
including the 
value, if any
19 ECap Equities  Advisory fees  1 Year 9.04 - -
Limited(Fellow  received from
Subsidiary)
20 Edelweiss  Advisory fees  1 Year 0.65 - -
Alternative  received from
Asset 
Advisors Pte. 
Limited(Fellow 
Subsidiary)
24 Key  Remuneration  1 Year 17.62 - -
Management  paid to
Personnel
25 Edelweiss  Trade payables  1 Year 0.04 - -
Investment  to
Advisors 
Limited (Fellow 
Subsidiary)
26 Edelweiss  Trade payables  1 Year 2.18 - -
Broking  to
Limited(Fellow 
Subsidiary)
27 Edelweiss Rural  Trade payables  1 Year 4.04 - -
and Corporate  to
Services 
Limited (Fellow 
Subsidiary)
28 ECap Equities  Trade payables  1 Year 0.05 - -
Limited (Fellow  to
Subsidiary)
29 Edelweiss  Trade payables  1 Year 0.40 - -
Securities  to
Limited (Fellow 
Subsidiary)
30 Edelweiss  Trade payables  1 Year 0.44 - -
Financial  to
Services Limited 
(Holding 
Company)
31 ECL Finance  Trade payables  1 Year 0.11 - -
Limited (Fellow  to
Subsidiary)
39 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Board’s Report   
(Continued)
II. Details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm’s length basis:
(Rs. in Million)
Sr.  Name(s) of the  Nature of  Duration of  Salient terms of  Date of approval  Amount paid 
No. related party  contracts/  the contracts/  the contracts or  by the Board as advances, 
and nature of  arrangements/  arrangements/ arrangements  if any
relationship transactions transactions or transactions 
including the 
value, if any
32 Edelweiss  Trade payables  1 Year 0.20 - -
Alternative  to
Asset Advisors 
Limited(Fellow 
Subsidiary)
33 Edelweiss  Trade payables  1 Year 0.10 - -
Global Wealth  to
Management 
Limited(Fellow 
Subsidiary)
34 Edelweiss  Trade payables  1 Year 1.42 - -
Custodial  to
Services 
Limited(Fellow 
Subsidiary)
35 Edelweiss  Trade payables  1 Year 0.03 - -
Finance and  to
Investments 
Limited(Fellow 
Subsidiary)
36 ESL Securities  Trade payables  1 Year 1.44 - -
Limited(Fellow  to
Subsidiary)
37 Edelweiss  Trade payables  1 Year 0.13 - -
Trusteeship  to
Company 
Limited(Fellow 
Subsidiary)
38 Edelweiss  Trade payables  1 Year 0.03 - -
Multi Strategy  to
Fund Advisors 
LLP(Fellow 
Subsidiary)
39 ECap Equities  Advances  1 Year 0.00 - -
Limited(Fellow  recoverable in 
Subsidiary) cash or in kind 
or for value to be 
received
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 40 
Board’s Report   
(Continued)
II.Details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm’s length basis:
(Rs. in Million)
Sr.  Name(s) of the  Nature of  Duration of  Salient terms of  Date of approval  Amount paid 
No. related party  contracts/  the contracts/  the contracts or  by the Board as advances, 
and nature of  arrangements/  arrangements/ arrangements  if any
relationship transactions transactions or transactions 
including the 
value, if any
40 Edelweiss  Advances  1 Year 0.00 - -
Comtrade  recoverable in 
Limited(Fellow  cash or in kind 
Subsidiary) or for value to be 
received
41 Edelweiss Rural  Advances  1 Year 0.13 - -
and Corporate  recoverable in 
Services  cash or in kind 
Limited (Fellow  or for value to be 
Subsidiary) received
42 ECL Finance  Advances  1 Year 0.01 - -
Limited (Fellow  recoverable in 
Subsidiary) cash or in kind 
or for value to be 
received
43 Edelweiss  Advances  1 Year 0.05 - -
Custodial  recoverable in 
Services  cash or in kind 
Limited (Fellow  or for value to be 
Subsidiary) received
44 Edelweiss  Advances  1 Year 0.05 - -
Securities  recoverable in 
Limited (Fellow  cash or in kind 
Subsidiary) or for value to be 
received
45 Edelweiss  Advances  1 Year 0.30 - -
Global Wealth  recoverable in 
Management  cash or in kind 
Limited (Fellow  or for value to be 
Subsidiary) received
46 Edelweiss  Advances  1 Year 0.20 - -
Gallagher  recoverable in 
Insurance  cash or in kind 
Brokers  or for value to be 
Limited (Fellow  received
Subsidiary)
47 Edelweiss  Trade  1 Year 0.00 - -
Alternative  receivables
Asset Advisors 
Limited(Fellow 
Subsidiary)
41 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Board’s Report   
(Continued)
II. Details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm’s length basis:
(Rs. in Million)
Sr.  Name(s) of the  Nature of  Duration of  Salient terms of  Date of approval  Amount paid 
No. related party  contracts/  the contracts/  the contracts or  by the Board as advances, 
and nature of  arrangements/  arrangements/ arrangements  if any
relationship transactions transactions or transactions 
including the 
value, if any
48 Edelweiss  Trade  1 Year 0.01 - -
Multi Strategy  receivables
Fund Advisors 
LLP(Fellow 
Subsidiary)
49 Edelweiss  Trade  1 Year 0.01 - -
Broking  receivables
Limited(Fellow 
Subsidiary)
50 Edelweiss  Trade  1 Year 0.00 - -
Securities  receivables
Limited(Fellow 
Subsidiary)
51 ESL Securities  Trade  1 Year 0.07 - -
Limited(Fellow  receivables
Subsidiary)
52 Edelweiss  Trade  1 Year 0.44 - -
Alternative  receivables
Asset 
Advisors Pte. 
Limited(Fellow 
Subsidiary)
53 Edelweiss  Margin Placed  1 Year 11.49 - -
Broking  with
Limited(Fellow 
Subsidiary)
54 Edelweiss  Other payables -  1 Year 10.51 - -
Financial  ESOP
Services Limited 
(Holding 
Company)
Note: figures less than Rs. 5,000 are shown as zero
 
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
Sd/-
Hemant Daga
Mumbai, 26 May 2021
Chairman
DIN - 07783248
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 42 
Board’s Report   
(Continued)
Annexure II
Remuneration Policy
Objective
The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the Rules framed there under requires a Company to frame policy for determining 
the remuneration payable to the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel (KMPs) and other employees. 
The objective of the Remuneration Policy (‘the Policy’) of the Company is to provide a framework for the remuneration of 
the Independent Directors, Non-executive Directors, Managing Director/Executive Directors, KMPs, and other Senior level 
employees of the Company.
The objective of this Policy is to ensure that:
i. the level and composition of remuneration is reasonable and sufficient to attract, retain talent required to run the
company successfully;
ii. relationship of remuneration to performance is clear and meets appropriate performance benchmarks; and
iii. remuneration to the Directors, KMPs and senior management comprises a balance fixed and incentive pay
reflecting short and long-term performance objectives appropriate to the working of the company and its goals.
Remuneration of the Independent Directors & Non- Executive Directors
• The Independent Directors & Non-Executive Directors are eligible for sitting fees for attending the meetings of
the Board and the Committees thereof.
• The Independent Directors & Non-Executive Directors are also eligible for commission, subject to limits
prescribed under the Act and the Rules framed there under.
• The Independent Directors are not eligible for employees’ stock options.
• The Non-Executive Directors shall be eligible for employees’ stock options under various Employee Benefit
Schemes / Plans of the Holding Company from time to time.
Remuneration of the Managing Director & Executive Directors
• The remuneration of the Managing Director/Executive Directors is recommended by the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee (‘NRC’) to the Board. Based on the recommendations of the NRC, the Board determines
and approves the remuneration of the Managing Director/Executive Directors, subject to necessary approvals, if
any.
• The remuneration paid to the Managing Director/Executive Directors is within the limits prescribed under the Act
and approved by the Shareholders of the Company. The remuneration structure includes fixed salary, perquisites,
bonus, other benefits and allowances and contribution to Funds, etc.
• The Executive Directors shall be eligible for employees’ stock options under various Employee Benefit Schemes
/ Plans of the Holding Company from time to time.
Remuneration of the KMP (other than Executive Directors) and Senior level employees
• The key components of remuneration package of the KMP (other than Executive Directors) and Senior level
employees shall comprise of fixed salary, perquisites, annual bonus, other benefits and allowances and
contribution to Funds, etc.
• They shall be eligible for employees’ stock options under various Employee Benefit Schemes / Plans of the
Holding Company from time to time.
43 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Board’s Report   
(Continued)
Policy Review
  •  The Policy may be amended as may be necessary.
  •   The NRC shall implement the Policy, and may issue such guidelines, procedures, etc as it may deem fit.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
Sd/-
Hemant Daga
Mumbai, 26 May 2021
Chairman
DIN - 07783248
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 44 
Board’s Report   
(Continued)
Annexure – III 
Secretarial Audit Report
For The Financial Year Ended 2020-21
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To, 
The Members, 
Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by EDELWEISS ASSET MANAGEMENT LIMITED hereinafter called “The Company”. Secretarial Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances 
and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained 
by the Company and also the information provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized representatives 
during the conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period 
covering the financial year ended on March 31, 2021 complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that 
the Company has proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to 
the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined on test check basis the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained 
by the Company for the financial year ended on March 31, 2021 according to the provisions of: 
i. The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the Rules made thereunder;
ii. The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the Rules made thereunder;
iii. The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder;
iv. Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made thereunder;
v. The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’):
a. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations,
2011;
b. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
c. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009;
Not Applicable
d. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee Stock Purchase
Scheme) Guidelines, 1999; Not Applicable
e. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008; Not
Applicable
f. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations,
1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client; Not Applicable
g. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; and Not Applicable
h. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 1998; Not Applicable
vi. Other laws as may be applicable specifically to the company are annexed as Annexure I.
45 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Board’s Report   
(Continued)
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following: 
  i.  Secretarial Standard 1 and Secretarial Standard 2 issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India vide 
its notification no. 1 (SS) dated April 23, 2015, effective from July 1, 2015 and revised from time to time.
  ii.  The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with Bombay Stock Exchange and National Stock Exchange 
with respect to listing of units of Edelweiss Mutual Fund Schemes; 
During the period under review, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
Standards, etc. mentioned above.
We further report that
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive 
Directors and Independent Directors. The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place during the 
period under review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act. 
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent 
at least seven days in advance, and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the 
agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
Majority decision is carried through while the dissenting members’ views are captured and recorded as part of the minutes.
There were no instances where any Board Member dissented to the agenda matters that were presented. All matters were 
approved unanimously.
We further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the Company commensurate with the size and 
operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period the Company has specific events/actions which are attached to the report as 
Annexure II.
For MC & Associates
Practicing Company Secretaries
Sd/-
Miten Chawda
FCS No: 6949
C P No: 11625
UDIN: F006949C000388759
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 26, 2021
Note: Parawise details of the Audit finding, if necessary, may be placed as annexure to the report.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 46 
Board’s Report   
(Continued)
Annexure I
List of other laws applicable to the Company
1. Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996;
2. Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020;
3. Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Fund) Regulations, 2012; and
4. Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
Annexure II
List of Specific Events
Sr.  Remarks Board of Directors Approval date / noting date Members 
No Approval date
1. Appointment of Mr. Karan Datta as an  Circular Resolution dated May 21, 2020 noted at  September 
Independent Director of the Company. Board Meeting held on June 22, 2020. 25, 2020
(Appointment effective from May 23, 2020)
2. Appointment of Ms. Radhika Gupta as  22.06.2020 (Appointment effective from July 1,  September 
Managing Director and Chief Executive  2020) 25, 2020
Officer.
3. Appointment of Mr. Pranav Shah as  Approved in the Board Meeting held on June 22,  NA
Head – Compliance. 2020 and effective from August 1, 2020
4. Resignation of Mr. Anurag Madan as a  Circular Resolution dated August 28, 2020 noted  NA
Director of the Company. at Board Meeting held on October 20, 2020. 
(Resignation is effective from August 25, 2020)
5. Consider shifting of Corporate Office of  Circular Resolution dated December 08, 2020 noted  NA
the Company, Head Office and Official  at Board Meeting held on February 08, 2021.
Point of Acceptance of transactions 
of the Schemes of Edelweiss Mutual 
Fund. 
6. Approval for change in place of keeping  Circular Resolution dated December 08, 2020 noted  NA
books of accounts and papers of the  at Board Meeting held on February 08, 2021.
Company. 
This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure- III and forms an integral part of this 
report.
47 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Board’s Report   
(Continued)
Annexure-III
To, 
The Board of Directors,
Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
Edelweiss House, off C.S.T Road, Kalina Mumbai MH 400098
Dear Sirs,
The report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1. Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is
to express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2. We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about
the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that
correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices that we followed
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3. We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and books of accounts of the
Company.
4. Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and
regulations and happening of events, etc.
5. The compliance of the provisions of corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the
responsibility of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6. The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy
or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Thanking you.
Yours faithfully,
For MC & Associates
Practicing Company Secretaries
Sd/-
Miten Chawda
FCS No: 6949
C P No: 11625
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 26, 2021
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 48 
Management Discussion and Analysis
49 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Management Discussion and Analysis
Financial Review
• Our Company’s Profit After Tax (PAT) grew by 296.19% over FY19-20 and stood at Rs. 47.82 million in FY 20-21.
• The Total Revenue for FY20-21 closed at Rs. 1204.07 million.
• The Operating Profit (Profit Before Tax less other income) grew by 220.94% to Rs. 23.30 million in FY 20-21.
• PAT as a percentage of Annual Average AUM stood at 0.01%.
• The Company’s Networth increased by 3.20% to Rs. 1612.01 million in FY 20-21.
Financial Performance With Respect To Our Operations 
The financial statements of Edelweiss Asset Management Limited (‘the Company’) are prepared in compliance with the 
Companies Act, 2013 and Indian Accounting Standards, Rules 2015. 
The Company had adopted Ind AS with effect from April 01, 2018. Effective April 01, 2019, the Company has adopted Ind AS 
116 - Leases and applied it to all lease contracts existing on April 01, 2019 using the modified retrospective method. Further 
details of the same have been disclosed in note 35 to the financial statements. 
Significant accounting policies used for the preparation of the financial statements are disclosed in the note 1 to the 
financial statements.
Covid-19 Pandemic
The outbreak of COVID - 19 pandemic has affected several countries across the world, including India. The Government is 
undertaking several measures to restrict the spread of virus and provide financial support to some stressed sectors. Further, 
while the COVID-19 vaccination efforts have gained momentum, uncertainty due to the resurgence of COVID cases across 
many parts of India is rising. The extent to which COVID-19 pandemic will impact the Company, if any, depends on future 
spread of the virus and related developments, which are uncertain at this point of time. There has been no material change 
in the controls or processes followed in the closing of the financial statements of the Company.
In preparing the accompanying financial results, the Company has assessed the impact of the pandemic on its operations and 
its assets including the value of its investments, asset management rights and trade receivables as at March 31, 2021. Since the 
revenue of the Company is ultimately dependent on the value of the assets it manages, changes in market conditions and the 
trend of flows into mutual funds may have an impact on the operations of the Company. Basis the assessment, the management 
does not, at this juncture, believe that the impact on the value of the Company’s assets or its operations is likely to be material.
The following table sets forth selected financial information from our Statement of Profit and Loss for FY 20 21 and FY 19-20. 
Rs. (in million)
Particulars For the year ended  For the year ended  % change 
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Revenue from Operations 1,179.55 1,258.86 -6.30%
Other Income 24.52 5.39 354.92%
Total Income 1,204.07 1,264.25 -4.76%
Finance Cost 6.89 17.01 -59.49%
Employee benefits expense 611.77 461.47 32.57%
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 30.01 55.05 -45.49%
Other expenses 507.58 718.07 -29.31%
Total Expenses 1,156.25 1,251.60 -7.62%
Profit before Tax 47.82 12.65 278.02%
Tax Expenses - 0.58 -100.00%
Profit after Tax 47.82 12.07 296.19%
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 50 
Management Discussion and Analysis   
(Continued)
Revenue from Operations 
Revenue from operations comprises of investment management fees from the Mutual Fund, Alternative Investment Funds, 
portfolio management services, advisory fees and fair valuation gain/loss. This decreased from Rs. 1,258.86 million in FY 
19-20 to Rs. 1,179.55 million in FY 20-21, due to decrease in advisory income. Advisory Income decreased from Rs. 180 
million in FY 19-20 to Rs. 10 million in FY 20-21. This decrease was setoff to an extent by an increase in Mutual Fund fee led 
by increase in the Annual Average AUM of Mutual Fund schemes and fair valuation gains. 
Other Income
Our Other income increased by 354.92% from Rs. 5.39 million in FY 19-20 to Rs. 24.52 million in FY 20-21, primarily because 
of interest on Income Tax refund during the year.
Finance Costs 
Finance Costs is on account of adoption of IND AS 116, where the future lease payments are discounted to its present value 
and are un-wound subsequently, resulting in finance cost.
Employee Benefits Expenses 
Our employee benefits expenses increased by 32.57% from Rs. 461.47 million in FY 19-20 to Rs. 611.77 million in  
FY 20-21, in particular, due to an increase in variable cost provision in FY 20-21 for 2 years i.e. FY 19-20 as well as FY 20-21 
also. 
Depreciation, Amortization and Impairment 
Our Depreciation, Amortization and Impairment decreased from 55.05 million in FY 19-20 to Rs. 30.01 million in  
FY 20-21, primarily due to Ind AS 116 - Leases, where Right of Use assets are created and are subsequently depreciated 
using the straight line method. Our Company has cancelled one long term lease during the year which resulted into decrease 
in expenses.
Other Expenses
Our other expenses decreased by 29.31% from Rs. 718.07 million in FY 19-20 to Rs. 507.58 Crore in FY 20-21 primarily 
due to a decrease mainly in Commission & Brokerage expenses, Advertising and business promotion expenses, Printing & 
stationery and Travelling & Conveyance expenses and fair valuation loss. 
Profit Before Tax 
Our Profit Before Tax increased by 278.02% to Rs. 47.82 million in FY 20-21 from Rs. 12.65 million in FY 19-20.
Tax Expenses
No provision for tax is considered considering the brought forward tax losses.
Profit After Tax
As a result of the factors outlined above, Our Profit After Tax increased by 296.19% to Rs. 47.82 million in FY 20-21 from  
Rs. 12.07 million in FY 19-20.
51 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Management Discussion and Analysis   
(Continued)
Statement of Assets and Liabilities
The following table sets forth our selected financial information from our Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2021 and March 31, 2020.
Rs. (in million)
Particulars As at  As at 
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Assets
Financial Assets 1,020.35 624.89
Non Financial Assets 951.62 1,223.50
Total Assets 1,971.97 1,848.39
Liabilities and Equity
Financial Liabilities 307.66 243.77
Non Financial Liabilities 52.30 42.58
Total Liabilities 359.96 286.35
Total Equity 1,612.01 1,562.04
Total Liabilities and Equity 1,971.97 1,848.39
Financial Assets 
Investments     
Investments of the Company grew from Rs. 429.99 million in FY 19-20 to Rs. 747.11 million in FY 20-21. All the investments 
are carried at fair value through Profit and Loss.
Non Financial Assets 
Non Financial Assets have decreased from Rs. 1,223.50 million in FY 19-20 to Rs. 951.62 million in FY 20-21. This decrease is 
primarily due to refund of income tax during the FY 20-21 and reversal of Right of Use assets on account of cancellation of Lease.
Financial Liabilities 
Financial Liabilities have increased from Rs. 243.77 million in FY 19-20 to Rs. 307.66 million in FY 20-21. This increase is 
primarily due to provision for employee benefits payable as on reporting date. 
Total Equity 
Total Equity has increased mainly due to higher retained earnings. Retained earnings represents the surplus profits.
Key Financial Ratios
Particulars For the year ended  For the year ended  % change
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Annual Average AUM (Rs. in Crore)  4,54,672.38   2,01,427.84  126
Profit After Tax as a % of Annual Average AUM 0.011 0.006 76
Current Ratio (times) 3.32 2.56 29.38
Operating Profit Margin (%) 1.98 0.58 242.52
Net Profit Margin (%) 3.97 0.95 315.99
Note: Inventory Turnover Ratio is not applicable to the Company. Further, Interest Coverage Ratio and Debt Equity Ratio have 
not been presented as the Company is debt free as at March 31, 2021. The finance costs appearing in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss is a result of accounting treatment under Ind AS 116 – Leases and accordingly, there is no obligation on the 
Company to service any interest cost.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 52 
Management Discussion and Analysis   
(Continued)
Return On Networth (Computed On Average Networth) 
Rs. (in million)
Particulars For the year ended  For the year ended  % change 
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Networth at the Beginning of the Year 1,562.04 1,561.20 0.03
Networth at the End of the Year 1,612.01 1,562.04 3.20
Average Networth 1,587.03 1,561.62 1.63
Profit after Tax 47.82 12.07 296.19
Return on Average Networth (%) 3.01 0.77 289.85
Internal control systems and their adequacy
The Company has instituted adequate internal control systems commensurate with the nature of its business and the 
size of its operations. This provides a high degree of assurance regarding the effectiveness and efficiency of operations, 
the adequacy of safeguards for assets, the reliability of financial controls and compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations. The Audit Committee and Risk Management Committee are responsible for overseeing the risk management 
framework, reviewing the key risks and mitigation strategies, and ensuring the effectiveness of risk management policies 
and procedures. The Management is also responsible for ensuring that the risk management framework is effectively 
implemented within all areas of their respective functions.
The Company has appointed Aneja & Associates to oversee and carry out an internal audit of its activities. It carries out 
internal control reviews and provides an independent report to the Audit Committee on the adequacy and effectiveness 
of the risk management and internal controls of the organisation. All significant audit observations and follow-up actions 
thereon are periodically reported to the Audit Committee and closely monitored for effective implementation. 
S.R. Batliboi & Co LLP, the statutory auditors of the Company has audited the financial statements included in this annual 
report and has issued as a part of Auditor’s Report, an attestation report on our internal financial controls with reference to 
the financial statements (as defined in section 143 of Companies Act, 2013). Based on its evaluation, our audit committee 
has concluded that, as of March 31, 2021, our internal financial controls were adequate and operating effectively.
53 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Financial Statements
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 54
Independent Auditor’s Report 
To the Members of Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Edelweiss Asset Management Limited (“the Company”), which 
comprise the Balance sheet as at March 31 2021, the Statement of Profit and Loss, including the statement of Other 
Comprehensive Income, the Cash Flow Statement and the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended, and 
notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid financial 
statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013, as amended (“the Act”) in the manner so required 
and give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs 
of the Company as at March 31, 2021, its profit including other comprehensive income, its cash flows and the changes in 
equity for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the financial statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs), as specified under 
section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the ‘Auditor’s Responsibilities 
for the Audit of the Financial Statements’ section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with 
the ‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical requirements that 
are relevant to our audit of the financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have 
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that 
the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the financial 
statements.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information 
included in the Board Report but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, 
consider whether such other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained 
in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that 
there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in 
this regard.
Responsibility of Management for the Financial Statements
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the 
preparation of these financial statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance 
including other comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in equity of the Company in accordance with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of 
the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended. This responsibility also includes 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets 
of the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the financial statements that give 
a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
55 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Independent Auditor’s Report   
(Continued)
To the Members of Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting 
unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always 
detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, 
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on 
the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design
and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than
for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the
override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate
in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on
whether the Company has adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements in place and the
operating effectiveness of such controls.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
related disclosures made by management.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the
audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant
doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we
are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to
the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as
a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and
whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair
presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the 
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought 
to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 56 
Independent Auditor’s Report   
(Continued)
To the Members of Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1. As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2016 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government of
India in terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of the Act, we give in the “Annexure 1” a statement on the matters
specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.
2. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
(a)  We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief
were necessary for the purposes of our audit;
(b)  In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears 
from our examination of those books;
(c)  The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss including the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income, 
the Cash Flow Statement and Statement of Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the 
books of account;
(d)  In our opinion, the aforesaid financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under Section 
133 of the Act, read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended;
(e)  On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on March 31, 2021 taken on record 
by the Board of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on March 31, 2021 from being appointed as a 
director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act;
(f)  With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls over financial reporting of the Company with 
reference to these financial statements and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate 
Report in “Annexure 2” to this report;
(g)  In our opinion, the managerial remuneration for the year ended March 31, 2021 has been paid / provided by the 
Company to its directors in accordance with the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act;
(h)  With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended in our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us:
i. The Company does not have any pending litigations which would impact its financial position (Refer note
31(iii) to the Financial Statements);
ii. The Company did not have any long-term contracts including derivative contracts for which there were any
material foreseeable losses (Refer note 43 to the Financial Statements);
iii. There were no amounts which were required to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund
by the Company.
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
per Shrawan Jalan
Partner
Membership Number:102102
UDIN: 21102102AAAAJV1503
Mumbai, May 26, 2021
57 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Independent Auditor’s Report   
(Continued)
To the Members of Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
Annexure 1 referred to in paragraph 1 under the heading “Report on Other Legal and Regulatory
Requirements” of our Report of even date
(i)  (a)  The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation 
of fixed assets.
(b) All fixed assets have not been physically verified by the management during the year but there is a regular 
programme of verification which, in our opinion, is reasonable having regard to the size of the Company and the 
nature of its assets. No material discrepancies were noticed on such verification.
(c)  According to the information and explanations given by the management and audit procedures performed, 
there are no immovable properties, included in property, plant and equipment/ fixed assets of the Company and 
accordingly, the requirements under paragraph 3(i)(c) of the Order are not applicable to the Company.
(ii)   The Company’s business does not involve inventories and, accordingly, the requirements under paragraph 3(ii) of the 
Order are not applicable to the Company and hence not commented upon.
(iii)   According to the information and explanations given to us and audit procedures performed, the Company has not 
granted any loans, secured or unsecured to companies, firms, Limited Liability Partnerships or other parties covered 
in the register maintained under section 189 of the Companies Act, 2013. Accordingly, the provisions of clause 3(iii) 
(a), (b) and (c) of the Order are not applicable to the Company and hence not commented upon.
(iv) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us and audit procedures performed, provisions 
of section 185 and 186 of the Companies Act 2013 in respect of loans to directors including entities in which they are 
interested and in respect of loans and advances given, investments made and, guarantees, and securities given have 
been complied with by the Company.
(v)   The Company has not accepted any deposits within the meaning of Sections 73 to 76 of the Act and the Companies 
(Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014 (as amended). Accordingly, the provisions of clause 3(v) of the Order are not 
applicable.
(vi)   To the best of our knowledge and as explained, the Central Government has not specified the maintenance of cost 
records under clause 148(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, for the services of the Company.
(vii)  (a)  Undisputed statutory dues including provident fund, income-tax, goods and service tax, cess and other statutory 
dues have generally been regularly deposited with the appropriate authorities though there has been a slight 
delay in a few cases. As explained to us, the Company did not have any dues on account of employees’ state 
insurance, sales-tax, service tax, value added tax duty of custom and duty of excise.
(b)  According to the information and explanations given to us and audit procedures performed, no undisputed 
amounts payable in respect of provident fund, income-tax, goods and service tax, cess and other statutory dues 
were outstanding, at the year end, for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable. As 
explained to us, the Company did not have any dues on account of employees’ state insurance, sales-tax, service 
tax, value added tax duty of custom and duty of excise.
(c)  According to the information and explanations given to us and audit procedures performed, there are no dues 
of income tax, service tax, provident fund, Goods and service tax and cess which have not been deposited on 
account of any dispute.
(viii)   The Company has not taken any loans or borrowings from financial institution, banks and government or has not 
issued any debentures. Hence reporting under clause (viii) of CARO 2016 is not applicable. Hence not commented 
upon.
(ix)   Based on our audit procedures performed for the purpose of reporting the true and fair view of the financial 
statements and according to the information and explanations given by the management, the Company has not 
raised any money by way of initial public offer or further public offer, hence not commented upon.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 58 
Independent Auditor’s Report   
(Continued)
To the Members of Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
(x)   Based upon the audit procedures performed for the purpose of reporting the true and fair view of the financial 
statements and according to the information and explanations given by the management, we report that no fraud 
by the Company or no fraud on the Company by the officers and employees of the Company has been noticed or 
reported during the year.
(xi)   According to the information and explanations given by the management and based upon the audit procedures 
performed, the Company has paid or provided managerial remuneration in accordance with the requisite approvals 
mandated by the provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act.
(xii)   In our opinion, the Company is not a nidhi Company. Therefore, the provisions of clause 3(xii) of the order are not 
applicable to the Company and hence not commented upon.
(xiii)   According to the information and explanations given by the management and audit procedures performed, 
transactions with the related parties are in compliance with section 177 and 188 of Companies Act, 2013 where 
applicable and the details have been disclosed in the notes to the financial statements, as required by the applicable 
accounting standards.
(xiv)   According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall examination of the balance sheet, 
the Company has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or fully or partly convertible 
debentures during the year under review and hence, reporting requirements under clause 3(xiv) are not applicable to 
the Company and, not commented upon.
(xv)   According to the information and explanations given by the management and audit procedures performed, the 
Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions with directors or persons connected with him as referred 
to in section 192 of Companies Act, 2013.
(xvi)   According to the information and explanations given to us and audit procedures performed, the Company is not 
required to be registered under section 45-IA of the Reserve bank of India Act, 1934.
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
per Shrawan Jalan
Partner
Membership Number:102102
UDIN: 21102102AAAAJV1503
Mumbai, May 26, 2021
59 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Independent Auditor’s Report   
(Continued)
To the Members of Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
Annexure 2 to the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date on the Financial Statements of Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 
(“the Act”)
To the Members of Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
We have audited the internal financial controls over financial reporting of Edelweiss Asset Management Limited (“the 
Company”) as of March 31, 2021 in conjunction with our audit of the financial statements of the Company for the year 
ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
The Company’s Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal 
control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal 
control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India(“ICAI”). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its 
business, including adherence to the Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of 
frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial 
information, as required under the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference 
to these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of 
Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and the Standards on Auditing as specified under 
section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, both issued 
by ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform 
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls over financial reporting with 
reference to these financial statements was established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all 
material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
over financial reporting with reference to these financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal 
financial controls over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls over financial 
reporting with reference to these financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing 
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures 
selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on 
the internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to these financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting With Reference to these Financial Statements
A Company’s internal financial control over financial reporting with reference to these financial statements is a process 
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of statements 
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A Company’s internal financial control 
over financial reporting with reference to these financial statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain 
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the 
assets of the Company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation 
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of 
the Company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the Company; and (3) 
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of 
the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 60 
Independent Auditor’s Report   
(Continued)
To the Members of Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting With Reference to these Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to these financial 
statements, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements 
due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls 
over financial reporting with reference to these financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal 
financial control over financial reporting with reference to these financial statements may become inadequate because of 
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls over financial reporting with 
reference to these financial statements and such internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to these 
financial statements were operating effectively as at March 31, 2021, based on the internal control over financial reporting 
criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note 
on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
per Shrawan Jalan
Partner
Membership Number:102102
UDIN: 21102102AAAAJV1503
Mumbai, May 26, 2021
61 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Balance Sheet
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
Note  As at   As at 
March 31, 2021   March 31, 2020 
ASSETS
Financial assets
(a) Cash and cash equivalents 2  87.29   24.57 
(b) Trade receivables 3  161.54   120.34 
(c) Loans 4  -   1.03 
(d) Investments 6  747.11   429.99 
(e) Other financial assets 7  24.41   48.96 
 1,020.35   624.89 
Non-financial assets
(a) Current tax assets (net) 8  32.50   186.51 
(b) Deferred tax assets (net) 9  -   - 
(c) Property, Plant and Equipment 10  12.49   26.37 
(d) Right to use assets 10  48.18   105.05 
(e) Other Intangible assets 10  729.08   723.49 
(f) Other non- financial assets 11  129.37   182.08 
 951.62   1,223.50 
TOTAL ASSETS  1,971.97   1,848.39 
LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities
(a) Payables
(I) Trade payables
(i) total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises  -   - 
(ii)  total  outstanding  dues  of  creditors  other  than  micro  enterprises   12  85.09   118.58 
 and small enterprises
(b) Lease liabilities 35  54.63   124.11 
(c) Other financial liabilities 13  167.94   1.08 
 307.66   243.77 
Non-financial liabilities
(a) Provisions 14  7.73   11.26 
(b) Other non-financial liabilities 15  44.57   31.32 
 52.30   42.58 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
(a) Equity share capital 16  733.43   733.43 
(b) Other equity 17  878.58   828.61 
 1,612.01   1,562.04 
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY  1,971.97   1,848.39 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements 1 - 46
This is the Balance Sheet referred to in our report of even date
For S.R. Batliboi & Co LLP For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Chartered Accountants 
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005 
per Shrawan Jalan  Hemant Daga  Suresh Gurumani Radhika Gupta
Partner Director  Director  Managing Director and CEO
Membership No: 102102  DIN - 07783248  DIN - 00636844 DIN - 02657595
Nirav Sanghavi Amit Malpani
Company Secretary Chief Financial Officer
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 62 
Mumbai, 26 May 2021 Mumbai, 26 May 2021
Statement of Profit and Loss
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
Note  For the year ended   For the year ended 
March 31, 2021   March 31, 2020 
Revenue from operations
Interest income 18  29.99   15.31 
Fee and commission income 19  1,084.91   1,243.55 
Net gain on fair value changes 20  64.65   - 
Total Revenue from operations  1,179.55   1,258.86 
Other income  21  24.52   5.39 
Total Revenue  1,204.07   1,264.25 
Total Expenses
Finance costs 22  6.89   17.01 
Net loss on fair value changes 20  -   44.92 
Employee benefits expense 23  611.77   461.47 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 10  30.01   55.05 
Other expenses 24  507.58   673.15 
Total expenses  1,156.25   1,251.60 
Profit before tax  47.82   12.65 
Tax expenses:
Current tax  -   - 
MAT credit reversal  -   0.58 
Profit after tax  47.82   12.07 
Other Comprehensive Income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurement gain / (loss) on defined benefit plans (OCI)  2.15   (1.35)
Other Comprehensive Income  2.15   (1.35)
Total Comprehensive Income  49.97   10.72 
Earnings per equity share (Face value of INR 10 each):
(1) Basic 25  0.65   0.16 
(2) Diluted  0.65   0.16 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial  1 - 46
statements
This is the Statement of Profit & Loss referred to in our report of 
even date
For S.R. Batliboi & Co LLP For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Chartered Accountants 
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005 
per Shrawan Jalan  Hemant Daga  Suresh Gurumani Radhika Gupta
Partner Director  Director  Managing Director and CEO
Membership No: 102102  DIN - 07783248  DIN - 00636844 DIN - 02657595
Nirav Sanghavi Amit Malpani
Company Secretary Chief Financial Officer
Mumbai, 26 May 2021 Mumbai, 26 May 2021
63 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Cash Flow Statement 
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
 For the year ended   For the year ended 
March 31, 2021  March 31, 2020 
A  Cash flow from operating activities
Profit before tax  47.82   12.65 
Adjustments for
Depreciation and amortisation expense  15.11   19.07 
Depreciation and amortisation expense on ROU assets  14.90   35.98 
Realised fair value Loss on financial instruments  5.94   28.44 
UnRealised fair value (Gain)/Loss on financial instruments  (70.59)  16.48 
Loss on sale/write-off of fixed assets  6.81   0.02 
(Profit) on Termination of Lease- INDAS 116 and Lease waiver  (16.30)  - 
Gratuity and compensated expenses  3.82   7.57 
Interest income   (29.99)  (15.31)
Interest expense  6.88   17.01 
Operating cash flow before working capital changes  (15.60)  121.91 
Adjustments for
(Increase)/Decrease in trade receivables  (41.20)  7.39 
Decrease in Other Financial/Non Financial Assets  77.26   122.71 
Decrease/(Increase) in loans and advances  1.03   (10.51)
(Increase)/Decrease in Trade payable  (33.49)  30.40 
Decrease in liabilities and provisions  174.91   57.21 
Cash generated from / (used in) operations  162.91   329.11 
Taxes refund received / (paid) (net of refunds)  154.01   (42.24)
Net cash generated from / (used in) operating activities - A  316.92   286.87 
B Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of tangible and intangible assets  (15.25)  (164.80)
Proceeds from sale of tangible and intangible assets  1.62   1.46 
Purchase of current and non-current investments  (896.70)  (669.95)
ROU Asset/Lease Liabilities  (11.21)  - 
Proceeds from Sale/redemption of current and non-current investments  661.57   580.48 
Interest received  12.65   15.31 
Net cash generated from investing activities - B  (247.32)  (237.50)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 64 
Cash Flow Statement 
(Continued)
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
 For the year ended   For the year ended 
March 31, 2021  March 31, 2020 
C Cash flow from financing activities
Borrowings received / (repaid)  -   (55.65)
Interest paid on borrowings  -   (2.02)
Interest paid on lease and others  (6.88)  (14.99)
Net cash (usedin) / generated from financing activities - C  (6.88)  (72.66)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)  62.72   (23.29)
Cash and cash equivalents as at the beginning of the year   24.57   47.86 
Cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the period  87.29   24.57 
Notes:  
 1  Cash Flow Statement has been prepared under the indirect method as set out in Ind AS 7 prescribed under the 
Companies Act (Indian Accounting Standard) Rules, 2015 under the Companies Act, 2013.   
 2  Purchase of tangible and intangible assets includes movements of Capital Work-in-Progress and capital expenditure 
during the year. 
 3  Cash receipts and payments for transaction with group companies in which the turnover is quick, the amounts are 
large, and the maturities are short are presented on net basis in accordance with Ind AS-7 Statement of Cash Flows.
This is the Cash Flow Statement referred to in our report of even date
For S.R. Batliboi & Co LLP For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Chartered Accountants 
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005 
per Shrawan Jalan  Hemant Daga  Suresh Gurumani Radhika Gupta
Partner Director  Director  Managing Director and CEO
Membership No: 102102  DIN - 07783248  DIN - 00636844 DIN - 02657595
Nirav Sanghavi Amit Malpani
Company Secretary Chief Financial Officer
Mumbai, 26 May 2021 Mumbai, 26 May 2021
65 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Statement of changes in Equity 
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
Equity share capital
Balance at the beginning of the reporting   Changes in equity share capital  Balance at the end of the reporting 
period (April 01 2020) period (March 31, 2021)
 733.43   -   733.43 
Balance at the beginning of the reporting   Changes in equity share capital  Balance at the end of the reporting 
period (April 01, 2019) period (March 31, 2020)
 733.43   -   733.43 
Other Equity
 Reserves and Surplus 
 Capital    Securities    ESOP    Retained   Total 
Reserve  Premium   reserve  earnings 
Account 
Balance at March 31, 2019 (Ind AS)  117.47   1,010.32   10.34   (310.36)  827.77 
Ind AS adjustments  -   -   -   -   - 
Balance at March 31, 2019 (Ind AS)  117.47   1,010.32   10.34   (310.36)  827.77 
Profit or loss  -   -   -   12.07   12.07 
Ind AS adjustments   -   -   -   (9.88)  (9.88)
(Refer Note 35)
Other comprehensive income  -   -   -   (1.35)  (1.35)
Total Comprehensive Income for   -   -   -   0.84   0.84 
the year
Issue of equity instruments  -   -   -   -   - 
Balance at March 31, 2020   117.47   1,010.32   10.34   (309.52)  828.61 
(Ind AS)
Profit or loss  -   -   -   47.82   47.82 
Other comprehensive income  -   -   -   2.15   2.15 
Total Comprehensive Income for   -   -   -   49.97   49.97 
the year
Issue of equity instruments  -   -   -   -   - 
Share issue expenses  - 
Balance at March 31, 2021   117.47   1,010.32   10.34   (259.55)  878.58 
(Ind AS)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements (1-46)
As per our report of even dated attached
For S.R. Batliboi & Co LLP For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Chartered Accountants 
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005 
per Shrawan Jalan  Hemant Daga  Suresh Gurumani Radhika Gupta
Partner Director  Director  Managing Director and CEO
Membership No: 102102  DIN - 07783248  DIN - 00636844 DIN - 02657595
Nirav Sanghavi Amit Malpani
Company Secretary Chief Financial Officer
Mumbai, 26 May 2021 Mumbai, 26 May 2021
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 66 
Notes to the Financial Statements
1. Significant accounting policies
1.1  Background
Edelweiss Asset Management Limited (‘the Company’) was incorporated on August 23, 2007 as a private limited 
company. With effect from January 18, 2008, the Company converted itself into public limited company.
The Company is a subsidiary of Edelweiss Financial Services Limited and is incorporated as an asset management 
company. The Company is registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (‘SEBI’) to act as an investment 
manager to the Edelweiss Mutual Fund (‘the fund’) and Alternative Investment funds (‘AIF’). It is also registered with SEBI 
as a portfolio manager.
1.2  Basis of preparation of financial statements
The Company’s financial statements has been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) 
notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 (as amended from time to time). 
The Company’s financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain financial 
instruments such as financial asset measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) instruments, 
derivative financial instruments, and other financial assets held for trading, which have been measured at fair value. 
The Company’s financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees (INR).
  COVID-19
The COVID-19 pandemic outbreak across the world including India has resulted in most countries announcing 
lockdowns and quarantine measures that have sharply stalled economic activities across the world. The Indian 
Government too has imposed lockdowns starting from 24 March 2020. Subsequently, the national lockdown was 
lifted by the government for certain activities in a phased manner outside specified containment zones, but regional 
lockdowns/restrictions continued to be implemented in areas with a significant number of COVID-19 cases. The 
Indian economy is impacted and would continue to be impacted by this pandemic and the resultant lockdown, due 
to the contraction in industrial and services output across small and large businesses. The impact of the COVID-19 
pandemic, including the current “second wave” on Company’s results, including gain/loss on fair value changes, 
investment, remains uncertain and dependent on the current and further spread of COVID-19, steps taken by the 
government and other regulators to mitigate the economic impact and also the time it takes for economic activities 
to resume and reach the normal levels. 
Further, the Company has assessed the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on its liquidity and ability to repay its 
obligations as and when they are due. Management has considered various financial support from banks and other 
fundraising opportunities in determining the Company’s liquidity position over the next 12 months. Based on the 
foregoing and necessary stress tests considering various scenarios, management believes that the Company will be 
able to pay its obligations as and when these become due in the foreseeable future. In assessing the recoverability of 
loans, receivables, deferred tax assets and investments, the Company has considered internal and external sources 
of information, including credit reports, economic forecasts and industry reports up to the date of approval of these 
financial results. Since the situation continue to evolve, its effect on the operations of the Company may be different 
from that estimated as at the date of approval of these financial results. The Company will continue to closely monitor 
material changes in markets and future economic conditions.
1.3  Presentation of financial statements
The Company presents its balance sheet in order of liquidity in compliance with the Division III of the Schedule III 
to the Companies Act, 2013. An analysis regarding recovery or settlement within 12 months after the reporting date 
(current) and more than 12 months after the reporting date (non–current) is presented in Note 36.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are generally reported gross in the balance sheet. They are only offset and 
reported net when, in addition to having an unconditional legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts 
without being contingent on a future event, the parties also intend to settle on a net basis in all of the following 
circumstances:
67 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
  •  The normal course of business
  •  The event of default
  •  The event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the company and or its counterparties
1.4  Use of estimates
  The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect 
the reported amount of assets, liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities on the date of the financial statements 
and the reported revenue and expense during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from the estimates.
1.5  Revenue recognition
  Revenue is measured at fair value of the consideration received or receivable. Revenue is recognized when (or as) the 
Company satisfies a performance obligation by transferring a promised good or service (i.e. an asset) to a customer. 
An asset is transferred when (or as) the customer obtains control of that asset. When (or as) a performance obligation 
is satisfied, the Company recognizes as revenue the amount of the transaction price (excluding estimates of variable 
consideration) that is allocated to that performance obligation. The Company applies the five-step approach for 
recognition of revenue:
  i.  identification of contract(s) with customers; 
  ii.  Identification of the separate performance obligations in the contract;
  iii.  Determination of transaction price;
  iv.  Allocation of transaction price to the separate performance obligations; and
  v.  Recognition of revenue when (or as) each performance obligation is satisfied
  The Company recognises revenue from the following sources:
  a.  Investment Management Fees (net of tax)
    Investment Management fees on Mutual fund and Alternative investment funds are recognised on an accrual 
basis in accordance with Investment Management Agreement and SEBI Regulations based on average assets 
under management (AUM) of Edelweiss Mutual Fund schemes and Alternative investment funds. 
  b.  Advisory Fees (net of tax) 
    Advisory fees are recognised on an accrual basis in accordance with agreement entered into with respective 
investment managers / advisors.
  c.  Portfolio Management Fees (net of tax)
    Portfolio Management fees are recognised on an accrual basis in accordance with Portfolio Management 
Agreement entered with respective clients.
  d.  Interest income
    Interest income is recognized using the effective interest rate.
  e.  Dividend income
    Dividend income is recognized in the statement of profit or loss on the date that the Company’s right to receive 
payment is established, it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the dividend will flow to the 
entity and the amount of dividend can be reliably measured. This is generally when the Shareholders approve the 
dividend.
  f.  Profit/loss on sale of investments is recognised on trade date basis.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 68 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
1.6   Financial Instruments
Date of recognition 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recognised on the trade date, i.e., the date that the Company 
becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. This includes regular way trades; purchases or 
sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within the time frame generally established by regulation or 
convention in the market place. 
Initial measurement of financial instruments 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly 
attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than financial assets and 
financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial 
assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable to the 
acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognised immediately in 
profit or loss. 
Classification of financial instruments
The Company classifies all of its financial assets based on the business model for managing the assets and the 
asset’s contractual terms, measured at either: 
• Amortised cost
• Fair value through other comprehensive income [FVOCI)
• Fair value through profit or loss [FVTPL]
The Company measures debt financial assets that meet the following conditions at amortised cost: 
• the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect
contractual cash flows; and
• the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments
of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Sale that occur for below reason are considered as consistent with business model whose objective is to hold 
financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows 
• if those sales are infrequent (even if significant in value) or insignificant in value both individually and in aggregate
(even if frequent).
• If such sales are made close to maturity of financial asset and proceeds from sale approximate the collection of
the remaining contractual cashflow
• Selling a financial asset because of significant increase in credit risk
Debt instruments that meet the following conditions are subsequently measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income (except for debt instruments that are designated as at fair value through profit or loss on 
initial recognition): 
• the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is achieved both by collecting contractual
cash flows and selling the financial assets; and
• the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of
principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. By default, all other financial assets are subsequently
measured at FVTPL.
69 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
  Amortized cost and Effective interest rate (EIR)
  The effective interest rate is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating 
interest income over the relevant period. 
  For financial instruments other than purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets, the effective interest 
rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees and points paid or received 
that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) excluding 
expected credit losses, through the expected life of the debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to 
the gross carrying amount of the debt instrument on initial recognition. For purchased or originated credit impaired 
financial assets, a credit-adjusted effective interest rate is calculated by discounting the estimated future cash flows, 
including expected credit losses, to the amortised cost of the debt instrument on initial recognition. 
  The amortised cost of a financial asset is the amount at which the financial asset is measured at initial recognition 
minus the principal repayments, plus the cumulative amortisation using the effective interest method of any 
difference between that initial amount and the maturity amount, adjusted for any loss allowance. On the other hand, 
the gross carrying amount of a financial asset is the amortised cost of a financial asset before adjusting for any loss 
allowance. 
  Financial assets held for trading 
  The Company classifies financial assets as held for trading when they have been purchased or issued primarily 
for short-term profit making through trading activities or form part of a portfolio of financial instruments that are 
managed together, for which there evidence of a recent pattern of short-term profit is taking. Held-for-trading assets 
and liabilities are recorded and measured in the balance sheet at fair value. . 
  Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
  Financial assets in this category are those that are not held for trading and have been either designated by 
management upon initial recognition or are mandatorily required to be measured at fair value under Ind AS 109. 
Disclosure requirement of Ind AS 107-Financial Instruments: Disclosure
  Investment in equity instruments 
  The Company subsequently measures all equity investments (other than subsidiaries) at fair value through profit 
or loss, unless the management has elected to classify irrevocably some of its strategic equity investments to be 
measured at FVOCI, when such instruments meet the definition of Equity under Ind AS 32 Financial Instruments: 
Presentation and are not held for trading. Such classification is determined on an instrument-by-instrument basis. 
Investments in subsidiaries are carried at amortised cost.
  Investment in mutual funds 
  The Company subsequently measures all mutual fund investments at fair value through profit or loss as these 
financial assets do not pass the contractual cash flow test as required by Ind AS- 109- Financial Instruments, for 
being designated at amortised cost or FVTOCI, hence classified at FVTPL.
  Financial liabilities 
  All financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost except loan commitments, financial guarantees, and derivative 
financial liabilities. 
  Debt securities and other borrowed funds 
  After initial measurement, debt issued and other borrowed funds are subsequently measured at amortised cost. 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on issue funds, and costs that are an 
integral part of the EIR. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 70 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
Financial liabilities and equity instruments 
Financial instruments issued by the Company are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance 
with the substance of the contractual arrangements and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument. 
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of 
its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Company entity are recognised at the proceeds received, net of direct 
issue costs. 
Repurchase of the Company’s own equity instruments is recognised and deducted directly in equity. No gain or loss 
is recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Company’s own equity instruments. 
Reclassification of financial assets and liabilities
The Company does not reclassify its financial assets subsequent to their initial recognition, apart from the exceptional 
circumstances in which the Company acquires, disposes of, or terminates a business line.
Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities
A transfer only qualifies for derecognition if either: 
• The Company has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset; or
• The Company has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has
transferred control of the asset
The Company considers control to be transferred if and only if, the transferee has the practical ability to sell the asset 
in its entirety to an unrelated third party and is able to exercise that ability unilaterally and without imposing additional 
restrictions on the transfer. 
Derecognition of financial liabilities
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires. Where 
an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms 
of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of 
the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference between the carrying value of the original 
financial liability and the consideration paid is recognised in profit or loss.
Impairment of financial assets
The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables. The 
application of simplified approach does not require the Company to track changes in credit risk. Rather, it recognises 
impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from its initial recognition. The 
Company uses a provision matrix to determine impairment loss allowance on portfolio of its receivables. The 
provision matrix is based on its historically observed default rates over the expected life of the receivables and is 
adjusted for forward-looking estimates.
Business model assessment
Classification and measurement of financial assets depends on the results of the SPPI and the business model test. 
The Company determines the business model at a level that reflects how groups of financial assets are managed 
together to achieve a particular business objective. This assessment includes judgement reflecting all relevant 
evidence including how the performance of the assets is evaluated and their performance measured, the risks that 
affect the performance of the assets and how these are managed.
Fair value of financial instruments
The fair value of financial instruments is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a 
liability in an orderly transaction in the principal (or most advantageous) market at the measurement date under 
current market conditions (i.e., an exit price) regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated 
using another valuation technique. When the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the  
71 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
Fair value of financial instruments (Continued)
  balance sheet cannot be derived from active markets, they are determined using a variety of valuation techniques 
that include the use of valuation models. The inputs to these models are taken from observable markets where 
possible, but where this is not feasible, estimation is required in establishing fair values. Judgements and estimates 
include considerations of liquidity and model inputs related to items such as credit risk (both own and counterparty), 
funding value adjustments, correlation and volatility.
   Determination of fair value 
  The Company measures financial instruments, such as, derivatives at fair value at each balance sheet date. Fair value 
is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the 
transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: 
  •  In the principal market for the asset or liability, or 
  •  In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability, the principal or 
the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Company. 
  The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when 
pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest. A fair value 
measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits 
by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset 
in its highest and best use. The Company uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and 
for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and 
minimising the use of unobservable inputs. In order to show how fair values have been derived, financial instruments 
are classified based on a hierarchy of valuation techniques, as summarised below: 
  •  Level 1 financial instruments −Those where the inputs used in the valuation are unadjusted quoted prices from 
active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has access to at the measurement date. The 
Company considers markets as active only if there are sufficient trading activities with regards to the volume and 
liquidity of the identical assets or liabilities and when there are binding and exercisable price quotes available on 
the balance sheet date. 
  •  Level 2 financial instruments−Those where the inputs that are used for valuation and are significant, are derived 
from directly or indirectly observable market data available over the entire period of the instrument’s life.  
  •  Level 3 financial instruments −Those that include one or more unobservable input that is significant to the 
measurement as whole. For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring 
basis, the Company determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing 
categorization (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) 
at the end of each reporting period. The Company periodically reviews its valuation techniques including the 
adopted methodologies and model calibrations. 
    Therefore, the Company applies various techniques to estimate the credit risk associated with its financial 
instruments measured at fair value, which include a portfolio-based approach that estimates the expected net 
exposure per counterparty over the full lifetime of the individual assets, in order to reflect the credit risk of the 
individual counterparties for non-collateralised financial instruments. 
    The Company evaluates the levelling at each reporting period on an instrument-by-instrument basis and 
reclassifies instruments when necessary based on the facts at the end of the reporting period.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 72 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
1.7  Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing the net profit after tax attributable to the equity shareholders for the 
year by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding for the year. 
Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue equity 
shares were exercised or converted during the year. Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing the net profit 
after tax attributable to the equity shareholders for the year by weighted average number of equity shares considered 
for deriving basic earnings per share and weighted average number of equity shares that could have been issued 
upon conversion of all potential equity shares. 
1.8  Foreign currency transactions
The financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees which is also functional currency of the Company. Transactions 
in currencies other than Indian Rupees (i.e. foreign currencies) are recognised at the rates of exchange prevailing at 
the dates of the transactions. At the end of each reporting period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies 
are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date. Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated 
in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Non-
monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences on monetary items are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise.
1.9  Retirement and other employee benefit
Provident fund and national pension scheme 
The Company contributes to a recognised provident fund and national pension scheme which is a defined contribution 
scheme. The contributions are accounted for on an accrual basis and recognised in the statement of profit and loss. 
Gratuity 
The Company’s gratuity scheme is a defined benefit plan. The Company’s net obligation in respect of the gratuity 
benefit scheme is calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit that the employees have earned in return 
for their service in the current and prior periods, that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair 
value of any plan assets, if any, is deducted. The present value of the obligation under such benefit plan is determined 
based on independent actuarial valuation using the Projected Unit Credit Method. Benefits in respect of gratuity are 
funded with an Insurance company approved by Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA). 
Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding amounts 
included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability and the return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in 
net interest on the net defined benefit liability), are recognised immediately in the balance sheet with a corresponding 
debit or credit to retained earnings through OCI in the period in which they occur. 
Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods 
Compensated Absences 
The eligible employees of the Company are permitted to carry forward certain number of their annual leave entitlement 
to subsequent years, subject to a ceiling. The Company recognises the charge in the statement of profit and loss and 
corresponding liability on such non-vesting accumulated leave entitlement based on a valuation by an independent 
actuary. The cost of providing annual leave benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method. 
1.10  Share-based payment arrangements 
Equity-settled share-based payments to employees and others providing similar services that are granted by the 
ultimate parent Group are measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date. These 
includes Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs) where the right to receive the difference between the SAR price and 
the market price of equity shares of the ultimate parent Company on the date of exercise, either by way of cash or 
issuance of equity shares of the ultimate parent Company, is at the discretion of the ultimate parent Company. These 
are classified as equity settled share based transaction. 
73 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
  The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed over the vesting 
period, based on the Company’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest, with a corresponding 
increase in equity. At the end of each reporting period, the Company revises its estimate of the number of equity 
instruments expected to vest. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or 
loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to the ’ESOP 
reserve’. In cases where the share options granted vest in instalments over the vesting period, the Company treats 
each instalment as a separate grant, because each instalment has a different vesting period, and hence the fair value 
of each instalment differs.
1.11  Property, plant and equipment and right of use assets
  Property plant and equipment is stated at cost excluding the costs of day–to–day servicing, less accumulated 
depreciation and accumulated impairment in value. Changes in the expected useful life are accounted for by changing 
the amortisation period or methodology, as appropriate, and treated as changes in accounting estimates. 
  Subsequent costs incurred on an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount thereof 
when those costs meet the recognition criteria as mentioned above. Repairs and maintenance are recognised in 
profit or loss as incurred. 
  Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost of assets (other than freehold land and properties under 
construction) less their residual values over their useful lives. Depreciation is provided on a written down value basis 
from the date the asset is ready for its intended use or put to use whichever is earlier. In respect of assets sold, 
depreciation is provided upto the date of disposal. 
  For transition to Ind AS, the Company has elected to continue with the carrying value of all of its tangible assets 
recognised as of April 01, 2017 (transition date) measured as per the previous GAAP and use that carrying value as 
its deemed cost as of the transition date.
  As per the requirement of Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013, the Company has evaluated the useful lives of the 
respective fixed assets which are as per the provisions of Part C of the Schedule II for calculating the depreciation. 
The estimated useful lives of the fixed assets are as follows: 
  Estimated useful lives of the assets are as follows: 
 
Nature of assets Estimated Useful Life
Furniture and fittings 10 years
Vehicles 8 years
Office equipments 5 years
Computers - Servers and networks 6 years
Computers - End user devices, such as desktops, laptops, etc. 3 years
Right-of-use assets are presented together with property and equipment in the statement of financial position – refer 
to the accounting policy 1.14. Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
  Intangible fixed assets
  An intangible asset is recognised only when its cost can be measured reliably and it is probable that the expected 
future economic benefits that are attributable to it will flow to the Company.
  Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets 
acquired in a business combination is their fair value as at the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, 
intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. 
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 74 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
Impairment of non-financial assets 
The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired 
based on internal/external factors. If any such indication exists, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of 
the asset. If such recoverable amount of the asset or the recoverable amount of cash generating unit which the asset 
belongs to is less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced to its recoverable amount. The reduction is 
treated as an impairment loss and is recognized in the statement of profit and loss. If at the balance sheet date there 
is an indication that a previously assessed impairment loss no longer exists, the recoverable amount is reassessed 
and the asset is reflected at the recoverable amount subject to a maximum of the depreciable historical cost. 
1.12  Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with an 
original maturity of three months or less. 
1.13  Provisions and other contingent liabilities 
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past 
event, it is probable that the Company will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of 
the amount of the obligation. The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required 
to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the risks and uncertainties 
surrounding the obligation. Where the probability of outflow is considered to be remote, or probable, but a reliable 
estimate cannot be made, a contingent liability is disclosed. Given the subjectivity and uncertainty of determining 
the probability and amount of losses, the Company takes into account a number of factors including legal advice, the 
stage of the matter and historical evidence from similar incidents. 
1.14  Operating leases 
As described in Note 35, the Company has applied Ind AS 116 using the modified retrospective approach and 
therefore comparative information has not been restated. This means comparative information is still reported under 
Ind AS 17.
Company as a lessee:
The Company has applied IND AS 116 using the partial retrospective approach.
The Company assesses at contract inception whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. That is, if the contract 
conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. The 
Company applies a single recognition and measurement approach for all leases, except for short-term leases and 
leases of low-value assets. The Company recognises lease liabilities to make lease payments and right-of-use assets 
representing the right to use the underlying assets.
Right of use assets 
The Company recognises right-of-use assets at the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the underlying 
asset is available for use). Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses, and adjusted for any remeasurement of lease liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes 
the amount of lease liabilities recognised, initial direct costs incurred, and lease payments made at or before the 
commencement date less any lease incentives received. Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis 
over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful lives of the assets. 
Lease Liabilities 
At the commencement date of the lease, the Company recognises lease liabilities measured at the present value of 
lease payments to be made over the lease term. The lease payments include fixed payments (including in substance 
fixed payments) less any lease incentives receivable, variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, and 
amounts expected to be paid under residual value guarantees. In calculating the present value of lease payments, 
the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate at the lease commencement date because the interest rate implicit 
75 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
in the lease is not readily determinable. After the commencement date, the amount of lease liabilities is increased to 
reflect the accretion of interest and reduced for the lease payments made. In addition, the carrying amount of lease 
liabilities is remeasured if there is a modification, a change in the lease term, a change in the lease payments (e.g., 
changes to future payments resulting from a change in an index or rate used to determine such lease payments) or 
a change in the assessment of an option to purchase the underlying asset.
  Short term lease
  The Company has elected not to recognise right of use asset and lease liabilities for short term leases of property 
that has lease term of 12 months or less. The Company recognises lease payment associated with these leases as 
an expense on a straight line basis over lease term.
1.15  Income tax expenses 
  Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. 
  Current tax 
  The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from ‘profit before tax’ as 
reported in the statement of profit and loss because of items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in 
other years and items that are never taxable or deductible. The Company’s current tax is calculated using tax rates 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. 
  Deferred tax 
  Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in 
the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax 
liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are generally recognised 
for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against 
which those deductible temporary differences can be utilised. 
  Deferred tax assets are also recognised with respect to carryforward of unused tax losses and unused tax credits 
to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the unused tax losses and 
unused tax credits can be utilised. 
  It is probable that taxable profit will be available against which a deductible temporary difference, unused tax loss 
or unused tax credit can be utilised when there are sufficient taxable temporary differences which are expected to 
reverse in the period of reversal of deductible temporary difference or in periods in which a tax loss can be carried 
forward or back. When this is not the case, deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent it is probable that: 
  •  the entity will have sufficient taxable profit in the same period as reversal of deductible temporary difference or 
periods in which a tax loss can be carried forward or back; or 
  •  tax planning opportunities are available that will create taxable profit in appropriate periods. 
  The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent 
that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be 
recovered. 
  Deferred tax liabilities and assets are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the 
liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the end of the reporting period. 
  The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the 
manner in which the Company expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of 
its assets and liabilities. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 76 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
Minimum Alternative Tax (MAT) credit
MAT credit asset is recognized where there is convincing evidence that the asset can be realized in future. MAT 
credit assets are reviewed as at the balance sheet date and written down or written up to reflect the amount that is 
reasonably certain to be realised.
1.16  New fund offer expenses of mutual fund, PMS and AIF schemes
Expenses relating to new fund offer of mutual fund and PMS schemes are charged in the statement of profit and loss 
in the year in which such expenses are incurred. For AIF schemes such expenses are initially borne by the Company 
and recovered from scheme after the launch of the scheme. Distribution cost is recognised over the lock in period for 
investment in the schemes. 
1.17  Fund expenses
Expenses incurred on behalf of schemes of Edelweiss Bharat Bond ETF – April 2023, Edelweiss Bharat Bond ETF 
– April 2030, Edelweiss Bharat Bond FOF – April 2023, Edelweiss Bharat Bond FOF – April 2030, BHARAT Bond
ETF - April 2025, BHARAT Bond ETF - April 2031, BHARAT Bond FOF - April 2025, BHARAT Bond FOF - April 2031 
(Collectively referred as “Bharat Bond Funds”) are recognised in the statement of profit and loss under Mutual Fund 
expenses in accordance with the agreement entered with Department of Investment and Public Asset Management, 
Ministry of Finance, Government of India (DIPAM). 
1.18  Business Combination 
Business combinations except under common control are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost 
of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred measured at acquisition date 
fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree. At the acquisition date, the identifiable 
assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are recognised at their acquisition date fair values with certain limited 
exceptions. Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred 
and the amount recognised for non-controlling interests, and any previous interest held, over the net identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities assumed. After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated 
impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the 
acquisition date, allocated to each of the Company’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the 
combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units. 
Common controlled business combination means a business combination involving entities or businesses in which 
all the combining entities or businesses are ultimately controlled by the same party or parties both before and after 
the business combination, and that control is not transitory. Business combinations involving entities or businesses 
under common control are accounted for using the pooling of interests method.
1.19  Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
  The preparation of the Company’s financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amount of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the accompanying 
disclosures, as well as the disclosure of contingent liabilities. Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could 
result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in future periods.
  Judgements
In the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies, management has made the following judgements, 
which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within 
the next financial year.
(a)  Actuarial assumptions used in calculation of defined benefit plans
(b)  Assumptions used on discounted cash flows, growth rate and discount rate to justify the value of management 
rights reported under intangible assets.
(c)  Assumptions used in estimating the useful lives of tangible assets reported under property, plant and equipment.
77 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
1.20   Rounding of amounts
  All amounts disclosed in the financial statements and notes have been rounded off to the nearest million as per the 
requirements of Schedule III, unless otherwise stated.
1.21  Standards issued but not yet effective
  There are no new standard or amendment issued but not effective.
 
. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 78 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
 As at   As at 
March 31, 2021   March 31, 2020 
2 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash on hand  -   0.04 
Balances with banks
- in current accounts  87.29   24.53 
 87.29   24.57 
3 Trade receivables  162.39   120.95 
Receivables considered good   162.39   120.95 
 0.85   0.61 
Less : Allowance for expected credit losses  161.54   120.34 
Reconciliation of impairment allowance on trade receivables: 
Particulars Amount
Impairment allowance as on 1 April 2019  7.30 
Add/ (less): asset originated or acquired (net)  (6.69) 
Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2020  0.61 
Add/ (less): asset originated or acquired (net)  0.24 
Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2021  0.85
Provision matrix for Trade and lease receivables
Trade receivables days  Current 1-90  91-180  181-270  270- 360  more than  Total
past due days days days days 360 days
ECL rate 0.05% 4.35% 9.92% 39.13% 100.00% 0.52%
March 31,  Estimated total gross   158.95   0.92   1.21   1.15   0.16   162.39 
2021 carrying amount at default 
Lease receivables
ECL - Simplified approach  (0.08)  (0.04)  (0.12)  (0.45)  (0.16)  (0.85)
Net carrying amount   -   158.87   0.88   1.09   0.70   -   161.54 
0.03% 2.51% 9.20% 25.00% 100.00% 0.50%
March 31,  Estimated total gross   116.83   1.99   1.74   0.04   0.35   120.95 
2020 carrying amount at default 
Lease receivables
ECL - Simplified approach  (0.04)  (0.05)  (0.16)  (0.01)  (0.35)  (0.61)
Net carrying amount   -   116.79   1.94   1.58   0.03   -   120.34 
 As at   As at 
 March 31, 2021   March 31, 2020 
4 Loans (At amortised cost)
Loans to employees  -   1.03 
- 1.03
79 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
5.1  Derivative financial instruments         
The Table below shows the fairvalue of derivative instruments recorded as assets and liabilities together with 
their notional amounts:
March 31, 2021  Notional   Fair value of   Notional   Fair value of 
amount (Units)  asset  amount (Units)  liability (INR) 
(i) Equity linked derivatives
Stock Futures  -   -   1,620,000   0.34 
Less: amounts offset    -   (0.34)
(refer note below)
Total  -   -   - 
(i) Equity linked derivatives
Stock Futures  -   -   1,620,000   0.76 
Less: amounts offset    -   (0.76)
(refer note below)
Total  -   -   - 
  Notes: Notional amounts in the above tables of Stock Futures refer to number of underlying equity shares.
5.2  Offsetting of Financial Assets and Liabilities:
  The tables below summarise the financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting and 
similar agreements, as well as financial collateral received to mitigate credit exposures for these financial assets, 
and whether offset is achieved in the balance sheet:
As at March 31, 2021:
Financial assets subject to offsetting
Offsetting recognised in the balance sheet
Gross asset before offset Amount offset Net asset recognised in 
balance sheet
Derivative financial assets - - -
Financial liabilities subject to offsetting
Offsetting recognised in the balance sheet
Gross asset before offset Amount offset Net asset recognised in 
balance sheet
Derivative financial Liabilities  0.34   (0.34)  - 
As at March 31, 2020:
Financial assets subject to offsetting
Offsetting recognised in the balance sheet
Gross asset before offset Amount offset Net asset recognised in 
balance sheet
Derivative financial assets - - -
Financial liabilities subject to offsetting
Offsetting recognised in the balance sheet
Gross asset before offset Amount offset Net asset recognised in 
balance sheet
Derivative financial Liabilities  0.76   (0.76)  - 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 80 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
6  Investments
As at March 31, 2021
Particulars  At fair value through P&L   At amortised cost   Total 
(i) Equity  1.18   -   1.18 
(ii) Debt securities  186.00   -   186.00 
(iii) Mutual Fund  559.93   -   559.93 
TOTAL - Gross (A)  747.11   -   747.11 
(i) Investments outside India   -   -   - 
(ii) Investment in India  747.11   -   747.11 
Total (B)  747.11   -   747.11 
Less: Allowance for impairment (C)   -   -   - 
Total Net (A-C)  747.11   -   747.11 
As at March 31, 2020
Particulars  At fair value through P&L   At amortised cost   Total 
(i) Equity  1.24   -   1.24 
(ii) Debt securities  169.50   -   169.50 
(iii) Mutual Fund  259.25   -   259.25 
TOTAL - Gross (A)  429.99   -   429.99 
(i) Investments outside India   -   -   - 
(ii) Investment in India  429.99   -   429.99 
Total (B)  429.99   -   429.99 
Less: Allowance for impairment (C)   - 
Total Net (A-C)  429.99   -   429.99
81 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
 As at   As at 
March 31, 2021   March 31, 2020 
7 Other financial assets
Security Deposits  6.10   29.27 
Margin placed with broker  11.49   3.85 
Advances recoverable in cash or in kind or for value to be received  6.82   15.84 
 24.41   48.96 
8 Current tax assets (net)
Advance income taxes  32.50   186.51 
 32.50   186.51 
9 Deferred tax assets (net)
a. Deferred tax assets
Investments and other financial instruments
Provision for diminution in value of current investments  1.35   1.35 
Fair valuation of investments - unrealised gain  17.78   4.15 
Employee benefit obligations
Disallowances under section 43B of the Income Tax Act, 1961  -   0.26 
Unused tax losses
Accumulated losses  95.69   91.18 
Others  1.05   1.54 
 115.87   98.48 
b. Deferred tax liabilities
Property, plant and equipment and intangibles
Difference between book and tax depreciation (including intangibles)  115.80   98.48 
Employee benefit obligations
Disallowances under section 43B of the Income Tax Act, 1961  0.07   - 
 115.87   98.48 
Total (a-b)  -   - 
Note:
Due to absence of reasonable certainty of future taxable income, the Company has not recognised Deferred Tax on 
temporary differences as the company has previous years brought forward losses.  
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 82 
Net Block  As at  As at  March 31, March 31, 20212021  3.40  4.19   0.98  1.70   0.93  0.52   3.35  2.07   15.89  4.01   24.55  12.49   13.60  20.04   -  709.04   13.60  729.08   50.65  48.18   50.65  48.18   88.80  789.75  stment Funds through pairment on the above 
em
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions) Depreciation Deductions Charge As at  As at  during the for the April 1, March 31, year year 20202021  7.59  7.67  3.67  7.94   2.68  1.52  0.77  1.31   1.45  0.62  0.31  -   5.42  5.99  1.88  4.52   19.90  14.56  2.77  1.44   37.04  30.36  9.40  15.21   33.64  7.89  5.71  -   709.04  -  -  -   742.68  7.89  5.71  -   98.83  35.98  14.90  0.23   98.83  35.98  14.90  0.23   878.55  74.23  30.01  15.44  Rights of Mutual funds and Alternative Invnd in the view of management there is no i
ments (Continued) Gross Block Deductions Additions during the during the year year   -  13.94   0.66  2.37   -  -   0.90  5.66   2.39  1.67   3.95  23.64   11.30  -   -  -   11.30  -   31.87  74.07   31.87  74.07   47.12  97.71  sis of Asset Management on the report of such firm a
al State As at  April 1, 2020  21.53   4.39   1.45   10.18   19.18   56.73   22.34   709.04 utual ment   731.38   141.03   141.03   929.14  mpairment analyant Firm. Based nsidered.
es to the Financi  Fixed assets  Description of Assets  Property, plant and equipments  Leasehold improvements  Furniture and Fittings  Motor vehicles  Office equipments  Computers  Total : A  Intangible assets  Computer software  Asset Management Rights - Mfunds and Alternative Investfunds (Refer note below)  Total : B  o use lease assets  Right t  Total : C   Grand Total [A+B+C]   Note:  Management has carried out iindependent Chartered Accountrights as on 31st March 2021 co
t
o
0 
N 1
 
83 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Net Block As at  March 31, 2020  13.86   2.87   0.83   4.19   4.62   26.37     14.45   709.04   723.49   105.05   105.05   854.91  s through ind bove rights as 
As at  March 31, 2020  7.67   1.52   0.62   5.99   14.56   30.36   7.89   -   7.89   35.98   35.98   74.23  ment Fundnt on the a
stme
e
n millions) preciation  Deductions during the year   0.49   0.17   1.06   0.15   1.27   3.14   -   -   -   -   -   3.14  Alternative Invre is no impair
rupees i De Charge for the year   4.58   0.88   0.44   2.92   4.59   13.41   5.66   -   5.66   35.98   35.98   55.05  ds and ment the
ncy: Indian   As at  April 1, 2019  3.58   0.81   1.24   3.22   11.24   20.09   2.23   -   2.23   -   -   22.32  Mutual funof manage
(Curre As at  March 31, 2020  21.53   4.39   1.45   10.18   19.18   56.73   22.34   709.04   731.38   141.03   141.03   929.14  nt Rights of d in the view 
s (Continued) k  Deductions during the year   0.62   0.27   1.45   0.17   1.49   4.00   -   -   -   0.57   0.57   4.57  set Managemeof such firm an
ement Gross Bloc  Additions during the year   7.83   1.78   0.35   3.26   1.16   14.38   14.51   -   14.51   3.62   3.62   32.51  alysis of Asn the report 
no
nancial Stat IND AS As at  Transition April 1, April 1, 20192019   14.32  -   2.88  -   2.55  -   7.09  -   19.51  -   46.35  -   7.83  -   709.04  -   716.87  -   -  137.98   -  137.98   763.22  137.98  ried out impairment acountant Firm. Based onsidered.  
es to the Fi  Fixed assets   Description of Assets  Property, plant and equipments  Leasehold improvements  Furniture and Fittings  Motor vehicles  Office equipments  Computers  Total : A  Intangible assets  Computer software  Asset Management Rights - Mutual funds and  Alternative  Investment funds (Refer note below) Total : B  Right to use lease assets  Total : C  Grand Total [A+B+C]  Note: Management has carpendent Chartered Acon 31st March 2020 c
t
o 0 
N 1
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 84 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
 As at   As at 
March 31, 2021   March 31, 2020 
10.1 Asset Management Rights - MF and AIF schemes
Balance at the beginning of the year  709.04   709.04 
Asset management rights arising on aquisations  -   - 
Balance at the end of year  709.04   709.04 
10.2 Intangible impairment assessment
Asset Management Rights acquired through business combinations has been 
allocated to following cash–generating unit (CGU), for impairment testing, as 
follows:
A. Impairment testing of Asset Management Rights:
Asset Management Rights - MF and AIF schemes  709.04   709.04 
Carrying value of CGU  709.04   709.04 
Recoverable amount of CGU  1,505.60   1,234.20 
Key assumptions in computing value in use:
Discount rate 11% 11%
Total expected cash-flows for 5 years  524.40   531.70 
Terminal Value at the end of 5th Year  1,722.80   1,504.40 
On account of low risk around achievability of projected financial results relative to historical growth that has been
achieved and significant impact of covid-19 already being captured in the projections the cost of equity is estimated
to be 11% as at March 31, 2021.
The calculation of value in use is most sensitive to expected cash-flows and discount rate.
Key assumptions Basis of key  Reasonably 
assumptions  assumed 
and associated  possible  
risk change
Discount Rates Discount rates  Increase/ 
reflect the  decrease by 100 
current market  basis points 
assessment 
of the risk 
associated.
Expected cash-flows  Based on the  Increase/ 
projected cash- decrease by 500 
flows approved  basis points 
by Board of  and expected 
directors increase in profit 
in the 
coming years.
85 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
 As at   As at 
March 31, 2021  March 31, 2020 
11 Other non-financial assets
GST Input credit  -   0.15 
Prepaid expenses  121.30   178.13 
Vendor Advances  6.67   3.80 
Contribution to Gratuity Fund (net of provision)  1.40   - 
 129.37   182.08 
12 Trade Payables
Trade payables from non-related parties
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises  -   - 
Total  outstanding  dues  to  creditors  other  than  micro  enterprises  and    85.09   118.58 
small enterprises
(Refer note below)
 85.09   118.58 
Note:
There are INR Nil (Previous year: INR Nil) dues payable to “Suppliers” registered under the Micro, Small and Medium 
Enterprises Development Act, 2006. No interest has been paid / is payable by the Company during the year to 
“Suppliers” registered under this act. The aforementioned is based on the responses received by the Company to its 
inquiries with suppliers with regard to applicability under the said act. 
13 Other financial liabilities
Others
 Accrued salaries and benefits  167.46   0.44 
 Retention money payable  0.43   0.59 
 Others  0.05   0.05 
 167.94   1.08 
14 Provisions
Provision for employee benefits
 Gratuity  -   1.38 
 Compensated leave absences  3.73   4.02 
Others
Capex  4.00   5.86 
 7.73   11.26 
15 Other non-financial liabilities
Others
 Others  12.02   14.66 
 Statutory dues  32.55   16.66 
 44.57   31.32 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 86 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
As at March 31, 2021 As at March 31, 2020
16 Equity share capital
Authorised :
113,250,000    1,132.50   1,132.50 
(Previous year: 113,250,000) 
equity shares of Rs. 10 each
 1,132.50   1,132.50 
Issued, Subscribed and Paid up:  No. of shares   Amount   No. of shares   Amount 
7,33,43,293 (Previous year:   73,343,293   733.43   73,343,293   733.43 
7,33,43,293) equity shares of 
Rs. 10 each, fully paid-up
 733.43   733.43 
a. Movement in share capital :
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
 No. of shares   Amount   No. of shares   Amount 
Outstanding at the beginning of   73,343,293   733.43   73,343,293   733.43 
the year
Shares issued during the year  -   -   -   - 
Outstanding at the end of the year  73,343,293   733.43   73,343,293   733.43 
b. Terms/rights attached to equity shares :
The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of Re 10/-. Each holder of equity shares is 
entitled to one vote per share held. In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be 
entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution 
will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders.
Shares held by holding/ultimate holding company and/or their subsidiaries/associates
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Holding company
Edelweiss Financial Services   73,343,293  100.00%  69,173,793  94.32%
Limited, the holding company and 
its nominees
Ecap Equities Limited  -  0.00%  4,169,500  5.68%
 73,343,293  100.00%  73,343,293  100.00%
Details of shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate shares in the Company
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Edelweiss Financial Services   73,343,293  100.00%  69,173,793  94.32%
Limited, the holding company and 
its nominees
Ecap Equities Limited  -  0.00%  4,169,500  5.68%
 73,343,293  100.00%  73,343,293  100.00%
87 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
 As at   As at 
March 31, 2021  March 31, 2020 
17 Reserves and surplus 
Capital Reserve - Opening balance  117.47   117.47 
 Add : Additions during the year  -   - 
 117.47   117.47 
Securities Premium Account  1,010.32   1,010.32 
 Add : Additions during on issue of Equity Shares  -   - 
 1,010.32   1,010.32 
Deemed capital contribution - ESOP  10.34   10.34 
 Add : Additions during the year  -   - 
 10.34   10.34 
Retained earnings - Opening balance (P&L)       (309.52) (310.36)
 Add: Profit for the year  47.82   12.07 
 Adjustment on account of INDAS 116 - lease (refer note 35)  -   (9.88)
 Add: Other comprehensive income for the year  2.15   (1.35)
Retained earnings - Closing balance (P&L)  (259.55)  (309.52)
 878.58   828.61 
For the year ended March 31, 2021 For the year ended March 31, 2020
18 Interest  On  On   Interest   Total  On  On   Interest   Total 
Income Financial  Financial  Income on  Financial  Financial  Income on 
Assets  Assets  Financial  Assets  Assets  Financial 
measured  measured  Assets  measured  measured  Assets 
at fair  at  classified  at fair  at  classified 
value  Amortised  at fair value  value  Amortised  at fair value 
through  Cost through  through  Cost through 
OCI profit or loss  OCI profit or loss 
Interest   -   -   29.99   29.99   -   -   15.31   15.31 
income 
from 
investments
Total  -   -   29.99   29.99   -   -   15.31   15.31 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 88 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
 For the year ended   For the year ended 
March 31, 2021  March 31, 2020 
19 Fee income
Management and other Fee (including Advisory fees)  1,084.91   1,243.55 
 1,084.91   1,243.55 
Below  is  the  disaggregation  of  the  revenue  from  contracts  with 
customers and its reconciliation to amounts reported in statement of 
profit and loss:
Particulars  2020-21   2019-20 
Service transferred at a point in time  -   - 
Service transferred over time  1,084.91   1,243.55 
Total revenue from contract with customers  1,084.91   1,243.55 
20 Net gain on fair value changes
Net gain/ (loss) on financial instruments at fair value through profit 
or loss 
Investments 
 (Loss) on trading of securities (net)  (0.06)  (0.93)
 Profit / (loss) on sale of Current Investment  4.19   (16.99)
 Fair value gain / (loss) - P&L - mutual funds  71.48   (13.98)
 Fair value (loss) - P&L - debt  (0.83)  (2.51)
Derivatives 
(Loss) on equity derivative instruments (net)   (10.13)  (10.51)
Total Net gain/(loss) on fair value changes  64.65   (44.92)
Fair value changes:
Realised   (5.94)  (28.43)
Unrealised   70.59   (16.49)
Total Net gain/loss on fair value changes  64.65   (44.92)
21 Other income
 (Loss) / profit on sale of fixed assets (net)  (6.81)  (0.02)
Others
 Miscellaneous income  31.33   5.41 
 24.52   5.39 
89 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
For the year ended March 31, 2021 For the year ended March 31, 2020
22 Finance  "On Financial   On Financial   Total  "On Financial   On Financial   Total 
costs liabilities  liabilities  liabilities  liabilities 
measured at fair  measured at  measured  measured at 
value through  Amortised  at fair value  Amortised 
profit or loss" Cost  through  Cost 
profit or loss"
Interest on   -   -   -   -   2.02   2.02 
borrowings
Other   -   6.89   6.89   -   14.99   14.99 
interest 
expense
Total  -   6.89   6.89   -   17.01   17.01 
 For the year ended   For the year ended 
March 31, 2021  March 31, 2020 
23 Employee benefit expenses
Salaries and wages
Salaries and wages  325.32   410.95 
Salaries and wages - Bonus  247.38   - 
Contribution to provident and other funds (refer note 28)  21.78   26.68 
Expense on Employee Stock Appreciation Rights (SAR)
and Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOP)  10.51   12.98 
Staff welfare expenses  6.78   10.86 
 611.77   461.47 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 90 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
 For the year ended   For the year ended 
March 31, 2021  March 31, 2020 
24 Other expenses
Advertisement and business promotion  11.83   32.72 
Auditors' remuneration (refer note below)  2.01   2.12 
Bad- debts and advances written off  0.50   18.93 
Commission and brokerage   156.48   234.20 
Communication  9.01   9.73 
Directors' sitting fees  0.50   0.68 
Insurance   1.80   1.17 
Legal and professional fees  71.91   74.60 
Printing and stationery  1.97   3.55 
Allowances / (Recoveries) on receivables  0.24   (6.69)
Rates and taxes  0.17   0.47 
Rent (refer note 35)  33.85   8.57 
Repairs and maintenance  1.59   6.70 
Electricity charges (refer note 2.40)  1.84   3.43 
Mutual Fund - New Fund Offer Expenses  56.64   144.62 
Computer expenses  23.59   17.00 
Clearing & custodian charges  6.41   7.10 
Membership and subscription  10.20   12.18 
Mutual Fund Expenses  73.57   13.18 
Office expenses  30.53   48.63 
Postage and courier  0.72   2.28 
Goods & Service tax expenses  0.36   9.86 
Travelling and conveyance  9.16   27.21 
Miscellaneous expenses  2.70   0.91 
 507.58   673.15 
Auditors' remuneration:
As Auditors  2.00   2.00 
Towards reimbursement of expenses  0.01   0.12 
 2.01   2.12 
91 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued) (Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
25 Earnings per Share
Basic earnings per share (EPS) are calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to equity holders by the 
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to equity holders (after adjusting for interest on the 
convertible preference shares and interest on the convertible bond, in each case, net of tax) by the weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of equity shares that would be 
issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares. 
Particulars  For the year ended   For the year ended 
March 31, 2021  March 31, 2020 
Net Profit from continued operation attributable to equity holders 47.82 12.07
Net Profit from continued operation attributable to ordinary equity  47.82 12.07
holders adjusted for the effect of dilution
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per  73,343,293 73,343,293
share
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share 0.65 0.16
Diluted earnings per share 0.65 0.16
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 92 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
26
i. List of related parties and relationship:
Name of related parties by whom  Edelweiss Financial Services Limited
control is exercised : Holding Company
Fellow Subsidiaries  ECap Equities Limited
(with whom transactions have taken  Edelweiss Multi Strategy Fund Advisors LLP
place)
Edelweiss Rural and Corporate Services Limited
Edelweiss Broking Limited
Edelweiss Securities Limited
Edelweiss Global Wealth Management Limited
Edelweiss Housing Finance Limited
Edelweiss Retail Finance Limited
Edelweiss Custodial Services Limited
Edelweiss Comtrade Limited
Edelweiss Investment Adviser Limited 
Edel Land Limited
ECL Finance Limited
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Limited
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company Limited
Edelweiss Finvest Private Limited
Edelweiss Gallagher Insurance Brokers Limited 
(Formerly known as Edelweiss General Insurance Company Limited)
EFSL Trading Limited (formerly EFSL Commodities Limited )
Edelweiss Investments Limited
Edelvalue Partners
Edelweiss Trusteeship Company Limited
Edelweiss Investment Advisors Limited
Edelweiss Finance and Investments Limited 
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Pte. Limited
ESL Securities Limited
Non-Executive Directors Anurag Madan (till August 25, 2020)
Hemant Daga
Independent Directors Suresh Gurumani
Manjit Singh
Karan Datta (w. e. f. May 23, 2020)
Key Management Personnel Radhika Gupta (Chief Executive Officer till June 30, 2020
and Managing Director and CEO w.e.f. July 01, 2020)
Amit Malpani (Chief Financial Officer)
93 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
ii. Transactions with related parties :
Sr.   Nature of Transaction Related Party Name 2020-21 2019-20
No.
1 Short term loans taken from (Refer Note  Edelweiss Rural and Corporate Services Limited  -   87.33 
1 below)
2 Short term loans repaid to (Refer Note  Edelweiss Rural and Corporate Services Limited  -   70.40 
1 below)
3 Interest expenses on loan from Edelweiss Rural and Corporate Services Limited  -   2.02 
4 Referral  and  other  fees,  Commission  Edelweiss Broking Limited  30.41   42.52 
Brokerage  and  Marketing  promotion 
Expenses paid to
Edelweiss Securities Limited  5.82   4.46 
Edelweiss Global Wealth Management Limited  9.69   44.43 
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited   0.23   0.85 
5 Cost reimbursements paid to Edelweiss Financial Services Limited   9.61   20.49 
Edelweiss Rural and Corporate Services Limited  43.39   45.20 
Edelweiss Global Wealth Management Limited  0.39   2.30 
Edelweiss Retail Finance Limited  0.09   0.11 
Edelweiss Custodial Services Limited  5.20   3.45 
Edelweiss Securities Limited  0.40   2.65 
ECap Equities Limited  0.65   0.84 
Edelweiss Comtrade Limited  -   0.02 
Edelweiss Broking Limited  0.62   1.61 
Edelweiss Investment Adviser Limited   -   0.18 
Edel Land Limited  -   0.21 
ECL Finance Limited  0.15   1.59 
6 Cost reimbursements received from Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Limited  1.15   1.63 
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company   1.54   1.75 
Limited
Edelweiss Finvest Private Limited  -   0.08 
Edelweiss Housing Finance Limited  0.00   0.03 
Edelweiss Gallagher Insurance Brokers Limited  0.20   - 
Edelweiss Finance and Investments Limited   0.16   - 
7 Advisory fees received from ECap Equities Limited  9.04   114.72 
Edelweiss Finvest Private Limited  -   65.18 
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Pte.   0.65   - 
Limited
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 94 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
ii. Transactions with related parties :
Sr.   Nature of Transaction Related Party Name 2020-21 2019-20
No.
8 Directors sitting fees Kanu Doshi - 0.28
U.R. Bhat  -   0.22 
Suresh Gurumani  0.20   0.12 
Manjit Singh  0.20   0.06 
Karan Datta   0.10   - 
9 Remuneration paid to  Key Management Personnel  17.62   22.44 
(Refer Note 2 below)
iii Balances with related parties
10 Trade payables to Edelweiss Investment Advisors Limited  0.04   0.03 
Edelweiss Broking Limited  2.18   3.51 
Edelweiss Rural and Corporate Services Limited  4.04   4.83 
ECap Equities Limited  0.05   0.51 
Edelweiss Securities Limited  0.40   0.90 
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited   0.44   1.64 
ECL Finance Limited  0.11   0.08 
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Limited  0.20   0.01 
Edelweiss Global Wealth Management Limited  0.10   0.03 
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company   -   0.00 
Limited
Edelweiss Retail Finance Limited  -   0.02 
Edelweiss Custodial Services Limited  1.42   1.05 
Edelweiss Finance and Investments Limited   0.03   - 
ESL Securities Limited  1.44   - 
Edelweiss Trusteeship Company Limited  0.13   - 
Edelweiss Multi Strategy Fund Advisors LLP  0.03   - 
11 Nomination deposits payable to Edelweiss Financial Services Limited   -   0.10 
12 Advances recoverable in cash or in kind  ECap Equities Limited  0.00   0.00 
or for value to be received 
Edelweiss Comtrade Limited  0.00   0.00 
Edelweiss Rural and Corporate Services Limited  0.13   - 
ECL Finance Limited  0.01   - 
Edelweiss Custodial Services Limited  0.05   - 
Edelweiss Securities Limited  0.05   - 
Edelweiss Global Wealth Management Limited  0.30   - 
Edelweiss Gallagher Insurance Brokers Limited  0.20   - 
Edelweiss Finvest Private Limited  -   0.31 
95 | Edelweiss Asset Management
NNootteess  ttoo  tthhee  FFiinnaanncciiaall  SSttaatteemmeennttss  
((CCoonnttiinnuueedd))
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
iii. Balances with related parties
Sr.   Nature of Transaction Related Party Name 2020-21 2019-20
No.
13 Trade receivables ECap Equities Limited  -   10.52 
Edelweiss Rural and Corporate Services Limited  -   0.65 
ECL Finance Limited  -   0.25 
Edelweiss Housing Finance Limited  -   0.00 
Edelweiss Investment Advisors Limited  -   4.84 
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Limited  0.00   0.42 
Edelweiss Multi Strategy Fund Advisors LLP  0.01   0.01 
Edelweiss Finvest Private Limited  -   6.20 
Edelweiss Global Wealth Management Limited  -   0.13 
Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company   -   1.19 
Limited
Edelweiss Broking Limited  0.01   0.09 
Edelweiss Securities Limited  0.00   0.19 
Edelweiss Custodial Services Limited  -   0.14 
Edelweiss Retail Finance Limited  -   0.00 
ESL Securities Limited  0.07   0.00 
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Pte.   0.44   - 
Limited
14 Margin Placed with Edelweiss Broking Limited  11.49   3.85 
15 Other payables - ESOP Edelweiss Financial Services Limited   10.51   13.33 
ECap Equities Limited  -   0.11 
16 Other receivable - ESOP ECL Finance Limited  -   0.01 
Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors Limited  -   0.41 
Edelweiss Finvest Private Limited  -   0.04 
Note: 
1.        As part of fund based activities, intergroup company loans and advances activities undertaken are generally 
in the nature of revolving demand loans. Such loans and advances, voluminous in nature, are carried on 
at arm’s length and in the ordinary course of business. Pursuant to Ind AS 24 – Related Party Disclosures, 
maximum amount of loans given and repaid are disclosed above as in the view of the management it provides 
meaningful reflection of such related party transactions on the financial statements. Interest income and 
expenses on such loans and advances are disclosed on the basis of full amounts of such loans and advances 
given and repaid.
2.       Information relating to remuneration paid to key managerial person mentioned above excludes provision 
made for gratuity, leave encashment and deferred bonus which are provided for group of employees on an 
overall basis. These are included on cash basis. The variable compensation included herein is on cash basis. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 96 
NNootteess  ttoo  tthhee  FFiinnaanncciiaall  SSttaatteemmeennttss  
((CCoonnttiinnuueedd))
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
27.  Segment reporting 
The primary business of the Company is to act as an investment manager to Edelweiss Mutual Fund. 
Accordingly, there is no separate reportable segment and hence, no disclosure is made under Indian 
Accounting Standard 108 – Operating Segment Reporting. Further, segmentation based on geography has 
not been presented as the Company operates only in India.
28 Disclosure pursuant to Indian Accounting Standard 19 - Employee Benefits
A)     Defined contribution plan (Provident fund and National Pension Scheme):
Amount of Rs. 17.68 (Previous year: Rs. 20.14) is recognised as expense and included in “Employee benefit 
expense” – note 23 in the statement of profit and loss.
B)     Defined benefit plan (gratuity):
The following tables summarize the components of the net benefit expenses recognized in the statement 
of profit and loss, the funded status and amounts recognized in the balance sheet for the gratuity benefit 
plan.
Statement of profit and loss
Expenses recognized in the statement of profit and loss account:
2021 2020
Current service cost 4.17 4.76
Interest cost (0.07) 1.76
Expected return on plan asset - (1.33)
Past service cost - -
Actuarial (gain) or loss recognized in the year (2.15) 1.35
Employer expense 1.95 6.54
Balance sheet
Reconciliation of Defined Benefit Obligation (DBO):
2021 2020
Present value of DBO at the beginning of the year 29.73 21.75
Acquisition/ (Divesture) - -
Transfer in / (out) (2.69) 4.48
Interest cost 1.49 1.76
Current service cost 4.17 4.76
Benefits paid (2.04) (2.98)
Past service cost
Actuarial (gain)/loss on obligation 2.41 (0.04)
Present value of DBO at the end of the year 33.07 29.73
Reconciliation of fair value of plan assets:
97 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
Particulars 2021 2020
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year 28.35 21.35
Expected return on plan asset 4.56 1.33
Contributions 2.04 10.03
Benefits paid (2.04) (2.98)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on plan assets  1.55 (1.39)
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 34.46 28.34
Net (liability) / asset recognised in the balance sheet:
Particulars 2021 2020
Present value of defined benefit obligation 33.06 29.73
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 34.46 28.35
Amount recognized in balance sheet - asset/(liability) 1.40 (1.38)
Experience adjustments:
Particulars 2021 2020
On plan liabilities: (gain)/ loss 1.18 (1.95) 
On plan assets: gain/ (loss) -  -
Estimated contribution for next year Nil Nil 
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date:
Particulars 2021 2020
Discount rate  5.00% 5.50%
Salary escalation 7% 7%
Employee attrition rate 25% 13%-50%
Excepted return on plan assets  5.50% 6.70%
Mortality rate IALM 2012-14  IALM 2012-14 
(Ult.) (Ult.)
Sensitivity analysis:
DBO increases / (decreases) by March - 21 March - 20
Increase of 1% in Salary Growth Rate 1.14 1.34
Decrease of 1% in Salary Growth Rate (1.08) (1.33)
Increase of 1% in Discount Rate (1.09) (1.33)
Decrease of 1% in Discount Rate 1.18 1.37
Increase of 1% in Withdrawal Rate (0.09) (0.09)
Decrease of 1% in Withdrawal Rate 0.09 0.1
Mortality (Increase in expected lifetime by 1 year) 0 0
Mortality (Increase in expected lifetime by 3 years) 0 0.01
Percentage Break-down of Total Plan Assets:
2021 2020
Insurer Managed Funds (Unit-linked)  99.90% 99.90%
Cash and Bank 0.10% 0.10%
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 98 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
29. Employee Stock Option Plans (ESOPs) / Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs)
The Holding Company (Edelweiss Financial Services Limited (“EFSL”)) has Employee Stock Option Plans 
and Stock Appreciation Rights Plans in force. Based on such ESOP/SAR schemes, parent entity has granted 
an ESOP/SAR option to acquire equity shares of EFSL that would vest in a graded manner to company’s 
employees. Based on group policy / arrangement, EFSL has charged the fair value of such stock options, 
Company has accepted such cross charge and recognised the same under the employee cost.
30.    Foreign currency transactions
The Company have foreign currency exposure as on the date of balance sheet as below:
Particulars 2021 2020
Trade Receivable 0.44 -
The Company has undertaken the following transactions in foreign currency:
Income and Expenditure incurred in foreign currency (on accrual basis) 2021 2020
Income
Advisory Fee income 0.65 -
Expenditure
Membership & Subscription Chgs 0.90 -
Market Data Services 1.19 -
31. Contingent liabilities, commitments, and litigations
i.   Contingent liabilities
There are no contingent liabilities as on the date of balance sheet.
ii.  Commitments
The Company has capital commitments of Rs. 0.07 (Previous year: Rs. 2.79) as at the balance sheet date.
iii.  Litigations
The Company does not have any pending litigations as on the date of balance sheet.
The Company has received demand notices from tax authorities on account of disallowance of expenditure 
for earning exempt income under Section 14A of Income Tax Act 1961 read with Rule 8D of the Income 
Tax Rules, 1962. The company has filed appeal/s and is defending its position. Based on the favourable 
outcome in Appellate proceedings in the past and as advised by the tax advisors, company is reasonably 
certain about sustaining its position in the pending cases, hence the possibility of outflow of resources 
embodying economic benefits on this ground is remote
32.    Cost sharing
Edelweiss Financial Services Limited, being the holding company along with fellow subsidiaries incurs 
expenditure like Group mediclaim, insurance, rent, electricity charges etc. which is for the common benefit 
of itself and its certain subsidiaries, fellow subsidiaries including the Company. This cost so expended 
is reimbursed by the Company on the basis of number of employees, time spent by employees of other 
companies, actual identifications etc. Accordingly, and as identified by the management, the expenditure 
heads in note 23 and 24 include reimbursements paid and are net of reimbursements received based on 
the management’s best estimate.
99 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
33. Risk Management framework:-
a)  Governance framework
The primary objective of the company’s risk and financial management framework is to protect the 
company’s shareholders from events that hinder the sustainable achievement of financial performance 
objectives, including failing to exploit opportunities. Key management recognises the critical importance of 
having efficient and effective risk management systems in place.
b)       Approach to capital management
Company objectives when managing capital, are to (a) maximise shareholder value and provide benefits to 
other stakeholders and (b) maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
For the purposes of the Company’s capital management, capital includes issued capital, share premium 
and all other equity reserves attributable to the equity holders.
Company monitors capital using debt-equity ratio, which is total debt divided by total equity.
Particulars As at 31st  As at 31st 
March 2021 March 2020
Total Debt - -
Equity 1,612.01 1,562.04
Net Debt to Equity - -
34.    Credit risk
Credit risk arises when a customer or counterparty does not meet its obligations under a customer contract 
or financial instrument, leading to a financial loss. The Company is exposed to credit risk from its operating 
activities primarily trade receivables. Company has no significant concentration of credit risk with any 
counterparty.
The Company’s management policy is to closely monitor creditworthiness of counterparties by reviewing 
their credit ratings, financial statements, and press release on regular basis.
The Company’s financial assets subject to the expected credit loss model within Ind AS 109 are only short-
term trade and other receivables. All trade receivables are expected to be received in three months or less. 
Company applies the expected credit loss model for recognising impairment loss. Expected credit loss 
allowance in respect of receivables is computed based on a provision matrix which takes into account 
historical credit loss experience.
Company is exposed to credit risk on mutual fund investments; however these investments are not 
subjected to Ind AS 109 impairment requirements as they are measured at FVTPL. The carrying value 
of these investments, under Ind AS 109 represents the Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk on 
financial instruments not subject to the Ind AS 109 impairment requirements on the respective reporting 
dates.
Reconciliation of impairment allowance on trade receivables:
Impairment allowance measured as per simplified approach INR 
Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2020 0.61
Addition/ (Reduction) during the year 0.24
Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2021 0.85
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 100 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
Trade Receivables Aging and Expected Credit loss (ECL):
Year  Days past  1-90 days 91-180  181-270  270- 360  more than   Total
ended due days days days 360 days
March 31,  ECL rate 0.05% 4.35% 9.92% 39.13% 100.00% 0.52%
2021
Gross 158.95 0.92 1.21 1.15 0.16 162.39
ECL (0.08) (0.04) (0.12) (0.45) (0.16) (0.85)
Net 158.87 0.88 1.09 0.7 -  161.54
March 31,  ECL rate 0.03% 2.51% 9.20% 25.00% 100.00% 0.50%
2020
Gross 116.83 1.99 1.74 0.04 0.35 120.95
ECL (0.04) (0.05)  (0.16) (0.01) (0.35) (0.61)
Net 116.79 1.94 1.58 0.03  -  120.34
Liquidity Risk:
Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations 
associated with financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. Exposure to 
liquidity risk arises because of the possibility that the Company could be required to pay its trade payables 
earlier than expected. The Company is exposed to cash redemptions of units on a regular basis. Units are 
redeemable at the holder’s option based on the Fund’s NAV per share at the time of redemption, calculated 
in accordance with the Fund’s constitution. 
The company’s policy is to satisfy redemption requests by the following means (in decreasing order of 
priority): 
· Searching for new investors
· Withdrawal of cash deposits
· Disposal of highly liquid assets (i.e., short-term, low-risk debt investments)
· Either disposal of other assets or increase of leverage
Refer Note 36 on maturity analysis of assets and liabilities.
Market risks 
Risk which can affect the Company’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments due to 
adverse movements in market prices of instrument due to price risk. The objective of the Company’s market 
risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters. 
101 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
35 Operating Lease
Right-of-use assets
Particulars As at April 01, 2020  As at April 01, 2019
 
Opening Balance  105.05 137.98
Addition  31.87 3.62
Deletion  (73.83) (0.57)
Depreciation expense  (14.90) (35.98)
Closing Balance  48.19 105.05
Lease liability
Particulars As at April 01, 2020  As at April 01, 2019
Opening Balance  124.11 151.54
Addition (net)  (57.91) 3.04
Accretion of interest  6 .88  14.72
Payments  (18.45) (45.19)
Closing Balance  54.63 124.11
Particulars Year ended   Year ended  
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Depreciation expense  14.9 35.98
Interest expense on lease liabilities  6.88 14.72
Expense relating to short-term lease (included in other expenses)  0.18 0.45
Total amount recognised in statement of profit and loss  21.96 51.15
The Company has entered into commercial leases for buidlings. Some of the leases contain extensions and
termination options such options have been considered while lease term only.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 102 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
36.  Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities 
The table below shows an analysis of assets and liabilities analysed according to when they are expected to be recovered or 
settled.  
 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Particulars  Within    After    Total   Within    After    Total 
12 months  12 months  12 months  12 months 
Financial assets 
Cash and cash equivalents  87.29   -   87.29   24.57   -   24.57 
Trade receivables  161.00   -   161.00   101.98   -   101.98 
Trade receivables - related party  0.54   -   0.54   18.36   -   18.36 
Loans  -   -   -   1.03   -   1.03 
Investments  457.95   289.16   747.11   83.62   346.37   429.99 
Investments - Group  -   -   -   -   -   - 
Other financial assets  18.31   6.10   24.41   19.69   29.27   48.96 
 Total (A)   725.09   295.26   1,020.35   249.25   375.64   624.89 
 Non-financial assets 
 Current tax assets (net)   -   32.50   32.50   -   186.51   186.51 
 Deferred tax assets (net)   -   -   -   -   - 
 Property, plant and equipment   -   12.49   12.49   -   26.37   26.37 
 Capital work-in-progress   -   -   -   -   -   - 
 Right to use assets   -   48.18   48.18   -   105.05   105.05 
 Other intangible assets   -   729.08   729.08   -   723.49   723.49 
 Other non-financial assets   6.67   122.70   129.37   3.80   178.28   182.08 
 Total (B)   6.67   944.95   951.62   3.80   1,219.70   1,223.50 
 Total assets   731.76   1,240.21   1,971.97   253.05   1,595.34   1,848.39 
36.  Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities 
The table below shows an analysis of assets and liabilities analysed according to when they are expected to be recovered or 
settled.  
 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Particulars  Within    After    Total   Within    After    Total 
12 months  12 months  12 months  12 months 
Financial liabilities
Trade payables  74.50   -   74.50   105.86   -   105.86 
Trade payables - related party  10.59   -   10.59   12.71   -   12.71 
Borrowing (other than debt securities)  -   -   -   -   -   - 
 Lease liabilities   -   54.63   54.63   -   124.11   124.11 
 Other financial liabilities   167.94   -   167.94   1.09   -   1.09 
 Total (A)   253.03   54.63   307.66   119.66   124.11   243.77 
 Non-financial liabilities 
 Provisions   7.73   -   7.73   11.26   -   11.26 
 Other non-financial liabilities   43.82   0.75   44.57   30.57   0.75   31.32 
 Total (B)   51.55   0.75   52.30   41.83   0.75   42.58 
 Total liabilities   304.58   55.38   359.96   161.49   124.86   286.35 
 Net Assets / (Liabilities)   427.18   1,184.83   1,612.01   91.56   1,470.48   1,562.04 
103 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
37.   Change in liabilities arising from financing activities:-
Particulars April 01,  Cash  Changes  Exchange   Others March 31, 
2020 flows in fair  differences 2021
values
Borrowings other than debt    -   -   - 
securities
Other financial liabilities  1.08   166.86   167.94 
Total liabilities from financing   1.08   166.86   -   -   -   167.94 
activities
Particulars April 01,  Cash  Changes  Exchange   Others March 31, 
2019 flows in fair  differences 2020
values
Borrowings other than debt   55.65   (55.65)  - 
securities
Other financial liabilities  74.73   (73.65)  1.08 
Total liabilities from financing   130.38   (129.30)  -   -   -   1.08 
activities
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 104 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
38 Fair Values of Financial Instruments
Key Inputs for Fair Valuation technique:
1 Mutual Funds : Based on Net Asset Value of the Scheme
2 Unquoted Equity investment : Fair Valuation 
The following table shows an analysis of financial instruments recorded at fair value by level of the fair value 
hierarchy
March 31, 2021
Particulars Level 1 Level 2 Level 3  Total 
Investments
Debt securities  -   -   186.00   186.00 
Mutual fund units  559.93   -   -   559.93 
Equity instruments  -   1.18   -   1.18 
Total investments measured at fair value  559.93   1.18   186.00   747.11 
Total financial assets measured at fair   559.93   1.18   186.00   747.11 
value on a recurring basis 
March 31, 2020
Particulars Level 1 Level 2 Level 3  Total 
Investments
Debt securities  -   -   169.50   169.50 
Mutual fund units  259.25   -   -   259.25 
Equity instruments  -   1.24   -   1.24 
Total investments measured at fair value  259.25   1.24   169.50   429.99 
Total financial assets measured at fair   259.25   1.24   169.50   429.99 
value on a recurring basis 
Carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, loans and trade and other payables as on 
March 31, 2021 and March 31, 2020 approximate the fair value because of their short-term nature. Difference 
between carrying amounts and fair values of other financials assets, other financial liabilities and borrowings 
subsequently measured at amortised cost is not significant in each of the years presented.
105 | Edelweiss Asset Management
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
financial  hange in air value  (9.30)  1.00   (8.30) Change  in fair value  (8.48)  1.00   (7.48)
g  Cf
n
s in measuri Decrease in the nobservable input (% or  as the case may be) 5% 0.5% Decrease in the nobservable input (% or  as the case may be) 5% 0.5%
e u u
at
d n e 0  ) 0  e r e 8  ) 8 
e sheet  Change ifair valu  9.3  (1.00  8.3 Chang in faivalu  8.4  (1.00  7.4
c
n
a e  e e r  e ) % % e  e e r  e ) % %
pective bal Increasin thnobservablinput (% oas the casmay be 5 0.5 Increasin thnobservablinput (% oas the casmay be 5 0.5
s u u
e
r
at  f s -r e t 6 D % f s -r e t 6 D %
 Financial Statements (Continued) nputs used in measuring fair value categorised within Level 3 : s set out information about significant unobservable inputs used egorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy: Range oValuation Significant Fair value  Fair value  estimatetechniquesunobservable of liability  of asset  (weightedinput as on  as on  average) foMarch 31, March 31, unobservabl20212021inpu INR 13,98,49 186.00  - "Discounted Expected per NC cash flow"future cash flows Discount rate17.47  186.00  -  Range oValuation Significant Fair value  Fair value  estimatetechniquesunobservable of liability of asset  (weightedinput as on  as on  average) foMarch 31, March 31, unobservabl20202020inpu INR 12,74,43 169.50  - "Discounted Expected per NC cash flow"future cash flows Discount rate17.34  169.50  - 
es to the  Unobservable i Following tableinstruments cat Type of  financial instruments Investment in units of Non-Convertible Debenture Total Type of  financial instruments Investment in units of Non-Convertible Debenture Total
ot 1 
8.
N 3
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 106 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
39.  Total market risk exposure  
 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Particulars Carrying  Traded  Non- Carrying  Traded risk Non-
amount risk traded  amount traded 
risk risk
Assets
Cash and cash equivalent and   87.29   -   87.29   24.57   -   24.57 
other bank balances
Financial assets at FVTPL  747.11   747.11   -   429.99   429.99   - 
Loans  -   -   -   1.03   -   1.03 
Trade receivables  161.00   -   161.00   101.98   -   101.98 
Trade receivables - related party  0.54   -   0.54   18.36   -   18.36 
Other Financial Assets  24.41   -   24.41   48.96   -   48.96 
Total   1,020.35   747.11   273.24   624.89   429.99   194.90 
Liability
Trade payables  74.50   -   74.50   105.87   -   105.87 
Trade payables - related party  10.59   -   10.59   12.71   -   12.71 
Lease liabilities  54.63   -   54.63   124.11   -   124.11 
Other liabilities  167.94   -   167.94   1.08   -   1.08 
Total  307.66   -   307.66   243.77   -   243.77 
107 | Edelweiss Asset Management
es to the Financial Statements (Continued) Contractual Maturity Analysis   The table below summarises the maturity profile of the undiscounted cash flows of the company’s financial liabilities, financial assets, derivatives and financial commitments as at March 31, 2021.  The tables have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows i.e. the tables include both interest and principal cashflows. The contractual maturiy with respect to financial liabilities is based on the earliest date on which the company can be required to pay. To the extent that interest flows are at floating rate, the undiscounted amount is derived based on the interest rates in force at the balance sheet date. Further, with regards to amounts payable in currencies other than Indian Rupees, the amounts are determined based on the spot exchange rates at the balance sheet date. The analysis with respect to financial assets is based on expected maturities. All derivatives which are entered into for trading purposes are shown in the earliest time band. With respect to other derivatives, the remaining contractual maturity information has been given based on  undiscounted cash flows.         A. Analysis of non-derivative financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities   15 days to  2 months to  3 months to   1 year to   Over   Total As at March 31, 2021 On demand  1 to  14 days 1 month 3 months 6 months 3 years 5 years  Trade payables -  -  -  74.50  -  -  -  74.50  Trade payables -  -  -  -  10.59  -  -  -  10.59 Related party Lease liabilities -  -  -  -  -  54.63  -  54.63  Other financial  -  -  -  167.94  -  -  -  167.94 liabilities   -  -  -  253.03  -  54.63  -  307.66 Total undiscounted non-derivative financial liabilities As at March 31, 2020 On demand  1 to   15 days to  2 months to  3 months to   1 year to   Over   Total 14 days 1 month 3 months 6 months 3 years 5 years  Trade payables -  -  -  105.87  -  -  -  105.87  Trade payables -  -  -  -  12.71  -  -  -  12.71 Related party Lease liabilities -  -  -  -  -  124.11  -  124.11  Other financial  -  -  -  1.08  -  -  -  1.08 liabilities   -  -  -  119.66  -  124.11 Total undiscounted  -  243.77 non-derivative financial liabilities
t
o
0
N 4
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 108 
ets as at    Total   87.29   161.00   0.54   -   747.11   24.41   1,020.35   24.57   101.98   18.36   1.03   429.99   48.96   624.89 
s
s
a
e financial   Over 5 years   -   -   -   -   289.16   -   289.16   -   -   -   -   346.37   -   346.37 
v
n-derivati ear to 3 years   -   -   -   -   -   24.41   24.41   -   -   -   -   -   48.96   48.96 
o y
n 1 
s   
p’
u
o
the Gr hs to 6 months   -   -   -   -  186.00   -  186.00   -   -   -   -   -   -   - 
of  nt    
o
s  m
d) al maturities  unted cash flow 2 months to  3 3 months   161.00   0.54   -   -   -   161.54   101.98   18.36   1.03   -   -   121.37 
e u o  
u ct c
nts (Contin aining contra of the undis  15 days to 1 month   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   - 
ateme ssets by rem urity profile   1 to 14 days   87.29   -   -   -   271.95   -   359.24   24.57   -   -   -   83.62   -   108.19 
ial St financial a s the mat demand   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   - 
anc vative  marise  On 
es to the Fin B. Analysis of non-deri The table below sum31 March.  As at March 31, 2021 Cash and cash equivalent and other bank balances  Trade receivables Trade receivables - Related party Loans Investments at fair value through profit or loss  Other financial assets Total Cash and cash equivalent and other bank balances  Trade receivables Trade receivables - Related party Loans Investments at fair value through profit or loss  Other financial assets Total
t
o
0
N 4
 
109 | Edelweiss Asset Management
maining   Total   (0.34)  -   (0.34)  0.34   -   Total   (0.76)  -   (0.76)  0.76   - 
e
r
e 
h
t
vatives,   Over 5 years   -   -   -   -   -  Over 5 years   -   - 
eri    
d
r  
othe o 3 ars   -   -   -   -   -  o 3 ars   -   - 
ct to   year tye year tye
pe 1  1 
s    
e
r
nd. With   s to 6 onths   -   -   -   -   -  s to 6 onths   -   - 
a hm hm
b  nt nt
e  o o
m m m
st tis.   3   3 
n the earlied cash flow months to 3 months   -   -   -   -   -  months to 3 months   -   - 
ued) wn iunte  2   2 
nts (Contin oses are shod on undisco  15 days to 1 month   -   -   -   -   -   15 days to 1 month   -   - 
pe
me purbas 14 ys   -   -   -   -   -  14 ys   -   - 
ng en  to da to da
e div 1  1 
at r traen gi    
t oe
es to the Financial S C. Maturity analysis for derivatives:  All derivatives which are entered into fcontractual maturity information has b As at March 31, 2021 On demand   (0.34)Net settled derivatives entered into for trading purposes  - Other net settled derivatives (other than those entered into for trading purposes) Contractual amounts  (0.34)payable  0.34  Total -  As at March 31, 2021 On demand   (0.76)Net settled derivatives entered into for trading purposes  - Other net settled derivatives (other than those entered into for trading purposes) Contractual amounts  (0.76)payable  0.76  Total - 
t
o
0
N 4
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 110 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
41  Sensitivity Analysis 
Currency risk 
Equity price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of 
changes in the level of individual investment in equity share prices. 
 2020 - 2021
Currency Increase in  Effect  Effect on  Decrease  Effect  Effect on 
currency  on profit  Equity in currency  on profit  Equity
rate (%) before tax rate (%) before tax
USD 5  0.02   0.02  5  (0.02)  (0.02)
2019 - 2020
Currency Increase in  Effect  Effect on  Decrease  Effect  Effect on 
currency  on profit  Equity in currency  on profit  Equity
rate (%) before tax rate (%) before tax
USD 5  -   -  5  -   - 
Equity price risk   
Equity price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of 
changes in the level of individual investment in equity share prices. 
2020 - 2021
Impact on Increase in  Effect  Effect on  Decrease  Effect  Effect on 
equity price  on profit  Equity in equity  on profit  Equity
(%) before tax price (%) before tax
Derivatives 5  (1.97)  (1.97) 5  1.97   1.97 
Others (Investment in Equity  5  0.06   0.06  5  (0.06)  (0.06)
shares of MF Utilities)
2019 - 2020
Impact on Increase in  Effect  Effect on  Decrease  Effect  Effect on 
equity price  on profit  Equity in equity  on profit  Equity
(%) before tax price (%) before tax
Derivatives 5  (1.32)  (1.32) 5  1.32   1.32 
Others (Investment in Equity  5  0.06   0.06  5  (0.06)  (0.06)
shares of MF Utilities)
Other price risk
Other price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of 
changes in the level of market prices other than equity and index prices.   
2020 - 2021
Impact on Increase in  Effect  Effect on  Decrease  Effect  Effect on 
price (%) on profit  Equity in price (%) on profit  Equity
before tax before tax
Others (Invt. in Mutual funds) 5  28.00   28.00  5  (28.00)  (28.00)
2019 - 2020
Impact on Increase in  Effect  Effect on  Decrease  Effect  Effect on 
price (%) on profit  Equity in price (%) on profit  Equity
before tax before tax
Others (Invt. in Mutual funds) 5  12.96   12.96  5  (12.96)  (12.96)
111 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
42 Income Tax
The components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 March 2021 and 2020 are:   
Particulars 2020 - 2021 2019 - 2020
Current tax   -   - 
Write-down of deferred tax asset (other than on unused tax losses   -   (0.58)
and unused tax credits)
Total tax charge   -   (0.58)
Current tax   -   - 
MAT credit reversal  -   (0.58)
Reconciliation of total tax charge
Particulars 2020 - 2021 2019 - 2020
Accounting profit before tax as per financial statements  47.82   12.65 
Tax rate (in percentage) 25.17% 25.17%
Income tax expense calculated based on this tax rate  12.04   3.18 
Effect of income not subject to tax:  (12.04)  (3.18)
Others 
Others   -   - 
Write-down of available tax credits which are not considered   -   (0.58)
recoverable (for example, Minimum Alternate Tax credit)
Tax charge for the year recorded in P&L  -   (0.58)
The Company has entered into commercial leases for buidlings. Some of the leases contain extensions and
termination options such options have been considered while lease term only.
Using modified retrospective method, as permitted by the said standard. Accordingly INR 137.98 is recognised as
Rigt-of-use assets and Lease liability of INR 151.54 is created on April 01, 2019
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 112 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
(Currency: Indian rupees in millions)
42  The following table shows deferred tax recorded in the balance sheet and changes recorded in the Income tax 
expense:   
Equity price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of 
changes in the level of individual investment in equity share prices. 
Movement for the period (2020-21)
Opening  Recognised  Recognised  Total  Closing 
deferred  in profit or  in other  movement deferred 
tax asset /  loss comprehensive  tax asset / 
(liability) as per  income (liability) as per 
Ind AS Ind AS
Deferred taxes in relation to:
Property, Plant and Equipment  (98.48)  (17.32)  -   (17.32)  (115.80)
Other investments    5.50   13.63   -   13.63   19.13 
(equity instruments)
Unused tax losses (including   91.18   4.51   -   4.51   95.69 
but not limited to business 
losses, unabsorbed 
depreciation)
Others  1.80   (0.82)  -   (0.82)  0.98 
Total - - - - -
Movement for the period (2019-20)
Opening  Recognised  Recognised  Total  Closing 
deferred  in profit or  in other  movement deferred 
tax asset /  loss comprehensive  tax asset / 
(liability) as per  income (liability) as 
Ind AS per Ind AS
Deferred taxes in relation to:
Property, Plant and Equipment  (77.18)  (21.30)  -   (21.30)  (98.48)
Other investments    (3.28)  8.78   -   8.78   5.50 
(equity instruments)
Unused tax losses (including   77.79   13.39   -   13.39   91.18 
but not limited to business 
losses, unabsorbed 
depreciation)
Others  2.67   (0.87)  -   (0.87)  1.80 
Total - - - - -
113 | Edelweiss Asset Management
Notes to the Financial Statements 
(Continued)
43  The Company does not have any long-term contract including derivative contract for which there were any material 
foreseeable losses.
44. Subsequent Event
Edelweiss Group is in the process of restructuring its businesses and in this regards PAG, an Asia-focused 
investment group, has acquired majority ownership and control of Edelweiss’s Wealth Management (“EWM”) 
business,
As a part of the aforesaid restructuring process , EAML and ESL Securities Limited (ESL SL), which is part of EWM 
business, had executed a slump sale agreement dated May 19, 2021 wherein the Infinity PMS Business was agreed 
to be transferred from EAML to ESL SL. The said transaction has been approved by Board of Directors of EAML in 
its board meeting held on May 11, 2021.
Pursuant to the same, all the rights and obligations of EAML under the Agreement shall stand assigned/novated/
transferred to ESL SL once the condition precedent to the agreement are completed.
45. For all the amounts below Rs. 5000/- in the schedules and notes of financial statements, the amounts are appearing 
zero on account of presentation of financial statements in Indian Rupees in millions.
46. Prior period comparatives
Previous year figures have been reclassified to conform to this year’s classification.
As per our report of even date attached
For S.R. Batliboi & Co LLP For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Chartered Accountants 
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005 
per Shrawan Jalan  Hemant Daga  Suresh Gurumani Radhika Gupta
Partner Director  Director  Managing Director and CEO
Membership No: 102102  DIN - 07783248  DIN - 00636844 DIN - 02657595
Nirav Sanghavi Amit Malpani
Company Secretary Chief Financial Officer
Mumbai, 26 May 2021 Mumbai, 26 May 2021
ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21 | 114 
Edelweiss Asset Management Limited
Registered Oﬃce and Corporate Oﬃce
7th Floor, Edelweiss House, Oﬀ C.S.T. Road, Kalina, Santacruz (E), Mumbai 400 098.
E-mail: EMFHelp@edelweissﬁn.com l Tel. No.: +91 22 4093 3400
Corporate Iden�ﬁca�on Number
U65991MH2007PLC173409
SS1 t2Rat thBu aFttololirboyor A,i  Tu&hd eCit oRo.ur LsbLyP, 29, Senapa� Bapat Marg, Dadar (W), Mumbai, Maharashtra 400028, India w.al�an.co.in
w
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent (RTA) w
kFin Technologies Private Limited (Formerly known as Karvy Fintech Private Limited)
Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Gachibowli, Financial District,Nanakramguda, Serilingampally, Hyderabad - 500 032, Telangana.
E-mail: einward.ris@kﬁntech.com l Tel. No.: +91 40 6716 1512, 6716 2222 l Fax. No.: +91 40 2343 1551 l Toll Free No.: 1800-345-4001
EdelweissMutualFund EdelweissMutualFund EdelweissMF Edelweiss Asset Management Edelweiss Mutual Fund