
2019
  SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT
  PRIVATE EQUITY
EDMOND DE ROTHSCHILD, BOLD BUILDERS OF THE FUTURE

3
MESSAGE FROM 
BENJAMIN AND ARIANE DE ROTHSCHILD
It is currently difficult to assess the full measure of all the human, economic and social consequences of the crisis we 
are living through. However, one thing is certain: resilience is now recognised as a key factor in the sustainability of any 
business. 
The rapid changes we have all made in response to the Covid-19 epidemic have pushed us one step further along in 
our necessary ability to implement strategic decisions within a limited time frame without setting aside clear longer-
term ambitions. Our goal in this is to be sufficiently strong and flexible to cushion shocks while maintaining our desired 
long-term trajectory: for us, this is the very definition of resilience. 
In its 250-year history, our family has gone through many crises and revolutions, as well as periods of recovery. In every 
case, our ability to remain focused on the future has helped us emerge stronger. There is no reason why this crisis should 
by any different. We have collectively become aware of certain excesses inherent in our current lifestyles: some say we 
are too interdependent, while others feel we lack cohesion. In our opinion, the key lesson is very clear: untrammelled 
growth with no regard for externalities is no longer an option. The focus is shifting firmly to the long-term and humanity 
is being put back at the heart of business models: sustainable development is becoming the new standard. 
We apply these principles to everything we do, whether finance, lifestyle businesses, philanthropy or even offshore 
sailing races. We incentivise innovation, value multiculturalism, refuse to engage in speculation and have one goal in 
mind: to have an impact on the world of tomorrow. To this end, we are constantly working to stay connected to the 
real economy: in finance, we apply a scalable approach to our investment solutions to ensure they are sustainable and 
profitable both for us and for our clients.
In 2019, we were able to confirm our positioning by taking a decisive step to strengthen our independence, thus 
ensuring that we are free to fully express our convictions. By making Edmond de Rothschild a 100% family-owned 
group, we have reiterated our commitment to our clients and employees and are now free to sharpen our focus on 
delivering long-term impact.
Our simple, unified structure boosts our ability to innovate and stay creative, enabling us to develop sustainable 
solutions that create social and environmental value. For example, we are continuing to consolidate our range of real 
assets: we now have a substantial real estate division, a private equity platform offering a range of niche strategies for 
entrepreneurs, and recognised expertise in infrastructure debt. Through these solutions, we are putting finance back 
into the service of industry. 
The primacy of ethics, values and principles in our ecosystem is what differentiates us, giving our brands the essential 
tools for long-term success. The importance of resilience allows us to deal with challenges in the present while 
understanding how to build a better future.
Benjamin and Ariane de Rothschild
EDMOND DE ROTHSCHILD PRIVATE EQUITY
OUR APPROACH
TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
At Edmond de Rothschild Private Equity, we have never chosen the easy path. As much financial players as 
entrepreneurs, our teams devise and support distinctive, innovative and forward-looking investment theses designed 
to meet today’s challenges and better address those of tomorrow.
With a long-term approach that protects us from fads and hasty decisions, our strategies are driven by strong 
investment convictions: allowing industry to harness financial resources to build the world of tomorrow while 
balancing innovation and financial performance and generating a positive impact for society and the environment.
The five pillars of our sustainable development strategy
EDMOND DE ROTHSCHILD :
A CONVICTION-DRIVEN INVESTMENT HOUSE
‘BOLD BUILDERS OF THE FUTURE’
ETHICAL  INNOVATION FOR  MANAGEMENT OF  COMMITMENT TO 
COMMITMENT TO 
RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE  ENVIRONMENTAL  A SUSTAINABLE 
OUR EMPLOYEES
CONDUCT INVESTMENT IMPACT SOCIETY
Rules of ethical and  Commitments to make  Investment strategies  Thoughtful, relevant  Projects that help 
responsible conduct  our Group a leading  that are rooted in the  management to  create a positive 
determined by risk  employer, driven by  real economy and  reduce our impact  social impact and 
management that  the ambition to make  contribute to the United  on the environment  strong synergies with 
supports the trusting  their work meaningful. Nations Sustainable  and use our resources  stakeholders that 
relationships built with  Development Goals. sustainably. share our vision.
all of our stakeholders.
MATERIAL ISSUES MAJOR ISSUES
VALUES OF THE EDMOND DE ROTHSCHILD GROUP
STAKEHOLDERS 
Collaborateurs – Clients – Fournisseurs et partenaires - Régulateurs – Associations bancaires et financières  
Communautés locales – Organisations internationales – Environnement 
5
OVERVIEW OF EXPERTISE
EDMOND DE ROTHSCHILD  
PRIVATE EQUITY 
The Edmond de Rothschild Group is a leading Private Equity player that draws on 
its family experience and the expertise of its teams and partners to support the real 
economy. Since 2014, our Private Equity business has been consolidated into a single 
2.6  platform: Edmond de Rothschild Private Equity.
billion CHF
OF ASSET UNDER 
More than just financial players, we are partners in companies’ growth as we apply a 
MANAGEMENT
holistic risk management approach to help executives create not only more value but 
also more resilience. Our foresight has helped us identify innovative investment theses 
that provide concrete solutions to the major challenges of sustainable development.
Thanks to our long-standing experience in structuring funds, establishing investment 
13 processes and incorporating ESG considerations, we are well positioned to offer our 
public and private investment clients meaningful investment products that contribute to 
achieving the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
INVESTMENT 
STRATEGIES
A methodical investment approach for more resilience
The resilience of our strategies is not left to chance: they are intentionally built that 
way. We believe that measuring externalities is a necessary prerequisite for healthy, 
138
sustainable performance.
PORTFOLIO 
Our approach is rigorous by including :
COMPANIES
 the identification of structural drivers of growth and development;
 a forward-looking approach to best anticipate the needs and changes of our 
society;
PRESENT ON 
5 CONTINENTS
 a consistent integration of non-financial criteria in financial analyses;
 long-term value creation based on asset transformation and industry expertise.
140
PROFESSIONALS
1990
ACTIVE SINCE
1990
EDMOND DE ROTHSCHILD PRIVATE EQUITY
OUR EXPERTISE
SEPARATED INTO 3 CORE THEMES
Growth Capital
We help entrepreneurs grow their businesses by offering long-term financing and our teams’ strategic and operational 
support. We target high-growth, trailblazing businesses with strong development potential. Our financial return is built 
on long-term value creation based on asset transformation and industry expertise leading to greater responsibility and 
sustainability. 
 
Emerging Markets
Conscious of the importance of supporting emerging markets in developing sustainable, virtuous growth models, we 
support local (and often family-owned) businesses operating in industries that are key to developing the economy and 
the comfort of local populations. We go beyond simple financing to create value by sharing technical expertise and 
implementing best practices in governance.
 
Real Assets
Investment in infrastructure is a key driver of economic growth. When it comes to social, transport and even environmental 
infrastructure, we meet financing needs and offer a response to societal and demographic challenges, as well as those 
related to the ecological and energy transition. We support the development of the infrastructure of tomorrow while 
balancing social and environmental interests with long-term returns.
EDMOND DE ROTHSCHILD PRIVATE EQUITY 
INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENT:
Diversiﬁed Minority co-investments International
GROWTH Technologies Europe / USA
CAPITAL Shareholder transition France
Fund of fund Europe / USA
/ Israel
EMERGING
ECONOMIES Sub-saharan Growth Africa
Social & Transport Infrastructures Europe
Environmental infrastructure Europe
REAL
Remediation of Polluted Sites Europe
ASSETS
Luxury Hotels Europe
Real Estate Europe
Agro-forestry Africa / Latin America
7
EDMOND DE ROTHSCHILD PRIVATE EQUITY
A TRANSFORMATION PLAYER
For over 250 years, the Edmond de Rothschild Group has been present for the major changes that shape our society, 
standing by the conviction that wealth is not a goal in and of itself, but rather a starting point for building a better, fairer 
and more resilient future for everyone.
As we confront the challenges presented by climate disruption and economic, social and even health crises, a search 
for meaning is becoming increasingly conspicuous across the globe. It is thus more crucial than ever to guide the 
transformation of our growth models towards greater responsibility, sustainability and therefore resilience.
The Private Equity asset class, with its long-term approach, is an especially relevant tool for addressing these new 
challenges.
EDMOND DE ROTHSCHILD PRIVATE EQUITY
Strong commitments and 
Long-term   Active commitment  
convictions concerning 
investment horizon to governance
responsible investment
Consistent use of voting rights, 
Ability to support businesses as 
promotion of sustainability in the 
they grow and to generate positive, 
business models and sharing of expertise 
sustainable impact for everyone
in formulating strategies
Support for innovation and development of new business models that are more 
responsible, more resilient and generate positive impact for the environment  
and society overall
EDMOND DE ROTHSCHILD PRIVATE EQUITY
BEING BOLD BUILDERS OF THE FUTURE
THROUGH BOLD STRATEGIES THAT SET US APART
At Edmond de Rothschild Private Equity, the inclusion of ESG criteria into financial analyses and the strong sense of 
purpose that drives the quest for positive impact for all stakeholders stems from a sincere, deep-seated principle at the 
core of our strategic vision. This vision, a source of resilience, is directly supported by the family shareholder.
Our investments to build the world of tomorrow
 We identify the global trends that will shape the world of tomorrow.
 We anticipate the impact and influence of these trends on our society. We analyse the challenges they present.
 We choose forward-looking strategies that meet society’s needs.
 
Putting the entrepreneurial spirit to use in Private Equity
 We blend industry know-how with financial expertise to jointly develop innovative strategies.
 We support and guide entrepreneurs in executing their project and making it grow.
 We work with experienced and rigorously selected investment teams.
 
Tangible, sustainable value creation
 We define strategies for the long term.
 We put finance to work for industry in order to create concrete real-world economic solutions.
 We assess and integrate both financial and non-financial risks to devise more resilient strategies.
Our investment strategies reflect an entrepreneurial approach to finance by drawing on a long-term vision deeply 
rooted in reality, far from speculation and intangibility.
A RECOGNISED COMMITMENT  
TO RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT
Edmond de Rothschild Private Equity is a signatory of the Principles for 
Responsible Investment enacted by the United Nations. 
Since joining in 2016, we have received an A rating every year across all our 
reporting. 
9
RESPONSIBLE 
INVESTMENT APPROACHES 
IN OUR  
PRIVATE EQUITY ACTIVITIES 
SSEENNSSEE  OOFF  PPUURRPPOOSSEE
ESG integration strategy sustainability-focused strategy impact strategy
› Exclusion of sectors/products for  › Strategy whose investment thesis  › Impact objectives clearly established 
ethical reasons or due to a negative  contributes to providing solutions to  in the structuring stage
impact on the environment and/or  sustainable development issues
individuals
› Strategy whose investment thesis 
› Conducive to generating impactful  contributes formally and directly to a 
› Consistent inclusion of ESG criteria  results and helping to achieve the  ‘change theory’
throughout the investment process United Nations SDGs without formally 
being an impact investment strategy
› ‘Triple Bottom Logic’ (‘Environment, 
› Holistic risk management for better  social, economy’)
resilience to shocks and crises › Investments made in regions, sectors 
or businesses exposed to specific 
› Formal ambition to help achieve the 
development issues conducive to 
› Inclusion of ESG criteria in the  United Nations SDGs
implementing actions with sustainable 
financial analysis, investment/
positive impacts
partnership decision-making process, 
› Robust impact measurement 
contractual agreement and regular 
methodology and expert team
reports › Rigorous monitoring of ESG criteria 
over time
› Generally speaking, provides the key 
› Active shareholder involvement 
stakeholders with targeted impact 
and promotion of sustainability 
reporting at least once per year
(with defined action plans, where 
applicable)
HIGH-IMPACT SOLUTIONS
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO ESG OPPORTUNITIES
COMPETITIVE RETURNS & GREATER RESILIENCE
EDMOND DE ROTHSCHILD PRIVATE EQUITY
AN ESG INTEGRATED METHODOLOGY TAILORED
TO THE SELECTED STRATEGY
Direct, majority investment strategies:
Most of our private equity strategies involve direct majority investment, which offers a genuine ability to influence 
the management and strategic focus of the companies invested in. This is reflected in superior governance and the 
implementation of ESG action plans to create more value and better risk management. ESG integration is generally 
accomplished through the following actions:
Portfolio management  
Structuring Sourcing Investment rating Investment Exit
and monitoring
› Statement in the legal and  › Discussion with the  › ESG analysis rubrics to  › Inclusion of clauses on the  › Identification of relevant  › Assessment and 
marketing documentation  executives/partners and  assess the profile and initial  ESG issues in the contractual  KPIs to be monitored measurement of the impact 
on the intention to act as a  presentation of the ESG  ESG performance agreements (subscription  generated
› Rigorous monitoring of 
responsible investor policy documents, side letters, etc.)
› Analysis of the materiality of  ESG criteria analogous to  › Presentation of the tangible, 
› Section describing the ESG  › Monitoring the exclusion  the ESG risks and search for  the monitoring of financial  sustainable value creation
policy policy and search for  impact opportunities criteria
› Consolidation of experience 
alignment of values
› Description of the ESG/ › Presentation of the  › Assessment of the  gained and lessons learned 
impact management tools › Economic justifications of  established ESG action plan  effectiveness of the 
the approach (areas for improvement) /  implemented action plan 
› Definition of roles and 
expected positive impact  and anticipation of potential 
responsibilities and 
objectives departures from it
appointment of the ESG 
representative on the  › Regular reporting
investment team
Minority and/or indirect investment strategies:
By their very nature, minority or indirect strategies are less closely involved in the strategic decisions of the investee 
companies. Thus in accordance with our responsible investment values and commitments, we ensure that our strategies 
apply a twofold selection approach to the decision-making processes:
 negative, so as to remain true to the convictions, values and commitments of Edmond de Rothschild Private 
Equity with regard to responsible investment; and
 positive, by seeking opportunities to invest in players that have a ‘best in class’, ‘best in universe’ or ‘best 
efforts’ ESG profile and demonstrate sincere intentions regarding sustainable development.
  WHAT DO YOU DO TO SUPPORT YOUR TEAMS AND PARTNERS IN DEVELOPING YOUR 
RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT OFFERING?
My role is to develop and coordinate Edmond de Rothschild Private Equity’s ESG and Impact 
strategy. To do this, I take a cross-functional approach. First, I support the structuring and 
management teams in order to guarantee the best possible fit with our strategic vision, in 
particular by developing dedicated tools.
Second, I bring additional expertise to our partner teams as they define their ESG policy and 
impact strategy, which is done on an individual basis according to the specific features of 
each strategy. Finally, I help the teams conduct the materiality analysis and define ESG action 
plans and impact objectives specific to each investment project. Our strength lies in the 
synergy between the different types of expertise, and the close relationships and committed 
collaboration we maintain with our partners.
Delphine Patritti
ESG & Impact Finance Manager  
Edmond de Rothschild Private Equity
11
INNOVATION FOR RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT: PRIVATE EQUITY
The investment strategies of Edmond de Rothschild Private Equity share a common goal: to tackle current 
challenges and anticipate future challenges by using replicable, resilient strategies that generate positive 
impact. Our experienced teams target innovative, visionary investment projects that enable risk-adjusted 
returns on investment with positive social and environmental impact.
The partnerships cultivated over many years allow us to help protect biodiversity, contribute to environmentally friendly 
urban development, and develop human capital and even sustainable growth in emerging markets.
Thanks to our vision, the expertise of our teams and partners and the support of our investors, 
we at Edmond de Rothschild Private Equity can anticipate the major global trends and 
issues of tomorrow and try to find concrete solutions. For us, responsible investment is 
a matter of conviction, an approach that is vital to the development of a more resilient 
economy. Thanks to a forward-looking strategy with the systematic inclusion of No-financial 
criteria we have built a sustainable economic model that can better withstand shocks.
Johnny El Hachem
CEO, Edmond de Rothschild Private Equity  
Member of the Edmond de Rothschild Asset Management Executive Committee 
95 % of the assets managed by Edmond 
de Rothschild Private Equity are covered by  50 % Assets under management covered by 
ESG strategies
responsible investment strategies 
(at 31/12/2019) 25 %
Assets under management  
covered by thematic strategies
20 %
2 617.45 million CHF 
Edmond de Rothschild Private Equity   Assets under management covered by 
total assets under management Impact investing strategies
Other assets under management
5 %
2019 was an important year for Edmond de Rothschild Private Equity in terms of new launches and funds raised. Our 
ability to offer our clients a diverse range of responsible investment products that respond to issues such as the energy 
and environmental transition, sustainable buildings, digital innovation and the recognition of human capital has enabled 
us to meet our fundraising objectives.
All the funds raised will finance our responsible investment strategies, with almost half going to our impact investment 
strategy for European environmental infrastructures. This success, and the interest seen from our private and institutional 
clients, validate Edmond de Rothschild Private Equity’s responsible investment vision and convictions.
The evolution of our Private Equity activities in the domain of responsible investment 
Launch of Private Equity  Launch of our health and  Launch of our Mid Caps  Launch of our  Launch of our soil remediation  Launch of our Small Caps 
activities within the Group biotechnology strategy strategy; Creation of an  infrastructure strategy  impact investing strategy strategy 
environmental finance unit
2005
1989 2000 EDMOND DE ROTHSC12HILD PRIV2A0T0E 8EQUITY 2009 2011
2006
PROMOTING INNOVATION TO SUPPORT CHANGE
 
Seeking a positive impact seems to be more than ever the only way forward if we are to help build a more fair and resilient 
society. Since it was created, Edmond de Rothschild Private Equity has demonstrated its investment convictions by 
producing a standout offering that combines financial performance with social utility and environmental responsibility.
Although financial performance is still vitally important, to be sustainable it must be combined with ESG considerations 
in investment decisions. In doing so, consideration for these criteria becomes a bona fide resilience and risk management 
instrument and no longer a compliance and marketing tool. Our vision is the same for our shareholder activism. Our 
teams combine industry know-how with financial and on-the-ground expertise to help companies move towards more 
virtuous business models and sustainable growth.
2020 OBJECTIVES
Progress follow-up
100% of strategies covered by best ESG practices in 2020
PROGRESS MADE BETWEEN 2015 AND 2019 
ü  100% of the investment strategies launched since our adhesion to the UN PRIs formally integrate the ESG factors in their investment 
processes
ü  95% of our strategies are covered by an ESG or impact integration process as at 31/12/2019 
ü  Systematic integration of ESG considerations for each new investment strategy and at the level of the asset management company’s 
risk management policy
Measure impact across all impact and ESG investment funds
PROGRESS MADE BETWEEN 2015 AND 2019 
ü  Use of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals as a reference framework for measuring and reporting the impacts of our 
investment strategies
ü  Definition of the most appropriate ESG monitoring indicators to measure the impact generated
ü  Inclusion of specific ESG results and considerations in periodic reports
Increase the assets under management in our impact funds by 20% a year until 2020
PROGRESS MADE BETWEEN 2015 AND 2019 
ü  Fundraising by our impact investment strategy for European environmental infrastructures was successfully continued in 2019, 
reaching €242 million at 31/12. This fundraising will continue throughout 2020 targeting a hard cap of €280 million
ü  We are keeping an eye on innovations and opportunities to develop our offering of impact investment products to enable us to meet 
the major challenges of tomorrow
Launch of our investment strategy focusing on Africa Launch of a new impact strategy focusing on water, waste, energy 
Launch of our European real estate ESG integration strategy 
Integration of climate risk in risk analysis process
Launch of our Small & 
Mid Caps mezzanine debt 
Launch of our agroforestry impact investing strategy strategy 
Signature of the PRI for  Definition of indicators to measure   Integration of ESG best 
the entire platform the ESG performance of impact  practice for all our Private 
investing / ESG  Equity strategies
First carbon footprint  integration strategies 
2012 2016 111333 2017 2018 2020
SOIL REMEDIATION INVESTMENT STRATEGY
 
The European Environment Agency estimates that Europe has over 2.5 million polluted sites. Left abandoned, these 
sites could pose serious risks to health and the environment. At a time when combating urban sprawl has become one 
of society’s major challenges, our soil remediation and rehabilitation impact investment strategy has found a way of 
turning this statistic into an opportunity. Launched in 2009, it offers an alternative to urban expansion by restoring the 
social utility of polluted and abandoned former industrial sites. Once remediation work has been carried out we develop 
new efficient mixed purpose real estate that meets the highest standards and has sustainability certification, creating 
offices, shops, residential buildings and green spaces. Our strategy also favours the circular economy as we seek to 
recycle and re-use existing materials where possible and develop projects such as urban farms. Backed by this success, 
our impact investment strategy will enter its third year in 2020.
7.15 hectares of agricultural land preserved Example investments: Choisy-Le-Roi, France  
36,380 m2 of land remediated 1  Rehabilitation of a former glass works and scrap yard with 
53,143 tons of CO emitted during the lifecycle of the project 2 significant contamination of the soil and groundwater.
2
16,500 tons of waste avoided
69% of waste recycled during the lifecycle of the project
Examples of the contribution to the Sustainable  16 investments of this strategy have allowed: 
Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations:
671,354 m2  remediated land
Sustainable cities and communities
278,323 m2 earmarked for residential use
Good health and well-being 37,114 m2 earmarked for social housing 3
133,714 m2 earmarked for office space
Responsible consumption and production
Through direct investments or urban planning taxes 
collected in the course of its investments, our impact 
strategy already contributed to finance € 85 million in 
Life on Earth public infrastructure.
1 We generally talk about volume, and not surface area, of soil remediated.
2 The lifecycle of the project has been taken into account in the calculations, including the demolition and sanitation phases and the construction and operation of the buildings  
over 40 years. Thus the total lifecycle has been estimated to be around 50 years. The carbon emissions have been calculated using the Bilan Carbon® method (ABC, v6.1).
3 Surface area of social housing is also included in surface area earmarked for residential use. The above surface area is the declared portion of the polluted land.
EDMOND DE ROTHSCHILD PRIVATE EQUITY
AN IMPACT STRATEGY THAT IS SOCIALLY USEFUL  
AND ECONOMICALLY EFFICIENT
 
Ten years after the launch of our impact strategy dedicated 
to the remediation and regeneration of former industrial 
wastelands, the relevance of our investment thesis has 
only strengthened. By controlling the environmental and 
health risks to which local residents are exposed and by 
rebuilding the city within the city, our strategy generates 
positive  impacts  for  all  stakeholders:  local  residents 
benefit from an improved way of life and well-being, 
local authorities see the creation of development regions 
that attract new residents, and remediation work helps 
preserve  natural  and  agricultural  land  from  massive 
concrete encroachment from the outskirts of cities.
A MULTIDISCIPLINARY APPROACH
TO HOLISTIC IMPACT MANAGEMENT
 
The success of our impact strategy is based on strong convictions and entrepreneurialism, by being able to anticipate 
the challenges posed by urban development: the desire to preserve our environment and the health and well-being 
of local residents. This success is also the result of synergy from our investment teams’ expertise: we can address all 
aspects of a project and better understand the expected impact levels thanks to proprietary methodologies. Thus, 
financiers, environmental engineers, urban planners and even ESG and impact experts collaborate at every stage of the 
investment process, with the goal of developing economically efficient projects capable of generating positive impacts 
for the environment and society at large.
Launch of the 3rd generation in 2020:
The fight against sprawl is today one of the most common topics in Europe when 
considering the preservation of natural and agricultural areas. In this context, the regeneration 
of building land is a very important lever to revive urban centres by developing new useful 
infrastructure without harming the environment. On the strength of the results obtained 
from the first two generations of our impact strategy, a new version will be launched at the 
end of 2020.
Bruno Farber
Chief Executive Officer and Partner of Ginkgo Advisor
Support from the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations (‘CDC’) through its issue of green bonds:
Thanks to its novel investment thesis that offers concrete solutions to the challenges of the energy and ecological 
transition, our impact investment strategy has been financially supported by the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations 
since 2017, which has underwritten it through its issue of green bonds.
15
GROWTH IN AFRICA INVESTMENT STRATEGY
 
Investing in Africa means first and foremost supporting the local economy by making goods and services that 
comply with environmental and societal standards available to the populations and taking action to improve the 
working conditions in economies that remain too informal. Because development issues are closely linked to the 
social and environmental context, managing ESG risks and monitoring and measuring the resulting impacts are 
integral components of our growth in Africa investment strategy. This responsible investment approach is applied 
during the entire lifespan of our investments, from initial project assessment to final disposal.
Since its launch our investment strategy has enabled the employment of, or kept in employment, almost 18,000 people 
in Africa, of which almost 35% were women in a continent where women still find it difficult to access jobs in the real 
economy. Our investments also support financial inclusion in Africa, giving 165,000 disadvantaged clients access to 
the microcredit solutions on offer from our banks. And through the tax revenue paid to the African governments, our 
investments contribute to the development of public infrastructure. 
4 
investment   
vehicles
324
+  
Million €   
invested to date  
to finance growth  
in Africa
25 
investments   
in 9 countries
The governance issue in African SMEs
Sooner or later all family companies in all parts of the world face the transition to a more institutionalised structure and 
less dependence on the founders. These challenges are often magnified in Africa because of cultural resistance, for 
example great respect for the ‘elders’ who sometimes make the transition more difficult. As a result, many companies 
in Africa still fall behind when it comes to governance.
Our strategy focusing on growth in Africa has completed many investments in family-owned businesses when they 
were undergoing a managerial and/or legacy transition. Because we believe that stronger governance is a crucial driver 
of value creation and a guarantee of investor confidence, we help our partners create more transparency and shared 
decision-making processes, factors that help sustain businesses for the long term.
As part of our investments, we ensure that decision-making processes are implemented 
or overhauled in order to guarantee robust governance, and we institute anti-money 
laundering and anti-corruption policies. Including independent members in the management 
bodies is another opportunity for dialogue and value creation. Whenever necessary, we set 
up committees in addition to the Board of Directors to ensure that decisions are taken 
objectively.
Aurélie Pujo
Partner & General Counsel, AMETHIS Finance
EDMOND DE ROTHSCHILD PRIVATE EQUITY
IN-HOUSE ESG EXPERTISE FOR MORE RESILIENCE AND SUSTAINABLE 
VALUE CREATION
 
The consideration of ESG factors throughout the investment process and the pursuit of positive impacts for all 
stakeholders require a trained expert team that is attuned to environmental and social issues. Since 2014, our 
investment strategy dedicated to growth in Africa has included a sustainability specialist to help the teams achieve 
greater responsibility and value creation in their investments. Our strategy thus seeks to provide our African partners 
with the best possible support so they can improve their overall performance.
  AS AN ESG MANAGER, WHAT IS YOUR ROLE IN ANALYSING AND MANAGING INVESTMENT 
OPPORTUNITIES?
I help our investment team better understand the scope of the ESG issues and how to 
control them. This means that I work with them to assess the materiality levels of the ESG 
issues, analyse the level of control by the target companies and then define action plans 
that will enable us to steer their non-financial performance. Post-investment, I work closely 
with the local teams in our companies to guide them in executing the action plan and taking 
ownership of their non-financial priorities.
Malvina Pau
ESG Manager, AMETHIS Finance
Example of an investment completed in Morocco, in Groupe Premium
In 2018, our strategy focusing on supporting growth in 
Africa invested in Groupe Premium, the Moroccan leader 
in the leasing and sale of agricultural and construction 
equipment, machines and vehicles.
From  the  outset  of  our  investment,  we  helped  the 
company implement an integrated management system 
encompassing quality, occupational health and safety, 
and the environment. 
Collaborative work onsite and the strong involvement 
of Groupe Premium’s teams, whom we guided in this 
process  through  regular  dialogue,  were  key  to  the 
project’s success.
These efforts were rewarded in late 2019 when the company obtained ISO 9001 certification for 
quality management. The intention is to expand this work, which was launched within the Moroccan 
subsidiaries, and gradually and uniformly apply it across all the subsidiaries in sub-Saharan Africa.
17
AGROFORESTRY INVESTMENT STRATEGY
 
Faced with the challenges of deforestation and soil deterioration, often caused by agricultural practices based on 
intensive farming models, it appears to be more vital than ever that we preserve our ecosystems and biodiversity 
by developing more resilient agricultural alternatives which guarantee producers sustainable revenue. Set up in 2012 
by Edmond de Rothschild Private Equity and its partner ONFI4, our agroforestry impact investment strategy helps 
small producers in Sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America implement sustainable agriculture models. Agroforestry 
capitalises on the biological synergies between trees and crops or cattle to improve land management and preserve 
the ecosystems, increase productivity and thereby generate better income for the local producers and populations. 
Our vision is to offer our investors and local communities financial returns and at the same time help to reinforce 
environmental and social resilience in land use and the fight against climate change.
10 investments of this strategy have allowed:
2,324  12,684   15,484    1,613   over 8 Million  1.2 Mio  USD 1,2 Mio 
job opportunities    farmers   hectares    hectares    trees    trees   injectés  
created or  impacted   of land sustainably  of forests  planted   planted   dans l’économie 
maintained in   positively in   managed    preserved   since 2015  in 2019 locale depuis 2015
rural areas  vulnerable regions 
  HOW DO YOU WORK WITH YOUR LOCAL PARTNERS AS PART OF YOUR ESG STRATEGY AND THE 
PURSUIT OF IMPACT?
Agroforestry is one of the most effective ways to address the issues created by climate disruption in 
the agricultural sector and thus limit rural poverty in countries where this sector is one of the largest 
sources of employment and income. To meet the specific needs of each partner and region and 
provide support in
the transition of agricultural, environmental and social practices, I communicate regularly with 
our partners and frequently travel to the sites. These trips offer an opportunity to cultivate 
close working relationships and engage in dialogue with the producers we support in order to 
better understand their challenges, adjust the action plans and develop long-term partnerships 
to achieve more resilience in the agricultural industries and rural communities. In 2019, I travelled 
to seven of our 10 sites where we are investing, including a trip to Tolaro Global in Benin with the 
ESG & Impact Finance Manager of Edmond de Rothschild Private Equity.
Oriane Plédran
ESG Manager de Moringa Partnership
Our impact strategy in agroforestry is also:
22 % of employees of investee companies are women and 12 % have managerial positions
18 % of the farmers are women
10 companies provide decent working conditions by following good hygiene, safety and salary practices
6 local processing plants built
2 additional processing plants to support exploitation
3 projects for the production of clean energy from agricultural waste
4 The international branch of the Office national des forêts français.
EDMOND DE ROTHSCHILD PRIVATE EQUITY
Investment in Benin to strengthen the cashew nut industry
In 2017 our agroforestry impact strategy invested in Tolaro 
Global, one of the main cashew nut processing companies 
in Benin. Tolaro, which sources from local producers, has 
an 80% share of national exports.
Our investment helped finance the switch to large-scale 
primary nut processing by developing a subcontracting 
programme, and it helped finance the construction of a 
roasting, seasoning and packaging facility. As a result, 
Tolaro  redesigned  its  value  chain  by  promoting  local 
processing and the direct sale of the finished product.
 
 
7,102 ha 615 6,838
of sustainably managed land job opportunities suppliers
In May 2019, Tolaro Global obtained BRC certification with an A+ rating,making it one of the first cashew 
nut businesses in West Africa to receive this demanding certification.
Reducing the sector’s carbon footprint while supporting the local economy
Due to a lack of local processing facilities, 90% of the nuts harvested in the country are exported to Vietnam or 
India, where they are reprocessed before being distributed worldwide. By investing in Tolaro Global, we are supporting 
Benin’s economic development by bringing the production system back to the local community, and we are helping to 
reduce the sector’s substantial carbon footprint.
Actions in support of women’s employment and independence
Tolaro Global helps local small producers and agricultural cooperatives improve their output and secure better purchase 
prices. The group contributes to domestic economic growth by creating jobs, particularly for women, and by creating 
added value within the country.
In Benin, for the most part women do not have the right to own real estate or even inherit it from their husbands or 
parents. This position greatly 
limits their ability to engage in business activity and have 
means of subsistence, and therefore contribute to their 
country’s development. In light of this situation, Tolaro 
Global asks all the farmers who receive its support to 
bequeath part of their land to their wives.
The company has also created an on-site nursery, thus 
providing a childcare solution to some 60 female workers. 
Some men also take advantage of this solution, which 
frees up time for their spouses, who are then able to work. 
In 2019, the nursery took care of 78 children between six 
months and four years old, and had two nurses on staff.
19
IMPACT STRATEGY FOCUSED ON ENVIRONMENTAL  
INFRASTRUCTUREN IN EUROPE
 
With an historic presence in the European infrastructure 
sector, and in line with its ambition to expand its offering 
of  impact  investment  strategies,  in  2018  Edmond  de 
Rothschild  Private  Equity  introduced  a  new  strategy 
focused on European environmental infrastructure.
Targeting mainly water management, waste management, 
and renewable energy production, our strategy seeks to 
address the major challenges posed by the ecological and 
energy transition while supporting the circular economy.
Backed by a team of experienced partners, each with more 
than 25 years’ experience in these fields, we are uniquely
positioned to invest in European projects and optimise 
their  economic  and  environmental  value.  We  offer  a 
turnkey solution to manufacturers and local authorities 
faced with increased financing needs enabling them to respond to the imperative of modernising and optimising 
obsolete infrastructure.
 
Thanks to an investment thesis directly inspired by ecological and energy transition issues, and with the support of the 
ESG team of Edmond de Rothschild Private Equity, in January 2019 our impact strategy earned the French GREENFIN 
certification (formerly known as TEEC, ‘Transition Énergétique et Écologique pour le Climat’). This certification reflects 
our overall, and not just financial, performance objective, by aligning the creation of social, environmental and economic 
value.
Our impact strategy lies squarely within a long-term responsible investment approach. 
Thanks to its robust expertise, our team has a unique ability to invest in European projects and 
optimise their economic and environmental value while capitalising on the synergies between 
the fields of energy, waste and water. The quality and relevance of our investment theses 
have been validated by our fundraising success. This fundraising, which began in late 2018, 
continued successfully in 2019, enabling us to reach €240 million in total commitments 
by year-end from a diversified range of institutional investors. This success is expected to 
continue in 2020, reaching or even surpassing the hard cap level set at €250 million.
Jean-Christophe Guimard
Chief Executive Officer, Pearl Advisory
In particular, our strategy has been supported financially by two strategic international investors: the European 
Investment Bank and the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations, each having invested €40 million as part of their 
commitment to the ecological and energy transition and the fight against climate change.
EDMOND DE ROTHSCHILD PRIVATE EQUITY
STRATEGY FOCUSED ON BUSINESS TRANSFER
 
Human capital is central to business transfer
Our new investment strategy, which was introduced in 
2019, focuses on the issue of transferring family-owned 
SMEs, whose success represents a major challenge for 
the economic network and its vitality. Consistent with the 
values embraced by Edmond de Rothschild Private Equity, 
our strategy is innovative in its approach by placing human 
capital at the core of its responsible investor approach.
Recognising that the success of a takeover depends above 
all on the quality of the entrepreneur, we reverse the 
traditional approach of searching for targets by focusing 
first on the buyer. We start by selecting a pool of talented 
entrepreneurs that we then help identify attractive SMEs 
confronting their executive’s retirement.
The strength of our strategy lies in the distinct bond created between the buyer and the founding executive, and by 
maintaining the company’s independence, culture and values.
ESG considerations are integrated into the investment process and to support the purchased companies. For each 
company, areas for improvement are identified and an action plan is established with the support of the ESG team 
of Edmond de Rothschild Private Equity. This action plan is led directly by the acquirer entrepreneur. Our goal is to 
transform these SMEs and reintroduce them to the economy as better performers from both a financial and non-financial 
standpoint.
EUROPEAN REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT STRATEGY
 
With ways of life changing and the threat posed by climate 
change, the building sector has a crucial role in finding 
solutions to new societal and environmental challenges. 
Our real estate investment strategy anticipates and takes 
account of these megatrends to respond to sustainability 
issues while protecting the capital invested.
We target dynamic European cities, renovating existing 
stock  and  constructing  new  buildings  with  a  focus  
on energy efficiency, lifecycle analysis of the materials 
and the well-being of the occupants. As value creation 
is  dependent  on  the  appeal  of  the  spaces  created 
and  renovated,  we  place  users  first  and  incorporate 
technological innovation into our buildings for added 
comfort  and  well-being  coupled  with  better  energy 
Connected building of 3,283 m2 under construction in Montreuil (France) intended 
management.
for office use. Labelling objective ‘excellent’ according to BREEAM certification. 
Optimised energy performance thanks to the ‘biophile’ design of the building and 
We use our in-depth understanding of buildings, how 
the creation of green spaces.
they can be improved and the opportunities they present 
to design buildings that stand the test of time and  16,508 m2 of rental area renovated or rebuilt
offer an enhanced occupier experience. To be able to 
55 Mio € renovation budget (44 % of the asset purchase price)
offer our investor clients the best possible product and 
play our part in building the city of tomorrow, we have 
identified seven sustainability targets which translate 
into 23 positive impacts on a more scalable, resilient and 
innovative building.
21
ENVIRONMENTAL   
IMPACT
MANAGEMENT
IMPORTANT ISSUES 
  CO2 EMISSIONS FROM ENERGY CONSUMPTION 
  CO2 EMISSIONS FROM PROFESSIONAL TRAVEL 
  PAPER CONSUMPTION
  WASTE MANAGEMENT
The financial sector has a direct impact on the companies in which it invests. We 
incorporate climate risk management in our quest for ongoing improvement in line with 
the Group’s Responsible Investment Policy and Environmental Policy. Our commitment 
is clear: to direct our investments towards supporting a sustainable economy that will 
combine financial performance with social and environmental equilibrium.
As a responsible company, it is also our responsibility to combat climate change by 
controlling our carbon footprint, offsetting our CO2 emissions, buying recycled paper, 
controlling our own energy consumption and recycling our waste responsibly.
Successfully  managing  our  environmental  footprint  means  that  we  must  create 
conditions conducive to change and pay careful attention when setting goals in order 
to build a sustainable future.
EDMOND DE ROTHSCHILD PRIVATE EQUITY
MANAGEMENT OF OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
The 2019 results of Edmond de Rothschild Private Equity’s Carbon Report, along with two of its high-impact invest-
ment strategies:
CO emissions (in tonnes of CO equivalent)
2 2
EdR Private Equity  
Soil remediation strategy Agroforestry strategy
Platform
SCOPE 1 & 2
- purchasing of fuel (especially natural gas) 0.005 2.97 4.99
- purchasing of non-renewable electricity 
SCOPE 3
- IT equipment
32.77 94.88 204.64
- paper consumption
- professional travel
Total emissions 32.77 97.85 209.63
Footprint per employee 3.41 10.62 5.81
PROGRAMME INSETTING
 
Since 2017 our Group has offset its CO2 emissions corresponding to scopes 1 and 2 of its carbon footprint. By 
committing itself to Insetting rather than traditional Offsetting, the company allows socio-environmental commitments 
to be integrated in to the core of its business.
Implemented as part of the reforestation programmes in Nicaragua financed by the Edmond de Rothschild Private 
Equity agroforestry impact investment strategy, the insetting program actively supports coffee producers in Nicaragua. 
These producers receive training in their fields, where they learn to apply the most effective agroforestry practices. 
Trees are planted on farms and produce valuable fruits and wood. The region’s biodiversity is therefore preserved, 
improving local families’ food security.
In 2019, the reforestation project impacted 31 producers, 23 of whom were new, including 8 women. Experts from the 
insetting program help the producers set up, develop and maintain their plots of land, while controlling diseases and 
pests. The program also improves the greenery of schoolyards in the region to educate children about climate change 
and the risks of deforestation.
Offsetting of the CO  emissions (Scope 1 & 212) of the Edmond de Rothschild Group
2
Total since the start  
In 2016-2017 In 2018 In 2019 of the Insetting programme
Trees planted 14,218 13,892 13,535 41,645
Ha reforested 50 63 31 144
Tonnes eq. of CO offset 3,554 3,473  3,384  10,411
2
5   100% of electricity used id from renewable sources – no natural gas used.
2233
THE CONTRIBUTION AND IMPACT OF THE EDMOND DE ROTHSCHILD 
GROUP’S INSETTING PROGRAMME 
 
Agroforestry impact   Local and international  
‘Agroforestry Technical 
investing strategy players including  
Assistance Facility’
 of Edmond de Rothschild  development finance  
(ATAF)
Private Equity institutions (DFIs)
Insetting programme 
Cafetalera NicaFrance MATRICE programme of the Edmond de Rothschild  
Group
 first investment of the 
agroforestry strategy
NicaFrance  NICAFRANCE  
Outgrowers FOUNDATION
14 Financing of  Financing of trees   orts.
large and medium-  coffee plants to provide shade   ep
R
sized coffee farms   for the coffee plants er 
in Nicaragua me
p
O
y 
b
n 
e
k
a
d t
n
a
55  nk 
a
b
small coffee farms   nt 
e
in Nicaragua m
p
o
el
v
e
d
h 
c
ut
D
e 
h
For every  4 trees planted O, t
M
1 tonne of CO2 is offset y F
b
d 
e
n
o
missi
m
o
The insetting project represents, since 2016: os c
ot
h
p
41,645  10,411   1,016  90  144  ge: 
a
pltarenetes d   tonnoeffs seeqt.  CO2   frfoamm iplioessi tbiveen eimfitpeadc t    fproromd upcoesrist ibvee nimefiptaecdt    rehfeocrteasrteesd   osite p
p
p
O
EDMOND DE ROTHSCHILD PRIVATE EQUITY

Chief Editor:  
Delphine Patritti, ESG & Impact Finance Manager – d.patritti@edr.com
Contact:
Sylvia Demeyrier, Marketing & Communication – s.demeyrier@edr.com
Carlos Arias, Product Specialist – c.arias@edr.com
Sustainability reporting tool: FigBytes
Photographers and photos’ rights: Edmond de Rothschild Private Equity S.A., Opmeer Reports/FMO
Traduction : Labrador Translations
Disclaimer
This publication is for reference only and is not intended as a commercial offer, solicitation, public advertisement 
or recommendation to buy or sell any investment or other specific product. Its content has been prepared by the 
Sustainability team and is based on sources of information we consider to be reliable. However, we cannot provide any 
undertaking or guarantee as to it being correct, complete and up to date. The circumstances and principles to which the 
information contained in this publication relates may change at any time. Once published, therefore, information shall not 
be understood as implying that no change has taken place since its publication or that it is still up to date. The information 
in this publication does not constitute an aid for decision-making in relation to financial, legal, tax or other consulting 
matters, nor should any investment or other decisions be made on the basis of this information alone. It is recommended 
that advice be obtained from a qualified expert. Investors should be aware that the value of investments can fall as well 
as rise. Positive performance in the past is therefore no guarantee of positive performance in the future. The risk of price 
and foreign currency losses and of fluctuations in return as a result of unfavourable exchange rate movements cannot 
be ruled out. We disclaim without qualification all liability for any loss or damage of any kind, whether direct, indirect or 
consequential, which may be incurred through the use of this publication. This publication is not intended for persons 
subject to legislation that prohibits its distribution or makes its distribution contingent upon an approval. Any person 
coming into possession of this publication shall therefore be obliged to find out about any restrictions that may apply 
and to comply with them.
Copyright © Edmond de Rothschild 2020. Reproducing this document in whole or in part without the prior written   
consent of Edmond de Rothschild Group is prohibited.
www.edmond-de-rothschild.com
EDMOND DE ROTHSCHILD PRIVATE EQUITY

210x297 mm
WE DON’T SPECULATE ON THE FUTURE.
WE BUILD IT.
EDMOND DE ROTHSCHILD, BOLD BUILDERS OF THE FUTURE.
INVESTMENT HOUSE | edmond-de-rothschild.com 