
2018
REPORTING ON INTEGRATION OF 
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,
AND GOVERNANCE (ESG) CRITERIA
Article 173 (D 533-16) of the French Law on the Energy 
Transition for Green Growth
EDITO
Article 173 of the French Law on the Energy Transition for Green
Growth defines the information requirements for institutional
investors regarding their consideration of environmental, social and
governancecriteria. This represents areal development opportunity
forResponsibleInvestment.
As an asset manager, our fiduciaryresponsibility withrespect to our
clients is the implementation of all means that could reinforce a
long-term value creation. To this end, ESG criteria integration and
measurewithinourportfolios,isagreattool.
Florent Deixonne, 
LYXOR continues to expand its range of ESG investment products,
Head of Sustainableand 
such as thematic products aligned to four of the UN Sustainable
ResponsibleInvestments
Development Goals (clean water and sanitation, climate action,
LYXOR Asset Management
affordable and clean energy, gender equality), active equity
management solutions, butalso ESG integration within privatedebt
managementforFrenchSMEs.
In line with its tradition of innovation and expertise, LYXOR
developed a proprietary method which allow measuring ESG risks
and opportunities at portfolios level, notably including the climate
dimension, thus making possible for investors to dynamically follow
theseextra-financialconsiderations.
LYXOR is well positioned to help its clients meet the challenge of
sustainable investing. Therefore, the ability to provide indicators is
essential. Climate-related measures and their standardization are
crucialissues,attheheartofthecomingyear.
Therefor,2018wasparticularlyrichforLYXORintermofshareholder
engagement both considering the voting rights exercise and
dialogue. For its first engagement campaign, LYXOR wishes to focus
on climate transition and thus, naturally joined the international
initiativeClimateAction100+.
Assessment time is approaching: after two years of application, this
third “173 report” offers a synthesis of ESG criteria integration
withinLYXOR.
Haveagoodreading!
2
2018 KEY FIGURES
€137,3   €1,1  €62 
bn bn bn
Assets under  Sustainable assets(2) Assets covered by an 
managermentand  approach of exclusion (3)
advisory(1)
A+ 1st 285
UN-PRI rating «Strategy &  Green Bond ETF  Funds assessed by the tool
Governance», 2018 certified TEEC  ESG & Climate Risk Assesment 
in the World
€14
200 22%
bn
Voted assets Number of voted  Average rate of opposition at 
general meetings general meetings 
(1) Figures as of December 31st, 2018. Included €19.6bn of assets under advisory. Figures concern the entire LYXOR Group 
including LYXOR Asset Management and LYXOR International Asset Management. 
(2) ESG Selection, Sustainable Thematic Investments
(3) Defense, Norm-based or Thematic exclusions
3
CONTENT
• Edito 2
• 2018 Key figures 3
• Introduction 5
• I. General approach for ESG criteria inclusion  6
in investment policies(D533-16-1 II-1°)
• II. Description of ESG and Climate risks, exposure of our  10
activities and internal process to manage them(D533-16-
1 II-2°& III-2°)
• III. Impact on investment policies and decisions (D533-16- 18
1 II-2°)
• Appendix 22
• Notice 23
4
INTRODUCTION
LYXOR Asset Management Group ("LYXOR"), As part of its Responsible Investment Policy, 
composed of two French companies(1), is a  LYXOR’s commitments are built around three 
European specialist in asset management, expert  pillars:
in all types of investment, active, passive and 
alternative.  • Providing innovative solutions that incorporate 
ESG criteria
LYXOR creates innovative investment solutions in 
order to meet the long-term challenges of  • Acting as an engaged and responsible 
managing savings. shareholder
Thanks to its expertise and its tradition of  • Integrating ESG criteria in the heart ofitsmodel
engineering and research, LYXOR combines 
pursuit of performance and risk management.
We are a signatory to the Principles for 
Responsible Investment set out by the United 
Nations (www.unpri.org). We are committed to 
respect these principles.
LYXOR’s 6 commitments as a signatory of the PRI
1 2 3 4 5 6
We will  We will be active  We will seek  We will promote  We will work  We will each 
incorporate ESG  owners and  appropriate  acceptance and  together to  report on our 
issues into  incorporate ESG  disclosure on ESG  implementation  enhance our  activities and 
investment  issues into our  issues by the  of the Principles  effectiveness in  progress towards 
analysis and  ownership  entities in which  within the  implementing the  implementing the 
decision-making  policies and  we invest. investment  Principles. Principles.
processes. practices. industry.
(1)LYXOR Asset Management and LYXOR International Asset Management. The LYXOR group also includes foreign 
companies.
5
I. GENERAL APPROACH FOR ESG CRITERIA INCLUSION 
IN INVESTMENT POLICIES (D533-16-1 II-1°)
I.1 General approach regarding the inclusion of ESG issues in the investment policy and risk management 
within LYXOR
At present LYXOR’s SRI Policy includes the following key areas:
• A SRI approach in line with our commitments. LYXOR applies an exclusion of issuers associated with 
controversial sectors and products such as prohibited weapons. LYXOR also integrates ESG criteria into its 
exclusion and selection factors in some of its Active and Passive investment vehicles,in order to integrate 
extra-financial risks into its solutions.
• Shareholder Engagement. An Active Ownership activity was implemented through the exercise of voting 
rights,as well as interaction with companies on specific ESG issues.
• UN PRI : LYXOR is a signatory of the UN Principles for Responsible Investment since 2014.
I.2 Content, frequency, and means used by LYXOR to inform clients (subscribers, affiliates, beneficiaries 
and contributors)
• LYXOR’s SRI Policy and the other documents presented below are reviewed each year and are available on 
the Group's website: https://www.LYXOR.com/en/socially-responsible-investment
O Article 173 report of the French Law on energy transition for green growth 
O Voting and engagement Policy
O Annual Voting reports
• Pursuant to Article 173, LYXOR will integrate a description of the main criteria considered for ESG issues,as 
well as climate information such as carbon footprint measurement in the relevant fund’s annual reports. 
• For its sustainable investments funds,  LYXOR published a European SRI Transparency Code (Eurosif–FIR -
AFG). The Transparency Codes have been updated in 2018 in order to reflect the most relevant practices in 
Sustainable and Responsible Investment and Sustainable Finance (Article 173,–Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosure (TCFD), HLEG recommendations).
• On client demand, LYXOR provides ESG & Climate Risk Assessment factsheets on its vehicles. LYXOR discloses 
Carbon Footprints of all its Equity ETF vehicles on its website: LYXORETF.com
• LYXOR  took part in press articles and conferences concerning ESG integration within Asset Management. 
Internal experts of responsible finance have provided their views addressing topics like ESG and sustainable 
ETF, the rise of Voting and Engagement within Asset Management…
6
I.3 Source of information used for analysis and type of analysis provided (III-1°-a)
LYXOR has a dedicated ESG/SRI team (LYXOR Sustainable and Responsible Investments Team), which oversees 
SRI development, as well as develops and implements the Responsible Investment Policy. The team centralizes all 
ESG/SRI-related matters and represents LYXORLYXOR in the diligence process. 
The SRI team has several internal relays in particular within the Fund Management, Sales, Marketing, Analysts
andRiskteams.
Inaddition,LYXORisusingavarietyofexternalinformationsources.Eachpartnershipwasputinplacefollowing
rigorousselectionandduediligenceprocedures.
ISS-Ethixservices to identify companies considered in breach of its 
Defense Policy.
Sustainalyticsservices to identify companies that are associated with 
serious and repeated breaches of norms and standards adopted by 
LYXOR and/or mandatory requirements relating to controversial sectors 
and products.
ISSservices (InstitutionalShareholderServices) on voting 
recommendations in addition of LYXOR internal research on corporate 
governance. The voting recommendations are based on LYXOR's voting 
policy. 
MSCIand Sustainalyticsas ESG data providers.
MSCIservices on Climate data for listed issuers and sovereign assets.
VigeoEirisservices as part of LYXOR’sESG evaluationappliedto unlisted
SMIDsassets.
7
I.4 List and % share of funds (in assets under management) that integrate ESG criteria (III-3°-a)
AsofDecember31st2018,around67%ofLYXOR’sAssetsundermanagementiscoveredbyanESGapproach.
ESGApproaches AUM (€ 12/31/2018) %  of AUM
Exclusion 62,398,399,232 53%
Thematic investment 608,891,156 0.52%
ESG Selection 156,409,407 0.13%
Sub total 63,163,699,796 54%
Shareholder Engagement (1) 16,083,827,772 14%
Total  (1) 79,723,44,247 67%
Some of LYXOR’s investment strategies do not explicitly consider ESG criteria, because of either specific
investmentmanagementprocessesorlegaland/orcommercialconstraints.
(1)AUMinShareholderengagementincludeddoublecountingwithAUMinESGapproachesdescribedabove
8
I.5 The use of (or membership in) labels, initiatives, charters, and codes related to ESG integration
We are a signatory to thePrinciples for Responsible  In 2018, LYXOR has joined the Climate Action 100+, 
Investment set out by the United Nations  an international initiative led by investors in order to 
(www.unpri.org). We are committed to respect these  systemically engage important greenhouse gas 
principles, by incorporating ESG (Environmental,  emitters and other companies, across the global 
Social and Governance) issues in our policies and  economy, that have significant opportunities to drive 
practices in order to influence companies to move  the clean energy transition and to help achieving the 
towards more sustainable practices.  goals of the Paris Agreement. 
LYXOR obtained the "A+" rating in Strategy and  The choice of the climate change issue as first 
Governance in 2017. thematic engagement is in continuity with LYXOR’s 
policy for Socially Responsible Investments.
Our organization is involved in discussions conducted 
at domestic and European level within our sector 
associations (AFG, EFAMA, PRI) via dedicated working 
groups on Responsible Investment (1). LYXOR is a 
LYXOR has joined the Climate Bond Initiative 's 
member of the AFG’s Technical committees on: 
partners program, to demonstrate its determination 
to contribute to low carbon investment.  As a first  • ResponsibleInvetsment,
step in that direction, LYXOR and CBI have unveiled a 
deep-dive report into the French green bonds  • CorporateGovernanceto contribute to spread 
market. good governance practices among AFG members.
(1) For example, within these bodies, LYXOR notably participated in the 2019 AFG recommendations on corporate 
governance.  Within the context of the EC Action Plan “Financing Sustainable Growth”, LYXOR has participated to a 
recommendation paper. This paper aims to serve as input in the initiative to be launched end of Q2 2018 by the 
Commission for harmonizing benchmarks comprising low-carbon issuers then publish a report on the design and 
methodology of the low-carbon benchmark by Q2 2019. LYXOR participated to the PRI’s “Spotlight on responsible 
investment in Private Debt”.
Technical committees and working groups feed the work of AFG's commissions, board of directors and strategic 
committee. They serve as a "Think Tank" for the profession.
9
II. DESCRIPTION OF ESG AND CLIMATE RISKS, EXPOSURE OF OUR ACTIVITIESAND 
INTERNAL PROCESS TO MANAGE THEM (D533-16-1 II-2°& III-2°)
LYXOR extends gradually an ESG & Climate reporting capacity (including carbon footprint) using a proprietary 
methodologyat its investment vehicles level.
This tool covers all asset classes (equities and bonds, including companies, countries, government 
organizations) and identifies ESG risks and opportunitiesincluding among other things, indicators that measure 
risks associated with climate change.
Thus, investors can analyze their exposure to these risks and benefit, thanks to the ESG and Climate Reporting 
of their investment vehicles.
II.1 Description of ESG criteria considered
II.1.1 ESG  Criteria–Listedcompanies
The consideration of ESG criteria is based on the conviction that extra-financial analysis broadens the selection 
process and contributes to the robustness of management processes as well as the creation of long-term value.
The ESG factors are subject to weighting, which leads to a prioritization of the E, S and G domains (but also 
related sub-themes) in relation with the sector of the analyzed company.
The main cross-sectoral ESG criteria covered include: 
• In terms of governance, structure of Board of Directors / Supervisory Board, independence of committees, 
remuneration policyand practices, relation with shareholders, functioning of internal audit and control 
measures, transparency of financial information ...
• In relation to socialissues, development of human capital (training, quality and management of the 
workforce, health & safety), quality and safety of the products / services sold, practices regarding suppliers / 
subcontractors, social opportunities related to the business sector (access to healthcare, healthy nutrition) …
• In terms of the environment, company's policy and strategy, promotion of responsible purchasing, eco-
design of products, water management, control of greenhouse gas emissions, carbon footprint of products / 
services, waste management and hazardous substances control, opportunities in green technologies …
The rating of LYXOR investment vehicles is calculated monthly and the general methodology is regularly 
reviewed and at least once a year.
10
II.1.2 ESG criteria–Unlistedcompanies
LYXOR analyzes the ESG practices of SMEs (Small and medium-sized enterprises) by setting up an analysis 
adapted to the specificities of these companies and their sectors. LYXOR integrates these ESG issues within the 
entire investment life cycle, whether by assessing risks and ESG practices of SMEs before each investment, or by 
means of annual ESG due diligence of companies in order to identify their areas of improvement and thus, to 
dialogue with them on their extra-financial management. 
The main cross-cutting ESG criteria covered include: 
• In terms of governance, to promote balance of powers and effectiveness of the governance body, to respect 
rights of shareholders, to promote effectiveness of internal audit and control systems and tointegrate CSR in 
executive compensation…
• The socialpolicy of the company is also considered using criteria such as analysis of compensation systems, 
training and career development, prevention of discrimination and action for equal opportunities, respect of 
human rights, protection of employees’ health and safety, promotion of a responsibility towards customers 
and loyalty of commercial practices…
• In the environmentalfield, analysis include the integration of environmental issues in the SMEs’ strategy, in 
the production and distribution of products, performance of its subcontractors / suppliers, the management 
of natural resources and raw materials is studied, as well as environmental considerations embedded in the 
use and end of life of company's products…
II.1.3 SpecificESG Criteria–Sovereign bonds
Convinced of the relevance of a specific ESG integration methodology for sovereign issuers, LYXOR relies on 
MSCI rating, which is based on a risk / opportunity approach (as for corporate issuer) and distinguishes each 
issue of the E, S and G domains. ESG Government Ratings reflect how countries’ exposure to ESG risks and heir 
ability to manage them, may affect the long-term sustainability of their economies.
The main extra-financial indicators are the followings: 
• In terms of governance, analysis include democratic aspects, respect of political and civil liberties, perception 
levels of corruption, penal and judicial system. The quality of regulation and its application, financial 
capacities…
• At sociallevel, development of human capital (higher and technical study), level of access to basic needs, 
education, health and retirement systems, as well as the quality of basic infrastructures. The analysis also 
looks at macroeconomic environment, gender inequalities as well as the business climate …
• In the field of environment, management of country's natural resources is considered, vulnerability of 
national resources to divers climatic events (water, agriculture, forest, impact of natural disasters) as well as 
exposure to climate change…
11
II.2 Methodology and results of the ESG risk exposure analysis (III-2°)
The ESG & Climate Reporting identifies risks and opportunities of the different issuers in our portfolios 
(companies and governments). This allows investor to analyze its exposure to these risks.
A. ESG Risks
The ESG rating measures the ability of the underlying issuers, to manage key risks and opportunities related to 
E, S and G factors (in relation to their sectors).
LYXOR carries out an ESG rating for all its vehicles, when their transparency allows it. 
Reports include an ESG rating of the 
investment vehicle which combines the 
rating of each underlying issuers (let it be 
corporate or sovereign assets) and their 
weight within the portfolio. 
Rating’s granularity is given for each of the 
pillars E, S and G, as well as at sub-themes’ 
level. 
The report details for each of the pillars, the themes assessed and rated:
12
B. ESG Controversies
LYXOR identifies the exposure of its portfolios to companies associated with controversies (according to their 
degree of severity) related to a negative impact of company operations, governance practices, and/or products 
and services, as well as a violation of international standards (including the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the UN Global Compact):
• Redindicates at least one very severe controversy,
• Orangeindicates one or several severe and structural 
controversies,
• Yellowindicates the severe extra-structural 
controversies,
• Greenindicates moderate controversies which do not 
violate these standards.
This controversial analysis is based on four factors: 
• The appropriate ESG issues that covers the controversy,
• The severity of the case,
• The status of the case -concluded or ongoing,
• The type of case -whether or not a controversy is based on underlying management problems at the 
company.
LYXOR report also the exposure of its portfolios to UN Global Compact controversies:
13
II.3 Description of criteria related to Climate issues (III-2°)
In addition to this rating, and in the light of the consideration of climate risks and portfolio contribution to 
energy and ecological transition, as well as LYXOR’s alignment with the international objective of limiting global 
warming to 2 degrees by 2100, LYXOR published new indicators to measure climate risk exposures, such as the 
share of companies with fossil fuel reserves, in order to better target risks and opportunities for energy 
companies, in relation to climate change.
LYXOR has decided to publish the following exposures calculated at theportfolio level:
• Portfolio Carbon Footprint: the measurement of GHG emissions from investments,gives investors an 
indication of their current financed emissions.
• In regards with transition risk and more specifically, the stranded assets, LYXOR has chosen to present:
✓ The share of reserves (thermal coal, gas, oil) of which an investor would be responsible according 
to his investment in the portfolio (per/ $ M invested),
✓ Potential emissions associated to these reserves of fossil fuels (expressed in tCO2e per/ $ M 
invested),
✓ A focus is also presented on potential emissions from high-impact fossil fuel reserves (thermal 
coal, oil sands, oil and shale gas).
• In regards with carbon risk management, LYXOR presents at the portfolio level a classification of issuers 
based on their efforts concerning energy initiatives (use of cleaner energy sources, energy consumption 
management and operational efficiency, carbon reduction targets).
• In regards with theportfolio's exposure to issuers offering environmental solutions, LYXOR presents the 
exposure to revenues devoted to environmental solutions that contribute to the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs).
14
A. Carbon Risks
• Portfolios’ measurement of GHG emissions gives investors an indication of their current financed emissions 
and will allow LYXOR to propose actions to implement, in order to reduce this carbon footprint.
• LYXOR developed a proprietary methodology to calculate the carbon footprint of its portfolios. These metrics 
are partly based on declarative data and / or are estimated.
• To ensure transparency, LYXOR states that main data on GHG emissions are based solely on scopes 1 & 2 
due to the lack of availability of other data, particularly those related to scope 3. For carbon footprints, 
LYXOR indicates the percentage of the declarative and estimated data.
LYXOR reports on all its funds, three Carbon intensities when transparency is allowed:
• Carbon Emissions by million invested (tons CO2e per $M invested): it measures the volume of Greenhouse 
Gas (GHG) emissions for which the portfolio is responsible, in proportion to its share of capital,
• Carbon intensity (CO2e tones per $ M turnover): Carbon emissions are calculated based on the estimated 
volume of a company's direct (scope 1) and indirect (scope 2 only) greenhouse gas emissions,related to its 
total turnover. Carbon intensity is measured by dividing the volume of greenhouse gas emissions in 
equivalent tCO2 by the turnover in millions of euros,
• The weighted average Carbon intensity (in tCO2 per $ M income) measures the exposure of the portfolio to 
intense carbon emitters on scopes 1 and 2.
These measures do not take into account all emissions induced by the company,particularly those related to 
the use of products,or upstream by suppliers (scope 3).
15
B. Natureof criteria related to Transition Risks 
• In order to take into account and measure transition to issuers due to climate change, LYXOR also 
incorporates additional data such as portfolio's exposure to issuers holding fossil fuel reserves, that may 
become impaired or stranded assets in the context of a low carbon transition.
• In the extent that total potential emissions of known fossil fuel reserves, vastly exceed the limit of emissions 
indicated by the scientific consensus in order to manage climate change, many of these reserves may not be 
usable.
• If this is the case, the market values of companies holding reserves, may be overstated because they are 
partly based on the present value of these reserves, assuming that they can be fully consumed.
• This exposure, which can be described as brown area share, defines the portion of the portfolio invested and 
exposed to fossil fuels :
• In regards with fossil fuel reserves, LYXOR presents the portion of reserves aninvestor would be responsible 
for, based on dollar invested in the portfolio:
MMBOE : Million Barrels of Oil Equivalents
• LYXOR also presents potential emissions from fossil fuel reserves and a focus on high-impact reserves:
16
C. In regards with carbon risk management
Companies have a variety of strategies to reduce emissions, including setting targets for reductions, using 
cleaner energy sources and managing energy consumption. While these efforts vary considerably across 
companies, we categorize them as ‘No Efforts’, ‘Some Efforts’, and ‘Aggressive Efforts’ to make them more 
comparable. 
This information is presented at portfolio level.
D. Portfolio exposure to issuers offering environmental solutions
LYXOR calculates the proportion of "green activities" which corresponds to the percentage of amount invested 
in companies which activity contributes to climate change mitigation (renewable energies, energy efficiency, 
green building ...).
This green area share allows LYXOR to measure in its funds the share of issuers with activities that foster the 
ecological transition and are therefore likely to benefit from a low carbon transition.
17
III. IMPACT ON  INVESTMENT POLICIES AND DECISIONS (D533-16-1 II-2°)
Capitalizing on our financial engineering expertise and 
SRI IS NOW A CORE INVESTMENT ISSUE FOR OUR ability to innovate, we are already creating solutions 
CLIENTS. TAKING EXTRA-FINANCIAL CRITERIA INTO for our clients that wish either to have a positive and 
CONSIDERATION PLAYS A KEY ROLE IN THE GROWTH measurable impact through their investments,or to 
OFOURBUSINESS. restrict or refrain from investing in companies with a 
major ESG risk profile.
III.1 Description of LYXOR‘s ESG approaches
Taking non-financial criteria into consideration plays a leading role in the growth of our business. By developing 
the following investment, LYXOR is able to advise its clients to successfully move their investments towards 
greater transparency, as well as more social and environmental responsibility. 
• Funds that apply an exclusion approach:
✓ LYXOR has implemented an exclusion list based on  ✓ LYXOR has also implemented an exclusion list 
the Defense Sector Policy as a filter to its swap  based on “Norm-based Policy”, that is integrated in 
based ETFs, its Absolute Return, Risk Based and  LYXOR’ sustainable investment solutions, which 
Solutions businesses as well as "ex controversial  excludes companies associated with serious and 
weapons" Managed Account Platform, wherever  repeated breaches of UN Global Compact 
legally possible and independently enforceable by  Principles. 
LYXOR
The Global Compact ten principles derive from 
This core exclusion list applies to companies that  international standards and guide the behavior of 
deal with the following weapons considered  companies in the following areas: Human Rights, 
prohibited or controversial: Labor, Environment and Corruption.
• Anti-personnel mines, cluster bombs, or their  ✓ Moreover, LYXOR offers the possibility to 
key components, implement tailor-made multi-criteria exclusions 
which are in line with our convictions and 
• Depleted uranium munitions, as well as 
institutional clients' SRI concerns, such as the 
biological, chemical, nuclear or radiological 
exclusion of companies associates with a major 
weapons. 
ESG controversy, or involved in particular activities 
For investment vehicles where it is not yet possible 
or sectors.
to apply this exclusion list, LYXOR will carefully 
monitor the percentage held for this type of asset.  In some particular funds, LYXOR also excludes 
companies involved in activities or sectors deemed 
as controversial (Gaming, Tobacco, Human 
cloning...) or having the majority of their income 
from sector with important ESG risk (Coal…).
18
• SustainableThematicInvestment Funds
The ESG thematic approach consists in selecting companies active in themes or sectors related to sustainable 
development,such as renewable energies, water, health, or more generally climate change mitigation.
LYXOR currently offers ETFs that invest in four of the UN's Sustainable Development Goals (set of international 
goals to reduce poverty, protect the planet, ensure prosperity for all, etc.), namely the Climate Action (Green 
Bonds), Clean water and Sanitation (World Water), Clean and Affordable energy (New Energy) and gender 
equality (Gender).
Focus on a fund that promotes ecological and energy transition
In 2017, LYXOR launched the UCITS ETF Green Bond (DR). This fund replicates an index that is 
exclusively composed of investment in green bonds, allowing LYXOR's clients to participate in 
financing the energy and ecological transition, by investing in the green bond market.
These green bonds are securities which proceeds are dedicated to projects that have positive 
impacts on the environment, whether through the development of innovative solutions or 
projects that limit the ecological impact of issuers. 
LYXOR has decided to set up a partnership with theClimate Bonds Initiative (CBI), one of the 
major players in this green bond market, in order to benefit from its knowledge and robust 
process in asset selection. 
The criteria of the index developed in partnership with LYXOR are rigorous, indeed to be able 
to integrate the Index green bonds must follow a four-step process that includes.
✓ Identification of environmentally themed Bonds
✓ Reviewing eligible bond structures, 
✓ Evaluating the use of proceeds and screening 
✓ Eligible green projects or assets for adherence with the Climate Bonds Taxonomy.
In addition, in order to comply with the requirements of the Energy Transition and Ecological 
Climate Label (TEEC label), LYXOR has added specific requirements:
✓ Minimum of 75% green bonds in the portfolio in accordance with the requirements of the 
TEEC label,
✓ Analysis and exclusion of Green Bond financing activities excluded by the Label,
✓ Application of ESG supervision and exclusion on highly controversial bond financing 
projects,
✓ Reporting on the positive impact of funded projects including the calculation of avoided 
emissions at the portfolio level.
19
• ESG Selectioninvestmentvehicles
This kind of approach involves the selection or weighting of the best-performing companies,as identified by the 
ESG analysis, within a defined investment universe. ESG selection can take several forms: Best-in-Class, Best-in-
Universe, and Best-Effort. This approach allows the integration of ESG issues into the selection of assets in a 
portfolio, favoring the most virtuous companies in terms of ESG management. 
Focus on innovative fund that applies ESG Selection 
LYXOR has launched a new range of ETF that combines ESG selection with the innovative ESG 
Momentum score that measures the trends of company ESG score.
These LYXOR MSCI ESG Trend Leaders launched in 2018 aims to create a positive selection by 
awarding companies striving to improve their extra-financial ratings. Four market exposures 
are offered to investors (European, US, World and Emerging), providing an alternative to core 
portfolio allocations, with better ESG ratings.
The LYXOR MSCI ESG Trend Leader vehicles take the ESG criteria into account as follows:
✓ Exclusion of companies active in sensitive sectors : alcohol, gambling, tobacco, civilian 
firearms, nuclear energy, conventional and controversial weapons:
✓ Exclusion of companies involved in a major ESG controversy (based on the MSCI ESG 
Controversy score):
✓ Companies are ranked according to their ESG ratings and ESG trends (annual improvement 
or deterioration of ESG ratings)
✓ The Index is constructed using a "Best in Class" strategy: the top ranked companies in each 
sector (in accordance with the Global Industry Classification) are selected to build the 
Index.
• Shareholderengagement
LYXOR's clients also benefit from our shareholder engagement in certain investment vehicles to influence 
companies in order to improve their ESG practices over the long term.
Convinced of the environmental, social and governance challenges, LYXOR has defined –as an extension of its 
approach of responsible investor and in line with its adherence to the United Nations Principles for Responsible 
Investment (PRI) –a shareholder engagement policy attached to securities held by the CISs (AIFs and UCITS) 
which it manages.
This shareholder engagement policy is reflected in two complementary areas: a shareholder policy and a voting 
policy, thereby fulfilling the fiduciary obligations to LYXOR's clients.
20
Indeed, LYXOR is convinced that good corporate governance can contribute to the improvement of long-term 
financial performance of companies in which it invests on behalf of its clients. Thus, the aim is to encourage the 
adoption of best practices and to mitigate the risks of corporates failure.  
in the long term result, improve corporate performance and therefore, improve shareholder value. In 
exercising its voting rights, LYXOR can contribute to enhance the economic and financial performance of the 
companies of which shares it manages on behalf of its clients, with the aim of driving best practice and reducing 
the Risk of corporate failure. 
The engagement policy that can be divided into two distinct and complementary actions:
• A proactive dialogue before general meetings in orderto enrich the analytical work and vote in perfect 
knowledge, and to push companies to adopt best practices in terms of corporate governance.
• A thematic engagement related to environmental, social, societal or governance issues with the goal of 
influencing companies to improve or adopt the Corporate Social Responsibility best practices.
Indeed, the key areas of good corporate governance in the context of LYXOR’s voting policy are the following:
✓ Protection of the long-term interests and rights of shareholders, supporting the “one share, one vote” 
principle, where shareholders have voting rights in direct proportion to their economic interest in a 
company,
✓ Independence and diversity of boards of directors to avoid conflicts of interests and to foster optimal 
effectiveness and efficiency,
✓ Balance of the company’s financial structure allowing both to have the essential conditions to deploy its 
strategy while preserving the position of the shareholder,
✓ Fair and transparent executives’ remuneration policy, in line with the performance of the company.
✓ Quality and integrity of financial information and related communication to shareholders,
✓ Integration of corporate environmental and social responsibility in the company’s operations for the benefit 
of the company, its shareholders and other stakeholders,
In 2018, the Sustainable and Responsible Investments team of LYXOR had the opportunity to carry out 36 
engagement campaigns among 32 European companies. These campaigns could specifically concern the 
issuer’s general meeting or being broader and address environmental, social or governance issues. 
In addition, LYXOR increased the exercise of its voting rights, by participating in 200 General Meetings in 2018 
(+27% compared to 2017). LYXOR has voted on 2613 resolutions and opposed or abstained on 583 of them, 
thus, which induces an opposition rate of 22% (compared to 13% in 2017). By opposing a resolution, LYXOR 
expresses its disagreement on certain topics (composition of the board of directors or supervisory board, 
remuneration policy, dilution of capital, etc.). In 2018, LYXOR opposed at least one resolution in 154 General 
Meetings, i.e. 77% of the General Meetings voted.
Our voting policy and the voting reports are available on the LYXOR website:
http://www.lyxor.com/fr/nous-connaitre/gouvernance/investissement-socialement-responsable/
21
APPENDIX
References to the 
Information to be provided under Article 173 of the Energy Transition Law  articles of the  Matching in the 
for Green Growth decree (D533-16-1) Report
• General approach regarding the inclusion of ESG issues in the investment 
policy and risk management within LYXOR 
II 1°
Part 1 –p 4
• Content, frequency, and means used by the LYXOR to inform clients 
(subscribers, affiliates, beneficiaries or contributors) 
• Source of information used for analysis and type of analysis  IIII-2°
• List and the % share of funds (in assets under management) that integrate  IIII-3°a
ESG criteria Part 1 –p 5
• The use of (or membership in) labels, initiatives, charters, and codes related  II-1°
to informing on the ‘quality’ of ESG practices
• Description of criteria related to Climatic issues 
Part 2 –p 7 to 9
o Carbon risks II-2°
o Nature of criteria relating Climate physical risks  III-1°-a
o Nature of criteria relating Climate transition risks
III-2°
• Methodology and results of the ESG risk exposure analysis  Part 2 –p 9 to 10
IIII-3°a
• Nature of criteria taken into consideration regarding climate issues 
III-2°
o Carbon Risk Part 2 –p 11 to 12
III-1°b
o Physical Risk
IIII-2°
o Transition Risk
• Impact on Investment Policies and decisions  II-2° Part 3 –p 13 to 16
• Focus on an example of a fund that promotes ecological and energy transition II-2° Part 3 –p 14
• Shareholder Engagement  II-2° Part 3 –p 15 to 16
22
NOTICE
This document is for informational purposes only and does not constitute, on the portfolio management company, 
an offer to buy or sell or a solicitation or investment advice, and must not be used as a basis or be taken in account 
for any contract or commitment. 
The information contained in this document is established on extra financial data basis available from various 
reputable sources. However, validity, accuracy, exhaustiveness, relevance and completeness of this information are 
not guaranteed by LYXOR. In addition, this information is subject to change without any prior notice and LYXOR shall 
not be obligated to update or revise the document. The information was issued at a given time, and is therefore 
likely to vary at any time. 
The portfolio management company disclaims any and all liability relating to information contained in this 
document and to a decision based or on reliance on this document. Persons receiving this document undertake to 
use the information contained therein in the limit of the sole assessment of their own interest.
Any partial or total reproduction of the information or the document is subject to the prior express authorization of 
the portfolio management company. 
LYXOR Asset Management (LAM) is a portfolio management company regulated by the Autoritédes marchés
financiers to conduct investment business in compliance with provisions of the UCITS (2009/65/CE) and AIFM 
(2011/61/EU) Directives. Société Générale is a French credit institution approved by the Autoritéde contrôle
prudentielet de résolution.
LYXOR International Asset Management (LIAM) is a portfolio management company regulated by the Autoritédes 
marchésfinanciers to conduct investment business in compliance with provisions of the UCITS (2009/65/CE) and 
AIFM (2011/61/EU) Directives. Société Générale is a French credit institution approved by the Autoritéde contrôle
prudentielet de résolution.
23
LyxorAsset Management –Tours Société Générale
17 Cours Valmy –92987 La Défense Cedex –France
www.lyxor.com- solutions@lyxor.com
LyxorAsset Management –SAS au capital de 161 106 300 euros –RCS Nanterre No 418 862 215
Copyright Janvier 2019–LyxorAM. Tous droits réservés.