
Sustainability Report
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
CCoonntteenntt
44 SSTTRRAATTEEGGYY  &&  MMAANNAAGGEEMMEENNTT 9911 EEMMPPLLOOYYEEEESS
5 Company profile 92 Good leadership
8 Sustainability strategy 95 Career with us
10 Sustainable Development Goals 98 Fairness and dialogue
12 Stakeholder dialogue 100 Diversity and inclusion
15 Materiality analysis 105 Work-life balance
107 Health and safety
2222 BBUUSSIINNEESSSS  EETTHHIICCSS
111111 EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTT
23 Corporate governance
23 Governance 112 Environmental stewardship
24 Compliance management 114 Climate action
29 Data privacy 117 Waste and recycling
30 Interactions with health systems 119 Water management
33 Tax governance 122 Plant and process safety
34 Suppliers
34 Supply chain standards
37 Mica supply chain 112244 CCOOMMMMUUNNIITTYY
39 Human rights 125 Community engagement
42 Bioethics
45 Clinical studies
50 Animal welfare 112299 FFAACCTTSS  &&  FFIIGGUURREESS
130 Report profile
133 Indicators
5533 PPRROODDUUCCTTSS
133 Economics
54 Innovation and digitalization 134 Business ethics
58 Sustainable products 137 Employees
58 Sustainable product design 149 Environment
62 Packaging and recycling 156 Community
65 Health for all 158 Goals
65 Global strategy 170 Recognition and rankings
68 Focus programs 173 Non-financial report
71 Open innovation sharing 181 GRI content index
73 Pharmaceutical supply chain 181 General disclosures
75 Prices of medicines 187 Economic Standards
77 Health awareness 190 Environmental Standards
80 Product safety and quality 194 Social Standards
80 Chemical product safety 201 Global Compact CoP
82 Patient safety 206 Assurance reports
87 Product-related crime 206 Assurance report NFR
89 Transport and warehouse safety 208 Assurance report SR
1
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
LLeetttteerr  ffrroomm  tthhee  CCEEOO
Dear Readers,
Science and technology are the keys to human progress. As a science and technology company, we take on
This is being demonstrated to us by the pandemic, which responsibilityforfindinganswerstothemostpressingchal-
theworldhasbeenconfrontedwithsincelastyear.Globally, lenges of our time. It is clear to us that sustainable entre-
researchers are collaborating closely and vaccines have preneurship and profitable growth are not mutually
been developed in record time. This shows that techno- exclusive, but rather mutually dependent. That is why we
logical progress and the positive force of science create embedded sustainability as a firm element of our company
sustainable added value for society. strategylastyear.Atthesametime,wesetourselvesambi-
At Merck, we are also contributing to the scientific tious goals: In 2030, we will achieve human progress for
community’s efforts to fight the virus. For example, we are more than one billion people through sustainable science
supporting over 50 vaccine projects, 35Covid-19 testing and technology. By2030, we will integrate sustainability
solutionsandthedevelopmentofmorethan20therapeutic into all our value chains. And by2040, we will achieve
options worldwide. climate neutrality and reduce our resource consumption.
We are committed to the United Nations Sustainability Our sustainability goals are ambitious. Yet we are
Development Goals. In this context, we are focusing on already seeing promising results today. More than 1,100 of
those fields in which our business operations can make the our Life Science products represent greener alternatives to
most impactful contribution. These include "Good Health conventional applications.Forsomeofoursolvents,weare
andWell-being"and"ResponsibleConsumptionandProduc- already using non-food, renewable resources. For instance,
tion." In addition, since 2005, we have been supporting we produce our solvent Cyrene™ from waste cellulose. We
the United Nations Global Compact and its principles in are also focusing on sustainable offerings in biotechnology.
the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental According to current projections, merely by optimizing the
protection, and anti-corruption. We underscored this posi- shipping properties of our ZooMAb® antibodies, we will
tion by signing the "StatementfromBusinessLeadersfor be able to prevent the emission of around 75metric tons
Renewed Global Cooperation" in 2020. of CO2 per year by2025. Specially insulated, ice-cooled
2
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
containers are no longer required to transport these anti- around the world, we are coordinating numerous activities
bodies, which are indispensable tools for a plethora of inordertoimprovethesituationinthemostdisadvantaged
applications in medicine and research; they can instead be countries. For example, since 2007 we have donated
shipped and stored at ambient temperature. 1.3billion tablets to the World Health Organization to fight
Tous,takingonresponsibilityalsomeanslearningfrom thetropical disease schistosomiasis. Moreover, through our
the experiences of the Covid-19 crisis. For example, this comprehensive strategy ranging from diagnostics to
applies to the ways in which we work together. As part of hygiene measures and awareness campaigns, we are
our"FutureWaysofWorking"program,wedevelopedprin- working to ultimately eliminate this devastating disease.
ciples in 2020 to improve future cooperation, for instance Research and technological progress are the most
byapplyingnewtechnologies,suchasartificialintelligence, effective means of overcoming the challenges facing
or by expanding our flexible working models. We plan to humanity. In this report, you will find many examples of
introducetheseatalloursitesaroundtheworldbytheend how we create long-term sustainable value through our
of 2021 so as to enable many employees to freely choose business activities. In doing so, we seek to balance envir-
when and where they work. onmental, social and governance aspects – for us as a
Beyond the boundaries of our company, we are dedic- company, for our stakeholders and for society at large.
ated to achieving fairer conditions, for instance in health- We expect all our businesses to make a positive contribu-
care. Globally, people still do not have equal access to tion. We see this task as our corporate responsibility. With
comprehensive healthcare, particularly in low- and middle- conviction, each and every day.
income countries. Together with partner organizations
Sincerely,
Stefan Oschmann
Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO
3
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Strategy & management
SSttrraatteeggyy  &&  mmaannaaggeemmeenntt
Within this chapter:
5 Company profile
8 Sustainability strategy
10 Sustainable Development Goals
12 Stakeholder dialogue
15 Materiality analysis
4
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Strategy & management
CCoommppaannyy  pprrooffiillee
 Part of the non-financial report
We are Merck, a vibrant science and technology company. Science is at the heart of everything we do. It drives
the discoveries we make and the technologies we create. We make a positive difference in the lives of millions
of people every day.
IntheHealthcarebusinesssector,weaccompanypeoplein more joyful and sustainable ways to live. We are curious
every phase of their life and help them to shape, improve, minds dedicated to human progress.
and prolong it. We enable personalized treatments for WeholdtheglobalrightstotheMercknameandbrand.
seriousillnessesandhelpmanycouplestorealizetheirwish The only exceptions are Canada and the United States. In
to have children. The digital platform and the products and these countries, we operate as EMD Serono in the biophar-
services in our Life Science business sector make preci- maceutical business, as MilliporeSigma in the life science
sionresearchsimplerandhelptospeedupscientificbreak- business, and as EMD Performance Materials (now EMD
throughs. They enable quicker access to healthcare and Electronics) in the high-tech materials business.
ensure that analyses are accurate and medications are Apart from our three business sectors, our financial
trustworthy. The developments we make in our Perform- reporting presents five regions: Europe, North America,
ance Materials business sector sit inside the technologies Asia-Pacific, Latin America, and the Middle East & Africa.
that are changing the way we use information and shaping As of December 31, 2020, we had 58,127 employees
our future. They make mobility safer, houses and devices worldwide. This compares with 57,071 employees as of
more intelligent, and technologies more sustainable. December 31, 2019.
Everything we do is fueled by a belief in science and In 2020, our 221 subsidiaries with employees in 66
technologyasaforceforgood-abeliefthathasdriven countriesgeneratedsalesof€17.5billion.Our100produc-
our work since 1668, and will continue to inspire us to find tion sites are located across 21 countries.
Employees and net sales by region – 2020
5
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Strategy & management
Group structure end-to-end bioprocessing systems to support the manufac-
Merck comprises three business sectors: Healthcare, Life turing needs of both emerging biotech and large pharma
Science, and Performance Materials. As of March 2021, we companies.Wehaveandwillcontinuetoplayacriticalrole
changed the name of the Performance Materials business in aiding the ongoing response to the Covid-19 pandemic,
sector to Electronics. supporting our customers working on combatting the novel
Healthcare discovers, develops, manufactures, and virus through our products, services, and expertise.
markets innovative pharmaceutical and biological prescrip- PerformanceMaterialsisadvancingdigitalliving.Our
tiondrugstotreatcancer,multiplesclerosis(MS),infertility, main focus is on the electronics market with our materials
growth disorders, and certain cardiovascular and metabolic andsolutionschangingthewaywegenerate,access,store,
diseases.Healthcareoperatesinfourfranchises:Neurology process, and display information. In addition, our highly
and Immunology, Oncology, Fertility, and General Medicine specialized, application-driven Surface Solutions business
&Endocrinology.OurR&Dpipelinepositionsuswithaclear makes life more colorful. Together with our customers, we
focusonbecomingaglobalspecialtyinnovatorinoncology, are discovering the next generation of high-tech materials
immuno-oncology, neurology, and immunology. On March andsolutions.Withstronggrowthtrendssuchas5GandBig
31,2020MerckdivesteditsallergybusinessAllergopharma Data,andnewapplicationssuchasautonomousdrivingand
to Dermapharm Beteiligungs GmbH, Grünwald, Germany. Internet of Things (IoT), we have set the course for future
In Life Science, with our Research Solutions, Process growth.
Solutions, and Applied Solutions business units, we are a The business sector consists of three business units:
leading worldwide supplier of tools, high-grade chemicals, Semiconductor Solutions, Display Solutions and Surface
and equipment for academic labs, biotech, and biophar- Solutions. We offer innovative solutions especially for the
maceutical manufacturers, as well as the industrial sector. electronics industry - for microchips and displays - and for
Research Solutions provides our academic customers with surfaces of every kind.
thechemicalsandbiologicaltoolsneededtomakescientific With the completion of the Intermolecular and Versum
discoveryeasierandfaster.ProcessSolutionsprovidesdrug Materials acquisitions, we achieved two major milestones
manufacturers with process development expertise and to transform Performance Materials into a strong solutions
technologies, such as continuous bioprocessing. Applied provider and leading player in the electronic materials
Solutions offers analytical workflows and both lab market. Effective March 4, 2021, we changed the name of
connectivity and digitization solutions to empower the labs the Performance Materials business sector to Electronics.
of the future. Our complete portfolio comprises more than The new name is the visible result of the strategic realign-
300,000 products, ranging from lab water systems to ment conducted over the past several years.
genome-editing tools, antibodies, and cell lines, as well as
Net sales by business sector – 2020
6
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Strategy & management
Governance tobeatop-tiercompanyinrelationtoourpeersintermsof
BasedinDarmstadt,Germany,ourcompanyoperatesinthe salesgrowthandmargin,andweaimtocontinuetodeliver
legalformofacorporationwithgeneralpartners(Komman- sustainable returns to our owners.
ditgesellschaft auf Aktien – KGaA). The general partner E. We are now in the growth and expansion phase of our
Merck KG holds around 70% of the total capital of Merck strategyandarewellontrack.FollowingtheVersumMater-
KGaA (equity interest); the shareholders hold the ials acquisition in 2019, we are giving priority to organic
remainder, which is divided into shares (share capital). growth while rapidly lowering our debt and pursuing a
Our shares have been included in the DAX®30, the blue- sustainablecultureofcostconsciousnessuntil2022.Wedo
chip index of the Deutsche Börse, since2007. In not rule out making large transformative deals, yet in light
September2008, our company was added to the ofourstrongbusinessportfolio,itismorelikelythatwewill
FTSE4Good Index, a sustainability index that assesses the complement our businesses through a number of small to
social, ecological and ethical conduct of companies. medium-sized acquisitions after 2022.
To achieve our strategic ambition of becoming the
Group strategy vibrant science and technology company, we focus on our
Over the past years, Merck has grown significantly through threeGroup-widepriorities:Performance,People,andTech-
aseriesofstrategicmovesthathaveenabledustodevelop nology.Additionally,weareembeddingthetopicofsustain-
into a vibrant science and technology company. We have ability into our Group strategy as an essential component.
systematically and continuously strengthened and focused Throughourbusinessactivities,wewanttobeeconomically
our portfolio of innovative science and technology successful and create value for society. At the same time,
throughout our business sectors. we endeavor to avoid generating subsequent costs for
WithourGroupstrategy,wewanttobecomethevibrant society.
scienceandtechnologycompany.By2022,weaimtohave Youcanfindmoreinformationonourcompanystrategy
strong, innovative science- and technology-focused busi- in our Annual Report 2020. Details on the sustainability
nesssectorswithleadershippositionsinourareas.Wewant strategy can be found there and here in thereport.
7
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Strategy & management
SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy  ssttrraatteeggyy
 Part of the non-financial report
The global community is facing numerous challenges that also affect our company and to which we are seeking
answers. These challenges range from climate impact mitigation, resource scarcity, a growing global population
anddemographicchangethroughtoinsufficientaccesstomedicinesforpeopleinlow-andmiddle-incomecoun-
tries.Wearehelpingtofindsolutionstotheseissuesandarecontinuallyworkingtosustainablyshapetechnolo-
gical progress for tomorrow. At the same time, we are working to become more resilient to potential risks.
Our approach: sustainable progress developingandmotivatingtalentedemployees.Wewantto
Our ambition is to leverage science and technology to set an example for ethical conduct.
achieve lasting progress for mankind. For us, sustainable We closely monitor newglobal trends and chal-
entrepreneurshipandprofitablegrowthgohandinhand.We lenges. In order to clearly understand the complex nature
canensureourownfuturecompetitivenessonlybycreating of the expected changes, we make use of the so-called
value for society. scenario technique, for example, which enables us to
Responsibleactionisanintegralpartofourcompany identify and incorporate aspects of strategic relevance. We
culture. This also includes respecting the interests of our also participate in dialogues and initiatives, share lessons
employees, customers and investors, as well as the learned and best practices with other organizations in our
community. For more than 350 years and across many industry and assess media and news coverage. This allows
generations, our company has been shaped and guided us to minimize risks while also leveraging new business
bystrongvalues.Valuesthatpromotesustainabilityhave opportunities.
always had a high priority – across all businesses.
Our innovative, top-quality products help us to resolve Defining a clear strategic direction
global challenges while securing our financial performance The rapidly growing challenges relating to society and the
at the same time. environment require a clear perspective for the coming
Safetyandethicsmatterjustasmuchtousasbusiness years. That is why we are embedding the topic of sustain-
success.Wemitigateethical,economicandsocialrisks ability into our Group strategy as an essential component.
as far as possible. We strive to keep our impact on the In 2020, we formulated new, strategic sustainability goals,
environment as low as possible, which is why safe produc- which build on what we have achieved in recent years.
tion techniques, high environmental standards and strict Throughourbusinessactivities,wewanttobeeconomically
quality management are a matter of course to us. Further- successful andcreatevalueforsociety.Atthesametime,
more, we aim to strengthen our company by recruiting, we endeavor to avoid generating subsequent costs for
society.
8
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Strategy & management
Our sustainability strategy
In order to firmly embed sustainability into our company, Corporate Sustainability Council. Having a broader scope
we have defined seven focus areas, within which we are of tasks, the Corporate Sustainability Council replaced the
currently implementing numerous initiatives and projects previous Corporate Responsibility Committee. As was the
and will continue to do so in the future. We use various case with the previous committee, the new council consists
internal key figures to record and evaluate progress. Addi- of representatives from our business sectors and from key
tionally, the company is planning to also link the long- Group functions, such as Procurement, HR and Environ-
termvariablecompensation oftheExecutive Boardfrom ment. However, in the future, its composition will reflect
2022 onward with the progress made toward achieving the regional aspects to a greater extent and include council
company’s sustainability goals. members from the regions. The Corporate Sustainability
In order to assess the sustainability of our products, Committee, which steers and monitors the implementa-
technologies and business activities, we have developed tion of the sustainability strategy, recommends corres-
SustainableBusinessValue(SBV),atoolthatenablesusto pondinginitiativestotheExecutiveBoard.Thecounciluses
evaluate the positive and negative impacts of our activ- the results of our regularly conducted materiality analyses
ities on society along our entire value chain. In addition to and the comparison with the individual business strategies
ESG (Environmental, Social, Governance) parameters, SBV to adjust the sustainability strategy throughout the Group.
also incorporates economic and ethical aspects as well as In addition, it ensures that the initiatives of our various
digitalizationandthebenefitoftheproductitself.Thisgives business sectors, Group functions and subsidiaries align
risetoamonetaryvaluethatquantifiesthesocietalbenefits with our Group-wide Sustainability strategy. The measures
aproductoffers,forexample,whichhelpsusdrivesustain- adopted by the Corporate Sustainability Council are imple-
abilityacrossourbusinessoperationsandpositionourselves mentedbyourlinemanagersaswellasbyinterdisciplinary
for future success. project teams.
In 2020, the Corporate Responsibility Committee met
How we steer sustainability twice via video conference. The central topics were, firstly,
Our Executive Board, which has overarching responsibility the development of the new sustainability strategy,
foroursustainabilitystrategy,hasapprovedourthreestra- secondly, the Sustainable Business Value method to
tegic goals. measure the effectiveness of sustainability activities and
The Group Corporate Sustainability unit, which is thirdly, the development of new climate impact mitigation
responsible for crafting and shaping the sustainability goals. The participants also discussed supply chain legisla-
strategy, regularly informs the Executive Board about the tion, human rights and animal welfare. In 2021, the new
progress made and the need for action. This unit is also Corporate Sustainability Council will meet and thus replace
part of our Group Corporate Affairs function, which reports the Corporate Responsibility Committee on the operating
to the Chairman of the Executive Board. Group Corporate side as well.
Sustainability is also responsible for the outcomes of the
9
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Strategy & management
SSuussttaaiinnaabbllee  DDeevveellooppmmeenntt
GGooaallss
TheUnitedNations(UN)2030Agendaisaglobalplantopromotesustainablepeaceandprosperityandtoprotect
our planet. Since 2016, countries and organizations have been working to implement this agenda with its 17
SustainableDevelopmentGoals(SDGs).Ourgoalisforourbusinessactivitiestocreatesharedvaluethatisboth
measurable andmakesarecognizable contribution. Inthiscontext,werelyonthepowerofscienceandtechno-
logy – with responsibility for the well-being of mankind.
Our contribution at a glance tion, we want to promote the work of scientists worldwide
In2020,wesetourselvesnew,strategicsustainabilitygoals with our innovations and support programs.
and embedded them into the overall strategy of our
company. Among other things, we analyzed how we can SDG 12 – Responsible consumption and production
actively contribute to the sustainable development of We use resources efficiently and reduce waste and emis-
society and achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. sions. We pay attention to this in our product development
The analysis showed that we have the strongest positive and in our manufacturing activities. We also help our
impact on five SDGs through our entrepreneurial actions. customers to manufacture their products more sustainably
Further information can be found under Sustainability andefficientlyandtoachievetheirownsustainabilitygoals.
strategy.
We summarize our contribution as follows: SDG 17 – Partnerships for the goals
Weneedstrongpartnersinordertodrivesustainabledevel-
SDG 3 – Good health and well-being opmentwithinourcompanyandbeyondandtobettermeet
Withourproducts,wecreateapositiveimpactonthehealth societal challenges. We therefore collaborate with a wide
andqualityoflifeofpeoplearoundtheworld.Throughtech- array of organizations, companies, federations, and
nological and scientific innovations, we are also helping to networks.
improve the health of underserved populations in low- and Through our sustainability strategy, we help to solve
middle-income countries. challengesglobally, and not only within these five SDGs.
Our management approaches and projects also support
SDG 8 – Decent work and economic growth SDG 4 (Quality education), SDG 5 (Gender equality) –
Weseeitasourresponsibilitytorespecthumanrightsboth supplemented by diversity and inclusion, SDG 6 (Clean
withinourcompanyandalongoursupplychain.Thatiswhy water and sanitation), SDG 7 (Affordable and clean
wearededicatedtoupholdingappropriateandfairlaborand energy), andSDG 13(Climate action).
social standards. We want to drive sustainable economic More detailed information on our quantitative and qual-
growth through progressive resource efficiency. itativecontributionstotheSDGsissummarizedinaninter-
active tool.
SDG 9 – Industry, innovation and infrastructure
Weuseourexpertiseinscienceandtechnologytomakeour
products,processesandinfrastructuresustainable.Inaddi-
10
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Strategy & management
Our contribution in detail
Inouronlinereport,weofferaninteractivetooltovisualizehowwecontributetotheSDGsinqualitativeandquantitative
terms.
ClickingononeofthehighlightedSDGsprovidesfurtherinformationforeachofthetargetsonhowwespecificallysupport
them through our management approaches, initiatives and projects.
11
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Strategy & management
SSttaakkeehhoollddeerr  ddiiaalloogguuee
Our business activities converge with the interests of many people, which is why engaging with our various
stakeholders is particularly important to us. Through this dialogue, we communicate our decisions and actions
transparently in order to secure our social license to operate. We aim to unite divergent interests as far as
possible, as well as build and sustain trust.
Dialogue at various levels stakeholders. We use this exchange to identify important
Our key stakeholders include our employees, customers trends and developments in society and in our business
and business partners, patients, the Merck family as the areas – and to take them into account when shaping our
majority owner of the company, shareholders, and our responsible entrepreneurship.
suppliers. We engage in a continuous dialogue with our
Our stakeholders
12
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Strategy & management
We regularly conduct a systematic materiality analysis, Communities
which gives us indications of stakeholder expectations. Discussion and information forums for residents in
In this way, we identify the economic, social and environ- the vicinity of our sites
mental issues that are important to our stakeholders – and
thus also to us. Roundtables and informational forums
We have established guidelines and principles for inter-
action with certain stakeholders. The focus is always on Healthcare systems
acting in accordance with the rules. For example, we have Event series
defined internal policies and review processes for patient
Alliances for better access to health
relationships as well as interactions with healthcare stake-
Discussions at a global level
holdersand business partnerships.
We communicate regularly with our stakeholders
Collaborationwithhealthauthoritiesandotherstake-
through a variety of channels. For instance, we conduct
holders
stakeholder surveys or organize topic-specific dialogues at
regional, national and international level. We also parti- Alliances for better access to health
cipate in discussions and informational forums as well as
throughouradvocacyworkandindustrycoalitions.Hereare NGOs
some examples of the dialogue formats used: Network meetings
Employees Discussions at a global level
Employee engagement surveys
Collaborations
Understanding our employees
Focus programs
Our approach to preventing accidents and promoting
health
Associations / Politics
Intranet “EVA” Collaboration in working groups
Keeping employees informed and encouraging dialogue Alliance for Integrity
Advocacy groups and industry coalitions
Germany-wide ideation program
Suppliers
Encouraging and rewarding ideas
Supplier surveys
Career fairs
Secure: How we are moving towards zero deforestation
Our approach to attracting and retaining talent
Dialogue events
Patients
Discussions at a global level
Patient Advisory Boards (PAB) to engage patient Access delivery mentorship
organizations in our clinical research
Shareholders
Close dialogue with patients and advocacy groups
Annual General Meeting
Member of various initiatives on the quality and effi-
Investor relations
ciency of clinical trials
Events for investors
Close dialogue with patients and advocacy groups
Capital market days
Employee representatives
Involvement of local employee representatives in Public authorities
company decisions
Subject-specific cooperation
How we engage our employees
Group-wide anti-counterfeiting network
Performance-based pay
Monitoring drug safety
Scientists Further information on stakeholder dialogues can be found
Merck Bioethics Advisory Panel; Digital Ethics in the individual report chapters.
Advisory Panel
Digital Ethics Advisory Panel
13
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Strategy & management
Roundtables and informational forums European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and
We hold roundtable discussions and informational forums Associations, (EFPIA)
for local residents at our major sites. Since 1994, we have InternationalFederationofPharmaceuticalManufacturers
beenholdinganannualpublicplanningforuminDarmstadt & Associations (IFPMA)
todiscussthedevelopmentofoursitewithmembersofthe Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America
city council, local authorities and the community. (PhRMA)
German Chemical Industry Association (VCI)
Involvement in initiatives European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic)
We collaborate with an array of civic organizations such German Association of Research-based Pharmaceutical
as the Goethe-Institut and the World Environment Center Manufacturers e.V. (vfa)
(WEC). We also participate in other initiatives that share
our commitment to responsible corporate conduct, such as Political donations
Chemie3andResponsible Care®. We do not donate to political parties or related organiza-
tions, holders of public office or candidates for such office,
Advocacy groups and industry coalitions nor do we offer them any other financial value. Contribu-
We actively participate in the political process and tions in the context of political dialogue and information
advocateourpositionsandviewsbyengagingpolicymakers exchangemustalwayscomplywiththeapplicablelaws.
in a direct dialogue as well as through our work with Thisapproachisstipulatedinourinternalguidelines.Inthe
industrycoalitions.Majornationalandinternationalindustry UnitedStates,politicalactioncommittees(PACs)havebeen
associations in which we are members and hold positions set up through which our employees can donate money to
are: support political candidates and organizations. These are
not donations made by our company, but rather contribu-
German Federation of Chemical Employers’ Associations tions made by employees. The contributions donated are
(BAVC) reported to the U.S. Federal Election Commission and are
Confederation of German Employers’ Associations (BDA) fully disclosed.
14
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Strategy & management
MMaatteerriiaalliittyy  aannaallyyssiiss
 Part of the non-financial report
Tounderstandwhichsocial,economicandenvironmentalissuesmattermosttoourstakeholdersandtoourlong-
term business success, we conduct an annual materiality analysis. This also enables us to meet the applicable
reporting requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the German CSR Directive Implementation
Act.
Material issues updated and validated Expectations that non-governmental organizations
Conducting materiality assessments helps us define and (NGOs)expresstowardsthechemicalandpharmaceutical
verify key topics for our sustainability management and for industries
the contents of our report. We conducted our lastcompre- The relevance of sustainability topics to our economic
hensive analysisin 2018, which reflected the requirements environment
and expectations that our stakeholders place on us. In Media resonance
2019 and 2020, we built on this approach and extended Issues that are relevant to our clients’ industries (new in
the analysis to include even more stakeholders and impact 2020)
factors.In2020,thematerialityanalysisthereforeincluded: Issues that matter to our employees (new in 2020).
Relevant regulations Theanalysisalsoincludesthewaysinwhichourindustries,
Goals and positions of our competitors value chain and sites impact sustainable development.
Requirements imposed by investor ratings
Materiality process
15
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Strategy & management
Results of the update theanalysis,butthisimpactedneitherthereportingframe-
The 35 topics identified as being significant to our sustain- work nor the contents.
abilitymanagementandreportingdidnotchangerelativeto We disclose information on our tax governance for the
the 2019 analysis.The results changed minimally because firsttimeinthisreport. Thistopichasnotyetbeendefined
employees and client industries were incorporated into asoneofourmaterialtopics,butweexpectittogainmore
relevance for our reporting audience in the future.
Material topics
16
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Strategy & management
Topics for the non-financial report Significant impact on expenses and income
The German CSR Directive Implementation Act obliges us Significant impact on cash flow
to review thedouble materialityof topics according to Impact on reputation
section289c(3)oftheGermanCommercialCode.Theprin- Regulatory requirements
ciple of double materiality requires companies to disclose Impact on the business model/future business areas/
non-financial information when the following two criteria R&D.
aremet:Firstly,theinformationisnecessarytounderstand
This year, for the first time, the topics of “Supply chain
the company’s business performance, business results and
standards”,“Energyefficiencyandrenewableenergies”and
financial situation and secondly, the information makes it
“Greenhousegasemissions”reachedthedoublemateriality
possible to understand how the company’s business activ-
threshold and are therefore included in the non-financial
ities affect non-financial aspects.
report.Topicsthatwereincludedinthenon-financialreport
In2020,weagainreviewedthedoublematerialityofthe
in 2019 are also included this year. Topics that fall within
identified topics. Weextended thereview methodology and
thescopeofthedoublematerialitydefinitionaremarkedin
evaluated the following factors:
thematerialitymatrixandlinkedtotherespectivechapters
in this report.
17
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Strategy & management
Material issues in our value chain
Thefollowingtableshowswhereourmaterialissuesfallwithinthevaluechain:upstreaminoursupplychain,inthecourse
ofactivitieswithinourownbusinesssectorsordownstreamwithourcustomersandpatients.Moreover,welistedtheissues
to show the breakdown of materiality by stakeholder groups.
Product safety and quality
Chemical product safety
Material for: Customers, Merck family, NGOs, regulatory agencies, sales and business partners, shareholders
Patient safety
Material for: Health systems, Merck family, NGOs, patients, regulatory agencies, shareholders
Product-related crime
Material for: Customers,federationsandpolicymakers,healthsystems,Merckfamily,NGOs,patients,regulatory
agencies, sales and business partners, shareholders, patients
Transport and warehouse
safety
Material for: Communities, customers, regulatory agencies, sales and business partners, suppliers
Ethical conduct
Bioethics
Material for: Customers, federations and policy makers, media, NGOs, regulatory agencies, scientists
Clinical studies
Material for: Federationsandpolicymakers,media,Merckfamily,NGOs,patients,regulatoryagencies,scientists,
shareholders, suppliers
Animal welfare
Material for: Media, NGOs, regulatory agencies, scientists, suppliers
18
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Strategy & management
Good business practice
Compliance
Material for: Competitors,employees,healthsystems,Merckfamily,NGOs,regulatoryagencies,salesandbusi-
ness partners, shareholders, supplier
Responsible marketing
Material for: Customers, federations and policy makers, health systems, media, patients, sales and business
partners
Community engagement
Material for: Communities, employees, media, Merck family, NGOs
Interactions with health
systems
Material for: Federations and policy makers, health systems, NGOs, patients, regulatory agencies
Governance
Material for: Customers, employees, employee representatives, Merck family, regulatory agencies, sales and
business partners, shareholders, suppliers
Data protection
Material for: Customers, employees, employee representatives, patients, sales and business partners, suppliers
Health for all
Access to health
Material for: Health systems, media, NGOs, patients, sales and business partners
Prices of medicines
Material for: Health systems, media, Merck family, NGOs, patients, sales and business partners, shareholders
Health awareness
Material for: Communities, competitors, health systems, media, NGOs, patients, sales and business partners
19
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Strategy & management
Supply chain standards
Supply chain standards
Material for: Competitors,customers,federationsandpolicymakers,media,Merckfamily,NGOs,shareholders,
suppliers
Human rights
Human rights
Material for: Communities, customers, employees, federations and policy makers, media, NGOs, suppliers
Sustainable products
Sustainable product design
Material for: Customers, scientists
Attractive employer
Diversity
Material for: Employees, employee representatives, media, Merck family
Recruiting and retaining
employees
Material for: Competitors, employees, employee representatives, Merck family, shareholders
Employee development
Material for: Employees, employee representatives
Good leadership
Material for: Employees, employee representatives
Employee engagement
Material for: Employees, employee representatives
Health and safety
Material for: Employees, employee representatives, regulatory agencies
Future of work
Material for: Employees, employee representatives
20
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Strategy & management
Technology
Innovation and R&D
Material for: Customers, health systems, Merck family, patients, scientists, shareholders
Digitalization
Material for: Customers, patients, scientists, sales and business partners
Resource efficiency
Waste and recycling
Material for: Communities, customers, NGOs, regulatory agencies
Water management
Material for: Communities, NGOs, regulatory agencies
Environmental protection
Energy efficiency and
renewable energy
Material for: Customers, federations and policy makers, NGOs
Greenhouse gas emissions
Material for: Customers, federations and policy makers, media, NGOs, regulatory agencies, suppliers
Plant and process safety
Material for: Employees, media, Merck family, regulatory agencies, shareholders
Biodiversity
Material for: Federations and policy makers, NGOs, regulatory agencies
Emissions
Material for: Federations and policy makers, NGOs, regulatory agencies
21
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
BBuussiinneessss  eetthhiiccss
Within this chapter:
23 Corporate governance
23 Governance
24 Compliance management
29 Data privacy
30 Interactions with health systems
33 Tax governance
34 Suppliers
34 Supply chain standards
37 Mica supply chain
39 Human rights
42 Bioethics
45 Clinical studies
50 Animal welfare
22
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
CCoorrppoorraattee  ggoovveerrnnaannccee
GGoovveerrnnaannccee
 Part of the non-financial report
For more than 350 years, responsibility has been an integral part of our corporate identity. It is one of our six
company values, alongside courage, achievement, respect, integrity, andtransparency. These corevalues guide
us in our daily work, defining how we interact with our customers and business partners. We endeavor to give
our best for patients and customers – and find solutions for the world of tomorrow.
Our approach to responsible governance We employmanagement systemsto steer processes
The requirements we place on responsible corporate and define goals, actions and responsibilities. These
governance are derived from ourcompany valuesand the systemsarebasedonstandards,suchastheinternationally
regulations, external initiatives and international guidelines recognized quality management standardISO 9001, good
to which we are committed. We have integrated these working practices(GxP)in the pharmaceutical industry
requirements into our Sustainability strategy and our andISO14001for environmental management. Our
Group-wideguidelines.Theseguidelinescomprisecharters company regularly under-
andprinciplesthatarevalidfortheentirecompanyaswell goesISO14001andISO9001certification, which is
asspecificstandardsandproceduresforindividualbusiness conducted by an independent auditing firm. We hold group
sectors and sites. certificates for both standards.
Some examples: OurHuman Rights Charteraligns with Wesupportthefollowingresponsiblegovernanceinitiat-
theUN Guiding Principlesfor Business and Human Rights. ives:
Our Group-wide Social and Labor Standards Policy reflects
We have been a participant in theUnited Nations Global
thelaborstandardsoftheInternationalLabourOrganization
Compactsince2005andarecommittedtocomplyingwith
(ILO). OurEHS Policy(Corporate Environment, Health and
its principles. Ourannual progress reportillustrates how
Safety Policy) for environmental impact mitigation and
we live our responsibility in our day-to-day actions.
health and safety forms the basis for implementing the
chemicalindustry’sResponsibleCare®GlobalCharterwithin As a signatory to the chemical industry’s Responsible
Care®Global Charter, we voluntarily go above and
our company. Our Regulatory Affairs Governance Policy for
beyond what is required by law and have adopted
chemical products sets out the processes and management
mandatory standards for product responsibility, environ-
structures forproduct safety.
mental impact mitigation and health and safety.
We comply with all applicable laws as a matter of prin-
As a member of the Together for Sustainability (TfS)
ciple. Where necessary, we review our internal guidelines,
network, we are dedicated to improving supply chains
standards and instruction manuals on compliant behavior
with respect to environmental,compliance and social
and adapt them to reflect changes in the regulatory land-
standards.
scape.
WearealsoamemberofInitiativeChemie3,acollabor-
ationbetweentheGermanChemicalIndustryAssociation
How we live responsible governance
(VCI),theFederalEmployers’AssociationfortheGerman
Based on the requirements set forth in charters, principles
ChemicalIndustry(BAVC)andtheGermanMining,Chem-
and policies, our internal standards give specific guidance
icalandEnergyIndustrialUnion(IGBCE).Thepartnersof
for operational processes. They are constantly updated by
thisgloballyuniqueallianceseektomakesustainabilitya
therelevantdepartmentsandareavailableonourintranet.
corepartofthechemicalindustry’sguidingprinciplesand
Our managers implement these standards in their
to jointly drive the sector’s position within the German
respective areas of responsibility and ensure that they are
economy as a key contributor to sustainable develop-
adheredto.Inaddition,weeducateandtrainouremployees
ment.
on all guidelines that apply to them.
23
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
CCoommpplliiaannccee  mmaannaaggeemmeenntt
 Part of the non-financial report
Responsible entrepreneurship starts with compliance. We take steps to ensure that all our activities adhere to
relevantlaws,regulationsandethicalstandardsaroundtheworld.Thisalsohelpsustoprotectourreputationas
an employer and business partner.
Our approach to compliance ContinuousImprovement:Basedonandapplyingtoall
Complianceisoneofourprimaryconsiderationsworldwide. elements of our compliance program
As an international company with operations also in low-
Wecontinuouslyreviewourcomplianceportfolioandupdate
and middle-income countries, we have stringent require-
our initiatives and programs where necessary. This
ments for effective compliance management. Importantly,
approach reflects new requirements as well as internal and
we seek to emphasizecomplianceby acting in line with
externalrisks,suchasthoseresultingfromamendmentsto
ourcompany valuesand believe that profitable business
legislation,relevantindustrycodesorchangesaffectingour
operations should go hand-in-hand with the highest ethical
company. We drive regular and targeted communication
standards.
andexchange internally within our compliance organization
and externally with our stakeholders and business partners
How we ensure compliance
to discuss current compliance matters, trends and goals.
Our Group Compliance function is responsible for the
We keep the focus on our people by ensuring the avail-
policies on the following core topics: anti-corruption and
abilityofappropriateresourcesandskills,maintainingclear
anti-bribery (including healthcare compliance, third-
rolesandresponsibilitiesand,basedonemployeefeedback,
partydue diligence, transparency reporting), anti-money
setting aligned and harmonized goals. We also ensure that
laundering,antitrust, and dawn raid preparedness.
our organizational structure is always up to date and suit-
Tocoverthesecompliancetopics,wehaveGroup-wide
able for our business needs.
policies and procedures in place that ensure our business
Our Group Compliance Officer reports on the status of
activitiesalignwiththerelevantlaws,regulationsandinter-
ourcomplianceactivities,potentialrisksandseriouscompli-
nationalethicalstandards.Othercompliance-relatedissues,
ance violations to the Executive Board and supervisory
includingtherespectiveinternalregulationsandguidelines,
bodies every six months at a minimum. As part of our
such asPharmacovigilance,Export and Import Controls,
regular reporting processes, we compile a compre-
andEnvironment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality, are
hensivecomplianceanddataprivacyreportannuallyfor
managed by the responsible functions.
the Executive Board, detailing the status of our compliance
Our Group Compliance function is responsible for our
program, continuous improvement initiatives and key
compliance portfolio, which consists of the following
figures on compliance and data privacy cases. Additionally,
elements:
weprepareamid-yearupdatetohighlightongoingdevelop-
RiskAssessment: Identifying internal andexternal crit- ments and the status of relevant projects and initiatives.
ical risks in regular business operations Our Group Compliance Officer oversees approximately
Policies & Procedures: Global policies, procedures and 95 Compliance Officers and Compliance experts around the
standards to mitigate identified risks (see the “Our world. The Compliance Officers implement our compliance
commitment: guidelines and standards” section for more programwithintheirrespectiveareasofresponsibility(with
details) local necessary adaptions if legally required) and receive
ComplianceCommittees/forums:Platformforcompli- guidancefromourGroupComplianceCenterofExpertise,a
ance-relateddiscussionanddecision-makingthatincludes centralized bodythatdrivesthedesignandupdatingofour
relevant key functions compliance program across all business sectors and Group
Training & Awareness: Appropriate training and addi- functions.
tional measures to educate and keep awareness high As part of the Group Compliance Center of Expertise,
Programs & Tools: Comprehensive compliance our global team for coordinating transparency reporting is
programs and supporting tools that contribute to internal responsible for incorporating current and upcoming trans-
controls and overall governance, such as third-party risk parencyreporting requirements in the healthcare
management sector– including those of the European Federation of
Monitoring & Reporting: Tracking of compliance- PharmaceuticalIndustriesandAssociations(EFPIA)andthe
related data as well as performance of internal and United States Physician PaymentsSunshine Act.
external reporting More information on our Healthcare governance and
Case Management: Timely response to reports of complianceactivitiescanbefoundintheResponsibleinter-
misconduct and implementation of corrective actions actions with health systemssection.
24
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
Integrating acquisitions into our compliance ance of fair competition and expect the same of partners
system acting on our behalf.
The implementation of our compliance program at legacy OurCompliance Reportingand Investigation Policy
Versum Materials has been completed. Legacy Versum includesthebasicstepsforaninternalcomplianceinvest-
Materials entities and sites will sometimes be referred to igation. Its purpose is to ensure an appropriate, timely
separately to address specific needs but are now included and thorough response to compliance-related reports of
aspartofthePerformanceMaterialsorganizationforfuture potential misconduct relating to any kind of internal or
compliance program evolution at Merck. Two role- external regulations or policies.
dependent e-learning training courses will be targeted to Our new Healthcare Ethical Guiding Principles
legacy Versum Materials employees in 2021. These provide our healthcare employees with ethical guidance
programs, entitled Global Anti-Corruption Standards and fordecisionmakingandactivitieswhiletakingthepartic-
Understanding Global Antitrust and Competition Laws, will ularchallengesandresponsibilitiesofthisbusinesssector
supplement the Merck Code of Conduct training they have into consideration. See the Responsible interactions with
already received. health systemssection for more details.
As of 2020, Versum Materials and Intermolecular are OurPharma Codefor prescription medicines as well as
part of the annual audit planning process of Group Internal underlyingpoliciesandadditionalguidelinedocumentsset
Auditing. In January 2020, a “post day 1 audit” and in outkeyprinciplesforinteractionswithstakeholdersinthe
October2020,an“Integration12monthspostDay1audit” health industry.
for Versum Materials was performed. Further audits, such Our new Standard on Local Compliance Standards
as those carried out at Versum Materials Korea or Inter- implements a review and approval process for local
molecular, are part of the2021 Internal Audit Plan,as governance documents in areas under the responsibility
approved by our Executive Board. of the Group Compliance function. This helps to ensure
a uniform approach while retaining sufficient flexibility
Our commitment: guidelines and standards to address stricter or more specific requirements and
Our compliance program builds on our company values needs on a local level. Our local teams can thus adhere
andintegrates these intoourcompliance framework, which to our compliance principles and guidance while imple-
contains Group-wide policies and procedures for entre- mentingspecific local policies or proceduresthat
preneurial conduct, which are mandatory for all our comply with local regulations.
employees:
TheMerck Code of Conductguides our people in Impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on our
conducting business ethically – in line with our values and compliance mechanisms
the law. It is available to all employees worldwide in 22 Due to travel restrictions and in order to keep our
languages. employees safe, we had to conduct audits from Darmstadt.
OurHuman Rights Chartersupplements our Code of Auditswereeitherpostponedoradaptedsothattheycould
Conduct with globally recognized principles on human be performed remotely from Darmstadt.
rights. The number of virtual meetings held by our employees
grew significantly due to the pandemic, increasing compli-
OurAnti-Corruption Policystipulates that all business ance complexity as regards data privacy and IFPMA, EFPIA
activitiesmustbeconductedinlinewithlegallyapplicable aswellaslocalpharmaceuticalindustrycoderequirements.
anti-corruptionstandards.Allformsofbriberyarestrictly We responded by providing appropriate guidance on how
prohibited. to comply with international and local regulations in the
Our globalMoney Laundering Prevention fast-changing virtual environment and we are adapting our
Policydefines and describes the internal global process requirements and procedures accordingly.
and assurance measures to protect our company from We contributed to the fight against the Covid-19
being misused by third parties for money laundering pandemic by donating protective equipment to healthcare
activities. organizations as well as other organizations around the
Our Group-wideAntitrust and Competition Law world. We also defined global processes and require-
PolicystatesthatallbusinessactivitiesacrosstheGroup ments to ensure these kinds of donations are made in line
mustbeconductedincompliancewithapplicablecompet- with our compliance principles as well as international and
itionregulationsatalltimes.Weacknowledgetheimport- local codes and regulations.
25
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
Risk assessment of bribery and adhere to environmental, health and safety
Proper compliance risk management is crucial to identify guidelines.
undetectedrisksandkeepourcompanyprotected.In2019, We apply a risk-based approach to selecting business
we rolled out a new overarching cross-sector compliance partners.Thegreatertheestimatedriskregardingacertain
risk management process. This “Compliance Risk country, region or type of service, the more in-depth we
Reporting & Self-Monitoring Process” comprises two examine the company before entering into a business rela-
components. Compliance Risk Reporting is the component tionship. We also explore background information from
inwhichcompliancerisksareevaluated.Theriskevaluation variousdatabasesandinformationreportedbyourbusiness
is conducted by the Compliance Officer, who determines partners.
the monetary impact and the extent to which the risk is If we encounter compliance concerns, we further
likely to occur, starting with the inherent risk, followed by analyze and verify the existing adverse information. Based
theresidualriskevaluation.Theself-monitoringcomponent on the outcome, we decide whether to reject the potential
allows us to monitor the effectiveness of our compliance business partner, impose conditions to mitigate identified
program within a business. The respective Managing risks or terminate the existing relationship.
Director of the legal entity or head of department is
provided with specific risk-mitigating statements that must Compliance forums
be confirmed on an agreement scale from “fully agree” to This year, Group Compliance reinforced compliance aware-
“fully disagree”. ness and encouraged compliance discussions by estab-
After completing the first cycle in the previous year, in lishing a dedicated platform for local Compliance forums
2020, we focused on the key risks identified by running or committees. This platform enables discussion of updates
differentanalysesanddedicatedfollow-upactivitiesforrisk andalignmentoncertainmattersinordertomaintainahigh
mitigation. Additionally, we also started to run sector- standard of corporate compliance throughout the global
specific risk assessments to highlight specific business organization. At the same time, they make it possible to
sector risks and take a targeted approach to risk reduction remain agile when new business and compliance chal-
thathelpustocontinuouslyadjustourcomplianceprogram. lengesarise.GroupCompliancehasdevelopedthemusinga
structured methodology framework to enhance consistency
Conflicts of interest and complementation across the globe, which will further
We take all potential conflicts of interest seriously. support our risk assurance. Each local forum contributes
Employees must avoid situations where their professional to our consistent compliance framework approach and has
judgment may come into conflict with their personal sufficient flexibility to cater to their local sector-specific
interests. They must also disclose every potential conflict needs.
of interest to their manager and document the disclosure.
Such issues are typically resolved directly between the Compliance training
employee and manager but can also be routed to Human We provide regular compliance classroom and online
Resources or other relevant functions. training courses on our Code of Conduct, anti-corruption,
To further enhance the existing process, a new Policy antitrust, data privacy, and healthcare compliance stand-
and Procedure as well as a new tool for transparent docu- ards. We require employees to take these courses based
mentation of potential conflicts of interest, including on their exposure torisk. Some courses also apply toinde-
decisions and mitigations taken, was rolled out in 2020. pendent contractors and supervised workers, such as
In addition, as described in the Annual Report under temporary staff.
“Avoidance of conflicts of interest,” Executive Board and In 2020, we rolled out two new mandatory e-learning
Supervisory Board members are exclusively committed to training courses. The training courses are assigned to all
the interests of the company and neither pursue personal relevantemployees.Welaunchedanupdatedversionofour
interests nor grant unjustified advantages to third parties. anti-corruption e-learning training course in 13 languages.
In 2020, 28,805 employees completed the training course.
Management and requirements of our We also rolled out a new money laundering prevention
business partners e-learning training course, which is available in eight
To be effective, compliance management must not be languages. The final rollout took place in November 2020
restricted to the boundaries of our own company. While and 12,829 employees completed the training in 2020.
oursupplier management processesfocus on vendor In September 2020, we migrated to a Group-wide
compliance with our standards, ourglobal Third Partner learning management platform to simplify learner
RiskManagementprocessgovernsinteractionswithsales accessibility.
partners, such as agents, distributors, and dealers. We We regularly update our training plan and adapt it to
expect our business partners worldwide to adhere to our new developments to continuously educate our employees
compliance principles. We collaborate only with partners on existing and new compliance requirements, guidelines
who pledge to comply with relevant laws, reject all forms and projects.
26
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
Compliance monitoring and reporting The SpeakUp Line is also available to external stake-
activities holders. The relevant information can be found in the
In2020,wefurtherenhancedourmonitoringandreporting Compliance and Ethics section of ourwebsite, where we
activities. Since we have different tools within Compliance, consolidatekeycomplianceinformation,suchasourvalues,
our efforts were targeted to create a single platform that CodeofConduct(CoC)andinformationontransparencyand
displaysallrelevantinformation(KPIsandmetricsfortrend data privacy for external audiences.
analysis) from the various tools. Therefore, we initiated Both the number of reports of suspected compliance
a new governance and monitoring project that ensures a violations and the number of actual compliance cases were
more efficient tracking of compliance-related KPIs and stable compared with the previous year. In 2020, we
metrics. received 81 compliance-related reports via the SpeakUp
Line and other channels thatled to investigations. There
Reporting potential compliance violations were 41 confirmed cases of violations of the CoC or other
We encourage all employees worldwide to report potential internal and external rules.
compliance violations to their supervisors, Legal, HR, or
other relevant departments. Worldwide, they can also use Compliance audits
our central whistleblowing SpeakUp Linefree of charge As part of operational audits, our Group Internal Auditing
and anonymouslyto report violations in their local function regularly reviews relevant matters at our sites to
language by telephone or via a web-based application. determine theeffectiveness of the respective compli-
Reports of potential compliance violations that we receive ance guidelines, processes and structures in place. The
via our SpeakUp Line are reviewed by the Compliance unit also checks for violations of our CoC and our Anti-
Investigations and Case Management team. Cases with a Corruption Policy and reviews the workplace requirements
certain risk profile are presented to the Compliance Case set out in our Human Rights Charter.
Committee, which comprises senior representatives from Our audit planning aims to providecomprehensive
Compliance, CorporateSecurity, Data Privacy, Human risk assurancethrough the best possible audit coverage.
Resources, Internal Auditing, and Legal. Ourannualauditplanningprocessisrisk-basedandincludes
Thecommittee’sdutiesincludeassessingandclassifying factors such as sales, employee headcount, system-
ethical issues, investigating their background and aticstakeholderfeedback, and the Corruption Perceptions
addressingtheseissuesusingappropriatemeasures.Based Index (CPI) published by the non-governmental organiz-
on the investigation outcome and recommendations from ationTransparency International. If an internal audit
the compliance investigation team or the Compliance Case produces recommendations, Group Internal Auditing
Committee, appropriate disciplinary action may be taken performs a systematic follow-up and monitors the imple-
against employees who have committed a compliance viol- mentationoftheprescribedcorrectiveactions.In2020,we
ation. If, during the investigation, a root cause is identified assessed 52 operations for corruption-related risks.
that could lead to furthercompliance violations, we take
preventive and corrective actions.
27
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
Alliance for Integrity practices on how to develop and implement effective
We are a member of theAlliance for IntegritySteering corruption prevention systems.
Committee, which was established by the German Society
for International Cooperation (GIZ), the German Global Engaging stakeholders
Compact Network (DGCN) and the Federation of German In 2020, we conducted stakeholder dialogues primarily
Industries (BDI). This initiative aims to achieve corruption- through our memberships of various associations. We are
freebusinessinlow-andmiddle-incomecountries.Itsactiv- members of various organizations, including the German
ities focus on Latin America, Ghana, and Asian countries, Chemical Industry Association (VCI), the German Institute
particularly India and Indonesia. The Steering Committee for Compliance (DICO), the European Federation of Phar-
leads the decision-making process for developing national maceuticalIndustriesandAssociations(EFPIA),theGerman
measures,whilelocaladvisorygroupsoverseeimplementa- Association of Voluntary Self-Regulation for the Pharma-
tion at country level. ceutical Industry (FSA), the International Federation of
Ourlocalcomplianceorganizationsalsocollaboratewith Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Associations (IFPMA),
these groups and offertraining to small and medium- theAllianceforIntegrity,theGermanAssociationforSupply
sized companies. Beyond these efforts, we continuously Chain Management, Procurement and Logistics (BME), and
assist the Alliance for Integrity through business-to-busi- the International Association of Privacy Professionals
ness workshops and training courses and by sharing best (IAPP).
28
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
DDaattaa  pprriivvaaccyy
 Part of the non-financial report
For a leading innovative, science- and technology-driven company such as ours, compliant handling of informa-
tion is of utmost importance. When using personal data, the individuals’ rights must be appropriately protected.
In this regard, we strive to safeguard the rights of any person whose data we process, including but not limited
toouremployees,patients,customers,healthcareprofessionals,suppliers,visitors,andotherbusinesspartners.
Our approach to data privacy Our Group Security and IT Security units maintain organ-
The mandate and goal of our Group Data Privacy unit is izational,process-relatedandtechnicalinformationsecurity
to mitigate risks and create a global framework for data countermeasures based on recognized international stand-
privacy-compliant business operations. This unit helps to ards. Weemploy harmonized electronic and physical
build our employees’ capacity to handle data correctly and security measures(e.g. access control) to bolster our
with clear accountability and it safeguards our company by ability to handle sensitive data, such as trade secrets.
providing data privacy risk assurance. Group Data Privacy
also contributes to creating value for the development of Our commitment: guidelines and standards
digital business models. Our Data Privacy Policy and the corresponding standards
and procedures define our principles and standards for
How we ensure data privacy processing personal data. This approach allows us to
Group Data Privacy is part of our global Group Compliance achieve ahigh level of data protectionfor our
and Data Privacy function. As required by law, this unit employees, contract partners, customers, and suppliers as
acts independently. As part of our compliance reporting, well as patients and participants in clinical studies. Our
it prepares frequent data privacy updatesas well as a Group-wide understanding of data privacy is based on
regular, comprehensive data privacy report. This report is European legislation, in particular the European Union
part of the compliance report submitted to the Executive General Data Protection Regulation (EU GDPR). We also
Board and the Supervisory Board. In addition to the Group take steps to meet local data privacy requirements where
Data Privacy unit with a Group Data Privacy Officer who these are stricter than our Group-wide standards.
reports centrally, we also have a network of Local Data
Privacy Officers at various sites Group-wide. Data privacy training
OurgoalistoestablishafullyglobalandconsistentData InlinewiththeEUGDPRandourglobalapproachtoensure
Privacy Management System (DPMS) by the end of 2022. data privacy, we regularly conduct e-learning training
It will be based on the following three pillars: Data Privacy courses in ten languages. An update to this training course
portfolio,peopleandcommunication.TheDataPrivacyport- is planned for the first quarter of 2021. Additionally, Local
folio will consist of eight key processes and topics broken Data Privacy Officers complement the execution of our
down into 26 detailed sub-elements, thus covering all Group-wide training plan by conducting training for specific
elements of a functioning DPMS in line with legal require- target groups.
ments and industry standards.
Our DPMS applies similar elements as the compliance IT tools for documentation
portfolio but adapted to the needs of data privacy. These We maintain a central IT tool to provide a single source for
include policies and procedures, risk assessment and docu- dataprivacyprocesses,suchasregisteringdataprocessing
mentation, training and awareness, programs and tools, activities and reporting potential data privacy incidents.
individual’s requests, monitoring and reporting, incident This tool will be redesigned in 2021. Additionally, we use
management, and continuous improvement. our company intranet for further communication, including
answering data privacy questions and providing standard-
Ensuring IT security ized templates. We registered no sanctioned complaints
It is essential for our business that we also protect our or incidents concerning breaches of customer privacy,
informationsystems,theircontentsandourcommunication leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data in 2020. In three
channelsagainstcriminalorunwantedactivitiesofanykind, cases, minor personal data breaches were reported to the
such as e-crime and cyberattacks, including unauthorized supervisory authority which were not sanctioned.
access,informationleakageandmisuseofdataorsystems.
29
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
RReessppoonnssiibbllee  iinntteerraaccttiioonnss  wwiitthh  hheeaalltthh  ssyysstteemmss
 Part of the non-financial report
It is important that healthcare stakeholders, such as research institutes, healthcare professionals, patient
advocacygroups,andotherkeyplayershaveaccesstoup-to-dateinformationondiseasesandtreatmentswhile
safeguardingtheirindependence.Wehelpfacilitatethisaccessbysponsoringindependentinitiativesandmedical
capacity-buildingprograms.WealsosupportoutstandingresearchprojectsthroughourGlobalGrantsforInnov-
ation, for example. Transparency is one of our top priorities in everything we do.
Our approach to interacting with health operational level, the relevant business and all employees
systems involved in our sales and marketing activities must adhere
The well-being of patients is always our primary consid- to our internal policies and procedures.
eration when promoting pharmaceutical products, which is Toensurethatallpromotionalmaterialsmeetourstand-
whywesupporthealthsystemsbyprovidinginformationto ards as well as local regulations end-to-end, we apply a
our healthcare stakeholders, such as professional medical harmonizedGroup-wide review and approval system.
associations, patient advocacy groups, university clinics, In our Healthcare business sector, we use a single global
andotherhospitals. Wefollowspecificapprovalrequire- software tool. This has enabled us to unify, simplify and
mentsand procedures for each type of interaction in monitor the review and approval process for promotional
accordance with applicable laws and codes. In countries materials and monitor that process in accordance with the
thathavestatutoryorindustryobligationsonthedisclosure dual-controlprinciple.Ifthematerialhaspromotionalintent
oftransfers of valueto healthcare stakeholders, we comply and is product-related, there is a review by medical, legal
with these obligations. and regulatory functions. This also helps us identify oppor-
We adhere to all regulations concerning the promotion tunities for improvement.
of pharmaceutical products. In most markets, manufac-
turers and distributors are permitted to advertise prescrip- Direct-to-consumer advertising only in certain
tion drugs only to healthcare professionals, such as countries
physicians and pharmacists. These promotional activities Direct-to-consumer(DTC)advertisingforprescriptiondrugs
must always disclose the active ingredients, potential ispermittedinsomecountries,suchastheUnitedStates.In
adverse effects and contraindications of the drug. Our accordance with applicable local laws, we use DTC advert-
internal governing documents on drug promotion are part isinginthesecountriestohelpincreasepeople’sawareness
of our Group-wide program, which requires us to always ofcertaindiseasesandtheavailabletherapies.Indoingso,
conductbusinessincompliancewiththelaw,industryoblig- we empower patients tomake informed decisionsabout
ations andin line with the highest ethical standards. their own treatment.
Our internal governance documents and various voluntary
commitmentsexceedtheapplicablestatutoryregulationsin Our commitment: Group-wide guidelines and
manycases.Weregularlyreviewallourinternalgovernance industry standards
documents and revise them as required in response to any In addition to applicable laws and our own internal stand-
new developments. ards, we comply with the codes of conduct of various
We clearly differentiate between information-sharing industry organizations, such as the Code of Practice
activities (activities in which we share scientific information publishedbytheInternationalFederationofPharmaceutical
butnotwiththeintentionofpromotingorincreasingsalesof Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) and the European
pharmaceutical products) and promotional activities (activ- Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations’
itieswiththeclearintentionofpromotingorincreasingsales (EFPIA)Code of Practice.
ofpharmaceuticalproductsperformedonlybytheCommer- We are a member of the German Association of Volun-
cialorganization)inlinewithindustrystandards.Thisdiffer- tary Self-Regulation for the Pharmaceutical Industry (FSA),
entiation implies various internal policies and standard whichhasdefineditsownCodeofConductforcollaboration
operatingprocedures,responsiblefunctionsandreviewand between physicians and the pharmaceutical industry.
approval levels, depending on the intention of the activity. Our Group-wide Pharma Code for Conducting Pharma-
ceuticalBusinessandPharmaceuticalOperationsdefinesthe
How we ensure transparency and compliance relevantgeneralcomplianceforouractivitiesintheHealth-
For all engagements with healthcarestakeholders, we caresector.Italsogovernsourinteractionswithphysicians,
haveestablished internal policies, review processes and medicalinstitutionsandpatientadvocacygroupsalongwith
toolssuch asrecord-keeping systemstoensure adherence our promotional practices.
to statutory requirements and transparency obligations. OurnewStandardonMedicalActivitiesprovidesthe
Our Global Regulatory Affairs unit has established a generalprinciplesandrequirementsthatmustberespected
dedicated policy and corresponding process document on in all medical activities, including interactions with health-
thereviewandapprovalofourpromotionalmaterials.Atthe care providers. The specific governance for the different
30
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
types of activities and interactions is detailed in further either directly as Merck Medical Education Programs or by
policiesandstandards,standardoperationalproceduresand providing grants to third-party medical education providers
other governance documents. to fund independent and continuing medical education
We introduced new Healthcare Ethical Guiding Prin- programs.Wetakeanethical,transparentandrespons-
ciplesinOctober2020toprovideourHealthcareemployees ible approach aimed at providing fair, balanced and
with ethical guidance for decisions and activities specific to objective content, designed to allow the expression of a
theparticularchallengesandresponsibilitiesofthisbusiness diverse range of theories and recognized opinions.
sector.Theycomplementourotherpoliciesbyprovidingan Allrequestsformedicaleducationfundingarechanneled
accessiblegeneralguideforresponsibilitytowardspatients, through an approval process that falls under our R&D and
the independence of safeguarding mechanisms, scientific Compliance functions, in line with our Medical Education
integrity, responsible promotional activities, responsible Funding and our Merck Programs Policies. This process
interactionwithhealthcarestakeholders,andorganizational ensures that all funds available for medical education
responsibility and accountability. We have specific programs are granted according to established internal
governance documents, procedures and tools for different guidelinesandcriteria,whilealsocomplyingwithallapplic-
typesofinteractionswithhealthcarestakeholders,covering able laws and industry codes.
topics, such as engagements, hospitality, payments (at fair We also partner with industry associations, such as
market value) and sponsorships to participate in events. Global Alliance for Medical Education (GAME), International
Alliance for Continuing Medical Education, (iPACME),
Collaborating with patient advocacy groups EuropeanFederationofPharmaceuticalIndustriesandAsso-
Our Policy on Interactions with Patients, Patient Opinion ciations (EFPIA), and Medical Affairs Professional Society
Leaders and Patient Organizations provides a compre- (MAPS). Together with these associations, we discuss how
hensive framework for our interactions with these key to improve and harmonize quality standards for medical
stakeholders. Our guideline entitled Good Practice and education.
Process Guidance: Engagement with Patients, Patient
Opinion Leaders and Patient Organizations provides addi- Transparent reporting
tionalguidanceforourinteractionswiththesestakeholders. In2020,wecontinuedtopublishfinancialandnon-financial
Itreflectsourcommitmenttoprioritizingpatientwell-being. contributions that we made to healthcare stakeholders in
Through this policy, the supplementary guideline and the health industry where required according to local laws
specific local policies, we provide a robust guidance struc- and codes. As required by applicable laws and codes, this
ture to support our employees in remaining compliant information includes the names of individual recipients and
throughout their interactions with patients, patient opinion their addresses as well as the purpose and amount of
leaders and patient organizations. the transfer. Before publishing, we secured all necessary
We seek to improve patients’ quality of life, which is informed consent forms, as required by the applicable data
whywesupporttheworkofpatientadvocacygroups.These privacy regulations.
groups in turn provide patients, family members and care- In addition to disclosing monetarytransfers of valueon
givers with information on disease management. an individual level, we continue topublish overall
spendingon ourresearch and developmentactivities as
Supporting medical research and education required.
Through our Global Grants for Innovation, we sponsor Weensure transparencyon our voluntary unsolicited
research and medical education worldwide in order to donations by publishing the details of contributions to
contribute to medical advances that benefit patients. European patient organizations on ourwebsite. The report
We organize non-promotional medical education isupdatedannuallyandincludesallamounts,recipientsand
programs through our Global Medical Education and the purpose of each transfer of value, thus fulfilling our
Academic Organization Relations unit. We deliver these obligation as a member ofEFPIA.
31
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
Regular employee training For2021,ane-learningcourseisplannedforallHealthcare
In2020,werolledoutourCodeofConduct-relatedtraining employees.
curriculum on dealing with dilemmas in healthcare- Employees who are responsible for the promotion of
specific situations to several countries after piloting the our pharmaceutical products receive regular training on
project in China in 2019. This is a comprehensive training current guidelines. This applies to individuals working in
course that seeks to improve participants’ awareness and sales, marketing and drug registration in particular. We
understanding of such dilemmas, for example when over- eitherconducttheseseminarslocallyinaclassroomsetting
hearing a conversation that may or may not constitute or as e-learning courses.
attempted bribery. We plan to implement this training New employees participate in onboarding training
program in all countries where our Healthcare business dealingwiththereviewandapprovalofpromotionalmater-
sector operates. ials. Additionally, employees in charge of marketing and
In2020,wealsorolledoutaHealthcareEthicalGuiding promotion of pharmaceutical products can also access our
Principles training for our leadership teams, explaining the respective guidelines via our intranet.
principles and discussing how they can be used in different Relevantemployeesparticipateinmandatorye-learning
scenarios. The goal is to enable our employees to make courses and classroom seminars to stay up-to-date on our
ethical decisions relating to scenarios that are not clearly policiesandguidelinesandimportantchangestotransferof
defined in other governance documents, where necessary. valuereporting requirements.
32
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
TTaaxx  ggoovveerrnnaannccee
Weareawarethatourcompanyoperatesinacomplexlegalenvironmentandincursvarioustaxobligationswith
its domestic and foreign business activities. It is our responsibility to ensure compliance with tax legislation in
all countries in which we operate and to be transparent. For this we have a tax organization that clearly defines
responsibilities, processes and controls.
Our approach to taxes At the subsidiary level, the local CFO is generally
We believe that fair taxation serves as a backbone of any responsible for tax matters, managed either by local tax
functioning society. Therefore, we expect public authorities units, by external advisors, or, for Germany and the U.S.
to take transparency, predictability and non-discrimination subsidiaries, by Group Tax. The local CFOs report to the
into consideration when implementing taxation measures. regional CFO. The regional CFO ultimately reports to the
Weunderstandthattaxisembeddedinalmosteveryaspect Head of MBS, who reports to the Group CFO. If no local
of commercial operations and our company therefore acts CFO is assigned, the tasks are taken over by a designated
as a responsible taxpayer with respect to the following employee in the Finance unit.
objectives: Our SpeakUp Line, i.e. our general whistleblowing
system, is also open for tax topics.
Ensure timely and proper execution of tax obligations;
Secure material correctness of tax positions determined Our commitment: a tax principle
in the annual financial statements and tax declarations; Our tax principle is part of our tax internal control
Assure effective tax risk management and tax monit- system. The principle represents the framework and
oring; minimum requirements for all tax-relevant processes,
Avoid inappropriate structuring leading to benefits not methods and structures within our company and:
provided by tax law.
Outlines the tax compliance culture within the Group;
How we organize our tax governance Defines our tax compliance objectives;
Taxes are managed in different units within Merck KGaA. Specifies the organizational framework for tasks, roles
GroupTaxisgenerallyresponsiblefortaxmattersofMerck and responsibilities, which ensures compliance with tax
KGaAandprovidestaxstandardsfortheMerckGroup–with rules within the Group;
the exception of customs, consumption tax and wage tax. Establishes basic rules for the exchange of tax-relevant
TheExportControlandCustomsRegulationsunitwithinthe information.
Group Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ)
The Tax Principle was issued by the Executive Board and
function is responsible for customs and consumption tax.
applies to the entire Group. We review it at least once a
Human Resources is responsible for wage tax. Certain tax
year and modify it if necessary. In case of extraordinary
tasks are managed by other units of Merck KGaA or Merck
events, such as changes to the business strategy, organiz-
Business Services (MBS).
ational structures or risk management processes, the prin-
TheGroupChiefFinancialOfficer(CFO)isresponsiblefor
cipleisreviewedonanad-hocbasisandadaptedifrequired.
theGroupTaxfunction.Hedelegateshistasksrelatedtotax
The responsibility for annual and ad-hoc reviews as well as
matters to the Head of Group Tax. The Head of Group Tax
modifications to the principle lies with the Head of Group
is also responsible for defining the organizational structure
Tax. Modifications to the principle are discussed by the
of the function, for monitoring it on an ongoing basis and
Executive Board.
foradaptingitifnecessary.GroupTaxconsistsoffiveunits.
In addition, the local tax unit in the United States reports
directly to the Head of Group Tax.
33
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
SSuupppplliieerrss
SSuuppppllyy  cchhaaiinn  ssttaannddaarrddss
 Part of the non-financial report
Our company procures many raw and packaging materials, technical products, components, and services from
around the world. We aim to promote supply chain stability while providing our customers with high-quality
products and services. We expect our suppliers to share our ethical, social and compliance standards, as set out
in our Responsible Sourcing Principles, and to apply these within their own supply chains as well.
Our approach to making our supply chains achievedthispredominantlythrougheffectivesupplierrela-
more sustainable tionships.
One of the goals of our supplier management endeavors We have developed a company-wide due diligence
is compliance with fundamental environmental and process for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from
social standards, alongside high-quality, reliable delivery Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas, according to OECD
andcompetitiveprices.Toachievethis,wehaveintroduced guidance, which will integrate and strengthen existing
relevant strategies, processes and guidelines that we are measures used in our business sectors. A working group
continuouslyimprovingtopreventviolationsofsupplychain managesandimplementsthisprocess.Itcomprisesvarious
standards. To ensure supply security, we select our business sector and Group function representatives.
suppliers based on diverse criteria such as country risk, Weunderstandourapproachtosupplychainsustainab-
material risk, supplier risk, and business criticality. This ility as a journey and are continuously working to improve
helpsoursourcingemployeestoidentifypotentialmitigation andfurtherdevelopourpoliciesandprocesses.Whiledoing
actions with relevant suppliers and work on improvements. so,wemakesurethatalllegalrequirementsareconsidered
The approach towards our strategic suppliers, which andcorrespondingmeasuresareinitiatedwherenecessary.
accountforapproximately43%ofourtotalspend,includes Inthiscontext,wearecloselymonitoringthedevelopments
the identification, monitoring and assessment of supply relating to a potential supply chain law and the resulting
security risks. It comprises four main elements: requirements.
Learn more about our efforts to reduce our scope 3
1. Supplier Risk Assessments: to capture the over- emissions in theClimate actionchapter.
arching risks at supplier legal entity level, including
multiple risk domains. How we implement sustainability standards
2. Alert system: to notify our Procurement organization in the supply chain
when any of our suppliers faces a potential disruption. GroupProcurementisresponsibleforintegratingsustainab-
3. Material Risk Assessments: to determine the risks ility requirements into the relevant stages of our sourcing
ofrelevantmaterialsthatmakeupourmostsignificant and supplier management processes. It is a global organ-
finished products. ization with direct accountability and resources in procure-
4. Risk Response Tracker: to create and monitor risk ment-relevant local subsidiaries. Our Center of Excellence
mitigation activities. for Supplier Security coordinates the relevant measures,
such as updating our guidelines where necessary,
We calculate risk factors for suppliers and raw materials by
examining processes and coordinating our participation in
multiplyingriskprobabilityandriskimpact.Forthesupplier
external initiatives. Sourcing employees responsible for
evaluation, we consider 29 risk titles, including, but not
selecting and contracting suppliers are aware of and regu-
limited to economic freedom, social unrest, unfair business
larly updated on our guidelines and sustainability
practices, and poor labor practices. We have also included
requirements through internal communication channels
criteria for identifying supplier relationships impacted by
and training.
key sustainability risks, such as mineral sourcing or
In 2020, we introduced a TfS training course in Asia.
animal welfare.
We invited our Procurement employees to participate in
In 2020, we extended this program to include more
various Ecovadis webinars. Part of the training program
suppliers. Additionally, we are streamlining the criteria and
deals with TfS assessments and audits. In addition, we are
integratingotherrelevanttopicsinordertoarriveatamore
in the process of developing a global training program for
comprehensive and solid evaluation. We expect to imple-
purchasers and suppliers together with TfS.
mentthisprojectbythemiddleof2021.AmidtheCovid-19
pandemic, our Procurement team also successfully secured
the supply of raw materials, services and finished goods. It
34
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
Our commitment: Guidelines and standards safeguard human rights and not to contribute to conflicts.
Weexpectalloursuppliersandserviceproviderstocomply That’s why we published our commitment to responsible
with environmental and social standards, which are sourcing of minerals from CAHRAs with our Responsible
primarilyderivedfromthecorelaborstandardsoftheInter- Minerals Sourcing Charter in 2020. This complements the
national Labour Organization (ILO) and the UN Global requirementssetoutinourResponsibleSourcingPrinciples.
Compact. The primary focus of the Responsible Minerals Sourcing
Moreover, we support the Compliance Initiative of the Charter is on mined material such as tin, tungsten,
GermanAssociationforSupplyChainManagement,Procure- tantalum, gold (also known as the “3TGs”),and
mentandLogistics(BME)andhaveendorsedtheBMECode cobaltsourced from CAHRAs. This Charter is also intended
of Conduct. In particular, this code sets out rules for to cover CAHRA-related risks in other supply chains, as
combatingcorruption,antitrustviolationsandchildlabor,as identified by our internal risk evaluation processes. This
well as for upholding human rights, protecting the environ- Charter applies to all Merck entities and subsidiaries world-
ment and public health and promoting fair working condi- wide, all Merck employees as well as any third party acting
tions. on behalf of Merck.
Weseektoconductourbusinessactivitiesincompliance
with labor, social and environmental standards while also Global Procurement
respecting human rights. Additionally, we abide by the The total value of the goods and services we purchased
standards set out in our Code of Conduct and our Human in 2020 from approximately 60,000 suppliers in almost
Rights Charter. We expect our suppliers to comply with 160 countries amounted to around €7.9billion, compared
the labor, social and environmental standards defined with approximately €7.5billion in 2019, representing an
in our Responsible Sourcing Principles and to ensure that increase of 5%. Of these (including R&D services), we
their subcontractors do the same. purchased 27% from suppliers based in North America,
We recognize that risks of significant adverse impact 49% from suppliers based in Europe, 18% from suppliers
may be associated with extracting, trading, handling, and basedintheAsia-Pacificregion,1%fromsuppliersbasedin
exporting minerals from conflict-affected and high-risk theMiddleEastandAfrica,and3%fromsuppliersbasedin
areas (“CAHRAs”). We have a responsibility to respect and Latin America.
1
Purchase volume and suppliers per region – 2020
1)For data processing reasons, 3% of our purchase volume (1,196 suppliers) is currently not assigned to any purchase region.
35
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
How we monitor our supply chain 717 of which took part in a new assessment or re-assess-
Anumberofdifferentapproachesareusedtokeeptrackof mentin2020.Insomecases,thesewereinitiatedbyusand
oursuppliersandensurecompliancewithourstandardsand in other cases by other TfS members.
values. These are generally based on the risk the suppliers TfSalsobeganapilotforamoreinclusiveauditprocess
pose and combine the factors of country risk, industry risk in 2020. As a TfS member, we can use SQAS, SMETA and
and impact on business. PSCI audits in addition to TfS audits, as they are now
accepted as equivalent.
Under the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative
launched by companies in the chemical industry, we Conducting our own audits
encourage our suppliers to be assessed either on self- We continuously conduct our own audits in selected cases
reported information or via audits. We have been a based on business requirements. In 2020, none of these
member of TfS since 2014. revealedindicationsofviolationsoftherightofassociation,
In selected cases, we conduct our own sustainability the right to collective bargaining or cases of child labor,
audits of suppliers. forced labor or compulsory labor.
Regardingourmicasupplychain,weengagewithaglobal
consultancy toconductauditsandwiththeIndianorgan- Supplier diversity
izationIGEPto conduct inspections.
In the United States, we have a specific supplier diversity
program in place to comply with regional legislation. We
TfS supplier assessments and audits
focused our efforts on enhancing our current supplier
Under TfS, suppliers are assessed either based on inform- locator tool by broadening the rollout among sourcing
ation obtained during audits, or based on self-reported and managerstoimproveourabilitytoconnectwithandpoten-
publicly accessible information provided by EcoVadis, an tially award business to diverse vendors. Additionally, we
independent rating agency. EcoVadis assesses suppliers are continuing to work on internal awareness campaigns
from 160 countries and 200 sectors across the four and training seminars for our sourcing managers and are
categories of Environment, Labor and Human Rights, investing in tools to expand our small and diverse vendor
Ethics, and Sustainable Procurement. The results are database.
shared among TfS member companies in compliance with
all restrictions stipulated by antitrust law. From a strategic Ambassadors for more sustainable supply
perspective, TfS activities focus on achieving demonstrable chains
improvementsinsuppliersustainabilitystandards.In2020,
Since becoming established on the social network LinkedIn
we began rolling out a new strategic framework, “Grow &
in 2019, the Sustainable Procurement Pledge (a TfS initi-
Deliver”,whichdefinesTfSactivitiesforthenextfiveyears.
ative) has evolved to become a knowledge exchange plat-
Our core objective is to move from measuring and monit-
form for procurement professionals, academics and other
oringtodeliveringasubstantialpositiveimpactinthechem-
stakeholders. The platform has hosted various online best
ical supply chain.
practice exchange events. At Merck, we actively participate
ThroughtheTfSinitiative,wehaveaccesstomorethan
in the Sustainable Procurement Pledge.
1,250 valid scorecards on the assessment of our suppliers,
36
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
MMiiccaa  ssuuppppllyy  cchhaaiinn
 Part of the non-financial report
Mica is an important raw material for our effect pigments, which are used in automotive, industrial coatings and
plastics,aswellasinthecosmeticsandfoodindustries.WeprocurethemajorityofourmicafromIndia,specific-
ally the north-eastern states of Jharkhand and Bihar. This region suffers from political instability and poverty,
with widespread child labor. We’ve taken special measures to comply with our social and environmental stand-
ards.
Our approach to responsibility in the mica thirdparties,whoconductcomprehensiveannouncedaudits
supply chain as well as frequent, unannounced check visits.
In procuring mica from northeast India, we are supporting
this region by safeguarding local employment and liveli- External audits
hoods. We source the raw material only from suppliers Environmental Resources Management (ERM), a leading
actinginformalworkingenvironmentsandmonitorcompli- globalproviderofenvironmental,health,safety,risk,social
ance with our standards, including our prohibition of child consulting services, conducts external audits of mines and
labor. processing plants, investigating working conditions as well
Our mica suppliers are informed of our standards and as environmental, health and safety issues. The audit
have confirmed that they adhere to the principles of our reports document any identified shortcomings in this
Human Rights Charter as well as the requirements of our respect and propose corrective actions. Our employees in
ResponsibleSourcingPrinciples.Wedonottoleratechild Kolkata(India)andDarmstadt(Germany)thenfollowupto
labor and contractually prohibit our suppliers from work on resolving any identified issues.
employing children. Hence, we are driving initiatives and Ifshortcomingsarenotrectified,wetakefurtheraction,
takingmeasurestoimprovetheconditionsofmicasourcing uptofreezingrelationswiththerespectivecompanyoreven
based on our high standards. We constantly review our terminating the business relationship altogether if neces-
monitoringprocessesandworkonimprovingtheireffective- sary.
ness.
Unannounced inspections
How we organize our mica supply chain Since 2013, the IGEP Foundation, a local non-government
Group Procurement has overall responsibility for sourcing organization, has been arranging regular unannounced
mica. A steering committee is in place to involve the inspectionstochecklaborstandardsalongthesupplychain.
relevant functions and inform responsible Board members During these visits, IGEP monitors occupational safety as
about significant developments. well as compliance on child labor. In 2020, the inspec-
We have established direct business relationships with tions focused on the availability of first aid kits with suffi-
those suppliers who handle the mica supply chain in India. cient medicine, medical health check-ups for workers and
Our procurement unit is in direct contact with the suppliers health and safety training. Due to an improved escalation
to reiterate the importance we place on ethical, social and process, our suppliers have successfully improved the
environmental standards. In case of non-compliance with working conditions on the sites.
ourstandards,weworkwithsupplierstoensuretheappro-
priate implementation of corrective measures. Tracking system for mica sources
We use a tracking system to help ensure that the mica
Our commitment: Compliance with guidelines we purchase is derived from sources qualified by our
and standards company, and to monitor their productivity. Based on
As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we writtenrecordsofthedailyextractionquantities,wereview
are actively involved in working to abolish child labor. Our thevolumesofmicareportedandsuppliedtotheprocessing
HumanRightsCharterunderscoresthiscommitment.Inour companies.
Responsible Sourcing Principles, we set out our expecta-
tions for our suppliers in terms of corporate responsibility Community outreach in the mica supply chain
and human rights, including prohibition of child labor. Our The states of Jharkhand and Bihar are among the most
Responsible Sourcing Principles are also an integral part of impoverished regions in India. Together with IGEP, we are
our supplier contracts. working to improve the living conditions of the families
inthemica mining areas. The literacy rate andthenumber
Auditing our mica supply chain of children who attend school are far below the Indian
We have implemented a series of oversight mechanisms national average, according to a study conducted in 2016
throughasystemthatmonitorsandauditscompliancewith and a report published in 2018 by the organization Terre
oursocialandenvironmentalstandards.Inadditiontovisits
by Merck employees, regular inspections are conducted by
37
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
des Hommes and the Centre for Research on Multinational Community empowerment: Building on the first
Corporations. community empowerment program in 2018, the RMI has
As part of our efforts, we are funding three schools in expanded the programs to cover 80 villages, reaching
Jharkhand run by our partner IGEP, which are attended by more than 5,800 households in 2020. The goal is to
nearly 500 children and adolescents. In 2020, two schools addresstherootcausesofchildlaborandtoimprovelive-
introducedaneighthgrade.Tailoringandcarpentrycourses lihoods within the local community.
are also offered in vocational training centers nearby the Advocacy: Through continuous advocacy work, the RMI
schools. In the reporting year, we also assessed the feas- is recognized as an important partner for drafting future
ibility offering new options for vocational trainings such as policies to help ensure sustainable mica mining while
plumber or electrician. At a fourth school run by one of our eradicating the root causes of child labor.
micasuppliers,weprovidescholarshipsfor200childrenout
of 450 enrolled at the school. In 2020, the RMI further developed its multi-stakeholder
In addition to our education efforts, we are committed consultations, including representatives from processors,
to improving local access to healthcare. To this end, we local authorities and non-government organizations. An
haveestablishedahealthcenteroperatedbyIGEPtoserve important outcome of this is the “Ranchi principles,” which
the 20,000 residents in the region. Two medical profes- representacornerstoneforalignmentamongallkeyplayers
sionals work at the center and also provide regular health atalocallevel.Theyareasetofprinciplesintendedtohelp
services to schools. This center provides an important create a sustainable mica eco-system in the Indian mica
contributiontoimprovingthemedicalcareofthepopulation region.
in the region, particularly during the Covid-19 pandemic, The RMI responded rapidly to the Covid-19 outbreak.
which continues to have a significant impact on the Indian At the outset, the RMI funded community kitchens in the
economy and society. Giridih district until local authorities took over. These
communitykitchenssuppliedtwomealsperday,prioritizing
Stronger together: Joint action in the mica vulnerablegroups,suchastheelderly,migrantworkersand
supply chain underprivileged families. At a later stage, the RMI organ-
izede-consultationssothatallitsstakeholderswereableto
We are a founding member of the multi-stakeholder group
continue the dialog on sustainable mica.
Responsible Mica Initiative (RMI). In 2020, we once again
held the presidency of the organization. The initiative aims
New sources of mica
toeradicatechildlaborandunacceptableworkingconditions
in the Indian mica supply chain by joining forces across Our processes undergo constant review and improvement.
industries. During the reporting year, we continued to We are evaluating other sources for mica according to our
actively support the RMI’s work on its three main program quality, social and environmental standards both in India
pillars: and in other regions. In 2020, we obtained a considerable
amountofourmicafromBrazil,wherewehavealsoestab-
Responsible workplace standards: In 2020, RMI held lished oversight mechanisms to monitor and audit adher-
training sessions on workplace standards for local busi- encetothesestandards.Inaddition,wemanufactureeffect
nesses. pigmentsbasedonsyntheticsubstratesasanalternativeto
pigments based on natural mica.
38
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
HHuummaann  rriigghhttss
As an international corporate group, we have a duty to respect human rights worldwide within our sphere of
influence and to ensure that they are not compromised by our business activities. Upholding human rights is
indispensable and non-negotiable for us, which is why we also expect our business partners to guarantee that
humanrightsarerespected.Bymeetingourhumanrightsduediligenceobligations,wefulfilloursocialrespons-
ibility and secure our social license to operate. At the same time, this helps us to remain competitive over the
long term.
Our approach to human rights due diligence along our entire supply chain. That is why we are continu-
Wearecommittedtoupholdinghumanrights,whichiswhy ously integrating human rights due diligence more firmly
we became a signatory to the UN Global Compact back in into our business processes.
2005.Weendeavortoreducetheriskofhumanrightsviol- Our approach to human rights due diligence encom-
ations as far as possible, not only at our own sites but also passes six main components.
Our human rights due diligence process
39
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
We view human rights due diligence as a continuous In 2020, we also added human rights aspects to our
process, which we constantly adapt and improve. We SiteSecurityStandard.Indoingso,wewanttoensurethat
closelymonitorregulatorydevelopments–forexample,the these aspects are also included in the selection of security
National Action Plan (NAP) on Business and Human Rights service providers, for instance.
of the German federal government on the implementation In addition, we developed a Conflict Minerals Charter in
of the UN Guiding Principles and the planned EU directive 2020. This regulates responsible sourcing of minerals from
on human rights due diligence. Regulations such as these conflict and high-risk regions.
prompt us to continually review our approach to human
rights due diligence. Identifying actual and potential impacts on
human rights
How we promote respect for human rights Weperformriskassessmentstounderstandthepotential
Toensurethathumanrightsarerespectedinoursphereof impacts our operations and business relationships could
influence, we have defined clear responsibilities. have on human rights. For instance, we investigate human
Our Executive Board has ultimate responsibility for rights risks at our sites as well as risks related to product
human rights within our organization. The Executive Board andservicesourcing.Thefollowingriskassessmentsenable
exercises this responsibility by requiring our Managing us to derive the corresponding strategies and measures:
Directorsto comply with human rights. Within the scope our Group-wide Compliance Risk
OurGroupCorporateSustainability(CS)unitisrespons- Reporting & Self-Monitoring process, we monitor and eval-
ibleforcoordinatingallhumanrightsduediligenceactivities uate compliance risks. This has included human rights
andprocesses.Specificneedforaction,progressandmeas- issuessince2019.In2020,theconsolidatedresultsshowed
uresareregularlydiscussedatCSCommitteemeetings.The a low risk of human rights violations throughout the Group.
personsresponsiblefortheseissuesintherespectiveGroup Furthermore, we also track human rights risks through
functions, business sectors and local units implement the our strategic supplier risk process. We plan to extend
measures decided. our risk assessment of the selection of new suppliers
The interdisciplinary Human Rights Working Group is regarding modern slavery.
developing cross-functional measures that we are using We are currently developing a new approach through
to meet our responsibility to respect human rights. This whichweaimtoidentifywhetherourexternalmanpower
group meets three to four times per year. In 2020, it is at risk. We are thus broadening the scope of the pilot
defined internal focus areas that build on our approach project we conducted in 2019. Within the scope of this
to human rights due diligence. Within these focus areas project, we conducted a Group-wide analysis of the work
and based on the specific risk situation, we will implement conditions of external manpower, especially in high-risk
further measures in order to better comply with human countries, such as China, Vietnam and the Philippines.
rights due diligence obligations. We take responsibility when deploying new techno-
Within the German Global Compact Network, we are logies and comply with our human rights due diligence
a member of the Business & Human Rights Peer Learning obligations. We are currently compiling an overview of the
Group, a working group in which we engage in dialogue technologiesweuseinthecompanyandareevaluatingthe
with other companies to discuss challenges, current issues, human rights risks, if any, that are associated with them.
experiencesandsuccessfulapproachesinexercisinghuman
rights due diligence. Measures to protect human rights
Our commitment: guiding principles, charters Auditing our suppliers and sites
and laws We use internal audits to check whether the workplace
OurHumanRightsCharteralignswiththeUNGuidingPrin- requirements of our Human Rights Charter are being
ciples on Business and Human Rights. It is our overarching observedatoursites.Moreinformationcanbefoundunder
human rights directive and defines the relevant require- Compliance management.
ments for our company. We expect all our employees as In addition, we have been reviewing human rights
well as our suppliers and business partners to comply with aspects at our sites through site security risk assessments
this charter. since 2019. Starting in 2021, these will be formalized as
The charter interlinks and complements our existing security audits and implemented at regular intervals in line
rulesandregulationspertainingtohumanrights,including, with the audit plan. The audits are one control mechanism
for example, our Code of Conduct, Social and Labor Stand- ofoursecuritygovernanceframeworkandarethusacentral
ards Policy, EHS Policy (Group Environment, Health and element of it. We derive appropriate measures from the
Safety Policy), Responsible Sourcing Principles as well as results. This allows us to ensure that our sites meet
the Charter on Access to Health in Developing Countries. security-relevant human rights aspects.
Our standards cover a broad range of topics related to Through the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative,
human rights. These include, for instance, product safety, we determine whether our strategic suppliers comply with
occupational health and safety, equal opportunity, fair pay, humanrightsstandards.Forselectedsuppliers,weconduct
freedom of association and collective bargaining as well as our own sustainability audits. To prevent modern slavery
the exclusion of child labor. andhumantrafficking,wewillregularlyreviewoursupplier
40
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
assessmentandauditprocessesandaredevisinglong-term Ecovadis webinars. Part of the training program deals with
measures together with our suppliers to this end. TfSassessments andaudits, whichinclude compliance with
human rights as an essential audit component.
Human rights and investment decisions Inaddition,weareintheprocessofdevelopingaglobal
When projects exceed a certain cost threshold, our Invest- trainingprogramforpurchasersandsupplierstogetherwith
ment Committee must approve the expenditure. In its TfS. This is to include training on human rights.
decision, the committee considers various aspects related
to the project, including environmental impact and health Transparent reporting
and safety. Furthermore, our Code of Conduct is binding We use various formats to inform the public about our
whereinvestmentdecisionsareconcerned.Weareworking approaches, measures and results of human rights due
to integrate human rights topics even more firmly into our diligence. We provide information on this annually in our
decision-making process. Sustainability Report. Additionally, in the United Kingdom,
the UK Modern Slavery Act requires us to publish the steps
Creating awareness among our employees wearetakingtocounterforcedlaborandhumantrafficking.
To embed respect for human rights even more strongly In2020,wepublishedourfourthUKModernSlaveryState-
throughout the company, we are expanding our internal ment. It has been endorsed by our Executive Board and is
communicationandawarenesstrainingonhumanrightsand available on ourwebsite.
modern slavery.
To train our Managing Directors and senior leaders Our complaint mechanisms
reporting directly to the Executive Board, we offer an e- Our SpeakUp Line is the most important channel for
learning course on the requirements of our Human Rights reporting complaints about potential human rights viola-
Charter and our Social and Labor Standards Policy and the tions. Both our employees and all external stakeholders
implementation thereof in their areas of responsibility. In can report suspected cases in their respective national
addition, all new EHS managers took the “EHS StartUp!” language, free of charge and anonymously, either by tele-
onboarding course, which has been covering the topics of phone or a web-based application. We thoroughly invest-
human rights and modern slavery since 2018. Our igate all complaints that we receive and take
employees can find information about human rights on our countermeasures if necessary. In 2020, we noted no viol-
intranet. ations, either with respect to child or forced labor or with
respect to the right to collective bargaining or freedom of
Training courses for our suppliers association.
In 2020, we introduced a TfS training course in Asia. We
invitedourProcurementemployeestoparticipateinvarious
41
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
BBiiooeetthhiiccss
 Part of the non-financial report
Bioethics guides us in how to use the rapidly advancing power of life science and the resulting technologies
responsibly and ethically to the ultimate benefit of society, humans and other living beings. However, factors
such as diverse cultural backgrounds have led to heated debates on divisive bioethical topics and issues arising
from the explosive progress in science. In light of this situation, we feel the need to clarify our own position on
bioethical approaches.
Our approach to ethical business conduct OurDigitalEthicsAdvisoryPanel(DEAP)guidesournew
In our work, we encounter various bioethical and digital digitalbusinessmodelswithaninitialfocusondigitalhealth.
ethicstopicsandissues,includinganimaltestingandclinical TheDEAPconsistsofworld-leadingexpertsindigitalhealth
research,stem celluse, the use of genetically modified businessmodelsaswellasexpertsinethicsandmedicine.It
microorganisms, use of health data, and the potential plays a pivotal role in ensuring that we develop new digital
impact of new genome editing techniques such asCRISPR/ technologiesresponsiblyandaddresspotentialdigitalethics
Cas.Wearestronglycommittedtoconductingthisresearch issues arising from the usage of digital technologies and
in an ethical manner.Patient well-being and benefitis data-driven business models at an early stage.
always our number one priority. This applies to clinical
studies as well as to treatment with our drugs and distri- Our commitment: Identifying topics and
bution of our products to academic researchers and the issues early on
biopharmaceuticalindustry.Wecarefullyevaluateourposi- Asaglobalcompany,itiscrucialforustopromptlyidentify
tion on controversial topics so that we can develop frame- andaddressnewdevelopmentsconcerningbioethicaltopics
works and make informed decisions that meet rigorous and issues in order to define our own stance. Although
ethical standards. we align all our business activities with international and
nationallegislation,manybioethicaldiscussionsraiseques-
How we assess bioethics and digital ethics tionsthatfarexceedthecurrentscopeoflegislators,which
The Merck Bioethics Advisory Panel (MBAP), co-chaired by is why we also seek the advice of external experts.
two of our senior executive scientific experts, gives clear The birth of the first babies from genome-edited
guidance on bioethical topics and issues, which steers our embryos in China significantly challenged the field of
actions and entrepreneurial conduct. The MBAP consists bioethics in 2019. This breach of law, ethics and academic
of renowned external international experts in the fields self-regulation led to marked global criticism. Subsequent
ofbioethics, theology, science, and law. The panel’s discussions emphasized the need for profound bioethical
compositionreflectsthefactthattheevaluationandassess- debate and meaningful governance of genome-editing
ment of bioethics are strongly contingent on cultural and research in the human germline. Statements and positions
regional factors. The bioethical assessment of topics must wereissuedbytheNationalAcademyofSciences,theRoyal
be viewed holistically. The MBAP meets once per year but Societyand theGerman Ethics Council. This led to the
can also be convened on an ad-hoc basis, if required, in creation of the World Health Organization (WHO) expert
response to emerging urgent bioethical issues. We publish advisory committee on Developing Global Standards for
a summary of the discussions and resulting guidance from Governance and Oversight of Human Genome Editing.
eachmeetingonourintranet.OuremployeescanaskMBAP Regulationinthisresearchfieldisexpectedtoemergeinthe
members for advice and are able to report concerns on following years.
bioethicalissuesthroughchannelssuchasourSpeakUpLine OurGenome Editing Principleprovides a mandatory
or by reaching out to the Bioethics Office. ethical and operational framework for our employees. It
Our dedicated guidance panels for genome editing and sets clear operational boundaries for us both as a supplier
stem cell matters operate under the overarching MBAP. of custom targetednucleasesand genetically modified cell
Using our internal guidelines as a basis, they make recom- lines, and as a user of genome editing technologies for
mendations on issues relating to specific topics and are scientific research. The principle includes background
informedbytheoperationalteamsabouttheprogressmade information on the topic and explains our position on
with respect to implementation. Our Stem Cell Research genome editing. It furthermore specifically addresses the
OversightCommittee(SCROC)performstaskssuchasveri- subject of human germline editing.
fying all internal research proposals that employhuman TheGenomeEditingPrincipleiscomplementedbyaddi-
stem cellsand ensuringcompliancewith our ethical tional principles that shape our approach to ethically
guidelines and any legal requirements. This also includes conducted research and business. Our Stem Cell Principle
collaboration with external partners. setstheethical boundaries fortheuseofhumanstemcells
42
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
inourresearch.OurFertilityPrincipleguidesourresearchin across regions along with calls to reform from the scientific
fertilitytreatmentandin-vitrofertilizationbysettingaclear community and the ongoing public controversy around
framework for practices aligned with highest ethical stand- genetically modified foods. The panel also addressed the
ards.Ourprinciplesfordisseminatinginformationregarding sourcing of human biosamples: The need in pre-clinical
the off-label use of our products are set out in corres- development for this material is growing and requires a
ponding policies that apply Group-wide. framework on donor consent as well as an understanding
ofethicalimplicationsofitsusage.Furthertopicsofdiscus-
Topics currently being addressed by our sion included the off-label use of products and how we
Bioethics Advisory Panel can provide appropriate information and obtain authoriz-
The Merck Bioethics Advisory Panel (MBAP) convened in ation for the treatment of children in large-scale public
October2020todiscussimportanttopicssuchastheuseof healthprogramssuchasourPraziquantelDonationProgram
genome editing tools in agriculture. We sought the MBAP’s (informed consent).
inputinlightoftheheterogeneityofregulatoryframeworks
Our Bioethics Advisory Panel (MBAP) members
43
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
Digital Ethics Advisory Panel Stem cell research
Ourethicshorizonextendsbeyondbioethicalquestions.We At the present time we neither participate in clinical
also strive to be the “digital ethics company”, adhering to programs that utilize human embryonicstem cellsor
rigorous ethical standards in critical areas such as health clonedhuman cellsfor the treatment of diseases, nor do
data handling. In 2019, we therefore created the Digital wepursuesuchapproachesourselves.Wedo,however,use
EthicsAdvisoryPanel(DEAP)todealwithallethicalques- human embryonic stem cells in our research and offer our
tions resulting from our Digital (Health) Businesses, customers several selectedstem cell lines. Thus, ourStem
especially from the joint ventureSyntropywith Palantir. It CellPrincipleensurescompliancewithourethicalapproach.
held four sessions in 2020. Together with the DEAP and All projects are reviewed and approved by the SCROC
additional academic partners, we currently develop a Code before any stem cells are used for research purposes. We
ofDigitalEthics(CoDE).TheCoDEistoserveasaguideline only use cell lines approved by the United States National
for our digital business models, a tool for analyzing ethical Institute of Health (NIH) and allowed under the German
challenges, and a basis for practical DEAP guidance. Embryo Protection Act and the German Stem Cell Law. The
SCROC did not hold any meetings in 2020 as no pressing
Biotechnology and genetic engineering matters had to be discussed.
Across our Group, we manufacture our biotech products in
accordance with the highest standards. All related activ- Fertility research
ities are subject to strict statutory regulations worldwide. We develop treatments for infertility and seek to improve
Compliance with these regulations is monitored by the success rate ofin vitrofertilization. As a result, we
ourbiologicalsafetyofficers.Wecontinuouslytracklocal are frequently confronted with various relatedbioethical
regulatory changes that relate to biotech products and issues.Ourlegislativepointofreferencefortheseissuesis
adapt our processes accordingly, thus ensuring we adhere the German Embryo Protection Act, and we are guided by
to all statutory requirements. ourFertility Principle, which was developed based on input
from the MBAP.
Using genome-editing techniques
We are a leading supplier of technologies such asCRISPR/ Biosampling and biobanking
Cas9, which can be used to target and modify specific Biological samples obtained from patients within clinical
genes,aprocessknownasgenomeediting.CRISPR/Cas9 studies are indispensable to the development of new preci-
opens up new possibilities in genetic engineering research sion treatments and advanced diagnostic methods. We
that could bring about major advances in the treatment of handle these samples in a responsible and ethical manner,
seriousdiseasesorin“greengeneticengineering”,whichis in compliance with all regulatory requirements and
the use of genome editing techniques in plant cultivation. according to the consent given by patients for the use
Statutes in different countries allow for a varying degree of their samples. This may include the permission to use
of latitude in applying this technique. Bioethical views on biospecimens forfurther medical researchbeyond the
germline editing have been evolving for years in academic clinical study through an optional consent. Since 2017, we
andsocietaldiscussions.Ourstatementonhumangermline have had a policy and standard operating procedures in
editing is as follows: place that define our principles and processes for human
biosample management during and after clinical studies.
“Merck does not support the use of genome editing
in human embryos and clinical applications of
germlineinterventionsinhumansinaccordancewith
the German Embryo Protection Act. Merck recog-
nizes that there may be value of responsibly
conducted related research.”
44
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
CClliinniiccaall  ssttuuddiieess
 Part of the non-financial report
Our company discovers and develops medicines that help people with serious diseases. Before obtaining regu-
latory approval, we conduct clinical studies with patients and, if necessary, also with healthy volunteers to
investigate the safety and efficacy of these products. Before they begin, extensive preclinical testing must be
performed to demonstrate that the drug poses no unacceptable risks. This typically includes procedures such as
animal studies.
Our approach to safe and transparent clinical marketing authorization and made available to patients
studies after we have proven its efficacy and safety.
We conduct high-caliber clinical research that always We assure that no subject enrolling in a clinical study is
complies with applicable laws and regulations. When discriminatedagainstonthebasisofethnicorigin,gender
performing clinical studies, we adhere to thehighest or socio-economic status.
ethical and scientific standardsworldwide.
We only conduct clinical studies to investigate issues How we govern clinical studies
that are relevant to patients, healthcare professionals or Clinical drug development, including clinical studies, and
society, and only when the medicines being tested show therelatedgovernanceprocessaretheresponsibilityofthe
significant therapeutic promise and have apositive HeadofGlobalDevelopmentunit.TheHeadofGlobalDevel-
benefit-risk ratio. In addition, a sound, established opment reports to the Member of the Executive Boardand
scientific methodology must be available to investigate CEO Healthcare.
these scientific or medical questions. We only enroll the We review the progress of new drug development at
numberofparticipantsrequiredtoanswereachoftheques- defined milestones, and make decisions about the continu-
tions. ation, modification or discontinuation of development,
Protecting the safety, well-being, dignity and rights of depending on the results of clinical studies.
thepatientsandhealthyvolunteersparticipatinginourclin- Wehaveestablishedtwointernalcommitteestooversee
icalstudiesisofutmostimportancetous.Wedonotinten- our clinical studies. The Development Studies Committee
tionally expose study subjects to undue risk or irreversible (DSC) is responsible for the studies performed by the
harm.Personaldataprivacyisalsoveryimportanttous, companyonmedicinesthatareunderclinicaldevelopment,
and we maintain a strong focus on data protection and whiletheGlobalMedicalDecisionBoard(GMDB)isrespons-
confidentiality, in compliance with statutory regulations. ibleforourownstudieswithapprovedmedicines,aswellas
for all studies performed by independent investigators and
Clinical studies in low- and middle-income supportedbyus(so-calledinvestigator-sponsored studies).
countries Bothbodiesconsistofmedical-scientificexpertsandexec-
We conduct all our clinical studies in accordance with local utives with long-standing experiencein clinical
laws and regulations and we adhere to all relevant inter- research.Ourdevelopmentandstudyteamspresentclinical
national scientific and ethical standards, irrespective of the study concepts to the appropriate committee. Each
regionorcountry.Wearedeliberatelyexpandingourmedi- committee meets regularly to conduct a comprehensive
cinalproductdevelopmenttomorediversemarketsinorder review of the proposed concepts and ascertains that our
to address pressing healthcare needs in low-and middle- studies are scientifically sound, have a legitimate scientific
income countries and support the development of their purpose and are performed according to the latest stand-
healthcare systems. ards and best practices.
When performing clinical studies in low- and middle- Before administering a new drug to human subjects,
income countries, where there is usually a lower level of there must be sufficient evidence that it offers a poten-
healthcare and limited healthcare infrastructure, the tialtherapeutic benefit, is sufficiently safe for use in
following also applies: humans and has a positive benefit-risk ratio. We only take
the critical step of a first-in-human clinical trial after dili-
We only do so in an environment in which the principles gentlyconductingextensivepreclinicaltesting.Thedecision
ofGood Clinical Practicecan be upheld. lieswithaseparatecommittee,theHumanExposureGroup
We only investigate diseases and innovative medicines chaired by our Global Chief Medical Officer.
that are relevant to the local population. We continuously analyze potentialrisks for study
We only conduct clinical studies in countries where we participantsbefore and during the course of our clinical
expect that the drug being tested will be submitted for studies. Our Medical Safety and Ethics Board (MSEB) over-
sees the safety of subjects participating in our clinical
45
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
studies and, as necessary, reviews the benefit-risk profiles authorities. They continued to carry out their inspections,
ofinvestigationaldrugs.Youcanfindfurtherinformationon yet virtually.
the MSEB underPatient safety. Our Research & Development Quality unit identifies
Issuesmaybesubmittedtotherelevantcommitteesby areas for auditing based on a quality risk assessment
product teams or other committees (as defined in relevant approach.Weperformqualityassuranceauditsinternally
SOPs or committee charters). If individual employees wish within Healthcare R&D as well as externally among our
toseekadviceorreportconcernsonethicalquestions,they partners (for example, at vendors’ sites and investigational
can contact the chairperson or a permanent member of a sites). We respond immediately to any issues found during
committee directly. audits by defining and implementing corrective and
preventive actions to improve processes and promote
Our commitment: International guidelines compliance. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we paused
and requirements business travel and postponed various on-site audits to
Our Human Subjects Research and Development Policy 2021.Wealsodevelopedvirtualauditingconceptsandsuit-
provides the framework for conducting clinical studies and able alternatives for the postponed audits.
helpsensurethatweadheretoallapplicablelegal,ethical
and scientific standards. In addition to the relevant Conducting clinical studies responsibly
nationallawsandregulations,thesestandardsalsoinclude: Prior to enrolling subjects, every clinical trial must first be
assessed and approved by a qualifiedindependentethics
TheGood Clinical Practice(GCP) guidelines of the Inter-
committee. Furthermore, all regulatory authorizations
national Council for Harmonisation of Technical Require-
required in the respective country must be obtained. In
ments for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH)
accordance with Good Clinical Practice guidelines
The Declaration of Helsinki, published by the World
(ICH-GCP), all study participants must give their explicit
Medical Association
informed consent before enrolling in a clinical study. Parti-
The Belmont Reportby the U.S.Office for Human
cipants are fully informed about all aspects of the clinical
Research Protections
trial in a language that they understand. This includes the
GoodPharmacovigilance/Laboratory/Manufacturing/
potential risks and benefits from participating in the study
Distribution Practices (GVP/GLP/GMP/GDP)
and the opportunity to enquire about details. As far as
TheInternational Ethical Guidelines for Health-related
possible,non-interventional(observational)studiesarealso
Research Involving Humans,published bythe Council for
assessed by an ethics committee.
International Organizations of Medical Sciences (CIOMS)
Every study follows precisely defined procedures to
TheJoint Position on the Disclosure of Clinical Trial
ensure that it is conducted to thehighest quality stand-
Information via Clinical Trial Registries and Data-
ardsin line with good working practices for the develop-
basesand theJoint Position on the Publication of Clinical
mentandmanufactureofdrugs(GxP),theethicalprinciples
Trial Results in the Scientific Literature, published by the
of theDeclaration of Helsinkiand other international
InternationalFederationofPharmaceuticalManufacturers
guidelines and regulations. In 2020 there were no signi-
& Associations (IFPMA) the European Federation of Phar-
ficantissueswhichhadanyimpactonpatientrights,patient
maceuticalIndustriesandAssociations(EFPIA),theJapan
safety or data integrity of a study raised by third parties or
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association (JPMA), and
regulatory agencies.
the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of
We continuously collect and communicatesafety data
America (PhRMA)
on our investigational drugs and promptly provide clin-
ThePrinciples for Responsible Clinical Trial Data Sharing,
ical investigators with important new findings relevant to
published by EFPIA and PhRMA, and the IFPMA Principles
the safety of the study participants. In this way, we help
for Responsible Clinical Trial Data Sharing
to ensure the safe use of our pharmaceuticals. Potential
adverse effects and risks are taken into consideration in
Regular supervision of clinical studies
an effort to evaluate the benefit-risk ratio of our products
Our clinical study procedures are regularly inspected by and manage any risk. Product information, including the
therelevantregulatoryauthoritiestoverifycompliancewith Investigator’s Brochure and Information for study parti-
the applicable laws and guidelines. The Covid-19 pandemic cipants, is updated accordingly. More information is avail-
hadonlyaminimalimpactoninspectionsbytheregulatory able underPatient safety.
46
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
Conducting clinical trials in vulnerable In this context, we are currently leading an initiative to
populations modernize clinical trials with innovative solutions such as
The implementation of clinical studies in vulnerable popu- telemedicine, direct to patient medication, home health
lations, such as children or people with disabilities, nursing services and others.
requiresspecial attention and carein order to comply
with the highest ethical and scientific standards. The well- Close dialogue with patients and advocacy
being of the individual is our highest priority. For this groups
reason, we only conduct studies with participants from We want to ensure that the voices andneeds of
vulnerable population groups if scientifically justified and if patientsand their caregiversare adequately heard and
there is no other way to achieve conclusive results. When taken into consideration when developing and conducting
performing such studies, especially when informing study clinicalstudies.ThatiswhywehaveestablishedthePatient
participants and obtaining their consent, we comply strictly AdvisoryBoards(PAB)asoneofourcrucialcommunication
with all statutory regulations. channels.OurPABCharterdescribeshowtoinvolvepatient
Underourleadershipandincollaborationwithaconsor- advocacy groups in our clinical research process. During
tium of partners, the Pediatric Praziquantel Program has Advisory Board meetings, patients, caregivers and repres-
conducted clinical trials with vulnerable populations in low- entativesfrompatientadvocacygroupsareinvitedtoshare
and middle-income countries. Our aim is to develop, their experience and perspectives related to clinical trials.
register and provide access to a pediatric formulationof We use this opportunity to discuss multiple aspects of the
praziquantelfortreatingschistosomiasisinchildrenyounger drug development process, including but not limited to,
thansixyearsofage.TheprogramiscurrentlyinPhaseIII protocol design, educational materials, technology and
of clinical development. innovative approaches to clinical trials. Our Global Clinical
Wecollectivelydesignedtheclinicalprograminlinewith Operations (GCO) unit values and leverages such inform-
the recommendations of the U.S. Food and Drug Adminis- ation in multiple ways, with a clear focus on prioritizing
tration(FDA)andtheEuropeanMedicinesAgency(EMA)for patient centricity in everything we do.
pediatric development. Planning and implementation were Furthermore, we are involved in multiple activities that
undertaken in close cooperation with regulatory authorities focusonthisrelevantaspectofpatientcentricityinclin-
and a panel of international experts, including clinicians ical studies. For example, in the United States, we are an
fromendemiccountries.Furtherdetailscanbefoundinthe active member of the Clinical Trials Transformation Initi-
Health for allchapter. ative(CTTI),whichfocusesonqualityandefficiencyinclin-
ical trials.
Teaming up to get results
The clinical trial investigators participating in our clinical Responsible data sharing
studies by enrolling and caring for patients are critical to We support professional circles in advancingmedical and
thesuccessfuldevelopmentofnewmedicines.Furthermore, scientific knowledge, thereby enabling informed health-
in order to achieve a broad, in-depth basis for the devel- care decisions for thebenefit ofpatients. Upon request, we
opment of new treatments, we seek advice from medical- providequalifiedresearcherswithstudyprotocols,anonym-
scientific advisory boards, and frequently conduct clinical izedpatientdata,studydata,andclinicalstudyreports.We
studies in collaboration with externalpartners in share data and information in a manner that is consistent
academia and industry. We also rely on the support of with the jointPrinciples for Responsible Clinical Trial Data
contract research organizations (CROs) and other service Sharingof theEFPIAandPhRMA:
providers and vendors. We expect all our partners to abide
Safeguarding the privacy of patients
by the same set of high standards in terms of ethical
Respecting the integrity of national regulatory systems
conduct and quality in clinical research.
Maintaining incentives for investment in biomedical
AsamemberofTransCelerate,aconsortiumof20phar-
research
maceutical companies, we seek to drive the efficient,
effective and high-quality delivery of newmedicines.
47
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
Disclosure of clinical studies and publication Supporting independent human subject
of results research
We are obligated to disclose findings from our clinical Inadditiontoconductingourownclinicalresearchprograms
studies. We do this publicly in a complete, accurate, and studies, we also support studies proposed by inde-
balanced, transparent and timely manner, as laid out in pendent investigators, so-called investigator-sponsored
ourClinicalTrialDisclosurePolicy.Ourclinicalstudydesigns studies(ISS).OurISSPrincipledefinesanISSas“anunso-
and results are made public in the internationalClinical- licited request for funding and/or supply of an investiga-
Trials.govdatabase run by the U.S. National Institutes of tional or marketed product by a third-party investigator/
Health (NIH), which can also be accessed via the World institution that initiates and conducts an independent
Health Organization’s International Clinical Trials Registry scientific investigation as the regulatory sponsor”. By
Platform(ICTRP).Furthermore,inaccordancewithEUregu- grantingfinancial or material supportfor independent
lations, we publish results from our clinical studies in the humansubjectresearch,weseektostimulatetheadvance-
EU Drug Regulating Authorities Clinical Trials (EudraCT) ment of clinical and medical knowledge and patient care
database, which is run by the European Medicines Agency in our therapeutic areas of interest, and to support the
(EMA).Ifrequiredbylocallawsandregulations,wepublish safe and effective use of our products. We give priority
study results on other publicly accessible platforms. We to research that is innovative and has the potential to
provide clinical study report synopses and Lay Patient addressspecificunmetmedicalorscientificneeds.Ourprin-
Summaries, which explain the results in plain language, on ciples, framework and standards for granting support for
our clinical trialswebsite. ISSandforourcollaborationwithindependentinvestigators
We publish results from our clinical studies inmedical are specified in our ISS Principle, which is available on our
journalsinlinewithapplicablelawsandindustrycodes.In website,aswellasinourcorrespondingpolicyandstandard
this way, we adhere in particular to the current version of operating procedure.
theGoodPublicationPractice(GPP3)andfollowtherecom-
mendations of the International Committee of Medical Joining forces to combat the pandemic
Journal Editors (ICMJE). Our Medical Publications Policy The Covid-19 pandemic presented a major challenge for
ensures compliance with all relevant standards and we use healthcare systems and clinical research in 2020.
defined standard procedures for scientific publications on Researchers from academia, industry and supranational
our products. organizations initiated numerous research projects in an
Our standard on clinical trial data transparency under- efforttofindeffectiveandsafetherapiestotreatCovid-19,
scores our strong commitment in this matter. thediseasecausedbytheSARS-CoV-2virus.Wesupported
these initiatives by donating up to 300,000 units of Rebif®
Enabling early access to new medicines (interferon beta-1a) for use in Covid-19 clinical studies.
Not all patients have the opportunity to take part in a This helped to enable the implementation of three major
clinical study and must therefore wait for a new pharma- clinical trials with thousands of patients worldwide: the
ceuticalproducttobeapproved.ThroughourEarlyAccess Solidarity trial performed by the World Health Organization
Program, we can, under specific circumstances, enable (WHO), the Discovery trial undertaken by the French
patients to gain early access to new, potentially life-saving research institution INSERM, and the ACTT 3 trial initiated
medicines. The offer is aimed at people with serious condi- bytheUnitesStatesNationalInstituteofAllergicandInfec-
tions who have already received all available therapies tious Diseases (NIAID). In addition, we are supporting
withoutsuccess.Itallowsthemtobetreatedwithmedicines severalCovid-19-relatedstudiesperformedbyindependent
that have already been clinically tested but have not yet researchers. We have established a dedicated task force
been approved. Furthermore, we offer patients who parti- within our Healthcare R&D function to oversee the collab-
cipated in one of our clinical studies post-study access to oration with independent external institutions and investig-
theinvestigationalproduct,providedthatcertainconditions ators studying Rebif®as a potential Covid-19 treatment.
aremet.Here,too,wemeetstringentstatutory,ethicaland We have also initiated our own Phase II randomized,
scientific standards. By performing a thorough assessment controlled clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and safety
of all available data, we ensure that the potential bene- of our investigational product M5049 in patients suffering
fitsoutweighthepotentialrisksforpatients.Positionpapers from Covid-19 pneumonia. M5049 blocks the activation of
onearly accessandpost-study accessare available on our twoinnateimmunesensorsthatdetectsingle-strandedRNA
website. from viruses such as SARS-CoV-2. The activation leads
to immune cell activation and inflammation, which when
not properly controlled, can cause severe immunopatho-
logy. The aim of the study is to determine whether M5049
can reduce the life-threatening complications of Covid-19,
including severe respiratory symptoms that often neces-
sitate further medical interventions such as mechanical
ventilation.
48
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
Managing the crisis A task force was established within Healthcare R&D
SoonafterthenewsabouttheCovid-19pandemichadbeen in March 2020 to continuously monitor the impact of the
published around the world, it became apparent that the Covid-19 pandemic on our ongoing and planned clinical
situationcouldhaveamajorimpactonourclinicalresearch studies, to guide the investigators, monitor clinical trial
activities. First and foremost, our focus has been on the participants’ well-being, and safeguard the integrity of our
safety and well-being of the patients participating in our clinical studies during the pandemic.
clinical studies and the continuity of their treatment and
care.
49
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
AAnniimmaall  wweellffaarree
In our Healthcare and Performance Materials business sectors, we conduct animal studies as part of the official
drug development process and, as required by law, for chemical safety and biological quality control. Animal
testing enables us to verify the safety of our medicinal and chemical products and the efficacy of our pharma-
ceuticals. Our Life Science business sector uses animals to, for instance, generate substances essential for in
vitro methods or to generate antibodies for diagnostics.
Our approach to animal welfare tioninthedrugdevelopmentprocess.Furthermore,weplan
As part of our internal due diligence, all work by our to hold an internal virtual 4Rs Day in early 2021.
company involving the use of animals was subjected to a In addition, we advocate for the global acceptance of
stringent internal audit conducted from the end of 2019 to replacement methods. To this end, we join forces with
the beginning of 2020. In 2020, we adopted a new animal industry and academia, communicate with authorities and
welfare strategy in response to the audit and the improve- the public. Our aim is to launch products and processes to
ment potential it had identified. The new strategy aligns replace, reduce or refine the use of animals in our work.
with our high ethical standards. It enables our company to
meet the most rigorous animal welfare standards and to How we ensure animal welfare
adopt a consistent and transparent Group-wide approach. BasedonournewcorporateAnimalWelfarestrategy,which
We already started implementing the organizational has been endorsed by the Executive Board and all Group
changes and the new processes in 2020 and expect to entities, we are introducing fundamental organizational
complete this work by the end of 2021. changes in line with our corporatesustainability strategy.
Our long-term ambition to replace all our animal use In 2020, we reformed our existing Animal Science and
with non-animal alternatives is firmly embedded in the Welfare governance and set up a new Animal Affairs unit
strategy. Until then, we are committed to applyingthe with clear roles and responsibilities. The unit will deliver a
highest ethical and animal welfare standards related comprehensive corporate framework of rules and imple-
tothehousing,husbandryandveterinarycareofallanimals ment organizational changes and processes to enable the
involved in our work. These standards also apply to the businesses to conduct animal testing in line with our
quality of all animal work as well as related activities, such requirements.
as data assessment. We ensure comprehensive transpar- Within the new Animal Affairs unit, we reorganized our
ency and ongoing assessment, monitoring, auditing, and Animal Science and Welfare governance and sectoral
improvementofallworkinvolvingtheuseofanimalsbyour compliance under four thematic pillars:
companyandbytrustedthirdparties.Wealwaysuseasfew
Animal Welfare and Veterinary Care
animals as possible and replace their use whenever feas-
VivariumOversight
iblewithalternativemethods.Wecontinuouslyimproveour
Animal Using Vendor and Supplier Qualification
animal testing processes, striving to enhance the animals’
The Group-wide 4Rs program
qualityof life.
We subscribe to the internationally recognized3Rs for
Our Group Animal Welfare Council, chaired by the Vice
animal-basedresearchandhavenowaddedRespons-
Chair of the Executive Board and Deputy CEO of Merck, is
ibility as our fourth animal welfare principle:
comprised of representatives from all our business sectors
and meets at least twice annually. The council steers the
Reduction – using the minimum number of animals
AnimalAffairsunitandactsasadecision-makingandescal-
required
ation body as needed.
Refinement – minimizing distress or discomfort before,
Currently, all work involving the use of animals by our
during and after testing
company is overseen by designated regional bodies or
Replacement–replacinganimalstudieswithnon-animal
committees. As part of our organizational changes, inde-
systems
pendent, cross-sectoral and multidisciplinary Merck
Responsibility – accepting the responsibility for all
Animal Usage Review Boards will be implemented
animals in our reach internally and among our business
Group-wide in 2021. These boards will be responsible for
partners
approving all work involving the use of animals conducted
Withourinternal4RsAward,werecognizebestpracticeand by or on behalf of our company.
further strengthen our commitment to apply and actively Ifemployeesidentifyanissueregardinganimalwelfare,
promote the 4Rs in our animal work. The 2020 winners they can report it directly to the Animal Affairsunit, to
were recognized for their project “Organ-on-a-chip”, which local Animal Welfare officers or via ourSpeakUp Line.
standstodeliverimproved,predictableandtranslationalcell
culture models for the liver and intestine and their applica-
50
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
Comprehensive employee training todevelopacross-companyauditconceptforsuppliers
Along with the establishment of the new Animal Affairs of animal studies and animal breeders. The results are
unit,welaunchedourAnimalAffairsAcademyin2020.The sharedamongInterpharmamembercompaniesandtreated
AnimalAffairsAcademywillensureregular,comprehensive, confidentially. Based on the audit results, it is up to the
high-quality,andup-to-datestafftrainingonpracticalwork discretion of each company whether or not to collaborate
and governance documents. with the respective suppliers.
Our employees also regularly participate in external
continuingeducationprograms,suchasaccreditedlabor- Our commitment: Group-wide standards
atory animal science courses offered by the Federation of Beyondcompliancewithallapplicablelawsandregulations,
EuropeanLaboratoryAnimalScienceAssociations(FELASA), we are committed to following our own internal guidelines.
the American Association for Laboratory Animal Science In2020,aspartofourstrategicrealignment,weadopteda
(AALAS), theSociety of Laboratory Animal Science, the new Animal Affairs Policy and rewrote our Group animal
Laboratory Animal Science Association (LASA) and welfare standards and procedures for animal testing
theInteressengemeinschaft Tierpfleger(Community of conducted internally and by trusted third parties. These
Animal Technicians). guidelines corroborate a comprehensive and stringent
governance framework based on our four pillars of animal
Work with committees and associations use governance.
As part of our efforts to improve animal welfare, we are Our new standards and procedures entail, for example,
involved in several organizations and industry initiatives, the definition of housing and husbandry standards that
includingtheEuropeanFederationofPharmaceuticalIndus- also apply to external partners. The Animal Using Vendor
triesandAssociations(EFPIA).Thegoalistocreateefficien- Management standard describes the requirements from
ciesandlearnfromoneanotherregardingtheimprovement planningtotheapprovalofvendorsandsuppliersbyAnimal
ofanimalwelfare.Activitiesincludejointauditingprocesses, Affairs.Thestandardentitled“AuditManagementofAnimal
knowledge exchange and shared responsibility when Affairs and of Animal Using Vendors” defines how we eval-
phasingoutanimaluseandfosteringtheapprovalofaltern- uatethequalityofanimalwelfarepracticesemployedinour
ative methods. own vivariums and by our suppliers and partners. Further
As part of our collaboration with Interpharma, a feder- documents, including guidance for our 4Rs efforts and our
ation of research-based pharmaceutical companies in risk management, augment the Animal Affairs governance
Switzerland,wealsoworkedwithothermembercompanies framework.
51
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Business ethics
Number of laboratory animals used for medical study purposes
In 2020, a total of 179,425 animals were used within the of all animals used in 2020, compared with 96% in 2019.
scopeofourbusinessactivities,eitherinourownvivariums Regulatoryagenciessometimesrequirestudiesofthesafety
or on the premises of organizations contracted on our ofinvestigational drugsin non-rodent species. This allows
behalf. This represents an overall decrease of 5.9% researchers to identify potential adverse effects accurately
comparedwith2019.Rodents(miceorrats)comprised95% and include them in therisk assessmentof a substance.
Animal types
Collaborating with partners and suppliers ners, we were able to perform a total of 11 on-site audits
Weperformthemajority(89%)ofanimalstudiesourselves ofCROfacilities.Additionally,wesetupfiveremoteaudits
andprocuretherequiredanimalsfromspecializedbreeders. by carrying out virtual facility tours either with photos or
WealsohireCROstoconductanimalstudiesonourbehalf. with pre-casted videos. In the future, the Animal Using
Furthermore,weworkwithacademicinstitutions.Whenever Vendor governance team will perform regular audits every
collaborating with such organizations, we require them to three years to assess all animal testing vendors.
abide by our standards. Employee safety and animal well-being remained our
highestprioritiesthroughoutthepandemic.Employeesofall
Covid-19 and animal welfare vivariums worked alternate shifts, for example, to reduce
In 2020, it was our policy to restrict travel on a Group- thenumberofcontactsandtoprotectourteams.Webegan
wide scale as part of our Covid-19-related measures to newstudiesonlyiftheywereindispensableforthebusiness,
protect our employees. Therefore, only limited audits could for example to ensure the ongoing supply of medicines for
be performed in the reporting year. With the help of part- patients.
52
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
PPrroodduuccttss
Within this chapter:
54 Innovation and digitalization
58 Sustainable products
58 Sustainable product design
62 Packaging and recycling
65 Health for all
65 Global strategy
68 Focus programs
71 Open innovation sharing
73 Pharmaceutical supply chain
75 Prices of medicines
77 Health awareness
80 Product safety and quality
80 Chemical product safety
82 Patient safety
87 Product-related crime
89 Transport and warehouse safety
53
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
IInnnnoovvaattiioonn  aanndd  ddiiggiittaalliizzaattiioonn
 Part of the non-financial report
We develop products and technologies that enrich people’s lives. To this end, we are constantly on the lookout
for groundbreaking developments and trends. Research and development (R&D) and innovation are the corner-
stones of our success, enabling us to make many sustainable contributions. In 2020, we spent € 2.3 billion on
R&D,correspondingto13%ofournetsales.Advancesindigitalizationarehelpingustoidentifypioneeringbusi-
ness models.
1
Research and development costs by business sector – 2020
1)Not represented: research and development costs of € 62 million allocated to Corporate and Other.
Our approach to creating innovation We also create andfoster an innovation
Ourbusinesssectorsuseestablishedstrategiestodrivenew ecosysteminordertobolsterouroverallinnovativepower
product developments for the benefit of patients and our in several areas. This ecosystem includes a presence in
customers. The diversity of the business sectors provides Darmstadt(Germany),inGuangzhouandinShanghai(both
us with a breadth of technologies and depth of market China) as well as in Silicon Valley (California, USA) with
knowledge,givingusacompetitiveadvantageindeveloping internal and outreach programs. Additionally, we invest in
new products. innovative technologies and transformational ideas that
At the same time, we aim to create new businesses havethepotentialtoshapeourcorebusinessareasandour
betweenourbusinesssectorsandbeyondthecurrentscope sustainability pathway.
ofouractivities.Innovationfieldsinwhichweseepotential
fornewbusinessprovidestrategicdirection.Inourend-to-
end innovation process,we endeavor to identify innov-
ation projects that transcend our current portfolio and to
develop them from the initial idea to market launch. This
can succeed only if our business sectors work closely
together and if we are open to external momentum.
54
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
IINNFFOO
Our Group Strategy and Transformation function facilit-
atesinnovationbetweenourindividualbusinesssectorsand
beyondourcurrentbusinessscope.Itestablishesaninnov-
OUR INNOVATION FIELDS TO DRIVE
ation project portfolio to generate long-term new busi-
INNOVATION BETWEEN AND BEYOND
nessesforourcompany.Projectsofthiskindaredeveloped
Clean meat
throughourInnovationCenteratourglobalheadquartersin
This field concentrates on the biotechnology Darmstadt (Germany), ourChina Innovation Hub(Guang-
required to produce real meat grownin vitro. It dong and Shanghai) and ourSilicon Valley Innovation Hub
is expected to enable the production of animal in California.
protein that is healthier, more ethical and Our Innovation Committee (IC) oversees the imple-
environmentally sustainable. mentation of innovation projects between and beyond our
Liquid biopsytechnologies business sectors. It reviews the progress of ongoing efforts
and ensures that the decision-making process for selecting
This area focuses on non-invasive alternatives
innovation projects is both transparent and consistent. The
to traditional tissue-based diagnostics, such
committeeconsistsofleadersfromourGroupfunctionsand
asliquid biopsy, thereby reshaping methods of
our three business sectors. For projects requiring larger-
detecting and managing various diseases.
scale investments, the IC consults our Executive Board.
AI-enabled Health Solutions in China
Our first innovation field targeted specifically to Investing in promising ideas
China focuses on Artificial Intelligence (AI)- M Ventures is our strategic corporate venture capital arm.
enabled Health Solutions. It includes AI-related With a €400million evergreen fund, M Ventures invests in
products and services that impact the medical innovativetechnologiesandtransformationalideaswiththe
and healthcare industries across their value potential to significantly impact our core business areas. M
chains, for example by increasing efficiency, Ventures focuses on investing in early-stage start-ups,
saving costs or improving the customer experi- including the creation of spin-offs, to leverage our science
ence. and technology orientation.
Leveraging data
We are in the process of rolling out a new Enterprise Data
Strategy. Our focus is to increase the data and analytics
capabilities across our company. To this end, we have
We drive promising projects from the brainstorming and establishedaconsistentoperatingmodelthathelpsusmake
idea generation stage to an incubation and growth phase, faster, better-informed decisions and take calculated risks
whereweprovideprojectteamswithasuitableenvironment based on past behaviors and future predictions. This will
to develop their business models and scale up their ideas. also help to drive innovation and research at a higher pace
Projectsaremonitoredinaleanprocessinwhichtheyprove with strong business impact. The rollout of the strategy
their commercial relevance at different stages. All activities and the implementation of the associated organizational
aresupportedbyexpertsinbusinessmodeldesign,busi- changes are scheduled for completion in 2021.
ness development, market research, and agile methodolo- As a part of this data strategy, we are also investing in
gies. The objective is for the new products or services to additional capacity for data management and data science.
make a measurable contribution to our business success Linked via a global expert community, we employ several
once they have been launched. data science teams across the business sectors that drive
Digitalization is a major focus of our innovation efforts. projects inadvanced analytics and machine learning.
Weleveragedigitalopportunitiestoboostbusinessperform- For example, these teams work with external and internal
ance,andweareincreasinglyformingnewstrategicpart- data to provide insights to sales teams in Life Science, use
nershipswith organizations that offer different image recognition techniques to support the work of clini-
perspectives. In this way, we expect to accelerate our ciansandresearchersinHealthcare,andassisttheresearch
research and development activities, better manage our and innovation process in Performance Materials.
supply chain and broaden our existing product portfolio to In the process of integrating Versum Materials and
include new digital services, such as our PETRA health- Intermolecular we have established a Chief Technology
screening robot. Office (CTO) to enable business innovation. The CTO will
Youcanfindmoreinformationonresearchanddevelop- focusonidentifyingtrendsandvettingtechnologiesthatare
ment in our2020 Annual Report. beyondthetimehorizonorscopeofourbusinessunits.We
havealsocreatedaTechnologyLeadershipBoardtoreview
How we drive innovation and optimize technology investments across our Perform-
ance Materials business sector.
The organizational set-up of our research and development
(R&D) activities reflects the overall structure of our
Our commitment: Protecting innovative ideas
company. All three of our business sectors operate inde-
pendent R&D units, which pursue their own innovation We are committed to ensuring the confidentiality of sens-
strategies. itive information, particularly of intellectual property in
55
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
digitalprojects, andtoprotecting our innovative ideas. Our organizations, such as the Good Food Institute, we are
Policy for Personal Data Protection and Personal Data working on innovation projects to address specific techno-
Privacy defines the standards that govern how we process, logy challenges.
save, use, and transfer data. Amajorhurdleandcostdriverinculturedmeatproduc-
Youcanfindmoreinformationondataprotectioninthe tion is cell culture media, which is estimated to account
correspondingchapter. for55% to 95% of production costs. For production at
scale, the media needs to be cost-efficient, suitable for
Innovation in the fight against Covid-19 effective growth and differentiation into specific cell types
To harness our company’s innovation capabilities in the and free of any animal-derived material such as fetal
fightagainstthepandemic,weestablishedacross-business bovine serum. One of our innovation projects addresses
Covid-19 task force. The task force launched an internal exactly these challenges and aims to design and commer-
idea-generating initiative and an external idea call for cializemediaformulationsthatarefreefromanimal-derived
2020 research grants. In addition, our task force imple- products. Utilizing our cell culture media expertise, we
mented multiple projects. For example, it oversaw the partner with start-ups to enable the efficient production of
selection process for medicines that could be used to treat various cultured seafood as well as avian and mammalian
Covid-19, including Rebif® and M5049, through to clinical species. The project is led by the Silicon Valley Innovation
development and it launched an antibody detection assay. HubincollaborationwiththeInnovationCenterandProcess
To learn more about our clinical development efforts Solutions experts from our Life Science business sector.
to address Covid-19, please see the chapter on Clinical
Studies. China Innovation Hub: Growing the global
impact of our innovation ecosystem
Easier employee testing with the help of Our China Innovation Hub expands our innovation
software ecosystem to China and strengthens our global innovation
We developed a software solution that digitalizes, stream- impact. The China Innovation Hub leads the China-specific
linesandautomatesasignificantproportionoftheCovid-19 innovationfield“AI-enabledhealthsolutions”toexplore
testing procedure for employees. The first version of the future business for our global innovation pipeline.
software,whichisforinternaluseonly,isfocusedonadmin- ThelocalpresenceoftwoinnovationhubsinGuangdong
istration tasks associated with testing, e.g. automating e- and Shanghai also accelerates our innovation and digitaliz-
mails, test invites and medical history. In addition, we ation development by building up a nationwide innovation
document user consent, patient profiles, test cases, and network and leveraging the vibrant innovation ecosystem
sending out test results. in China. For example, we have formed partnerships with
leading academic institutions, incubators and accelerators,
Our Innovation Center: Growing ideas into cross-industry players, and local governments in Guang-
business dong and Shanghai.
Located in Darmstadt (Germany), our Innovation Center Since 2019, the Merck Accelerator China program has
offers an ideal environment tocultivate ideasand scale connected us with 18 start-ups to support entrepreneurs’
them up into viable new businesses. In addition to early-stage technologies and foster open innovation. In
propelling strategic growth fields, such as our innovation addition, we established a China Seed Fund of €13million
fields, the Innovation Center offers a platform for in 2019, with the objective of strengthening our links with
serendipity. It is open to anyone at our company who has local entrepreneurs and investors. It targets early innov-
an idea that is either cross-sectoral or beyond the current ation generated within the Chinese innovation ecosystem.
scope of our activities. The first investment was made into SynSense, an AI-chip
For example, this kind of lateral thinking has led to a start-up, in May 2020.
collaboration to improve the manufacturing of tablets for In 2020, a series of cross-functional internal ideation
oral administration in clinical trials. Producing tablets for programs, such as “Innovate to Fight Covid-19”, inspired
such trials is typically time-consuming and costly using the hundreds of employees to ideate and submit their creative
traditional tablet manufacturing processes. Through a new ideasfornewsolutions.OurInnovatorAcademyandInnov-
partnership with AMCM, a sister company of 3D printing ation Salon provide training sessions on innovation
world-market leader EOS, we are developing a GMP-certi- approachesandideaexchangesforemployeesandexternal
fied 3D printing solution to make tablet production simpler stakeholders, helping to empower them to transform ideas
and more flexible, saving time and costs. into business projects.
Silicon Valley Innovation Hub: Accelerating Synergizing external ideas
the future of food TheMerckAcceleratorsupportsselectenterprisesintheir
TheSiliconValleyInnovationHubisleadingourCleanMeat development through programs at our global headquarters
innovation field, also referred to as cultured or cell-based inDarmstadtaswellasinChina.Thishelpsusgaininsights
meat.Asatechnologyenablerforthisemergingindustry, into innovative start-ups, which supports our efforts to
weareleveragingourvastLifeScienceexpertiseinbiopro- identifyemergingmarkettrendsearlyon.Ourprimarygoal
cessing technologies. Apart from building strong connec- is to link these start-up companies with our innovation
tionsandpartnershipswithstart-ups,academiaandleading projects or our business sectors for future collaboration.
56
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
M Ventures has a mandate to invest in the areas supporting our collective purpose to achieve breakthrough
of Healthcare, Life Sciences, Performance Materials, and cancer research.
Frontier Tech & Sustainability and takes an active role in By simplifying and accelerating collaboration-driven
its portfolio companies. One such investment example is insights, Syntropy will help to usher in a new era of
Akili. In June 2020, Akili announced that the U.S. Food scientific discovery, enabling researchers, their institu-
andDrugAdministration(FDA)hadapprovedEndeavorRx™ tions and the scientific community to make further
(AKL-T01) as a prescription treatment for children with advances.
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). This is the
first digital, video game-based therapeutic device prescrip- Promoting visionary research
tiontreatmenttoreceiveFDAapproval.Deliveredthrougha At the2020 Future Insight Virtual Event, which we
video game experience, EndeavorRx™ can help to improve sponsored, the Future Insight Prize in theMultidrug Resist-
attention span among children aged 8-12 with primarily ancecategory was awarded to a team from the Technical
inattentive or combined-type ADHD. UniversityofMunichledbyStefanSieberforitsactivitiesto
identify new antibacterial compounds with the potential to
Fruitful strategic partnership make the multi-drug resistance breaker product a reality.
Syntropyis a joint venture formed by our company and In 2020, we also offered additional research grants
Palantir Technologies. The partnership’s imperative is to to the scientific community, focusing on four topics: drug
unlock the power of data in the fight to cure cancer and discovery oncology and autoimmune disease, pandemic
several other diseases. Through its secure, trust-based preparedness including the fight against Covid-19, biore-
environment, Syntropy enables data curation, collaboration actor design for cultured meat, and neuromorphic
andthegenerationofnewinsightswhileensuringthatdata computing. In total, we received more than 1,200 research
ownershipremainswiththeprovider.Thepartnershipoffers proposals from around the world.
the scientific community a new model for collaboration,
57
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
SSuussttaaiinnaabbllee  pprroodduuccttss
SSuussttaaiinnaabbllee  pprroodduucctt  ddeessiiggnn
Respect for the environment is at the heart of sustainable conduct. We see it as our duty to not only conserve
resourceswhendevelopingourownproducts,buttoalsohelpourcustomersincreasethesustainabilityoftheirs.
OurLifeScience business sector develops solutions tomakeresearch andbiotechproduction simpler, fasterand
more efficient, while our Performance Materials business sector focuses on solutions for the electronics market,
for example semiconductor or display materials.
Our approach to sustainable product design Our commitment: Chemicals and product
Our individual business sectors take different approaches policies
to sustainable product design. In our Life Science business In order to meet the product safety regulations relevant
sector,weaimtoreduceanyadverseimpactofourproducts to our company, our Regulatory Affairs Group Policy
on health and the environment. This applies tothe entire detailsGroup-wide processesfor managing and imple-
life cycle, from manufacture and use to disposal. At the menting product safety, including the necessary manage-
sametime,weseektomakeourproductsmoreefficientand ment structures.
user-friendly, asking ourselves right at the start of product
development how to best reconcile these requirements. Our processes for sustainable product design
OurPerformanceMaterialsbusinesssectordevelopsand WithinourLifeSciencebusinesssector,astrategicplatform
produces numerous smart materials that help our founded on a data-driven approachhelps our experts to
customers manufacture high-tech products. Many of these drive sustainability improvement during the development
materials allow people to save energy in their everyday of products and packaging. Our Design for Sustainability
lives. The avoidance of highly hazardous materials where (DfS)program,acomprehensiveapproachtoincreasingthe
possible is a principle that is embedded in our product sustainability of our products, focuses on three areas:
development process. Working with our customers, we
support their efforts to continue advancing technology OurDfS: Developmentpillar focuses on embedding
innovation while at the same time employing products with sustainability at the beginning of the R&D process.
minimum environmental impact. OurDfS: Consultingpillar focuses on working with our
customers to solve specific sustainability and/or Green
How we include sustainability in product Chemistry challenges they face.
design OurDfS: Re-Engineeringpillar focuses on our estab-
The Life Science business sector works across its business lishedportfolioofproductsandonlookingathowwecan
units to drive product-related sustainability. This includes improve the environmental footprint of these products
our Design for Sustainability (DfS) program for environ- by applying the 12 Principles of Green Chemistry in our
mentally sound Life Science products as well as DOZN™, a process. We then use our proprietary web-based
web-basedtoolforassessingmoresustainablealternatives. toolDOZN™to assess the improvements. We have now
In 2020, we started the process of restructuring the expanded the use of this tool to our customers to aid
sustainability governance of our Performance Materials them in assessing their own products and processes.
business. We will provide information on the new structure
Within our Performance Materials business sector, our raw
in future reports.
materials for the cosmetics industry meet the high stand-
The responsibilities described here also apply to
ards of the EU Cosmetics Regulation and are produced
productpackaging and recycling.
in line with Good Manufacturing Practices for Cosmetic
Ingredients (EFfCIGMP).
Integration of Versum Materials
We achieved several implementation milestones with
Ensuring business continuity during the
respect to the integration of Versum Materials in 2020. On
pandemic
June1, we announced the completion of the integration
During the Covid-19 pandemic, our sites were fully
of the Human Resources processes. The next phase will
committed to ensuring business continuity while protecting
focus on the structural integration of business processes
the health and safety of our employees.
and systems. This is due to be completed by the end of
The Performance Materials site in Suzhou was our first
2021.
factory in China to restart operations after the Covid-19
outbreak. It resumed production on January29, 2020. The
58
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
Suzhou site provides essential photoresist products to areas. When developing a new product, our aim is to
display panel manufacturers. improve on as many of these criteria scores as possible.
Our liquid crystal technology is widely used in the To understand the potential environmental impacts
displays of vital medical devices needed during the throughout the product life cycle, we conduct streamlined
pandemic. Globally, our Performance Materials teams work productlifecycleanalyses.Thefindingsfromtheseanalyses
to ensure a continuous supply of high-end liquid crystal inform our efforts to improve our products and are incor-
materials to support the increased demand for medical porated into subsequent development stages. Experts from
equipment. R&D, Product Management, Quality, Procurement, and
other departments collaborate along every step of the
Putting the Convention on Biological Diversity process.
into practice In 2020, we launched the new version of our “DfS:
We are committed to implementing theNagoya Protocol, Development”program.Itcomprisesadditionalcriteriaand
an international supplementary agreement to the UN anewscoringsystemthathelpsourdevelopmentteamsto
Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), which has been better address and minimize negative product- and supply
transposed into EU law and was implemented in German chain-relatedfactorsandenablesustoimproveourcommu-
law on July1, 2016. We support the general principles set nication of product sustainability credentials to our
forth in the CBD, especially the third objective: the fair customers. We will progressively deploy these new
andequitablesharingofbenefitsarisingfromtheutilization elements across our organization.
of genetic resources and traditional knowledge, in accord-
ancewiththeNagoyaProtocol’stermsandconditions.Akey Green Chemistry assessment tool
element is access and benefit sharing, which ensures that Through our “DfS: Re-Engineering” initiative, our Life
countries providing genetic resources and knowledge also Science researchers are developing innovative solutions in
benefitfromtheiruse.TheNagoyaProtocolplaysakeyrole linewiththe12PrinciplesofGreenChemistrydevelopedby
inourproductdevelopmentefforts,andweapplytheagree- chemistry professors Paul T. Anastas and John C. Warner.
ment’s requirements when using genetic resources origin- Theseaimtomakeresearchasenvironmentallycompat-
ating in countries covered by the protocol. ible as possibleand to minimize negative impacts on
We employ a Group-wide standard entitled Access to human health.
GeneticResources.Itsobjectiveistodefinerequirements, Our proprietary web-based tool DOZN™ enables us to
roles and responsibilitiesin order to ensurecompli- assesssustainablealternativesforvariouschemicalsandto
ancewith the Nagoya Protocol under applicable legislation. provide transparency to our customers. DOZN™ provides
Weconductcomprehensivetrainingonthisstandardacross aframework for rating our productsin the three stew-
relevant units. In 2020, we established an additional ardship categories of “Improved resource use”, “Increased
internal exchange within the Group to ensure continued energy efficiency” and “Reduced human and environmental
cross-business alignment and to develop and deliver hazards”. The system calculates scores on each substance
ongoing training. This keeps the relevant units informed of basedonarangeofdatathatincludestheGloballyHarmon-
changes to access and benefit sharing. ized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals
Whereappropriate,weseektoobtaingeneticresources (GHS)aswellasMaterialSafetyDataSheetinformation.To
and traditional knowledge with the prior informed consent date,wehaveusedthismatrixtoassessandimprovemore
of the relevant Nagoya Protocol member state. Their use than 50 products.
is governed bymutually agreed terms. If applicable, for The customer-facing version of DOZN™ 2.0 allows
instancewhenlaunchinganewproduct,wediscloseappro- customers to compare products and/or processes in a
priatedue diligencedeclarations and keep all associated secureenvironmentwhileutilizingthepowerofoursystem.
records as required by relevant legislation. DOZN™ 2.0 brings new possibilities of sustainable product
Eachbusinesssectordefinesspecificprocedurestohelp design to our customers to make moreenvironmentally
ensure that the requirements set out in our Group-wide friendly choicesin their development processes. Since its
standard are met. introduction in 2019, approximately 500 users worldwide
have registered to utilize it.
Sustainable product design in the Life Science In2020,weestablishedpartnershipswithuniversitiesin
business sector theUnitedStatesaimedatapplyingtheDOZN™toolinboth
Through our Design for Sustainability (DfS) program, we virtual and in-lab chemistry curricula. Using DOZN™ in an
havedevelopedacomprehensiveapproachtoincreasingthe academic setting yields many benefits. Firstly, it increases
sustainabilityofourLifeScienceproducts.The“DfS:Devel- the overall accessibility and tangibility of Green Chemistry
opment” program provides our product developers with and its principles. Secondly, it provides a practical oppor-
arange of toolsthat enable them to analyze product tunity to calculate scores for chemical products and
impacts in terms of materials used, energy and emissions, processes and further reinforce learning while highlighting
water, packaging, usability and innovation, circular the importance of sustainability in the minds of future
economy, as well as supplier- and manufacturing-related scientists.
issues. We have developed sustainability criteria that can As of December 2020, more than 1,100 greener altern-
be used to rank a product’s performance in each of these ativeshadbeenmadeavailableacrossourplatformofsolu-
tions.
59
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
Wide range of solutions and “Designing Safer Chemicals” principles of the 12 Prin-
Our Life Science portfolio comprises a broad array of ciples of Green Chemistry. They offer several sustainab-
products, with different properties that are taken into ility benefits, such as a 55% reduction of plastic
consideration when applying our DfS approach. The consumables (tubes, pipets, tips) and the avoidance of
following examples illustrate the results. hazardousliquidwastecomparedtosilica-basedkits.These
kits also adhere to the principles of SMASH Packaging, our
Greener solvents global strategy to reduce the environmental impact of our
Ourgreener,bio-basedsolventsusenon-food,renewable packaging.
resources, making them more environmentally sustain- Our Performance Materials products help boost sustainab-
able. Our solvent Cyrene™ is derived from waste cellulose ility in a variety of ways:
andisusedasamoresustainablealternativetosubstances
suchasNMPandDMF,whichareclassifiedastoxictorepro- Colloidal silica
duction. We were awarded €12million towards building Over the past decade, our semiconductor materials
a new Cyrene™ production facility in Europe by the EU customers have been increasing their efforts to use more
research and innovation program Horizon 2020. As part of environmentally sustainable materials in their chip manu-
the project, weare committed to developing new applica- facturing, while simultaneously improving the performance
tions for Cyrene™. of their computer chips at lower costs. We have responded
Beyond this initiative, we also continue to partner with tothischallengebydevelopingnext-generationcolloidal
leadingacademicinstitutionsinordertodevelopinnovative silicaproductsusingatleast30%lesscolloidalsilica.This
products that enable us to expand our green solvents port- reducesthevolumeofproductneeded,whichinturnshrinks
folio. our environmental footprint.
Wesuccessfullylaunchedanext-generationproductthat
Sustainable laboratory water use meets our customers’ technical and commercial targets,
Our Milli-Q®IQ 7000 lab water purification and monitoring thereby reducing the number of shipping containers used
system uses mercury-free UV oxidation lamps and has a for this product line by approximately 180 units annually.
hibernation mode to save energy while still preserving We also optimized our own production process, lowering
systemwaterquality.Comparedwithprevioussystems,this process water consumption by over53million liters
system and its purification cartridges are 25% and 33% comparedtoourstandardproducts.Theavailabilityofthese
smaller,respectively,helpingtocutdownontheamountof next-generation colloidal silica products in concentrated
plastic used. form means that our customers are able to reduce their
process waste treatment and have a smaller number of
Less plastic in cell culture creation product containers requiring disposal.
Our eco-friendlier alternative to our Stericup® sterile filtra-
tion system, the Stericup® E, allows our customers to NMP-free removers
connect the bottle containing the sample being filtered The production process for semiconductor devices requires
directly to the Stericup® E filtration unit, thus avoiding the numerous cleaning steps to remove the organic material
use of a plastic funnel. Depending on the product version, used to pattern the circuit design. These cleaning methods
the Stericup® E canreduce the amount of plasticused requirecomplexsolventchemistriesthatselectivelyremove
byupto48%andtheamountandsizeofplasticandcorrug- organic material without damaging the sensitive electronic
atedpackagingbyupto73%.Theunitofsaleisthenlighter components. However, the most effective solvents pose
and smaller, which leads to a reduction of CO2emissions a significant environmental hazard.NMP, a mainstream
during transportation. It also takes less space to store the solventcommoninwafercleaningprocesses,ishighlytoxic
productatourdistributioncentersoratcustomers’facilities, and is classified as an SVHC (Substance of Very High
while furthermore reducing the volume and cost of waste Concern)undertheEuropeanUnion’sREACHregulation.We
disposal (including biohazardous waste) for our customers. are continuously working on developingnew cleaning
Takingtheentirelifecycleintoconsideration,thisapproach chemistries and launched several new products in 2020.
can reduce the global warming potential of the product by By designing custom solvent systems for our customers’
upto46%.Stericup®Ewasrecognizedas“NewProductof cleaning applications, we help avoid hazardous chemistries
the Year” at the2020 BIG Awards for Business. while also reducing the volume of material used and waste
generated.
Innovative single spin purification kits
Switchable windows
Traditional DNA and RNA purification uses silica membrane
columns to isolate nucleic acid from cell, tissue, blood, Windows that can be darkened within a matter of seconds
and other sample types. DNA or RNA are bound to silica are possible, enabled by eyrise®, ourliquid crystalwindow
using high concentrations of chaotropic salts. These bind- (LCW) technology. These darkened windows regulate the
wash-elute methods usually require multiplewashandspin heat generated by direct sunlight. Estimates based on
steps. In 2020, we launched our GenElute™-E kits, which planned customer projects show that this technology can
do not contain any chaotropic salts, organic solvents or lower the energy consumed by building climate control
EDTA, resulting in improved performance in downstream systems and lighting by up to 10%, thereby replacing
applications. Also, the kits align with both the “Prevention” conventional shading. In addition, the people behind these
60
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
windows feel more comfortable and work more efficiently pigments we produce in Gernsheim (Germany) and
thanks to the positive effects of natural daylight. To assess Savannah (Georgia, USA) by the end of 2020.
societal impacts, we have developed the Sustainable Busi-
ness Value method. More information can be foundhere. Alternatives to microplastics in cosmetics
Functional fillers play a crucial role when it comes to the
Shifting to more natural-based cosmetics look, feel and quality of cosmetics. Microplastics are often
Weareworkingcloselywithourcustomersinthecosmetics used in cosmetics and functional fillers. However, they are
industrytofindsolutionsformorenatural-basedcosmetics. highly resistant to environmental biodegradation, fragment
The resulting cosmetic formulations comply with strict into ever smaller pieces and do not dissolve in water.
criteria. At the end of 2020, 78 of our cosmetic pigments Wastewatertreatmentplantsareabletofilteroutonly90%
and active ingredients had been certified to Ecocert’s of microplastics.
COSMOS standard for organic and natural cosmetics. We We offer effective and scientifically proven alternatives
had also obtainedhalal certificatesfor over 90% of our to microplastics. OurRonaFlair®portfolio of functional
cosmetic products, including a significant proportion of the fillers offers environmentally friendly mineral ingredients
that deliver a variety of cosmetic properties.
61
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
PPaacckkaaggiinngg  aanndd  rreeccyycclliinngg
Packaging protects our products from external influences and helps to ensure that they reach the customer
undamaged. We are working to reduce the amount of material we use while also employing more eco-friendly
materials.Furthermore,wehelpourcustomerstakeamoresustainableapproachtorecyclingordisposingofour
products and packaging.
Our sustainable packaging strategy Making product packaging more sustainable:
Weaimtodeliverourproductsinpackagingthatissafeand Life Science
easy for customers to handle. We also work to make it as WithinthescopeofourSMASHPackagingsustainablepack-
sustainable as possible. With more than 300,000 products agingstrategy,wearepursuinganumberofprojectsforthe
in our Life Science portfolio – ranging from biochemicals to Life Science business sector:
lab chemicals, from filter materials and systems to instru-
®
ments – we face a variety of challenges when it comes How product design affects packaging: ZooMAb
to packaging. We strive to improve the sustainability of Most traditional antibody products need to be shipped at
this packaging to help both us and our customers reduce temperaturesbetween2°Cand8°C,usingspecificinsulated
its environmental impact. In 2019, we therefore launched shipping containers with wet ice bricks. This results in high
SMASHPackaging,asustainablepackagingstrategyforLife packaging material consumption and transport emissions.
Science. The strategy is built on three pillars: optimizing Our ZooMAb® antibodies were developed as a freeze-dried
resources, using more sustainable materials and designing product,givingthemimprovedambientshippingcapabilities
for acircular economy. We have set four goals that andstoragestability.Thismakesitpossibletoeliminatethe
support these pillars. useofpolystyrene coolersandicebricks,resultinginsigni-
ficant packaging weight reductions for product shipments.
Shrink: reduce amount of packaging
Based on current projections, this will allow us toavoid the
Secure: achieve zero deforestation
emission of 75 metric tons ofCO2eqper year by 2025.
Switch: improve plastic sustainability
Save: maximize recycling
Shrink: How we minimize the amount of
packaging
Basedonthesegoals,wehavedefinedtargetsfortheyears
We seekeco-friendlyalternativesto ship our products
up to 2022. They address the development of new product
safely, which is why we partnered with a biotech company
packaging and the improvement of existing product and
and jointly developed a more sustainable bulk packaging
distribution packaging.
design for the transport of ourMillistak+® Pod Disposable
New product packaging is where we can achieve the
Depth Filters. A life cycle assessment showed that we
greatest impact. Our approach consists of imple-
achieved a 24% reduction in the corrugated cardboard
mentingnew standards and guidelinesthat develop-
used, which translates to a 17% decrease in greenhouse
ment teams can apply to create more sustainable
gas (GHG) emissions throughout the life cycle of the pack-
packaging. Going forward, we will assess the sustainability
aging materials. In 2020, we saved around 12 metric tons
characteristics of new product packaging based on
of corrugated cardboard. Moreover, our customers require
ourDesign for Sustainabilityscorecard,which was
70% less time to open and then dispose of the packaging.
redesigned in 2020.
Our distribution teams in Germany and India continue
Our specialty gas and thin films businesses in Perform-
to benefit from optimization projects that we conducted in
ance Materials focus on product packaging that performs
2019. At our distribution center in Darmstadt (Germany),
well in terms of transportation and handling safety. When
we reduced the grammage of kraft paper used as packing
introducingnewpackaging,weuseaprocessthatincludesa
material from 100g/m2to 80g/m2. This initiative allows
safety review, evaluating package specifications and sizes,
us to save 14metric tons of paper annually while main-
shipment frequency, route, carriers, emergency response
taining thesame level of performancein protecting our
capabilities, and elements of safety in the supply chain. All
products.
productcontainersundergoareviewforchemicalcompatib-
ility, purity, leak-tightness, and regulatory compliance. The
presenceofspecifichazardsandspecificcontainersizescan
necessitate a more detailed risk assessment.
62
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
Secure: How we are moving towards zero cooler is made from renewable resources and is certified
deforestation as recyclable with corrugated materials. We use it to ship
Alargeproportionofourpackagingconsistsoffiberderived products with wet ice at temperatures of 2°C to 8°C. We
from wood. As part of our SMASH Packaging strategy, we plan to progressively deploy these new coolers in our key
have set a goal that none of our wood or fiber-based pack- North American distribution centers.
aging materials contribute to deforestation. Aqueoussolutionsareusuallysuppliedinplasticbottles.
Weassessthepracticesofoursuppliersandthecharac- We useTitripac®because it offers an eco-friendlier altern-
teristics of our packaging annually in order to measure our ative. The cardboard carton and plastic liner with an integ-
progresstowardsourzerodeforestationambitions.Thisalso rated withdrawal tap have made the packaginglighter and
enables us to identify opportunities to increase the volume more recyclable. Since the withdrawal tap protects the
of recycled material and the percentage of packaging we productagainstcontamination,contentscanbeusedtothe
use with sustainable forestry certifications, which are very last drop. This helps reduce chemical waste. In 2020,
awarded in line with sustainability standards developed by our products sold in Titripac® 10L packaging configura-
the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), the Programme for tion allowed to avoid 16 tons of non-renewable packaging
the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes (PEFC) materials, resulting in a reduction of 75 tons CO2eq emis-
and the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI). sions across the life cycle of the packaging compared to 1L
In 2020, we collected information from our strategic plastic bottles.
suppliers who represent 85% of our fiber-based packaging
materials spending. Overall, by volume, around 80% of Save: How we maximize recycling of packaging
corrugated packaging supplied bythese companies is certi- Many of our Life Science products need to be kept cool
fied by atleast one of the three sustainable forestry stand- during shipping and are therefore packed in special EPS
ards or are made of recycled material. We have also boxes. Tomitigate waste, we offer our customers in the
initiatedseveralprojectstoobtainsustainableforestrycerti- United States the option of returning these boxes to us. If
fication for a further 1,000 metric tons of our corrugated they are still fully functional, we reuse them. In 2020, this
and paperboard packaging. amounted to approximately 8,000 boxes that were reused
at least once, making it possible to save 1.8 metric tons of
Switch: How we substitute plastics EPS.
Inthepast,weusedinsulatedcontainersmadeofexpanded
polystyrene(EPS)fortheshipmentofourchemicalsinglass Expanding product recycling
bottlesandourtemperature-controlledproducts.WhileEPS In cooperation with a waste management company based
offers good insulation and cushioning properties, it is a inMassachusetts(USA),weofferacomprehensiverecycling
petroleum-based material that takes hundreds of years to programtoourLifeSciencecustomersintheUnitedStates.
decompose As the options for recycling EPS are limited, it Product waste from research labs and biopharmaceutical
is generally incinerated or landfilled. Our goal is to reduce manufacturing operations is collected, sanitized
our use of EPSby 20% by 2022. andrecycled into plastic lumber. This material can be
We are replacing EPS wherever possible with molded used in many industries, such as landscaping, transporta-
componentsmadeofcelluloseandrecycledpaperpulp.Our tion and marine construction.
molded pulp components can be easily recycled with other We continue to expand this program throughout the
paper materials andcompacted togetherfor storage and United States while exploring new options and recycling
transport. We use molded pulp inserts to pack a variety of technologies in other regions such as Europe and Asia. It
liter bottle configurations in shipping boxes, thereby repla- now serves 14 major biopharma manufacturing customers.
cing around three million EPS parts per year. We are Our goal was torecycle 5,000 metric tons of single use
currently conducting safety tests on new pulp designs for plastic through the program by 2020. Since launching the
shipping other bottles of various sizes. programin2015,wehaverecycledmorethan5,200metric
In 2020, we began implementing an alternative cooler tons, exceeding our goal and avoiding the emission of
at one of our distribution centers in the United States. This approximately 3,385 metric tons of CO2eq.
63
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
Making product packaging more sustainable: returned to our production facility for cleaning, refurbish-
Performance Materials mentandrefilling.Thiscyclegreatlyreducesthenumberof
OurPerformanceMaterialsbusinesssectorusesavarietyof containers to be disposed of. It diminishes the demand for
packaging types, each tailored to the specific needs of the constructionofnewcontainersandthesubsequentresource
individualbusinessfieldsandwithitsownuniquesustainab- needs, thus moving uscloser to a circular economy.
ility characteristics.
Recyclable packaging
Reusable packaging For large quantities of products in our planarization busi-
Packaging for our specialty gas and thin films products is ness, we use totes for packaging. Totes are typically
designed to be reused. Reusable packaging types include constructed of high-density polyethylene. One of our main
varioussizesofcylindersandtubetrailersforbulkspecialty tote suppliers has a recycling program in place that our
gases, along with smaller stainless steel and quartz customers can also use. Each tote from this supplier has a
containers for thin films. Once our customers have used return ticket attached to it, and the supplier picks up the
the product within the container, the spent containers are used tote so that its parts may be reused or recycled.
64
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
HHeeaalltthh  ffoorr  aallll
GGlloobbaall  ssttrraatteeggyy
At least half of the world’s population still does not have adequate access to health. We are striving to make
health solutions affordable and accessible, raise awareness of diseases and help people learn how to manage
them. We work with committed partners to tackle this complex challenge by researching innovative solutions,
developing new approaches and improving existing programs to help people at the point of care.
Our approach to improving healthcare for Availability: We research, develop and refine health
underserved populations solutions that address unmet needs, tailoring them to
Our overarching aim is to create a healthier future for all. local environments. For example, we are committed to
We use innovation in science and technology to also help deliveringourR&Dportfolioofprojectsbydevelopingand
improve the health of underserved populations in low- and providing access to innovative products and technologies
middle-income countries. To achieve this, we leverage our that help tackle infectious diseases.
expertise from all business sectors and collaborate closely Affordability: We seek to provide assistance to those
with a wide range of partners. We also participate in whoareunabletopayforthehealthsolutionstheyneed,
industry-wide initiatives to develop new approaches. for example through ourpatient access programs. This
OurGlobalHealthstrategyfocusesontheelimination assistance also includes addressing challenges regarding
of schistosomiasis and malaria as public health problems, pricing and intellectual property. Furthermore, we are
and the prevention and control of non-communicable working on innovative and sustainable access paths for
diseases, such as diabetes and hypertension in low- and health solutions to fightNTDs. For instance, we aim to
middle-income countries. ensuretheaffordabilityofournewpediatricdrugtotreat
Thestrategyisdesignedtoovercomeaccessbarriersfor schistosomiasis in children under six years old.
underserved populations and communities in those coun- Awareness: We empower healthcare professionals,
triesinaneconomicallyviableandsustainableway,thereby communities and patients to make informed decisions
creating shared value. For us, this means developing busi- and we help raise awareness for diseases and therapies
ness models that increase the value and competitiveness through efforts such as ourglobal awareness campaigns.
of our company by solving unmet health needs and Accessibility: We promote initiatives that control the
strengthening local health systems. costofgoodsduringproductdevelopmentandproduction
We follow three core operating principles: and enable localized health solutions. We also strive to
strengthen our supply chains to ensure that medicines
Developing innovative solutions:We play a leading reach the people who need them quickly and safely, as
role in the elimination ofschistosomiasis and we create demonstrated by ourNTDeliver project.
new, integrated drugs, diagnostics, technology, and
vector control solutions for schistosomiasis and malaria. How we are improving access to healthcare
Engaging with cross-sector partners:We participate
Our Global Health unit leads the implementation of our
in multi-stakeholderglobal health platforms to help
strategy regarding innovative solutions for infectious
achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We
diseases and for global access to healthcare. This unit is
define partnerships for research and development
also responsible for Group-wide initiatives, programs and
programs, utilize access alliances, and create opportun-
sponsorships relating to global health topics. Our experts
ities based locally.
collaborate closely with the Healthcare, Life Science and
Creating business opportunities via a shared value
Performance Materials business sectors to leverage their
approach:We help to sustainably improve the health of
strengthsandcompetencieseffectively.Bydeliveringhigh
underserved populations using our portfolio from across
quality health solutions, we seek to create long-term
all three of our business sectors.
value for the business, our stakeholders and society.
The MerckSchistosomiasisElimination Program guides
Usingfocus programstoaddress ourpriority areas, weaim
our efforts toeliminate schistosomiasisin close collabor-
toplayakeyroleinimprovinghealthasaleadingandreli-
ation with external partners, such as the World Health
able partner. In particular, by building capacity across the
Organization (WHO). Since 2007, we provided more than
value chain, we intend to strengthen healthcare systems,
one billion tablets to WHO for the treatment of schistoso-
making them more resilient to health crises.
miasis. The donation is a major part of the integrated and
Our Access to Health strategy comprises four pillars
coordinated approach we adopt towards treating and elim-
that guide our access activities:
inatingschistosomiasis.
65
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
OurGlobal Health Institute translates science, techno- on Access to Healthcare, which provide a framework for us
logy and digital approaches into integrated solutions to to refine and enhance our Global Health efforts.
strengthen health systems. This means we develop and
implement a portfolio of projects for transformative treat- Fighting the global Covid-19 pandemic
ments, diagnostics, technologies, and preventive measures The Covid-19 pandemic is having a substantial impact on
against infectious diseases, especially schistosomiasis and low- and middle-income countries. The health systems in
malaria. The institute also engages in science and techno- several of these countries are already struggling with the
logy activities with local experts. It operates as a social dual burden of infectious diseases such as schistosomiasis
business enterprise to deliver new solutions for the most and malaria, and the rising incidence of non-communicable
vulnerable members of society. diseases such as diabetes and hypertension.
OurAccesstoHealthstrategyaimstoaddressthehealth Our Global Health unit spearheads a considerable
system gaps that prevent underserved populations from variety of initiatives to combat the virus and its effects
receiving healthcare. We coordinate with multiple partners on the world’s most vulnerable countries. These efforts
toidentifyanddevelopsolutions,suchassustainableaccess includedirectmeasures,suchasthedonationofmasksand
business models. This approach applies to neglected and protective equipment to Cameroon, Ethiopia and Tanzania,
non-communicable diseases in low- and middle-income as well as more sustainable initiatives, e.g. in Ghana and
countries. Senegal, that strengthen the overall resilience of
health systems against the current and future health
Our commitment: Providing a solid basis for crises.Readmoreaboutourcontributiontothisglobalchal-
access to healthcare lengehere.
Our commitment to expanding access to healthcare is
summarizedinourAccesstoHealthCharter.Itsetsoutthe Partnering to build the resilience of health
following guidelines on: systems
The private sector is a critical partner in responding to
Our approach
global health threats, such as the current Covid-19
Pharmaceutical product donations
pandemic. Beyond developing novel health solutions, we
Fake medicines
must ensure that health systems are prepared to address
R&D for infectious diseases
emergencies effectively and deliver care to people in need.
Pharmaceutical product pricing
Weaimtosustainablystrengthenprevention,preparedness
Intellectual property rights
andresilience ofhealthsystems inlow-andmiddle-income
countries. Our efforts entail the following aspects:
Every two years, theAccess to Medicine Founda-
tionpublishes theAccess to Medicine Index. It benchmarks
Employing innovative technology targeted to prevent
20 of the world’s largest research-based pharmaceutical
schistosomiasis and malaria and to improve local health-
companiesonactivitiesandinitiativesthatexpertsconsider
related capabilities
most relevant for access to medicine in low- and middle-
Increasing country crisis preparedness by creating
income countries, ranging from Research & Development
scientific and healthcare workforce competencies and
and Intellectual Property sharing, to capacity building and
capacity through a network of experts
donations. We use the ranking to inform and guide our
Optimizing the monitoring and evaluation of health
access to health strategy and approach.
initiatives at country level through data-processing and
The Foundation revised the Access to Medicine Index
digitalization
methodology in 2020. The latest Index was published in
January 2021. We came in eighth place (previously fourth We apply this approach in our R&D collaborative programs
place). Our position among the top ten confirms our that build local expertise and capacity, as well as in our
continuous commitment to improving sustainable access health educational initiatives with our local partners,
to high-quality solutions for all. The ATM Index for 2021 primarily in and for several African countries.
recognized us for our performance in Research & Learn more about our focus programshere.
Development, where we ranked fifth. Our leading role in
Intellectual Property sharing also received accolades. Engaging stakeholders
We remain committed to the objectives of theLondon Partnerships and dialogue are vital to improving access
DeclarationonNeglectedTropicalDiseases(NTDs),through to healthcare. Our partners include multinational organiza-
which participating companies, governments and private tions,governmentagenciesandNGOs,aswellasacademic
organizations promise to help control and ultimately elim- institutions, health industry associations, companies, and
inate the top ten most prevalent NTDs. We are engaged in independent global health experts.
the fight against schistosomiasis.
We are a member of the Business for Social Responsib-
ility(BSR)initiativeandendorsetheBSRGuidingPrinciples
66
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
Alliances for better access to health challenges such as infectious diseases. We also deepened
Together with 21 other leading pharmaceutical companies, collaborations with the scientific community through
we host the globalAccess Acceleratedinitiative, which publicationsandpatentsaswellasbytakingonactiveroles
seekstoimproveboththetreatmentandpreventionofnon- at international, largely virtual, events.
communicable diseases in low- and middle-income coun- For example, we were panelists in a series of World
tries. We also joined forces with advocacy groups, such HealthOrganizationwebinarsonneglectedtropicaldiseases
as theSwiss Malaria Group and the Swiss Alliance against that flanked the publication of the new NTD roadmap. The
Neglected Tropical Diseases. webinars were devoted to the topics of innovation and the
TheMerckAccessDialogueSeriesisamulti-stakeholder power of partnerships. We also engaged into the annual
platform for sharing information andexchanging best meeting of the Coalition for Operational Research on
practiceson broadening access to healthcare. The shared NeglectedTropicalDiseases(COR-NTD),fulfillingourroleas
ideas inform and drive our access strategy, plan of action a leading and reliable partner in the fight against NTDs by
and engagements. providingscientificcontributiontothediscussions.Wewere
onstageattheGenevaHealthForumtotalk,togetherwith
Discussions at a global level our partners, about open innovation to combat infectious
In 2020, we continued to engage with key stakeholders diseases.
to advance global health discussions and address shared
67
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
FFooccuuss  pprrooggrraammss
Neglected tropical diseases occur almost exclusively in impoverished populations in low- and middle-income
countries. Hardly known in industrialized nations, they attract little public attention or research funding. One
example is schistosomiasis. Our aim is to eliminate this neglected disease as well as other, more familiar infec-
tious diseases such as malaria.
Strategy for preventing and treating WASH (Water, sanitation and hygiene): Since schisto-
infectious diseases somiasis is transmitted through contaminated water
Our strategy focuses on the elimination of schistosomiasis sources, we also support WASH projects that aim to
and malaria. To implement our strategy, we develop and preventtransmissionofthediseasethroughtheprovision
provide medicines, improve diagnostics, counter disease of sanitary infrastructure and new access-to-water tech-
transmission, increase disease control, expand access to nologies.
healthcare, conduct awareness programs, and strengthen Health education: We invest in education and behavior
local health systems. change initiatives that raise awareness of the causes
and dangers of schistosomiasis and teach people how to
Our fight against schistosomiasis prevent it.
Schistosomiasis, also known as bilharzia, is a tropical AdvocacyandPartnerships:Collaboratingwithpartner
disease caused by parasitic worms and one of the most organizations for our programs and initiatives, as well as
prevalent parasitic infections in Africa, placing a significant withthewiderstakeholdercommunitythroughtheGlobal
burden on public health and the local economies. The Schistosomiasis Alliance (GSA), we are accelerating the
disease affects almost 240million peopleworldwide, with progress towards schistosomiasis elimination.
more than 90% of cases occurring in Africa. An estim-
ated200,000 peopledie every year from long-term Our fight against malaria
effects of schistosomiasis, such as liver and kidney infec- According to World Health Organization (WHO) estimates,
tions, bladder cancer, genital schistosomiasis, and anemia. nearlyhalfoftheworld’spopulationisatriskofcontracting
School-aged children are particularly vulnerable to the malaria.Morethan200millioncasesofmalariaandover
disease and often suffer from the long-term consequences 400,000 related deaths are recorded every year, with
and complications, including anemia, stunted growth, and almost 70% occurring in children under the age of five.
learning difficulties. Over90%ofcasesandofdeathsoccurinAfrica.Everytwo
Ourultimateaiminallourschistosomiasis-related work minutes, a child dies from the disease.
is to eliminate the disease as a public health problem. To There is a need for new products to overcome the
achieve this goal, we adopted an integrated schistosomi- problem of increasing drug resistance and to achieve our
asis strategy that we are implementing in close collabora- goal of elimination. Through our “As One against Malaria”
tionwithmultiplepartnersworldwide.Theapproachfocuses program, we are helping to deliver integrated and sustain-
on five pillars to ensure progress: able health solutions entailing treatments, diagnostics and
prevention methods to fight malaria inendemic countries.
Treatment:Wedonateupto250milliontabletsofprazi-
quantelperyeartoendemiccountriesinpartnershipwith Schistosomiasis: Over one billion tablets
WHO.Nearly50yearsafteritsdevelopment,praziquantel donated
still remains the standard of care for the effective treat- As part of our long-standing partnership with WHO, we
ment of schistosomiasis around the world. are committed to donating praziquantel tablets annually.
Research and Development (R&D):We advance R&D To date, our tablets have been distributed in 47 endemic
to support the global fight against schistosomiasis. In Africancountriestotreatschool-agedchildren.In2020,we
particular,wedrivecollaborativeR&Dprogramsforinnov- donated around 226milliontabletsfor distribution in 30
ative treatments, including a new, pediatric formulation countries,27ofwhichareinsub-SaharanAfrica.Moreover,
of praziquantel for children under the age of six, more we maintain our commitment by ensuring that we have
sensitive diagnostics, and vector control methods. We sufficient production capacity to manufacture up to
also strengthen research expertise and capacity through 250milliontablets a year.
collaborationswithlocalinstitutionsinendemiccountries.
68
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
Countries that have received donations of praziquantel tablets
Schistosomiasis health education project If left untreated in children of preschool age, schis-
In2020,weextendedourpartnershipwiththeNALAFound- tosomiasis can have long-term effects such as anemia,
ation for another three years. This joint health education stuntedgrowthandimpairedlearning.Itcanseriouslyaffect
project focuses on southwestern Ethiopia and is aimed at their lives and potentially cause chronic diseases, including
promoting long-term behavioral change in the drive to bladder cancer or female genital schistosomiasis. Together
eliminate schistosomiasis and other neglected tropical with thePediatric Praziquantel Consortium, we develop,
diseases. WASH measures play a crucial role in these register and provide access to the pediatric formulation of
efforts. Our local partners conduct training sessions in praziquantel. Consortium partners include both public and
schoolsandamonglocalcommunities.Themajorityofparti- privatesectorrepresentativesfromdevelopedandendemic
cipating schools have established hand-washing stations: countries to ensure that the strategy and implementation
Safe water and latrines are now available in these stations meets local requirements and needs.
throughout theschool year,andteachers alsoreportmajor The program is currently in Phase III clinical develop-
improvements in students’ personal hygiene and general ment. The pivotal trial is designed to evaluate the efficacy
levels of cleanliness in the schools. andsafetyofthenewpediatricpraziquantelODT(orod-
ispersible tablet) formulationin children three months
The GSA: A central platform in the battle to six years of age who are infected with schistosomes.
against schistosomiasis The trial is taking place in Côte d’Ivoire and Kenya, and is
TheGlobalSchistosomiasis Alliance (GSA)isacoordinated, co-funded by the Consortium, the European & Developing
multi-sectoralefforttocombatthecomplexdiseaseschisto- CountriesClinicalTrialsPartnership(EDCTP),andtheGlobal
somiasis. The GSA continues to help eliminate the disease Health Innovative Technology (GHIT) Fund. The study
through its working groups and to raise awareness through representsthelaststepoftheclinicaldevelopmentprogram
coordinated campaigns. In November 2020, the World and is designed to support registration and market author-
HealthAssemblyendorsedanewWHOroadmapthat“sets izationforthisimportantnewtreatmentforveryyoungchil-
global targets and milestones to prevent, control, eliminate dren. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the study needed to
and eradicate 20 neglected tropical diseases and disease be paused in line with national restrictions.
groups” for the time period from 2021-2030. The GSA Meanwhile, together with international key stake-
contributed to WHO consultations during the roadmap holders, we are defining an innovative procurement access
conception phase. path, including local manufacturing, to ensure the future
affordability, availability and adoption of the new medicine.
Partners in schistosomiasis research Praziquantel is an effective and well-tolerated drug, but
Overtime,wehavedevelopedaportfolioofR&Dprojectson itisnoteffectiveinalldevelopmentalstagesoftheparasite.
schistosomiasis. These include making a new child-friendly Wecontinuetocollaborateonresearchactivitieswithmany
pediatric formulation of praziquantel available to treat chil- partners. This work aims to discover new, long-lasting
drenundertheageofsix,identifying newdrugstoprevent compounds totreat juvenile formsof the parasite,
andtreatschistosomiasis, developinginnovativeandhighly thereby improving efficacy and preventing reinfections. In
sensitiveschistosomiasis diagnostic methods,and 2019, we obtainedpromising assetsfromSalvensisand
defining new technologies for safe water access and theLondon School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. We
approaches for vector control. have since worked to identify potential new candidates for
preventinginfectionandcuringpatientsaffectedbyschisto-
somiasis. In 2020, we identified a lead molecule for further
69
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
developmenttopotentiallyserveasanalternativetoprazi- combination of two active principles with different mech-
quantel. anisms of action, in order to prevent the emergence
The need for more sensitive diagnostics is crucial in of resistance. We have therefore initiated the discussions
thefightagainstschistosomiasis.Sinceearly2019,wehave withotherpartnerstoevaluatedrugcandidatesthatcanbe
been collaborating with the Foundation for Innovative New combinedtoinitiatethenextclinicaldevelopmentphasefor
Diagnostics (FIND)to develop a sensitive rapid diagnostic treatment and/or prevention.
test(RDT)toimprovemappingandcasedetectionforschis- Our strategic collaboration with theUniversity of Cape
tosomiasis.Buildingontheprototype,aconsortiumofpart- Townin South Africa and theMedicines for Malaria
nerswas formed in 2020 to accelerate the development. Venturecontinues its drug discovery activities with the aim
In 2020, we entered into a strategic alliance with of identifying new therapeutic solutions for malaria and
Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc. to develop an artificial intel- building research capacity in and for Africa. Together with
ligence-based diagnostic tool to improve the diagnosis of our partners, we have identified promising drug candidates
neglected tropical diseases, schistosomiasis and soil-trans- that are progressing into preclinical stage.
mitted helminthiasis (STH).
Beyond these efforts, we continue to explore technolo- Preventing and controlling malaria transmission
giesthatcontroltransmissionfactorsthroughbasicresearch Preventive methods, such as the use of insect repellents,
activities, for example the elimination of the infectivity of formpartofourstrategictoolkittocombatmalaria.Weare
snails through gene editing, or through an access-to-water testing our insect repellent IR3535®, which is already used
programinSenegal.InpartnershipwiththeAccesstoWater forprotectionagainstthebitesofinsectsandticksthatcan
Foundation, we intend to provide innovative safe-water transmitdiseasessuchasLyme,Zika,Dengue,andChikun-
platforms to local communities and health centers, in order gunya.
to improve sanitation and reduce exposure to parasites. In a three-phase program defined in 2020 and imple-
Details can be found underCommunity Engagement. mented in Ghana, we are evaluating a new formulation
We also continue to implement research and advocacy technology for long-lasting efficacy of IR3535® – through
initiatives to address female genital schistosomiasis (FGS), laboratory tests and in a community-based study. Positive
a major challenge to women’s health in Africa, and its results would enable IR3535® to serve not only as a
impact on HIV/AIDS. In particular, we supported a clinical preventive method for personal use, but also, on a larger
trial tooptimize therapeutic treatment for scale, as a vector control method to support population-
womensuffering from FGS in Madagascar, with results based National Malaria Control programs.
expected in 2021. In partnership with local institutions in Africa, we are
improving health worker capacity in Ghana in using micro-
Malaria: Developing new therapeutic scopytodetectcasesofmalariaandotherdiseasesthatcan
solutions be diagnosed via blood samples even faster. In addition,
As part of our “As One against Malaria” program, we are we have established PAVON (Pan-African Vivaxand Ovale
developing a new drug (M5717) for the prevention and Network), an African network of centers of excellence for
treatment of malaria. In 2020, we initiated a Phase Ib clin- the epidemiological surveillance and scientific research on
icaltrial(forprevention)totestefficacyofthecompoundin malaria. We involved over ten African countries in the
the liver/first stage of infection in healthy volunteers. PAVON project in 2020.
TheWorldHealthOrganization(WHO)recommendsthat
new drug therapies against malaria should include a
70
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
OOppeenn  iinnnnoovvaattiioonn  sshhaarriinngg
We consider it our responsibility to improve global access to healthcare through our technological advances. We
supportareliableandtransparentlegalframeworkforintellectualpropertythatallowssustainableinvestmentin
research and development.
Our approach to sharing and protecting populations, with a primary focus onneglected tropical
intellectual property diseases(NTDs).
The responsible treatment of intellectual property does not
pose a barrier to health, but rather guaranteessafetyand Our commitment: Supporting transparent and
high qualityfor patients worldwide. Nearly all medicines reliable frameworks
that address the highest burden of disease in low- and WesupportTRIPS,aninternationalagreementadministered
middle-income countries are not protected by patents. by the World Trade Organization (WTO) that addresses
Studiesindicatethatbetween90%and95%ofthepharma- trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights, along
ceutical products on theWHO Model List of Essential Medi- withTRIPSaddenda such as the Special Declaration on the
cinesare off-patent. TRIPS Agreement and Public Health. This agreement
We support a sustainable approach to intellectual prop- extends the deadline for least developed countries to apply
erty that drives innovation and enables access to health. TRIPS provisions to pharmaceutical patents until 2033.
We have made a commitment to refrain from enforcing
patents in a majority of low- and middle-income countries. Initiative improves access to patent
In markets where we do register product patents, we are information
transparent and committed to sharing data to the greatest We are a founding member of the Patent Information Initi-
possible extent and to improving public access to clinical ativeforMedicines(Pat-INFORMED),whichactsasaglobal
study data. We report on the patent status of our products gateway to medicine patent information. It offers tools and
via the publicly accessibledatabase Pat-INFORMED. resources that help determine the existence of patents
Furthermore,wesupportvoluntarylicensingagreementsof relevant to products sought by national and international
all kinds, including non-exclusive voluntary licenses, legally drug procurement agencies, making it easier for them to
binding non-assertion covenants and clauses that aim to accessabasicbodyofpatentinformationneededforimple-
widen access to health. mentingdisease management strategiesand other
Moreover, we support the concept ofpatent pools, and activities that address public health needs. Pat-INFORMED
believe that these should be structured in such a way that features patent information on small-molecule drugs for
theyimproveaccesstomedicines,preventanti-competitive cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, hepatitis C, HIV, cancer,
behaviorandovercomegeographiclimitations.Weconsider and respiratory disorders, as well as any products on
joiningpatentpoolswhentheyarerelevanttoourportfolio theWHO Model List of Essential Medicinesthat are not
and meet all our efficacy, quality and safety requirements. within these therapeutic areas.
We provide access to patent information through our
initiatives and partnerships. Through our open innovation Open innovation collaboration through WIPO
research projects, we give access to parts of our chemical Re:Search
compound libraries. We aim to accelerate collaborative WecontinuetotakepartintheWIPORe:SearchConsortium
research programs that develop novel R&D platforms in co-led by Bio Ventures for Global Health and WIPO, whose
search of new active substances. mission is to accelerate the discovery and development of
medicines, vaccines and diagnostics. In 2020, we renewed
How we organize access to our intellectual our commitment and contribution until 2022. The initiative
property aims to createnew solutionsfor people affected by
TheMerck Open Innovationinitiative is a collaborative and neglected tropical diseases, malaria and tuberculosis.
cross-functionaleffort.Weaimtoaccelerateearlydiscovery In2020, webeganimplementing acollaboration agree-
in diseases with high unmet needs and outside of our ment with Griffith Institute for Drug Discovery, Griffith
expertise through intellectual property sharing. We hope University,Australia.Forthiscollaboration,wehaveshared
to foster the discovery of new generations of health solu- our chemical library for screening against leishmaniasis,
tions that will tackle the needs of the most vulnerable Chagas diseaseandAfrican sleeping sickness.
71
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
Creating research opportunities Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative
In 2020, we launched the Open Global Health Library. It Under the leadership of the Drugs for Neglected Diseases
publiclyshares250compoundsfromourproprietarychem- initiative (DNDi), along with other pharmaceutical
ical library that may be used for infectious diseases companies, we are involved in the Drug Discovery Booster
research, including antimicrobial resistance, with the not- project to discover novel medicines againstneglected trop-
for-profit R&D organizationGARDP. ical diseases.
Additionally, our “Open Lab” initiative allows academic More information on our collaborations regarding open
guest scientists to bring their own research and work side- innovation for global heath can be found on ourwebsite.
by-side with our researchers in our laboratories, gaining
access to our state-of-the art science and technology.
72
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
PPhhaarrmmaacceeuuttiiccaall  ssuuppppllyy  cchhaaiinn
In many parts of the world, medicines are not always available where and when they are urgently needed. We
wantpatientsinlow-andmiddle-income countries tohavefast,safeandaffordableaccess toourproducts. Effi-
cient supply chain management and local manufacturing are crucial in order to achieve this goal.
Our approach to local supply chain solutions We assign a production expert to our external partners in
During product development and manufacturing, we favor Africa,AsiaandLatinAmericatoactasavirtualsiteleader
approaches that enable us to control the cost of goods and to provide guidance.
and allow local manufacturing and supply chains that help
to strengthen the local economy. We apply this model in Ensuring supply during the Covid-19
our work with thePediatric Praziquantel Consortium, for pandemic
instance. We ensured that all our manufacturing sites could continue
We partner with pharmaceutical companies and other operations during the Covid-19 pandemic. No business
supply chainstakeholdersto strengthen supply chains in interruptions occurred at our facilities. They were able to
low- and middle-income countries and guarantee the carry on with medicine production thanks to sufficient
targetedsupplyofmedicines. Wemanufacture someofour stocks of active pharmaceutical ingredients. We were in
products directly in the regions where they are needed in constant dialogue with our distribution partners to make
order tobuild local capacity, increase service quality and sure that we could deliver our goods despite severe trans-
flexibilitythroughreducedtraveltimesanddistancesandto portation constraints.
achievecostsavingsthatcanbepassedontotheconsumer.
Our pharmaceutical supply chains are organized to Working with partners to achieve more
ensure that our products reach the right place in the right Westoresupplierinformationwithinacentralizedplatform,
condition and quantity, at an affordable price and on enabling us to exchange information Group-wide and use
time.Modern supply chain solutionsthat include real- it for our collaborations and partnerships. This further
time monitoring enable us to track our inventories and supports our efforts to organize shared supply chains more
current deliveries as well as predict expected demand for efficiently.
medicines.
Shared data platform for medicine donations
How we organize our supply chains NTDeliveris a digital information tool for improving trans-
Our Global Planning unit is responsible for our medicine parency in medicine donation supply chains created
supply chains and is part of Biopharma Supply Network throughpublic-private partnerships. Deliveries sent by
Operations within our Healthcare business sector. Global companies that are running donation programs are clearly
Planning collaborates with supply chain representatives displayed–frompurchaseordersmadebytheWorldHealth
fromthemarketsforefficientdemandmanagement.Italso Organization (WHO) to delivery to the first warehouse in
consults experts from other business sectors as needed. thedestination country. Thetoolimprovesthecoordination
of our efforts and provides WHO, local experts and our
Our commitment: High quality standards for company with a moretransparent overviewof the in-
pharmaceutical production country inventories. The tool also features an alarm that
All our pharmaceutical production plants operate to the informs key stakeholders about upcoming expiry dates of
same high standard of quality worldwide. This ensures medicines that may still be in their inventory. We deploy
fullcompliancewithGood Manufacturing Practice the NTDeliver tool to monitor the volumes ofschistosomi-
(GMP)andGood Distribution Practice (GDP)for us and our asismedicines.
contract manufacturers.
Our Right First Time (RFT) concept aims to reduce the Access delivery mentorship
number of temperature excursions that occur during trans- Our partners and stakeholders require support when
portationworldwide.InadditiontoourRFTconcept,wealso addressing the critical “last mile” challenge: ensuring that
encourage shipping sites and receiving units to work with medicines are delivered to the patient. We help build the
freight forwarders and carriers to improve their processes. supply chain capacity of our partners through our access
Ouruniform quality assurance systemhelps to delivery mentorship initiative. It comprises a volunteer
ensurethatourqualitystandardsareuniversallyrespected. poolofsupplychainexpertswhosharetheirknowledgeand
Itcomprisestrainingcourses,qualitycontrolmonitoringand experience. We also collaborate with Business for Health
technologies tailored to each site. The results of all audits Solutions (BHS) to work with local distributors in Tanzania
conducted by health authorities are published Group-wide, in order to address their supply and logistics challenges.
allowing the respective units to share lessons learned and Two examples of this successful program can be seen
benefit from the improvements made by others. in Tanzania: Bahari, a Tanzanian distributor, recorded a
Through our virtual plant teams, we support our 96% order fulfillment rate (compared with an average of
contractmanufacturersincomplyingwithqualitystandards. 82% before the project), a 75% faster purchasing time
73
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
and a 50% faster delivery time. Mansoor Daya, a local next step, we will share the prototype NCD demand fore-
Tanzanian manufacturer of essential medicines, recorded a casting model with country stakeholders for feedback, and
90% reduction in customs processing time, a 100% quality test it in Kenya and Uganda, followed by Tanzania.
improvement of raw materials, and a 40% improvement
in supplier quality and ceased business with predominantly Promoting local production
high-risksuppliersduetoincreaseddocumentationrequire- InIndiaandIndonesia,wemanufacturedrugsfordiabetes,
ments. cardiovascular diseases and thyroid disorders. These capa-
city-buildingeffortssupportlocaleconomiesandallowusto
Coalition for better medicine access supply medicines more rapidly and affordably to these and
We are a member of CAMP-N, a coalition of government neighboringcountries,suchasMyanmarandSriLanka.We
agencies, private-sector entities, non-governmental organ- alsoservelocalmarketsinChinaandRussiathroughlocal
izations, philanthropic foundations, and academic institu- production, for example via contract manufacturing organ-
tions. Together, we are dedicated to increasing access to izations (CMOs).
medicines and health products for non-communicable
diseases(NCDs)andreducingtheimpactofconditionssuch CURAFA™
as diabetes, hypertension, and cardiovascular disease. In 2018, our company established the CURAFA™ initiative
In 2020, we joined a technical working group to help todevelopasustainablebusinessmodelforprimaryhealth-
developademandforecastingtoolformedicinesandhealth care services. In August 2020, the social enterprise Access
products used to treat non-communicable diseases in sub- Afya took over CURAFA™ and its associated facilities, thus
Saharan Africa. We are the only private sector company supporting its goal to provide quality-assured, low-cost
representative in the cross-sectoral working group. As a microclinicsin underdeveloped areas.
74
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
PPrriicceess  ooff  mmeeddiicciinneess
 Part of the non-financial report
In OECD countries, pharmaceuticals accounted for between 6% and 35% of total healthcare spending in 2019.
However, advances in the research and development of innovative medicines are significantly transforming the
healthcare landscape, allowing chronic diseases – the greatest cost drivers – to be treated more effectively and
affordably.
Our approach to pricing medicines Understanding the effects of Covid-19 on
We want to help ensure that all patients have access to medicine pricing
the most effective medicines for their needs, which is why Thepandemichasputamajorstrainonhealthsystemsand
we are working to prevent cost from becoming a barrier treatment payers around theworld. InDecember 2020, we
to treatment. We are committed toflexible, fair and organized a virtual expert roundtable with former payers
sustainable pricing– both within and across countries. from Brazil, Germany, Italy, Japan, Saudi Arabia, and the
Wethereforeadaptourpricesbasedonlocalmarketaccess, United Kingdom. The objective was to understand the
taking into account factors, such as health system capacity impact of Covid-19 on payer priority, affordability, budget
and financial standing, geographic circumstances and shifting, and resource allocation, in order to identify
existing infrastructure, statutory requirements, unmet effective approaches to work in partnership with payers
medical needs, and socioeconomic aspects, such as the from different markets. Due to the budget constraints
patients’ ability to pay. This approach involves working caused by the Covid-19 crisis, those payers perceived
closely with governments and otherstakeholders. In addi- higher needs in pricing approaches including patient access
tion to these considerations, we continuously monitor programs, direct discounts, public-private partnerships and
dynamichealthcareenvironmentsandmarkets,pricingand valueaddservices.Thisisinlinewithourkeypricinginitiat-
reimbursement systems as well as legal and regulatory ivesandwillhelpusfurtherreinforcethesemeasuresgoing
guidelines, adjusting our prices as necessary. forward.
We review our prices on an annual basis to ensure
theymeetpatientaccessneeds.Weuseaconsistent,data- Customer-centric contracting models
driven approachto monitor our local pricing. In line with We are dedicated to advancing value-based healthcare
our fair pricing commitment, we also make our products through pricing and contracting mechanisms that fully
affordable to patients in low- and middle-income countries comply with all applicable local laws and regulations. In
by participating in government tenders, establishing high- collaboration with payers, such as health insurance
quality affordable brands or branded generics, imple- companies, we developed various product- and market-
menting early access programs and operatingpatient specific reimbursement andcontracting models. Thesehelp
access programs. to provide patients with promptaccess to our innova-
Moreover, we supportinnovative risk-sharing agree- tions. For instance, in the United Kingdom, Ireland and
mentsand are working to improve data efficiency in health Germany, wecontinued withinnovative risk-sharing agree-
systems,inordertoachieveanoptimaldistributionoffunds ments that provide immediate access to Mavenclad®for
and resources. patients with multiple sclerosis (MS).
Wehavealsoestablishedinnovativecontractingmodels
Setting medicine prices forouroncologydrugErbitux®,ourMSdrugRebif®andour
OurGlobalPricingandMarketAccessunitevaluatesmarket growth hormone Saizen®, to make it easier for patients to
launchpricesincoordinationwiththerespectivefranchises. obtainaccesstothesemedicines.Similarly,wehavecapped
The team reports directly to a member of our Healthcare per-patient costs and formed risk-sharing agreements in
Executive Committee. Our local affiliates are responsible certain countries.
for managing prices and continually adapting them to local
conditions. Pricing schemes to serve low-income patients
We work in close partnership with governments and other
Our commitment: Medicine price guidelines stakeholders on innovative, differential medicine pricing
and principles schemes. In addition, we supply products at affordable
The affordability of our health solutions is part of our pricestocertaincountriesinAfrica,Asia,LatinAmerica,and
broaderpatientvalueproposition,whichincludesincreasing the Middle East. In India, we continued to cooperate with
accessibility, availability and awareness. Our medicine public sector representatives, such as Bharat Heavy Elec-
pricingadherestothestipulationsofouroverarchingAccess tricals Limited (BHEL) and the Oil and Natural Gas Corpor-
to Health Charterand is defined in detail by ourPricing ation (ONGC), National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC)
of Medicines guideline. Additionally, our Patient Access and Indian Railways (IR) to offerdiscounted pricesfor
ProgramsPolicysetsoutstandardsforofferingmedicinesat certain general medicine and endocrinology products to
affordable prices. patients with a limited ability to pay out of pocket.
75
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
Moreover, we regularly participate in government currently registering further branded generics to expand
tendersforproductsthatareusedinpublichospitalsserving this effort to more countries.
low-income patients. Many of these tenders take place in
low- to middle-income countries. Patient access programs
We operatepatient access programsthat allow us to offer
High-quality affordable second brands certain products at affordable prices in several countries.
For some of our existing brands, we have created high- Werunpatientaccessprogramsincountries,suchasIndia,
quality second brands at affordable prices, particularly in where we offer a patient access program for Erbitux®,
countries with a large percentage of patients with very low providing financial assistance to qualified patients of low
incomes.InBrazil,11ofourhigh-qualityproductsareavail- financial means for their treatment – in line with applicable
able at these affordable prices and in South Africa, we also local laws and regulations. Every year, we reach over 500
offer Betacor™, a second brand for bisoprolol (Concor®), patients through this program. In addition to our oncology
with a price reduction on all payer formularies to increase initiatives,wealsooffersuchprogramsforourmedicinesin
access for low-income patients. We have also established other therapeutic areas, such as Rebif®.
newaffordablesecondbrandsincountries, suchasMexico,
the Philippines and Poland. Patient support programs
We provide digital health and “beyond-the-pill” solutions
Branded generics as part of our holistic approach to supporting patients,
We offer branded generics particularly in low- to middle- caregivers and physicians. This approach enables health
incomecountries.Wedothistogetherwithselectedreliable professionals to manage conditions more effectively,
partners with whom we enjoy trusted collaborations. These thus helping to generate improved patient outcomes. We
partners generally have track records in quality control offer a customized medication and adherence program for
and are able to provide products that comply with our cardiometabolic patients in Brazil and Russia, registering
high standards. In this way we can better meet the urgent significant improvements in the rates of adherence to the
needforaffordable,high-qualitymedicinesrequiredtotreat treatment. We also support prediabetic patients with digit-
endemicdiseases.Wealreadyhavesixsuchproductsavail- allyenabled,tailoredandevidence-basedlifestyleinterven-
abletopatientsinlow-tomiddle-incomemarkets,including tionprograms,suchasGlycoLeapintheAsian-Pacificregion
in Brazil, Chile, Mexico, and the Philippines, and we are and Virgin Pulse (previously Blue Mesa Health) in Latin
America.
76
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
HHeeaalltthh  aawwaarreenneessss
Manypeoplehavehealthconditionsbutdonotrealizeit.Thisresultsinindividualseithernotreceivingtreatment
or not receiving it in time, even though effective medicines and therapies are available. Therefore, we conduct
global campaigns to raise awareness and improve knowledge of diseases in accordance with our expertise. Ulti-
mately, healthcare professionals and patients can make informed decisions only if they have proper knowledge
and the right information about symptoms and treatment options.
Our approach to raising health awareness Awareness and knowledge transfer for thyroid
Awareness plays a key role in our approach to disorders
improvingaccesstohealthcare.Weempowercommunities, In May, we supported International Thyroid Awareness
medical professionals and patients with appropriate tools, Week (ITAW) for the 12th consecutive year. The annual
information and skills so that they can makeinformed awareness campaign, which we founded together with the
decisions about prevention, diagnosis, treatment, care, Thyroid Federation International (TFI), aims to highlight
and disease management. some of thelesser-known aspectsof thyroid disorders.
For example, we join forces with committed partners This year’s ITAW was dedicated to the theme “mother
to conduct educational campaigns for prevention, early andbaby”,withafocusonmotherslearninghowtoprotect
diagnosis and awareness. This also helps build the capa- themselves and their babies from any potential complica-
cities of medical professionals working in the fields of tions related to thyroid disorders. The campaign reached
research, technology and healthcare. people in many countries via virtual events and press
articles. On social media, we generated over 5.7million
How we build health awareness views and 34,000 likes. In addition, our symptoms checker
Thestrategicdirectionandoutputofallawarenessactivities receivedalmost300,000viewsandover166,000testswere
are aligned with our respective business units. Our various carried out.
business units plan and implement our awareness projects
eitheronagloballevelorthroughouroffices,withprojects World Cancer Day
organized according to thespecific needs of the local February4 marks World Cancer Day, an annual initiative
community. The offices are also responsible for local led by the Union for International Cancer Control (UICC).
mobilization during our global campaigns. Building on the theme “I Am and I Will”, we created a
compelling campaign to communicate our ongoing commit-
Our commitment: access to health through ment to transform cancer care. Our campaign focused on
awareness howpersonalcontributions makeacollectiveimpactonthe
Our strategy for addressing access to healthcare incorpor- evolution of oncology care. It was supported by more than
ates the topic of awareness and is laid out in ourAccess to 240imagesfrom20countries,receivingover400,000views
Health Charter. Our awareness campaigns are also subject on social media.
to the respectivemarketing principlesset out in guidelines,
such as our Pharma Code for Conducting Pharmaceutical World Multiple Sclerosis Day
Business and Pharmaceutical Operations. In addition, our We participated inWorld Multiple Sclerosis Dayon May30
campaigns are governed by internal policies and guidance – an annual awareness day by the MS International Feder-
for reviewing our interactions withhealth systemsand by ation (MSIF). This year’s official theme was #MSConnec-
thereviewprocessesforcommunicationmaterialsaswellas tions and it focused on building community connection,
further global, regional and local rules and regulations. self-connection and connections to quality care while chal-
lenging the social barriers that leave people affected by
Global awareness campaigns MS feeling lonely and socially isolated.
We regularly conduct campaigns to raise awareness of For World MS Day, we collaborated withTwitch, the
various diseases across the globe, often in collaboration world’s leading service and community platform for multi-
withpatientadvocacygroups.Wefocusondiseasesthatare player entertainment. Through an eight-hour livestream
alignedwithourcorecompetencies,expertiseandexper- with Twitch influencers and special guests, we virtually
ience along the health value chain. These include cancer connectedpeopleaffectedbythediseaseandraisedaware-
(specifically colorectal as well as head and neck cancer), ness among young gamers. The livestream was also used
thyroid disorders, diabetes and multiple sclerosis in partic- to raise money for MSIF’s “Informed Decision
ular. We also conduct awareness campaigns in low- and Making”program, which helps create digital resources so
middle-income countries, mainly focusing on the neglected thatpeoplewithMShaveaccesstothebestpossibleinform-
tropical disease schistosomiasis as well as other, more ation on the disease for free.
familiar infectious diseases, such as malaria.
77
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
World Diabetes Day World Science Day (November10)
The theme of this year’s World Diabetes Day was“The Universal Health Coverage Day (December12).
Nurse and Diabetes”:As the name suggests, the goal was
tohighlight the incredible work carried out by nurses. We Purpose-driven initiatives
also extended our awareness-raising activities topredia- Healthy Women, Healthy Economies and Embracing
betes, the lesser-known precursor to type 2 diabetes. We Carers™ are two initiatives that we are using to promote
partneredwithsocialmediainfluencers tolaunchoursocial awareness of issues that go beyond the patient. The inter-
campaign #AreYouReadingTheSigns.The aim of this connectednessofbothinitiativesisrootedinsharedthemes
campaign was tohighlight the importance ofindividual and goals. In particular, the Covid-19 pandemic demon-
responsibility when it comes to health as well as the signi- strates the critical importance of caregiving as a part
ficance of lifestyle changes in diabetes and prediabetes of the healthcare ecosystem and the significant role that
management. We launchedourprediabetes initiativeone womenplayascaregivers:70%ofcaregivinghoursglobally
day before World Diabetes Day in order toraise awareness are provided by women and girls. Effective caregiving is
of prediabetes and inform the public of theriskfactorsfor intrinsically linked to the health, well-being and prosperity
developing the condition. Ultimately, we wanted to of women. Through these initiatives, we aim to both
encourage people to use our prediabetes symptom checker promote women’s empowerment and expand access to
tounderstandtheirlevelofriskandtakeappropriateaction healthcare.
if necessary.
Healthy Women, Healthy Economies
Fertility awareness week Toempowerwomentoovercomethechallengesofcommu-
European Fertility Week (EFW) in November 2020 provided nicable and non-communicable diseases and rise to their
anopportunityforourcompanytoincreaseawarenessofin economic potential, we are committed to the Healthy
vitrofertilization and the patient journey. Using our social Women, Healthy Economies initiative. Within the scope of
media channels, we drew attention to the importance of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC), we collab-
providingequalaccesstoinfertilitytreatmentacrossEurope orate with representatives of several governments through
and relying on medical guidance to provide safe, efficient thispublic-private partnership, which seeks to identify and
and non-discriminatory treatment to all who need it. implement policies that advance women’s health and well-
being, thereby supporting their participation in the
Awareness campaigns focusing on low- and economy.
middle-income countries In 2020, we continued our partnership with the “March
Weuseglobalhealth-relatedcampaignstofosterawareness ofDimes” initiative inathree-year collaboration supporting
of diseases, such as schistosomiasis and malaria as well “Healthy Babies, Healthy Business”, a program that
asnon-communicablediseaseswithhighprevalenceinlow- provides health benefits for mothers and promotes family-
andmiddle-incomecountries.Thecampaignsarepartofour friendly work environments. As part of this partnership, we
commitment to improve health in those countries. support the Center for Social Science Research. In 2020,
Global health-related awareness campaigns in 2020 we helped fund two U.S.-focused studies on issues such as
included: access to healthcare and birth inequities.
Through our partnership with the Wilson Center, we
World NTD (Neglected Tropical Diseases) Day highlighted the disproportionate economic impact of
(January30) Covid-19 on women. This included a podcast on the
World Water Day (March22) pandemic, caregiving and women’s leadership, featuring
World Health Day (April7) Belén Garijo, Vice Chair of the Executive Board and Deputy
World Malaria Day (April25) CEO of Merck, and a webinar with expert panelists.
World Mosquito Day (August20)
World Water Week (August23-28)
78
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
Embracing Carers resources, and endorse the improved integration of carer
Embracing Carers™is a global initiative that we lead in support.
collaboration with prominent caregiving organizations In2020,welaunchedasurveyinvolving12countriesto
around the world. Embracing Carers™ is designed to explore the unmet physical, economic and emotional chal-
increase awareness, action and discussion around the lenges carers face amid the Covid-19 crisis. We want to
frequently overlooked needs of caregivers. We believe that determine how these challenges differ by gender, socio-
the topic of caregiving is one of the most under-addressed economic status, length of time as a carer, the types of
public health issues of our time, with caregivers receiving conditions under which carers are working, and the level of
littlerecognitionandsupportdespiteprovidingvitalservices care needed. We aim to use the results from this survey,
for others. We raise awareness of the challenges faced in conjunction with other secondary research, to increase
bycaregivers,promptstakeholderstoshowdeeperengage- mediaattention,raiseawarenessoftheseissuesandinform
ment, establishglobal best practicesand advocacy calls to action for policy advancements.
79
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
PPrroodduucctt  ssaaffeettyy  aanndd  qquuaalliittyy
CChheemmiiccaall  pprroodduucctt  ssaaffeettyy
 Part of the non-financial report
Manyofourchemicalproductshaveintrinsichazardousproperties.Weareworkingtominimizetherisktohuman
health and the environment resulting from their use. National and international regulatory requirements such as
laws and guidelines form the basis of our data and documents. Beyond this, we strive to improve our product
safety and reduce the environmental impact of our business through innovative solutions and digital communic-
ation tools.
Our approach to safe chemical products Legal requirements and internal guidelines
Product safety is one of our top priorities. Starting at the Through internal guidelines, we define the roles and
product launch stage, we investigate the potential adverse responsibilities and basic processes required to comply
impacts chemical substances may have. with national and international regulations. We have
Along the entire value chain of our products – from endorsed general voluntary commitments of the chemical
raw materials to manufacture and commercialization industry, such as theResponsible Care®Global Charter.
–weproviderelevantinformationonthehazardousproper- The legal requirements relevant to compliance with
ties and related use instructions to allow the safe handling chemicalsregulationsaremainlyrelatedtohazardcommu-
and use of our products, in line with regulatory require- nication as well as local and regional chemical registration
ments. We communicate this information mostly through activities. These requirements are expanding globally, with
relevant digital channels (Internet, e-mail, mobile apps). a growing number of countries adapting local rules to
Papersafetydatasheetsarestillcommoninsomecountries existing regulatory frameworks such as REACH. We are
and can also be provided on demand through customer well-placedtocomplywithemergingregulationsofthiskind
service. in important markets such as China, India, Japan, South
We support developments related to the European Korea, and Taiwan. Using the Globally Harmonized System
Green Deal and are preparing to translate the pertinent (GHS)forhazardcommunicationallowsustostreamlineour
elements into a dedicated chemicals sustainability strategy internal processes and provide consistent, harmonized and
for our company. high-quality information to our customers.
Our worldwide network of regulatory experts in
How we ensure chemical product safety all three business sectors continuously monitors changes
Our Healthcare, Life Science and Performance Materials in legal requirements and scientific developments to stay
business sectors have organizational structures in place to ahead of trends and best practices.
implement our product safety strategy for their businesses In 2020, there were two minor incidents of non-compli-
and customers. This includes registering chemicals, classi- ance with regulations, specifically concerning potential
fyinghazardoussubstancesandhighlightingrisksbymeans health and safety impacts and the labeling of our chemical
of safety data sheets, labels and digital communications. products. Neither human health nor the environment were
Our Corporate Governance function issues Group negatively impacted.
policies and standards as a framework to govern the
setup of effective operational processes for product safety, REACH registration
hazard communication and chemicals regulations compli- In July 2020, our company signed the Cefic REACH Dossier
ance throughout our various business sectors. Our Group ImprovementActionPlantoreviewandimprovethequality
Product Safety Committee monitors relevant regulatory of our registration dossiers. This way, we also keep the
developments. information up-to-date and adapt to increasing regulatory
This approach also applies to innovative fields of devel- requirements.
opment such as nanomaterials, which we utilize with the
greatest care in line with the precautionary principle. Safety analysis during product launch
Furthermore,ourGroup-widePolicyforUseandHandlingof We believe that product safety starts with development. At
Nanomaterialsprovidesthenecessaryguidanceontheutil- an early stage in the product launch process, we analyze
ization of this technology. innovations in terms of their impact on human health and
the environment. In doing so, we can quickly identify any
undesirable properties. In line with the applicable rules, we
80
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
evaluatetheintrinsichazardsofourexistingaswellasnew For products with little information available, we are
products to create the relevant product safety information. investigating the feasibility of using alternative predictive,
non-animal testing methods such as read-across and
Product safety information (Q)SAR.Forthird-partyproducts,weexpectrobustproduct
Chemical product safety is all about protecting human safetydocumentationfromoursuppliers,whichwefeedinto
healthandtheenvironmentfromnegativeimpactsresulting our processes or share directly with our customers.
from the use of chemical products throughout a product’s
lifecycle.Toachievethis,weprovideallrelevantinform- Helping customers access safety information
ation to our customers and the public, raising aware- Toshareinformationwithourproductusers,weemploythe
ness of the hazards and building understanding of how to latest digital tools and continuously explore new technolo-
mitigate risks and use the products safely. gies.
Toobtainalltherelevantinformationonhazardprofiles, Our Life Science customers can access product safety
we utilize industry standard digital tools that gather information in their respective language and according to
all information available for the substances we use. We country-specific regulations through a dedicated mobile
then cross-reference this data with local and regional rules appcalled“MyMSafety”(AndroidandiOS).Theinforma-
to establish the relevant hazard classifications. We publish tionisretrievedbyscanningabarcodeontheproductlabel
this information digitally on country-specific safety data or entering a material number.
sheets in multiple languages and on the labels of our Through our ScIDeEx™ web tool, anyone can check
products.Thedatasheetsaremaintainedelectronicallyand whether using a particular chemical is safe within the
updatediftherearerelevantchanges,orduringa3-5year boundaries of EU REACH exposure scenarios. ScIDeEx™ is
review cycle. We have automated and standardized the basedonafullimplementationoftheECETOCTRA3model
majority of our hazard communication processes. for human exposure assessments in industrial and profes-
sional settings.
81
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
PPaattiieenntt  ssaaffeettyy
 Part of the non-financial report
The safety of patients treated with our medicines is our absolute priority. Our pharmaceutical products need to
be effective in treating the respective disease, while posing as little risk as possible to patients. That is why we
consistently monitor risks and adverse effects that may arise and take the necessary actions to minimize them.
Our approach to ensuring patient safety Basedontheconditionsofregulatoryapproval,wedevelop
Through a rigorous benefit-risk management process, we and updateeducational materials for patients and
help to ensure that the benefits of our drugs always healthcare providersto communicate any known and
outweigh the risks for patients. Every new medicine goes potential risks and ways to minimize them for newly
through a series of precisely defined development stages. approved products. We assess the effectiveness of these
Before any drug is administered to human subjects, we materials inclosecollaboration withourBenefit-Risk Action
conduct extensive preclinical testing bothin vitroandin team. If required, we adjust the contents of the materials
vivo. Through toxicological testing, we determine whether and their distribution and describe the results from the
anactivepharmaceuticalingredientistoxictolivingorgan- effectivenessanalysisinourperiodicsafetyreportsandrisk
isms and, if so, at what dosage. This also helps us management plans. We then submit these to the relevant
determine the dose that humans can safely tolerate. Only health authorities for evaluation.
when this is complete do we performclinical studiesto
investigatethesafetyandefficacyofthedrugwhenusedin How we monitor patient safety
humans. During clinical development, we diligently use all OurGlobalPatientSafetyunitisresponsibleforpharmacovi-
collected data to continuously evaluate the drug’sbenefit- gilance. It continually collectscurrent safety datafrom a
risk profile. If we consider the drug’s benefit-risk profile wide variety of sources across the globe, including clinical
tobepositive, wethen submit anapplication for marketing studies, early access programs,spontaneous reports on
authorization to the relevant regulatory authorities. adverse effects,patient support programsand articles
published in medical and scientific journals.
Continual monitoring Our experts help to make sure all information on the
Once a drug is launched, the number of patients being risksandadverseeffectsofourmedicinesisproperlydocu-
treated with it increases significantly. In certain circum- mented, tracked and reported to the respective health
stances, rare adverse and potentially serious effects that authoritiesinaccordancewithregulatoryrequirements.Our
were not detected during clinical development may occur, Global Patient Safety unit analyzes all data and reassesses
which is why we continuously monitor and manage the thebenefit-riskprofilebasedonthesedata,whererequired.
benefit-risk profiles after market launch.Pharmacovigil- We then inform regulatory authorities, healthcare profes-
anceincludes the process of monitoring a drug on an sionals and patients about new risks, additional risk mitig-
ongoing basis to detect and assess signals as part ofsignal ation measures and potential changesin the benefit-risk
managementactivities. The aim is to track adverse effects profile.
in an effort to take appropriate action to minimize and In order to implement our R&D Strategy 2023, our
communicate the risks in a transparent way. We always GlobalPatientSafetyunitinonajourneyoftransformation.
provide healthcare professionals and patients with Our vision is to integrate deep knowledge of safety into
thelatest information on the safetyof all our marketed early decision-making as we evolve to practice predictive
drugs.Theaboveappliestotheentirelifecycleofaproduct, safety. As part of our transformation, in 2020 we refined
rangingfromdevelopment,marketlaunchandcommercial- our approach to benefit-risk assessments. We now apply
ization to expiration of the marketing authorization. a scoring system based on safety aspects and are using
Capabilitiesthatwehavedevelopedandstrengthenedin it to prioritize product management; in addition, we are
this area include: redesigning our pharmacovigilance processes.
OurHealthcare Qualityunit processes quality
Advanced benefit-risk management complaints relating to our products. When quality defects
Big Dataanalytics (using real-world data) may have an impact on patient safety or lead to adverse
Advanced signal detection technology effects, Global Patient Safety gets involved.
Pilotprocessesinpatient-centricadverseeffectscollection
82
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
Our Medical Safety and Ethics Board tomakestrategicdecisionsandtogovernchangesinphar-
Our Medical Safety and Ethics Board (MSEB) oversees the macovigilance requirements.
safetyandbenefit-riskassessmentsofourdrugsthroughout
clinical development and commercialization. It endorses Collecting information and checking processes
appropriatemeasurestominimizerisk,such aspackage In response to new requirements to the new data trans-
leaflet updates. This board is chaired by our Chief Medical mission format stipulated byICHguideline E2B(R3), we
Officer and consists of experienced physicians, scientists upgradedourGlobalSafetyDatabasetoensurethetech-
and experts from our company. Throughout a drug’s entire nical capabilities needed to support the coordinated
lifecycle,theMSEBreviewsandassessesimportantmedical exchangeofindividualcasesafetyreports(ICSR).In2019,
safety risks and benefit-risk issues, and reviews human- we started safety reporting in line with the enhanced
related ethical issues, as appropriate. E2B(R3) standard in China, Europe and Japan, and further
Within the Global Patient Safety unit, the Benefit Risk rolled out the reporting to Russia and Taiwan in 2020.
Action team is responsible forsignal management, benefit- We are following up on changes to the European GVP
risk assessment, risk management and all topics regarding guidelines and preparing for the introduction of the new
product safety and the benefit-risk profile of our medicinal clinicaltrialregulation.Inaddition,weareimplementingthe
products. Recommendations from the Benefit Risk Action newpharmacovigilancerequirementsintheUnitedKingdom
team are endorsed by the Pharmacovigilance Advisory associated with Brexit and introducing changes according
Board,alsochairedbyGlobalPatientSafetyunit.Important to the timeline proposed by the Medicines and Healthcare
issues may be submitted to the MSEB for final assessment. products Regulatory Agency (MHRA).
In 2020, we assessed newcountry-specific regu-
Effects of the divestment of Allergopharma on latoryrequirementsandimplementednecessarychanges
patient safety in order to meet them.
On March31, 2020, we completed the divestment of our
allergybusinessAllergopharmatoDermapharmHoldingSE. Monitoring drug safety
WeenteredintoatransitionalserviceagreementwithAller- Regulatoryauthoritiesconductperiodicinspectionstoverify
gopharma/Dermapharm that defines certain services from that we comply both with statutory requirements and with
usforaninterimperiodaftertheclosingdate.Oneofthese our own internal standards for drug safety. In Germany,
transitional services was a Pharmacovigilance Statement of these are handled on behalf of the European Medicines
Work(PVSOW),definingthetransitionalpharmacovigilance Agency (EMA) by the German Federal Institute for Drugs
services provided byMerck until all affected pharmacovigil- and Medical Devices (BfArM) and the Paul Ehrlich Institute
ance activities had been migrated to Allergopharma/Derm- (PEI), the German Federal Institute for Vaccines and
apharmonNovember30,2020.Thisstepwasachievedone Biomedicines. We follow up on the findings of health
month prior to the scheduled date. authority inspections and take the necessary actions to
ensure the proper functioning of our pharmacovigilance
Our commitment: Guidelines and statutory system. In 2020 we did not receive any requests for phar-
requirements macovigilance inspections.
We follow international guidance and standard procedures, Furthermore, we perform audits to ensure that all
such as the International Conference for Harmonization ourunits and subsidiaries involved in pharmacovigilance
(ICH) guidelines and the Good Pharmacovigilance Practices consistentlymeet all requirements across the globe. In
(GVP)establishedbytheEuropeanMedicinesAgency(EMA) 2020, we conducted a total of 19 pharmacovigilance audits
andnationalhealthauthorities.Inaddition,weadheretoall andfoundnosignificantdeviationsinourpharmacovigilance
statutory pharmacovigilance regulations in those countries system from these requirements. We also audit vendors
where we market our products. andlicensingpartnersinvolvedinpharmacovigilance,which
In 2020, our Global Patient Safety unit formed a Phar- helps us improve our pharmacovigilance processes so that
macovigilance Intelligence Council that focuses on changes they surpass statutory requirements. In light of the
in pharmacovigilance legislation and their impacts on our Covid-19 situation, we adjusted our audit plan and
globalandlocalpharmacovigilancesystems.Thisenablesus methods. Several audits were postponed and others were
conducted remotely.
83
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
Responding to the Covid-19 pandemic change management plan. We are now in the implementa-
In light of the Covid-19 outbreak in 2020, various health tionphaseandareconductingseveralpilotstobetterunder-
authorities across the world issued guidance clarifying the stand the model’s impacts and adjust it accordingly.
expectations for manufacturers, importers and marketing
authorization holders on the implementation of clinical Assessing the safety of our products
trials, reporting of adverse events from clinical trials and Weemployaproductprioritizationtoolasameanstoscore
post-marketing sources, and the management of other the safety of our products in an objective, proven way,
safety aspects during a pandemic. basedonseveralcriticalsafetyandrelevantcross-functional
Based on this we changed several of our standard parameters. The output scores provide a categorization of
reporting procedures. For example, adverse event reports productsintohigh,mediumorlowpriority.Thesecategories
associated with Covid-19 were identified as a priority and have a major impact on the subsequent methodology used
submitted as required to the respective national health forallsafetyactivities,allowingustodefineworkingmodels
authorities. forsafetysurveillanceandbenefit-riskassessmentactivities
Furthermore, some national health authorities adapted forlow-andmedium-priorityproducts,allowingustofocus
their requirements regarding the electronic submission of on high-priority assets. The tool is helping us to further
adverse events and additional risk minimization inform- developanintegrated,proactivesafetyapproach.Addition-
ation, and we did so accordingly. Industry representatives ally, it provides us with a reference to ensure regulatory
and health authorities discussed the need for more regu- compliance.
latory flexibility to account for the potential increased We are in the process of redesigning all pharmacovi-
reporting of adverse events related to widespread use of gilanceprocesses(ICSRmanagement,signalmanagement,
medical products to help treat or prevent Covid-19. benefit-risk blueprint strategy and aggregate safety
Our Global Patient Safety unit’s Business Continuity reporting) to account for product priority category in the
Team (BCP) routinely monitored the impact of Covid-19 on component process steps.
pharmacovigilance operations. No disturbances to our own In particular, we are successfully incorporating the
operations at a local or global level were detected, and the product prioritization tool into the development of our risk-
impacts on business partners were minimal. basedoperatingmodelwithintheGlobalPatientSafetyunit.
Asinmanyotherareasofourbusiness,wemadeuseof Wepublishedtheinitialversionoftheproductprioritization
aremoteworkingmodelduetophysicaldistancingrequire- toolinJanuary2020.Aplannedannualupdateensuresthat
ments. We introduced electronic signature processes for the tool accurately reflects the current safety status of all
safety data exchange agreements with business partners products.
as well as for internal documents to safeguard business
continuity. Innovative safety signal detection
Throughourtoolforsafetysignaldetection,calledEmpirica,
Redefining our approach to benefit-risk weanalyzeandmanagelargeamountsofglobaldata,such
assessments as scientific studies and news about adverse effects. This
Wehavedevelopedabenefit-riskblueprintstrategyinorder helps us to comply with regulatory timelines for safety
tohelpustransformfromareactiveandcompliance-driven signalsandothersafety-relatedfactorsandhelpstoensure
organization into a proactive and benefit-risk-focused that all signal data, documentation and decisions are
organization.Bytrulyunderstandingthebenefit-riskprofiles captured in one place. It also allows easy access to and
ofourproducts,wecanenableearlydecision-makingwithin analysis of our data, as well as cross-functional collab-
theorganization.Ultimately,theaimistobeabletoprovide oration between the Global Patient Safety unit and other
the right medicine to the right patient at the right internal and externalstakeholders. The implementation of
time. Empirica has improved the tracking and oversight of
As part of this initiative, we have also developed the allsafetysignals.Usingdiversestatisticaltoolsandlever-
concepts and principles for conducting benefit-risk assess- agingallavailablesafetydatafromourinternalandexternal
ments at each stage of product development and post- databasesmakesitpossibletoidentifynewsignalsandtheir
marketing. assessment of risk for the patients.
We have completed the design phase of this benefit-
risk blueprint strategy, created guidance and developed a
84
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
Up-to-date labeling and product information identifying adverse events andhowtoreportthem.Wewill
Our product information explains to health care profes- roll out the agReporter app in these countries with instruc-
sionals and patients how to properly use the respective tions on how to report suspected adverse events associ-
drug and allows for an informed decision on treatment. ated with our medicinal products. The app is available in a
In accordance with statutory regulations, thepackage total of 14 languages and additional language versions are
leafletcontains all relevant information such as indica- in preparation.
tion(s) and ingredients, as well as dosage, storage, mode
of action, instructions for use, warnings, precautions and Pharmacovigilance in Access to Health
possible adverse effects. Should the medicine contain We endeavor to transfer our drug safety expertise around
ingredientsthatcouldimpacttheenvironment,thepackage theworld,especiallytocountrieswherehealthcareworkers
leaflet may also contain information on the proper disposal need to build their pharmacovigilance expertise.
of the product. We want to increase the contribution of pharmacovigil-
We review and update all product information docu- anceinourAccesstoHealthstrategy(A2H).Fosteringphar-
mentssuchaspackageleaflets,ensuringthatourmedicinal macovigilance initiatives in safety data-sharing with health
products contain the latest information on safety, efficacy authorities and building pharmacovigilance capacity with
and pharmaceutical formulation as appropriate. In accord- reputable partners in underserved countries in a sustain-
ance with statutory requirements, all modifications to the able way are key aspects of this strategy. This is why we
leaflets are submitted to the respective regulatory author- selected low- and middle-income countries from the UN
ities for approval. In 2020, there were no incidents of non- HumanDevelopmentIndex(HDI)andincludedtheseinour
compliancewithstatutoryregulationsconcerninglabelingof projectscope.Fortheselectedcountriesweemployambas-
drugs or pharmaceutical products. sadors in each region to systematically collect and report
information on pharmacovigilance initiatives and activities,
Internal and external training as further detailed below:
All employees involved in the safety and quality of phar- The Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities
maceutical products take part in training in line with our (MedDRA) is a clinically validated medical terminology
global training standards. We verify compliance with these system used by health authorities and the industry world-
requirements by producing training compliance reports and wide. Following the release of the new MedDRA version
by performing regular audits. 22.0, the MedDRA Maintenance and Support Services
Our training is delivered via a global learning platform. Organization (MSSO) presented the Russian version of
All of the approximately 24,000 of our Healthcare MedDRA and we contributed to the review of the Russian
employees receivebasic pharmacovigilance translation. We also collaborated with health authorities in
trainingonce a year that covers the procedure for Brazil to support the creation of a local language version,
reporting adverse effects from our products. Other training which was released in March 2020.
courses keep employees up to date on their professional Through the A2H initiative, we also promote patient
expertise as well as internal standard operating procedures centricity in low- and middle-income countries through
and other relevant requirements. This helps to ensure pharmacovigilanceawarenesscommunicationmeasures
adherence to Good Pharmacovigilance Practice (GVP) that we develop and distribute. In 2020, we conducted
requirements. an adverse event campaign in Kenya and Nigeria. The
campaignwasaimedatsensitizingthepublictounexpected
Enhancing patient safety and sharing symptoms that individuals may experience after taking a
expertise with other countries medicine and the actions they can take – such as seeking
medical advice and reporting the incident to the relevant
Reporting side effects with the agReporter app health authority or market authorization holder. We also
In line with our goal to enhance patient safety, we have plantorolloutanon-promotionalvideoandaudiomessages
created and published a patient-friendly app called agRe- through local media agencies, explaining how to identify
porter. In 2020, we continued with the rollout in several adverse events as well as recommended steps in both
markets and developed it further. With this app, not only English and Swahili.
field nurses and our sales representatives, but also non- TheKenyanhealthauthority,thePharmacyandPoisons
medically trained users canreport any suspected side Board, has approved the project for the awareness-raising
effectsor adverse events arising from the use of our campaign, the training of healthcare professionals and the
products. This places patient feedback at the core of our use of our agReporter app. The project is scheduled for
efforts to consistently collect data on adverse effects. rolloutinthefirstquarterof2021.Thelessonslearnedfrom
In 2020 we initiated the collaboration with local profes- thiscampaignwillbeincorporatedwithinasimilarcampaign
sional associations in Kenya, Nigeria and potentially other and initiative that is being planned in Nigeria.
countries to deliver training to healthcare professionals on
85
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
Off-label use ation about the use of our products beyond the existing
Weendeavor to drive scientific and medical progress, marketing authorization is provided by qualified medical
often doing so in close collaboration with medical profes- personnel only in the case of unsolicited inquiries. The
sionals. information shared must be backed by scientific evidence
We receive inquiries about the therapeutic use of our andfactuallybalancedclearlystatingthatitappliestounap-
products beyond the marketing authorization (also referred proved use. Also, Merck employees are not permitted to
to as off-label use). For example, while each medicine is give any sort of treatment recommendation on individual
authorized for use in specific indications, a physician may patient care or treatment.
wish to administer a product to a patient suffering from a Ourprinciplesforprovidinginformationabouttheunap-
disease for which it is not approved. proveduseofourproductshaverecentlybeenupdatedina
We market our medicines only within the scope of their standard document which became effective in 2020.
specific marketing approval. Any medical-scientific inform-
86
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
PPrroodduucctt--rreellaatteedd  ccrriimmee
 Part of the non-financial report
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), a considerable proportion of the medicines in low- and
middle-incomecountriesareillegal,counterfeitorsubstandard.Inindustrializednations,however,suchproducts
are also becoming increasingly available on the market through unlicensed Internet pharmacies and dubious
online platforms, posing a risk to public health. Moreover, chemical products can also be used for criminal
purposes, such as the manufacture of illicit drugs.
Our approach to product-related crime Chain, Patient Safety, and Quality Assurance, this network
Our company develops and manufactures products of the is coordinated by our Corporate Security unit.
highestquality.Inordertoprotectcustomersandpatients, To investigate suspected cases, MACON collaborates
we secure our products against counterfeiting. We are also with the competent law enforcement agencies and regu-
resolute in our fight against product-related crime by, for latory authorities. In 2020, the Merck Anti-Counterfeiting
instance, collaborating closely with health, regulatory and Operational Network (MACON) investigated and pursued
law enforcement agencies at the regional, national and numerous incidents that primarily involved counterfeits
international level. In taking preventive action, we withinthelegitimateandillegitimatesupplychainsas
cooperate with representatives, Interpol and the World well as theft and illegal diversion.
Customs Organization. Our guidelines, standards and
processes apply to all our business sectors and markets Our commitment: Group-wide guidelines and
worldwide. standards
Ourguidelineentitled“IllicitTrade&ProductCrimePreven-
How we define product-related crime tion” describes our goals and strategies for combating
product-related crime. The Group-wide Product Crime
1. Counterfeit products: In line with the relevant WHO Incident Management standard sets out mandatory
standard,wedefineacounterfeitproductas“aproduct requirementsanddefinestheprocedureswefollowwithin
that is deliberately and fraudulently produced and/or theGroup,therebyensuring casesaremanagedefficiently.
mislabeled with respect to its identity and/or source to Moreover,itcreatesaclearframeworkfordealingwithillicit
make it appear to be a genuine product.” products.
2. Illegal diversion of products: This term refers to
the diversion of either pharmaceuticals or chemical Enhanced monitoring and reporting systems
substances from within the legitimate supply chain
We analyze and document all counterfeit product incidents
either to sell or export them through illegal channels
using a Group-wide reporting system. This approach
to produce narcotics, weapons or explosives, or to use
provides us with a comprehensive picture of the
them for other illegitimate purposes.
security situation, enabling us to identify possible links
3. Misappropriation of products: This refers to theft
between different cases and effectively tackle them. Our
from production sites, warehouses or while in transit.
standardoperatingprocedureentitled“DataandDocument-
ation Quality Management” describes the corresponding
How we are tackling product-related crime
process, making the risks more transparent and the
Our Group Corporate Security function coordinates all our processes more efficient.
activities for fighting product-related crime. All measures
are overseen by the Chief Security Officer and head of Tracking system for chemical substances
“Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality” (EQ).
We monitor chemical substances that could be misused to
Furthermore,alloursiteshaveaproductcrimeofficer,who
produce illegal weapons, explosives or narcotics, tracking
is responsible for responding to potential cases of coun-
them through an internal system that flags suspicious
terfeiting, acting as the interface between local regulatory
orders or orders of sensitive products. These are released
and law enforcement authorities, national associations, our
onlyoncewehaveconfirmedtheexistenceofaverifiedend-
Group functions, and our sites.
user declaration.
In addition to fulfilling the duties stipulated by stat-
Group-wide anti-counterfeiting network
utoryprovisionsonexportcontrol,wealsoreportsuspi-
Our Anti-Counterfeiting Operational Network (MACON) is cious orders, inquiries and requests to the competent
responsible for globally monitoring and executing all authorities.Throughtheseefforts,wearehonoringavolun-
anti-counterfeitingmeasuresforourproducts.Aswellas tary commitment of the German Chemical Industry Asso-
coordinating preventative measures and the development ciation (VCI) and meeting the terms of the Guideline for
of security systems, this organization also oversees invest- OperatorspublishedbytheEuropeanCommission.In2020,
igations. Comprising experts from various units such as wereported1,148ordersplacedforrelevantsubstances.In
Legal/Trademarks,ProductSecurity,ExportControl,Supply addition,wereceived15inquiriesfromauthoritiesregarding
87
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
specificsuspectedcasesthatwehelpedtoresolve.Weeval- Since 2018, we have been collaborating with Boston
uatetheeffectivenessofourmeasuresforavoidingproduct University. Together, we are testing, investigating and
misusebasedon,amongotherthings,thenumberofincid- optimizing a new user-friendly instrument (Phar-
ents suggested to us by the authorities and solved. maChk), which identifies and quantifies active ingredi-
ents and helps us to detect counterfeit and substandard
Supporting customers and patients medicines. We are planning to use the portable instru-
To protect patients, the identity and authenticity of phar- ment primarily for antimicrobial and anti-malarial
maceuticalsmustbeverifiable.Weensurethisbyrigorously compounds in low- and middle-income countries.
implementingtherequirementsoftheEUFalsifiedMedicines We offer our customers in the pharmaceutical industry
Directive. We apply a unique serial number to the pack- Candurin® pearl effect pigments with unique color
aging of all the prescription medicines we commercialize properties. When used to coat of tablets and capsules,
in the European Union (Track and Trace). We also comply thesepigmentsmakeitmoredifficulttocreatecounterfeit
with similar government-stipulated systems in other coun- copies.
tries around the world.
In addition, we also pursue our own initiatives: Raising awareness of product-related crime
We aim to continuously raise awareness of product-related
We apply the Security M label to some of our products, crime among our business partners and employees,
enabling users to easily verify authenticity. We take educating and training our employees Group-wide on the
a risk-based approach to identifying the products to be subject.Allstaffinvolvedinsecurity,suchasproductcrime
labeled in this manner. officers, participate in appropriate training programs
In the Mobile Anti-Counterfeiting System (MAS) aimedatbuildingtheircapacities andpromotingbest-prac-
projectinNigeria,weareworkingcloselywithoneofour tice sharing. We are continuously evolving these programs
suppliers on a text message-based identification system. and adapting them to new trends.
Patients scratch off a barcode that is printed on the
product packaging then text this code to a number that Security audits for contract manufacturers
hasbeenspecificallysetupforthispurpose.Theyimme- and distributors
diatelyreceivearesponsetellingthemwhethertheircode
We regularly check whether our distributors and contract
is authentic.
manufacturersarecomplyingwithGMP-andGDP-Standards
According to a WHO report, more than 10% of all medi-
(Good Manufacturing Practice/Good Distribution Practice).
cines in low- or middle-income countries and emerging
Theseauditsarebasedonthe“EMAICHQ10”pharmaceut-
countries are counterfeit or substandard.That is why we
icalqualityassurancestandardandallowustoascertainthe
sponsor the non-profit Global Pharma Health Fund
extenttowhichoursecurityrequirementsarebeingmet
(GPHF), which supplies the GPHF-Minilab®, a compact
by contract manufacturers and distributors. In addition, we
laboratory used mainly in countries with inadequate
conduct special security audits if a concrete need is iden-
access to health solutions to test the quality of up to
tified. This applies to both pharmaceutical contract manu-
100differentactiveingredientsquicklyandinexpensively.
facturers and companies that print packaging. Defects that
The test methods are described in a manual, which has
wedeemascriticalmustberectifiedeitherbeforeweenter
also been available in French and Spanish since 2020.
into a contract, or a detailed corrective action plan must
More than 890 Minilabs are currently in use. In 2020, 29
be submitted for our approval. In 2020, we conducted this
Minilabs were delivered: 21 went to Africa, particularly
typeofsecurityauditinChina,whichfoundfourcritical,two
to countries in the Economic Community of West African
significantandthreeminordefects.Nocontractwasentered
States (ECOWAS), and seven went to Asia (Afghanistan
into.
and Bangladesh). One remained in Germany for future
training sessions as part of the “Global Health Protection
Program” run by the Germany Federal Ministry of Health.
88
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
TTrraannssppoorrtt  aanndd  wwaarreehhoouussee  ssaaffeettyy
 Part of the non-financial report
Aroundtheworld,wetransportandstorenumerousproductsandmaterials.Theseincludecommercialchemicals
and pharmaceuticals, raw materials, intermediates, and waste as well as technical materials and packaging, all
of which could pose a hazard to health and the environment if handled incorrectly.
Our approach to safe transport and storage Contract warehouses must also adhere to our strict
All our shipments are to reach our customers and sites safety requirements. Before we sign a contract with an
safely, undamaged and with the required safety informa- operator, they must submit a statement detailing how they
tion. Several of the materials we store and transport are meet our prerequisites. Our Group-wide standards also
classified as hazardous. The storage of such dangerous define the technical and organizational requirements
goods and the transport thereof – whether by road, rail, for such warehouses.
plane, or ship – are governed by regulations applicable In Germany, the storage of packaged hazardous
worldwide. To minimize risks to people and the environ- materialsisgovernedbytheTechnicalRulesforHazardous
ment, we apply strict safety requirements across the Substances (“Storage of hazardous substances in non-
Group that of course also comply with all applicable laws. stationary containers”, TRGS 510), which apply across all
We conduct regular reviews to ensure that our own ware- our warehouse and distribution centers Group-wide. A
houses as well as those of third parties comply with these completely revised version of the TRGS was published at
regulations. In addition, we train our employees on ware- the beginning of 2021; the update was handled by the
house and transport safety requirements. CommitteeonHazardousSubstances(AGS)withinputfrom
our company’s own experts.
How we achieve transport and warehouse Our Group Transport Safety Standard is based on the
safety United Nations Recommendations on the Transport of
Overridingresponsibilityfortransportandwarehousesafety Dangerous Goods – Model Regulations. This guideline is
lies with our Group Environment, Health, Safety, Security, especially important for sites in those countries with no
Quality (EQ) function (see Environmental stewardship), local regulations covering the conveyance of hazardous
which defines the standards and guidelines applicable materials.
Group-wide. In addition, our individual sites are subject to All standards are reviewed either as needed or at a
national and international regulations governing environ- minimum every three years and updated to reflect current
mental stewardship and public safety. At the local level, requirements.Whenchangesarecalledfor,wesupportour
therespectivesitedirectorsareresponsibleforensuring site directors in implementing the relevant modifications at
compliance with all safety requirements. the local level.
Each of our sites around the world with logistics activ- During the process of integrating Versum Materials and
ities has an EHS manager and a dangerous goods Intermolecular, we reviewed all relevant standards and
manager, a position that equates to the Dangerous Goods made adjustments as necessary. We adopted the vast
Safety Advisor required by EU regulations. Both individuals majority of the special requirements of Versum Materials
advise the site director on the safe storage and transport and Intermolecular. Specifically, these pertained to the
of hazardous goods while also monitoring compliance with storage of gases and the evaluation of highly hazardous
statutory requirements and our own internal standards. materials for transport.
OurEHSmanagersarealsoresponsibleformonitoring
contract warehouses. Before signing a contract with a Enhancing transport and warehouse safety
third-party warehouse operator, we assess whether they In addition to the inspections conducted by our EHS and
properly adhere to national and international storage and dangerous goods managers, we regularly perform internal
transport regulations and whether they can meet our addi- risk-based Group audits to ensure that our sites comply
tional requirements. We summarize the findings from this withwarehouseandtransportsafetyregulations.Wegener-
auditinanEHSreport,whichcontainsadditionalwarehouse allyconducttheseauditseveryfouryears,performingthem
and storage requirements. more frequently at sites that pose a potentially higher risk.
If major shortcomings are identified, we re-audit the
Our commitment: Internal standards and respective site the following year. Conversely, we may
international rules decide to extend the period between audits at facilities
We have Group-wide standards in place that govern the where,basedonthefindingsfrompreviousaudits,wedeem
safetylevelsforthestorageofhazardoussubstancesatour the potential risk to be low. Using a standardized check-
sites. Accompanied by standard operating procedures and list,ourEHSmanagersverifywhethercontractwarehouses
bestpractices,thesestandardsdescribethetechnologyand meetourrequirements.Thisinventoryalsohelpsusassess
organizational infrastructure needed to achieve the appro- risks before entering into a business relationship with a
priate safety levels. third-party warehouse.
89
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Products
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we were unable to developed for hazardous material transport and storage
performalltheauditswehadplannedfor2020.Weaudited is compulsory for logistics, EHS and dangerous goods
two of our warehouse facilities to verify their compliance managers. It features ten courses that we assign to the
with Group-wide standards and also audited one contract participants to complete.
warehouse. Ourdangerousgoodsmanagersholdregularconference
We report transportation incidents and accidents in calls to share their experiences and discuss current
accordance with the United Nations Recommendations on changes. All new EHS managers must complete EHStart-
the Transport of Dangerous Goods – Model Regulations up!, a three-day onboarding seminar on environmental
(7.1.9) in conjunction with the criteria of the Agreement stewardship,safetyandsafelogistics.In2020,weheldthis
concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods training online program through a series of webinars.
by Road (ADR, 1.8.5.). There was no reportable incident
during 2020. Ensuring proper transport
Weprimarilyuselogisticscompaniestodeliverourproducts
Employee training and best-practice sharing tocustomers.InGermany,wetransportthemajorityofour
In line with their specific tasks and responsibilities, our hazardous waste ourselves. Furthermore, we participate in
employees undergo regular training that is conducted by the German Transport Accident Reporting and Emergency
eithertheirrespectivesupervisororourEHSanddangerous ResponseSystem(TUIS)operatedbytheGermanChem-
goods managers. Topics include internal standards and icalIndustryAssociation(VCI).Withinthissystem,weshare
procedures, changes to international requirements, and chemicaltransportexpertiseandbestpracticeswithexperts
proper incident management. from other chemical companies and also render hands-on
Across the globe, we conduct around 1,000 internal assistance in the event of a chemical transportation acci-
and external seminars on transport and warehouse dent.OursitefiredepartmentsinDarmstadtandGernsheim
safety every year. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, only collaborate closely with the fire departments in the region
60% of our seminars could took place. Many of these were and provide specialized equipment to help in emergency
rescheduled as webinars. The e-learning program we situations.
90
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Employees
EEmmppllooyyeeeess
Within this chapter:
92 Good leadership
95 Career with us
98 Fairness and dialogue
100 Diversity and inclusion
105 Work-life balance
107 Health and safety
91
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Employees
GGoooodd  lleeaaddeerrsshhiipp
 Part of the non-financial report
Good leaders are crucial to the success of not only our employees, but also our company. Because they provide
ourtalentwiththerightframeworktounleashtheirpotentialandgeneratenewideas,weplacegreatimportance
on the continuing education and development of our managers. Within our company, many teams collaborate
across sites and national borders, and therefore fostering global collaboration is a central theme in the profes-
sional training and growth of our leaders.
Our approach to good leadership Our strategic competency model describes the core
The People Strategy serves as a basis for our continuous competencies that underpin the conduct of our employees
efforts to attract, retain and develop our leaders and our at all levels of the hierarchy (see diagram).
talent.Weplacespecialfocusonactivelyengagingandchal-
lenging our leaders to become “leaders of people”.
Our competency model
92
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Employees
In our day-to-day work, these core competencies play an We also integrated these behaviors into all HR processes,
important role in our success. The competency model such as training, recruitment, and feedback processes.
provides the foundation for all our Human Resources
programs and processes. Employees and supervisors The pandemic is bringing about far-reaching
discuss specific growth and development needs, as well changes to the world of work
as the progress made with development measures already Since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, our crisis
introduced. management has revolved around how best to support our
Ourcompetencymodelisalsoapplicabletoourleaders. staff.
By setting an example, they play a key role in embedding We developed Group-wide guidelines, taking into
the competencies across our organization. In addition, the account the different pandemic histories and regulations
model defines the leadership culture through which we from country to country. These guidelines regulate the
intendtogrowourbusiness.Buildingonthisframework,we physical presence of employees at the company workplace
definedsixleadershipbehaviorsthatsummarizetheway and working remotely. They contain generally applicable
we expect our leaders to act. hygiene regulations, support employees to balance work,
By participating in employee surveys, our employees childcareandfamilyobligationsandprotectemployeeswith
can also assess various factors, such as leadership quality special personal health risks.
within the company. We offer our managers guidelines for team discussions
in order to adapt internal team collaboration in light of the
How we facilitate good leadership crisis situation and the changed working conditions. This
We expect our leaders to be attuned to the needs of their is meant to create an inclusive atmosphere. In addition,
diverse teams and therefore provide them with support in weofferGroup-widetrainingcourseson“VirtualLeader-
the form of resources and data. At the same time, they ship”,“EmployeeWelfare”and“Workingremotely”.Wealso
can access transparent feedback through specially extended our telephone social counseling to all coun-
developed tools in order to find out about the impact of tries. We offer psychological counseling to our employees
theirbehavior.Weworkwithexternalproviderstotrainour and their families in the event of mental stress.
leadersonapproachestogoodleadershipthatarescientific- Fromtheverybeginningofthepandemic,werecognized
ally-based and well-established within the business world. that the necessary adjustments to our way of working also
offered opportunities – for the future development of our
How we structure our human resources working model. As part of our crisis management efforts,
management weformedtheworkinggroup“FutureWaysofWorking”
The Human Resources (HR) department is responsible for in 2020, which aims to make use of the experience gained
advising all business sectors and Group functions. It duringthecrisisanditisdevelopingprinciplesforourfuture
addresses the needs of our employees, organization and cooperation, even after the pandemic. The focus is on:
company culture. Across all our sites, HR employees work
Flexible working models: We want to expand our
hand-in-hand with leaders from the various functions and
existing flexible working models throughout the Group.
businesssectorstodevelopattractivecompensationmodels
Depending on the area of activity and in agreement with
and benefits, along with strategies to engage our people
their supervisors, employees should be able to use a
even more strongly and in accordance with Group-wide HR
hybrid working model. This means they can divide their
guidelines and requirements. Every two to three years, we
work time in a balanced way between their workplace
carry out internal audits to check that the guidelines are
and other locations, such as home. In addition, we want
being implemented. As we continue to integrate Versum
to offer our staff an alternative to full-time employment
MaterialsandIntermolecular,wereviewourHRpoliciesand
with part-time or job-sharing models. Furthermore, we
guidelines and make adjustments as necessary.
are creating location-independent roles with defined job
Our Vice Chair of the Executive Board and Deputy CEO
requirements so that we can recruit talent in all parts of
is responsible for Group Human Resources. Our Chief HR
the world.
Officer, in charge of the various HR activities, HR experts
New technologies: We continue to invest in new tech-
andHRbusinesspartners,reportsdirectlytoher.OurMerck
nologies. For example, by increasing the use of artificial
Business Services unit oversees the operational tasks of
intelligence, we are enabling our employees to develop
human resources work, such as drafting contracts and
and build new skills that will be critical in the future.
payroll accounting. The Executive Board member and Chief
Management training: We will continue to train our
Financial Officer is responsible for this unit.
managers so that they acquire the necessary skills. This
istheonlywaytheycanresponsiblyleadtheiremployees
Our commitment
in challenging times.
Our six leadership behaviors describe good leadership in
our Group. They are based on our corporate strategy, our
Management and talent programs for leaders
competency model and our company values. To do this,
Toenhancetheskillsofourpeoplemanagers,weoffer
we analyzed best practices from other companies and
three different programs:
compared the leadership behaviors we defined with market
standards. We regularly inform executives and employees
TheManagerialFoundationProgramimpartsthebasicsof
through global campaigns about the Leadership behaviors.
leadership,suchascommunicationtechniques,leadership
93
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Employees
styles, conflict management, motivation, and emotional someoftheminAfricancountriesandothersinDarmstadt.
intelligence. Wehaveselected11newcandidatesfortheninthintakeof
The Advanced Management Program covers topics such “Afrika kommt!”. They will start their new positions within
as change management, self-reflection and resilience. the Group in June 2021.
OurGlobalLeadershipprogramfocusesonthecompeten-
cies needed to ensure successful international collabora- Leveraging the opportunities of digitalization
tion. In the human resources area, we use new technologies
that support our employees and managers with as many
In2020,theManagerialFoundationandAdvancedManage-
processes as possible.
ment programs took place worldwide. We conducted the
In2020,weintroducedanupdatedversionof“HR4You”,
Global Leadership program in China, Germany and the
our self-service human resources platform. Thanks to the
United States.
upgrade and improved user guidance, our employees can
For21years,wehavebeenpartneringwithtopinterna-
administer and manage numerous HR-related
tional universities to offer the Merck University program.
processes themselves around theclock. Our managers
Overaperiodofoneyear,seniorleaderscompletelearning
can view and independently edit the data of their teams.
modulesonmanagementtechniquesandstrategicbusiness
The new system relieves the burden on both our managers
development,with522seniorleadershavingparticipatedto
and the HR department, giving them more time to advise
date.
employees on strategic decisions.
Another initiative we have been offering our up-and-
A complementary function of “HR4You” is the chatbot
comingleaderssincethe1990sisourInternationalManage-
“Ad@m”. Managers can ask questions about selected
ment Program, where participants work on an
processesandgetanswersfromthechatbot.Thechatbotis
interdisciplinaryprojectoveraperiodofeightmonths.They
designedtobeaself-learningsystem–themorequestions
present the results of their efforts to the Executive Board.
it receives, the better it gets over time.
In 2020, 25 of our employees took part in such a project.
Our managers also use an innovative software applic-
In addition to these various programs, we partner with
ation to analyze personnel-related data. This analyzes not
universities across the globe to enable our employees to
only employee master data, but also information on
obtain qualifications such as an Executive MBA.
employee compensation, performance and skills, as well
OurExpertFoundationProgramteachesparticipantsthe
as strategic succession and personnel planning. The soft-
fundamentals of their role as experts in interdisciplinary
ware uses Big Data technology. It links the various data
project groups.
andidentifiescertaintrendsatanearlystage.Thesystems
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, we have been
adhere to all applicable data privacy rules.
offering a majority of programs virtually since spring 2020.
Since2017,wehavebeenconductingresearchwiththe
TU Darmstadt on a humanoid intelligent robot. We want
Tapping potential in growth markets
to find out how employees and managers respond to intel-
In 2020, 17 participants successfully completed “Afrika ligent robots and artificial intelligence (AI) in the work-
kommt!”, a one-year program offered by the German place. Furthermore, we are examining in which areas an
Society for International Cooperation (GIZ). The program applicationwouldbeconceivable.Ouraimistoprepareour
trains experts and leaders from Africa. In supporting workforce for the introduction of AI within their working
thisinitiative,wearehelpingtobuildapoolofregionalpart- environment.Thestudiesalsoservetohelpmakenewtech-
nerstoencourage economic cooperation betweenGermany nologies tangible, thereby paving the way for early accept-
and Africa. 23 former scholarship recipients are now ance.
workingforusinvariousspecialistandleadershippositions,
94
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Employees
CCaarreeeerr  wwiitthh  uuss
 Part of the non-financial report
Globally, our employees drive advances in science and technology. We encourage all of them to pursue the
career path that aligns with their individual ambitions, skills and talents. Tosustain our success, weendeavor to
attract talent who will bring courage, creativity and curiosity to our company.
Our approach to attracting and retaining How we organize recruiting, vocational
talent training and advanced training
We believe that curiosity can make great things happen. GroupHumanResources(HR)supportsandadvisesallbusi-
Wethereforeseektoprovideanenvironmentthatgivesour ness sectors and Group functions within our organization
employees plenty of scopeforcreativity and sparks their as regards human resources issues. Moreover, we develop
desire to innovate. Our employer brand communicates this strategies to advance our employees, organization and
mindset to the outside world. Through our slogan “Bring company culture. More information on the structure of HR
YourCuriositytoLife”,weshowapplicants,whetherpoten- can be found underGood leadership.
tial apprentices or university graduates, what they can Our HR4You digital platform, which can be accessed
expect when they join our company. To this end, in by all employees, helps us to globally harmonize our HR
Germany we cooperate with regional target universities, processes.Forinstance,theplatformallowsthemtoaccess
student initiatives and associations. In addition, we regu- their personal data. They can use the platform to initiate
larly organize events in order to give students an insight and steer the Performance and Potential Management
intoourcompany.WealsotakepartinjobfairsinGermany Process themselves, participate in online training or apply
and abroad. University graduates can apply for a position internally for vacant positions.
with our company directly or complete one of our trainee
programs. In addition to recruiting talented students, we Our commitment: Employee development
also provide financial assistance. For instance, we collab- guideline
orate with the German Academic Scholarship Foundation Our People Development & Learning Policy provides a
(Studienstiftung des deutschen Volkes) and support the Group-wideframeworkwithinwhichemployeescanmanage
scholarships granted by Deutschlandstipendium, an educa- their professional growth. It defines requirements for our
tional initiative of the German federal government. development opportunities, roles and responsibilities. The
In addition to our recruiting efforts, the vocational correspondingprocessesaredescribedinourPeopleDevel-
and advanced training of our employees also plays an opment & Learning Standards.
essential role for us. With our People strategy, we make it
clear how important curious talent and empowered leaders Providing feedback and supporting
as well as result-oriented teams and networks are to us. development
We support the personal and professional development of Weregularlyprovideouremployeeswithperformancefeed-
all employees in line with their strengths, ambitions and back. The Performance and Potential Management
competencies, thereby laying the groundwork for an Process ensures that, in addition to this regular feedback,
enriching and challenging career with our company. We a meeting is held once a year to evaluate their overall
endeavor to find qualified employees at an early stage in performance. This process is applicable to all employees
their career and systematically advance them. Group-wide in Role 2 or higher, and additionally to all non-
Apartfrom dualeducation programs, weconsider voca- exempt staff employed by either Merck KGaA or any other
tional training a key way to meet the current and future subsidiary based in Germany.
need for qualified professionals. As competition for Our people managers and their employees agree on
young talent grows, job security and marketable profes- individualannualobjectives.The annual bonus depends
sional qualifications are crucial, which is why we continu- onindividualperformanceandobjectiveachievement.Addi-
ously invest in new technologies and integrate these into tionally, the bonus calculation also reflects the company’s
our vocational training programs. If, after completing their overall performance, which we determine using various
apprenticeship, our young employees in Germany wish to company key indicators.
continue studying while working, we will cover 75% of the Once the development direction is defined, our
costs and grant them special leave. managers and their staff create a detailed development
plan. When drafting the development plan, all employees
have access to the Development Advisor. Building on the
Merck competencies and Merck leadership behaviors, this
digital tool provides a selection of development opportun-
95
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Employees
ities that employees can tailor to their own needs. Every offer attractive fringe and social benefits. Our benefits4me
employee can thus quickly and easily create their develop- package consists of three pillars, namely company-funded
mentplan,whichdisplaystherespectiveareasoffocus,via benefits, including our company pension plan, health and
HR4You. It is coordinated in accordance with the strategic well-being offerings and services, for instance bicycle or IT
priorities of the company. hardware leasing offers. To meet the multifaceted needs of
They can additionally collect feedback from selected our workforce, we offer a variety of benefit packages
colleagues and external partners on their personal devel- worldwide.
opment. This 360-degree feedback helps to identify Toensureacompetitiveremunerationstructure,we
personal strengths and advancement opportunities. regularly review our compensation policy based on data
Moreover, our people have access to a real-time feedback analyses and benchmarks. In doing so, we take internal
tool that can be accessed via their PC or smartphone, factors and market requirements equally into account.
making it even easier to give and receive feedback. With Beforeadaptingourremunerationstructure,weconsultwith
this tool we intend to help promote a cross-hierarchical key stakeholders, such as employee representatives. The
feedback culture. pay structures within our company are based on defined
criteria, such as job requirements and performance. We
do not make any distinctions based on gender or other
diversity criteria.
98%
Sparking young people’s interest in our
company
We employ trainees in units such as Inhouse Consulting,
ofouremployeestookpartinthePerformanceandPoten- Finance,Production,Marketing,Sales,Procurement,Human
tial Management Process in 2020, 77% set up an Resources, as well as Research and Development. Addi-
approved development plan. tional functions can be added as required.
Our GOglobal trainee program enables university
graduates to join our company as trainees. Within 24
months, these entry-level employees get to know various
Employee learning and education departments and functions. Centered on China, Germany
and the United States, the program offers international
OurGroup-wideadvancedtrainingandcontinuingeducation
assignments, individual continuing education, mentoring,
programensures thatouremployees developtheskillsand
and coaching.
abilitiesneededtohelpusrealizeourcompanystrategy.As
The “OLDP” training program (Operations Leadership
partoftheirindividualdevelopmentplan,ouremployees
Development Program) in our Life Science business sector
can use our learning management system to register for
is structured similarly to the GOglobal program and offers
seminars and e-learning courses. In 2020, 93% of our
comparable benefits. However, the focus is on production
employees took part in approximately 4million training
and logistics.
courses.
To cultivate young academic talent, we also offer
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we reorganized our
internships in all departments to university students.
classroom training courses into virtual formats. These
Interns who perform exceptionally well are enrolled in our
coursesareflexible,meaningthatwhilethecorecurriculum
talent-retention program. Besides these programs, we also
is uniform Group-wide, there is still room for site-specific
offer university students jobs as working students and the
modifications.Moreover,welaunchedanewvirtualandfree
opportunity to complete their bachelor’s, master’s or
learning format: Since the start of 2020, our employees
doctoral thesis while working at our company. In addition,
have been able to participate in special courses on the
we regularly invite university students to various events,
career platform LinkedIn.
where we present the different occupational areas within
We constantly adapt our offers to meet the individual
our Group and ways to join the company.
learningneedsofouremployeesandthestrategicpriorities
of our company. We are in the process of revising our
Vocational training and dual education
advanced training courses. We are planning to develop a
programs
new, interdisciplinary program by 2022. This should enable
We offer apprenticeships across 28 occupations, primarily
our staff to have the necessary competencies and relevant
in production, laboratory work and office administration.
skillstoremainemployableinthefuture.Atthesametime,
Furthermore, we enable young adults to pursue a dual
we would like our employees to develop according to their
education program in the fields of business administration,
individual needs.
business IT, process engineering (chemical engineering),
Performance-based pay and mechanical engineering. Apprentices in the Laboratory
group begin their training as chemistry or biology lab tech-
We reward the performance of our employees so as to
nicians and, subject to suitability, may receive the oppor-
maintain a competitive edge in attracting qualified profes-
tunity to start a dual education program after six months.
sionals. Within our Group, compensation is based on the
Since2014,wehavebeenoffering permanent employment
requirements of each position as well as each employee’s
contracts to all apprentices and graduates of dual
respective performance. In addition to competitive pay, we
96
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Employees
education programs in occupations for which we have Digitalization in recruiting, vocational and
long-term demand. In 2020, the hiring rate for graduates advanced training
of these programs – taking voluntary terminations into Digital media enabled many things for us during the lock-
account – was above 90%. downphaseoftheCovid-19pandemic:Wepavednewpaths
both in recruiting and in vocational and advanced training.
Special vocational training opportunities Wearenowimplementingdigitalapproachestoselected
InDarmstadt,our“StartindieAusbildung”and“Integrating steps of the recruitment process, such as virtual job inter-
refugees through training” programs help prepare young views and assessment centers. This is how we protect the
peopleforthelabormarket.Weofferthemtheopportunity health of our employees and applicants and, at the same
to complete an 11-month program with our company, time,continuetherecruitingprocessefficiently.Asaresult,
gaining insight into the world of work and improving we prevented delays in current selection processes. We
their qualifications for vocational training. On the one created guidelines for candidates and offered time with
hand, we support young people who have earned a high recruiters, to support them in preparing for video inter-
school diploma but have searched for an apprenticeship for views.
at least one year without success. On the other hand, we Toaccompanyandstrengthenouremployeesduringthe
help refugees who had to leave their countries of origin Covid-19 pandemic, we provide free digital continuing
and would like to build a new life in Germany. In 2020, educationandtrainingoffersinadditiontotheLinkedIn
we combined the two programs under the name “Start in courses:“Self-motivationinchallengingtimes”and“Making
die Ausbildung” so that participants can learn and benefit responsibility count”.
fromoneanother.In2020,wecombinedthetwoprograms In professional training, we adapted plans of action in
under the name “Start in die Ausbildung” so that parti- light of the pandemic and increasingly used virtual learning
cipants learn and benefit from one another. The benefits: formats. This strengthens us when it comes to integrating
mutual cultural sensitization and language support through topics, such as robotics, Big Data or artificial intelli-
personal exchange with native speakers and the example gence (AI) into our curricula. To learn how to operate
set by highly motivated people. In 2020, we hired parti- plants, our apprentices also use virtual reality environ-
cipants between the ages of 16 and 30. ments. Initially, they practice operating the systems using
a virtual reality display before applying and furthering their
new skills in the actual operating environment.
97
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Employees
FFaaiirrnneessss  aanndd  ddiiaalloogguuee
 Part of the non-financial report
We greatly value the perspective of our employees – which is why we actively engage them in our efforts to
advance our company. In this context, feedback from every individual helps us pinpoint the areas where we can
do better. At the same time, through an open culture of dialogue, we build a creative and innovative working
environment in which our employees can contribute their diverse ideas. Dealing with one another fairly and
respectfully always forms the basis of our actions.
Our approach to employee engagement the International Labour Organization (ILO), which cover
We seek to understand the needs of the people who work freedom of association and collective bargaining, forced
forusandthereforeregularlyconductemployeesurveys, labor, child labor, anti-discrimination, equal opportunity,
both Group-wide and within select countries, individual equal pay, working hours, occupational health and safety,
business sectors or specific projects. These surveys are an and the prevention of abuse and harassment. The Social
important building block of our corporate feedback culture and Labor Standards Policy makes it clear that we do not
because they help to facilitate communication between tolerate any form of discrimination, physical or verbal
managersandemployeesandalsoshowusareaswherewe harassment or intolerance in the workplace. In this way, it
can improve. createstheframeworkforfairandrespectfulinteraction.We
Our Social and Labor Standards Policy further bolsters conduct internal audits to ensure that our local subsidiaries
the foundation for fair and open interactions with our comply with these principles.
employees.
Understanding our employees
How we engage our employees Every year, we conduct Group-wide confidential and volun-
The Engagement and Inclusion unit within our HR organ- tary employee surveys. The regular exchange between
ization is responsible for employee engagement, diversity our employees, managers and leaders provides a valuable
andinclusion,andalsodevelopsandmanagesouremployee information base for improving the working environment
surveys. and business processes. The survey conducted in 2020
We include local employee representatives in our revealed that 77% of our employees feel engaged with our
company’s decision-making processes, doing so regularly company; around 50,500 people (86%) took part in the
and extensively. Within Germany 13 of our subsidiaries survey.
have employee representation, while 26 of our subsidiaries The Covid-19 pandemic poses significant challenges for
acrosseightotherEuropeannationshaveemployeerepres- usandouremployees.Wethereforeaskedthemabouttheir
entativebodies(Austria,Belgium,France,Ireland,Italy,the experiences so far and wanted to know how they assess
Netherlands, Spain, and Switzerland). In Germany, 60% of our handling of the pandemic. In 2020, we conducted two
all employees are covered by collective agreements (14% additional pulse surveys among our employees worldwide.
of our workforce). Local works councils as well as a Group Among other things, we asked employees whether our
works council represent our employees, discussing topics internal communication on the pandemic is clear and
such as compensation, working hours and organizational comprehensible, whether hygiene rules have been commu-
realignments. The Senior Executives Committee advocates nicated sufficiently, and whether supportive training offers
for the interests of our top leaders in Germany, while the are adequate. 90% of the participating employees (53% of
EuroforumrepresentsouremployeesattheEuropeanlevel. allemployeesworldwide)ratedtheseaspectspositively.We
Focusing on the economic situation, employment rates and also asked whether they felt sufficiently supported by their
significantchangeswithinourGroup,thisbodycoversallEU supervisors and what they had personally learned from the
countries as well as Switzerland and Norway, although not crisis.
all countries have their own delegate.
Encouraging and rewarding ideas
Our commitment: Group-wide Social and Our company has a long tradition of rewarding ideas. In
Labor Standards Policy 1853, we became the first industrial company in the world
We are dedicated to upholding the appropriate and fair to contractually stipulate bonuses for successful
labor and social standards that are stipulated in our employeeimplementedsuggestionsforimprovement,
Group-wide Social and Labor Standards Policy. It comple- andapproximately60yearsagowelaidoutcompanyagree-
ments the provisions of the Merck Human Rights Charter ments stipulating principles and rules for our ideation
and our Code of Conduct with respect to labor and social efforts. Our idea management program seeks to inspire
standards. These include the fundamental conventions of our employees to think creatively and encourage them to
98
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Employees
contribute to the continuous improvement of our company podcasts on important company topics. “pro” has a reader-
procedures and processes. ship covering more than 90% of our approximately 58,000
Every year, we present awards to our employees in employeesworldwideintheirlocallanguage.Therearealso
recognition of outstanding ideas, teamwork and projects. local editions in some countries.
EVA is our global intranet, which is also accessible
Keeping employees informed and without PC access via mobile devices. Receiving approx-
encouraging dialogue imately 2million visits per month, EVA provides relevant
We keep our employees throughout the Group up-to-date information and materials, organized by business sector,
and encourage exchange through a number of formats function and strategic topic. A software enables the auto-
tailored to specific target groups. Examples include our matictranslationofnewsarticlesinto22languages,making
intranet or our international employee magazine “pro”, it easier for the people who work for us to communicate
which is published in seven languages and is available in a worldwide.
digital format as well as an app. The magazine also offers
99
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Employees
DDiivveerrssiittyy  aanndd  iinncclluussiioonn
 Part of the non-financial report
We believe the diversity of our employees enriches our company, be it with respect to their gender, national or
ethnic origin, sexual orientation, religion, or personal life experiences. We advocate for an inclusive culture in
which each individual can realize their full potential and bring their own individual perspectives to the table. We
are convinced that the diversity of our workforce and our open, international company culture have a positive
impact on the business success and innovative strength of our company.
Our approach to diversity and inclusion helps us to recognize the challenges our employees face in
We are committed to strengthening and expanding our everyday work.
inclusive culture and the diversity of our workforce. That In addition, we also regularly host our Diversity Days
is why we are pursuing our diversity and inclusion strategy and use various occasions, such as International Women’s
(D&I strategy), which consists of three pillars: Firstly, Day,PrideMonth,ComingOutDay,andBlackHistoryMonth
attracting, developing and retaining the best employees, tohostfurtherevents,whereweexplainthecurrentdevel-
secondly, serving various customers and markets and opments that are relevant to us. We derive specific meas-
thirdly, driving forward innovations through inclusion. ures from the insights gained in order to embed inclusion
In line with our corporate strategy, our objective is to even more deeply in our company.
increase the proportion of women in leadership roles
and offer better opportunities to talent from Asia. Addition- Making diversity and inclusion a pillar of the
ally, we want to deepen our understanding of this growth company
market. In 2020, our Diversity Council expanded its focus Our Chief Diversity Officer is responsible for steering topics
toincludeLGBTQI+,disabilityandethnicityissues.InNorth of diversity and inclusion. She reports directly to the Vice
AmericaandEurope,weconcentratedonthetopicofethnic Chair of the Executive Board and Deputy CEO whose
origin in 2020 and organized dialogue in various forums. responsibilities include Group Human Resources. The
Moreover, we take action against all forms of discrim- Diversity Council consists of high-ranking executives
ination, build teams with a balanced age structure and a from all our business sectors and select Group functions.
diverse base of educational backgrounds and experience The committee has the following mandate:
and create an international working environment. As part
The committee members visibly and actively support our
of our D&I strategy, we also encourage our managers to
diversity andinclusion agenda as well as the Executive
actively promote diversity. Diversity figures are therefore
Board and the managing directors in the individual coun-
part of the compensation-relevant corporate goals.
tries.
We integrate this inclusion concept into all Human
The members propose strategic goals, initiate measures
Resourcesprogramsandprocesses.OurCompetencyModel
and ensure within their respective units that line
showshowmanagersandemployeescanestablishanopen
managers meet their responsibilities.
and inclusive environment. The inclusion concept is thus
The members use the Diversity Council to exchange
embedded in our six Leadership Behaviors. This concept
information, discuss the latest challenges and share best
explicitly calls for open and supportive collaboration.
practices.
We advocate for openness and diversity. For this
The members are accessible to all employees.
purpose, we work on recognizing unconscious bias and its
Asleadersofourcompany,themembersarerolemodels
impact on everyday work. We use training courses to raise
within their units.
awareness of this among managers and show how these
biasescanbeactivelyaddressed,bothininterpersonalrela-
In addition, all business sectors and major Group functions
tions and decision-making processes.
have various working groups at management level, which
Our diverse employee networks are a further
implement the diversity and inclusion strategy in their area
component for creating an inclusive culture. Several thou-
of responsibility.
sandpeoplearemembersofthesenetworks.Weencourage
the formation of new networks as the exchange with them
100
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Employees
Our commitment: Industry-wide initiatives For the two management levels below the Executive Board
and regulations of Merck KGaA, however, the Executive Board set the
Our Social and Labor Standards Policy makes it clear that following targets in 2016:
wedonottolerateanyformofdiscrimination,physical
21% women on the first management level of Merck
or verbal harassment or intolerance. To underscore our
KGaA below the Executive Board
commitmenttoequality,fairness,inclusion,andtolerancein
26% women on the second management level below the
the workplace, we additionally participate in industry-wide
Executive Board
initiatives.
ThedeadlinesetforreachingthesetargetsisDecember31,
The Women’s Empowerment Principles, an initiative of
2021.
UN Women and the UN Global Compact network, are to
promote gender equality and women’s empowerment in
Rooting out unconscious bias
the workplace.
The“InclusionActionPlan”oftheGermanMining,Chem- We want to raise awareness of unconscious bias among
icalandEnergyIndustrialUnion(IGBCE)definesconcrete our managers and employees. That is why we offer Group-
measures to create a more inclusive workforce for wide training courses on this topic. When filling job vacan-
employeeswithdisabilities.Inendorsingthisplan,weare cies worldwide, the online tool “Job Analyzer” supports
meeting the requirements of the United Nations Conven- gender-neutral communication with applicants. This is
tion on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. intended to reduce unconscious bias in the hiring process.
The Equal Opportunity Charter, with which we promise
Taking action against discrimination
to do everything in our power to achieve gender equality
within our company. Wedonottolerate anydiscrimination inourcompany. This
The German “Diversity Charter”, with which we promise is stipulated with binding effect in our Code of Conduct
to embed diversity and inclusion in our organization. In and our Social and Labor Standards Policy. If employees
2020, we became a new, official member of the associ- feel discriminated against, harassed or not tolerated, they
ationCharta der Vielfalt e.V. can report the issue via various channels: Their first
points of contact are either their supervisor or one of the
Moreover, we became a signatory to the Business Coalition twoGroupfunctionsHumanResources(HR)orCompliance.
for theEquality Act, an alliance of leading U.S. companies. Alternatively, employees throughout the Group can call our
SpeakUp Line anonymously. As part of our “Group Compli-
Meeting statutory requirements ance Case Committee”, our Group HR function coordinates
The German Law for the Equal Participation of Women and suspectedcasesrelatingtoHR.In2020,16suspectedcases
MeninLeadershipPositionsinthePublicandPrivateSector ofdiscriminationwerereportedviaSpeakUpLineandother
has been in effect in Germany since 2015. Owing to our channels. Of these reports, two incidents were confirmed.
legal form as a KGaA (corporation with general partners),
this law also applies in part to us. Detailed information can Fostering diverse talent
be found on ourwebsite. HRsupportsourbusinessunitsinfosteringtalentofvarious
Consisting of 37.5% women (six out of 16 members), originsandincreasingtheproportionofwomeninleadership
our Supervisory Board already meets the stipulations of roles. At the end of2020, 35% of the managers in the
German legislation on the gender quota. Owing to our Group were women, which means we exceeded our 2021
legal form as a KGaA (corporation with general partners), target of maintaining a 30% representation of women in
we are not required to set targets for our Executive Board. these positions.
Women in management
101
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Employees
In 2020, we developed Group-wide goals and measures theCovid-19pandemic,weexpandedourflexiblejoboffers.
to achieve a more balanced gender structure in various Additionally,weofferouremployeesinformation,e.g.about
hierarchical levels of our business sectors. For example, virtual working or mental health, in order to support them
we offered numerous mentoring, sponsoring and talent in various personal circumstances. Moreover, we supported
programs for women and other target groups, such as research on gender-based violence.
ethnic minorities. In doing so, we want to make these
targetgroupsmorevisiblewhenfillingvacancies.Mentoring Networks strengthen diversity
programs help participants to exchange views on solutions We support numerous local and global employee
for current challenges. Sponsoring programs go beyond networks, including our internal women’s networks and
this. Here, participants benefit from an experienced people networks that advocate for the LGBTQI+ community,
managerwhocoachesthemandpreparesthemforthenext employees of various ethnic origins and international
career step. employees. Networks for people with disabilities and
We are convinced that our talent programs and open veterans are in development.
discussions about unconscious bias contribute to further Involvement in area-specific or interdisciplinary
increasingthediversityoftheworkforceinourcompany.In networks is an opportunity for all employees to acquire
2020, we reviewed our Group-wide recruitment processes leadershipcompetencies.Atthesametime,theybringtheir
to identify the measures and products that make our experienceintoourcompany.Wethereforeensurethatthe
processes even more inclusive. various groups are listened to and incorporated.
Our employees have the option of working flexibly –
this also contributes to more equal opportunities. During
102
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Employees
Networks for morediversity
Tapping into external networks volunteer for the HBA. In 2020, employees in Germany,
For more than ten years now, our company has been a the Netherlands, Switzerland, and the United States volun-
corporatepartneroftheHealthcareBusinesswomen’sAsso- teered for the HBA – some as members of the European
ciation (HBA). We are represented both in global and Regional Council, some as European Regional Chairpersons
Europeanadvisoryboards.TheHBAadvocatesforwomenin andsomehasheadsofaregionalHBAgroup.Moreover,we
thehealthcareindustry–almostexclusivelythroughvolun- sponsor the events of the HBA.
teer work. We explicitly support employees who want to
103
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Employees
Integrating international employees wealsoprovideagreatdealofinformationintherespective
Our company is becoming increasingly international. We local languages of our employees.
currently employ people from a total of 141 nations. Our
leadership (Role 4+) includes representatives of 75 nation- Good ranking in diversity and equality indices
alities. In 2020, 66% of leadership positions were held by The American Human Rights Campaign Foundation rated
non-German employees. As of the end of 2020, 9% of our our LGBTQI+ activities throughout 2020. We scored 100%
workforce worked outside their home countries. inthe“CorporateEqualityIndex”(CEI),whichmeasuredthe
To best facilitate this international collaboration, we equality and inclusion of our LGBTQI+ employees.
offer intercultural training for all employees along with IntheFinancialTimesranking,wewereselectedasone
suitable digital tools. For instance, our Cultural Navigator of the leading 100 (out of over 15,000) companies when it
helps prepare our staff for international projects and busi- comes to the topic of diversity.
nesstripsabroad.Tohelpemployeestransferredabroadto We ranked third in the 2020 “BCG Gender Diversity
adjust more quickly, we offer language training and inter- Study” by the Boston Consulting Group and the Technical
national networks. For instance, more than 700 expatriate University of Munich. This study rated management board
employees are members of the International Community, and supervisory board gender diversity among Germany’s
which meets regularly in Darmstadt. largest publicly listed companies.
Our business language is English. To ensure that the These rankings show us that we are on the right track
membersofourworkforceunderstandourcommunications, when it comes to successfully living diversity and an
inclusive work environment.
104
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Employees
WWoorrkk--lliiffee  bbaallaannccee
 Part of the non-financial report
Weknowthatprioritiesinlifecanshift.Thatiswhyweareconsiderateofsuchchanges,offeringouremployeesa
rangeofoptions,suchasflexibleworkinghourmodels,workinghouraccountsforearlyretirementorthepossib-
ility to take an extended leave of absence. As regards family topics, we support employees through generous
parental leave, childcare and assistance in finding nursing care for family members.
Our approach to ensuring a good work-life iences in terms of employee performance and engagement
balance during the pandemic were positive across the board. That
We realize how important work-life balance is for a iswhywewilllaunchourwell-established“mywork@Merck”
productive and motivated workforce, which is why we seek program at all our sites around the world by the end of
to offer our people the best possible working conditions. 2021. At the end of 2020, 22 countries were already using
This includes both company health and pension benefits as our flexible working model.
well as flexible working hour models. In many countries, Themywork@Merckprogramallowsemployeestofreely
our employees can already flexibly set their own working choose their working hours and location (in the same
hours, making use of more than 30 different part-time country) in agreement with the teams and supervisors.
working models. In Germany, the United States, Brazil, Together with their respective supervisors, the teams can
andIndia,wherearound53%ofourworkforceisbased,we decide for themselves when and how often physical pres-
offer parental leave conditions that exceed the respective ence in the office is necessary for all members. We no
minimum statutory requirements. longer record or monitor working hours. The model applies
tonon-exemptandexemptemployeesandstrengthensthe
How we strengthen work-life balance culture of performance and trust in our company. It
Group Human Resources (HR) develops and also imple- is also part of our Group-wide “Future Ways of Working”
ments measures for a healthy work-life balance. For program,throughwhichwearedevelopingprinciplesforour
instance, it provides relevant support and advice to future collaboration.
employees throughout the Group.
In personal appointments, company experts assist our Supporting mothers and fathers
employees with retirement planning matters, for instance We want to make it easier for our employees to return to
company pension benefits or long-term accounts. Repres- work after parental leave, which iswhyweoffer aprogram
entatives from the German statutory pension insurance for parents in Darmstadt and Gernsheim (Germany). It
systemalsovisitourpremisesregularlytodiscussstatutory gives mothers and fathers on parental leave the chance
pension matters with employees. to interact while also helping them stay in touch with the
Moreinformationonthetopicofhealthcarebenefitscan company. In addition, they can make use of various
be found underHealth and safety. trainingandnetworkingopportunities.Wehaveestab-
lished a similar program in the United States.
Our commitment: Group guidelines and local Moreover, we offer female employees in the United
regulations States eight weeks of paid maternity leave. In addition, we
Our Social and Labor Standards Policy harmonizes certain have introduced five weeks of paid paternity or adoption
labor standards Group-wide, for instance on working hours leave there. By contrast, the statutory minimum require-
and parental leave options. It is oriented towards the labor ment only provides for 12 weeks of unpaid parental leave
standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO). per year. In the case of an adoption, we also reimburse up
At the end of 2018, our Executive Board had already to US$5,000 in adoption fees.
adoptedaGroup-wideguidelineonflexibleworkingmodels. In 2020, 538 employees of Merck KGaA (around 15%
As a consequence, this created even greater working hour of our workforce) were on parental leave, around 50% of
and location flexibility in the 13 countries where around whomweremen.Inotherkeycountries,wegrantadditional
75% of our employees work. We are currently revising this support benefits that exceed the legal requirements,
guideline in order to expand it by 2021 to all countries such as unpaid parental leave for employees in Brazil. In
in which we operate (more details can be found in the India, too, we offer five days of paid paternity leave even
following section). though it is not legally required.
In offering these benefits, we do not differentiate
Flexible working models between full- and part-time staff or employees with fixed-
Prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, our employees could termcontracts.Thelattermayapplyforparentalleaveuntil
choosebetweenvariousflexibleworkingmodels.Ourexper-
105
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Employees
the end of their employment contract, with their employ- on a long-term account. For instance, they can deposit
ment continuing as agreed until the contract ends. salarycomponentsorcompdaysintotheaccount.Ontopof
this, our company provides subsidies to encourage the use
Childcare and support oftheselong-termaccounts.Employeescanthenutilizethe
For more than 50 years, a daycare center for children accrued balance to stop working up to three years before
aged 1-12 has been located at our global headquarters regular retirement or reduce their working hours by 50%
in Darmstadt. It offers 150 places in the crèche, nursery for up to six years. In 2020, more than 10,000 employees
school and school aftercare program. The current building made use of this option.
will make room for a new one, which is scheduled for
completioninearly2021.Thecapacityofthedaycarecenter Making sabbaticals possible
will then increase to 270 places. Inprinciple,allemployeesofMerckKGaA,MerckHealthcare
In Darmstadt we furthermore offer an emergency KGaA and Merck Real Estate GmbH in Germany (around
childcare service to cover when regular childcare is not 20% of our workforce) can apply for a sabbatical, which
available. In addition, we offer the possibility of in-home gives them up to one year off from work. At the end of
care for acutely ill children. For up to two days a year, 2020,62employeeswereonsabbatical.Forpersonalemer-
parents throughout Germany can engage the services of a genciesinwhichanemployeeneedsanimmediateleaveof
trained educator free of charge to look after their children absence, we additionally offer an emergency sabbatical of
athome.Fiveplacesatapublicdaycarecenterarereserved up to three months.
for the children of our employees in Gernsheim.
Our facility in Mumbai, our main site in India, also has Assistance with family nursing and elder care
a daycare center for the children of our employees. In For our employees in Darmstadt who are caring for family
the United States, parents can visit the digital platform members, we provide special seminars and family care
care.com to book external childcare. Furthermore, in the services. Moreover, through our family leave model, we
United States, we offer up to ten days of emergency child- offeremployeesthroughoutGermanythepossibilitytotake
care,aswellasdiscounteddaycarecenterplacesandchild- a short- or long-term leave of absence, either part-time or
care in the home. full-time. Our employees in the United States can use the
platform care.com to find information about nursing care
Saving for retirement through a long-term services.
account
We enable our employees in Germany to reduce their
workinghoursbeforeretirementorretireearlierbydrawing
106
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Employees
HHeeaalltthh  aanndd  ssaaffeettyy
 Part of the non-financial report
We take responsibility for the health and safety of our employees every single day, especially when faced with
new challenges such as the Covid-19 pandemic. We do everything we possibly can to safeguard them against
both accidents and work-related illnesses. With a view to stress prevention, nutrition and exercise, we help our
people avoid health problems through steps that are easy to integrate into their daily work routine.
Our approach to preventing accidents and ourworkforceatbothofthesesites.HMutilizesthehealth-
promoting health related results of the employee engagement survey, the
We seek to promote the health and well-being of our findings from our company health insurance fund’s health
employeesandsustaintheirabilitytoperformoverthelong report, and evaluations from our Site Medical Center to
term,whichnecessitatesasafeworkplace.Wearetherefore advise the leadership at Darmstadt and Gernsheim. When
constantly working to take our safety culture to the next specific indicators such as workplace stress start rising,
level. Health Management meets with the respective units to
Before starting any activity worldwide, we perform a discuss ways to rectify the situation. We utilize all the find-
hazard assessment to identify risks and do everything ings in the creation of prevention programs tailored to
possible to eliminate them before commencing the activity specific target groups or facilities.
or commissioning a plant. If this is not feasible, we put In the coming years, we will be focusing particularly on
measures in place to minimize the potential impacts. Such shift work, mental health issues and demographic change.
hazard assessments are the responsibility of our individual Moreover,weplantoidentifyinwhichworkingareascertain
sites and are therefore conducted by them. We are in the illnessesoccurfrequentlysothatwecantaketargetedsteps
processofestablishingthisprocedureatourVersumMater- to eliminate the root causes.
ials and Intermolecular sites.
The lost time injury rate (LTIR) is the indicator used How we manage occupational health and
to gauge the success of our occupational safety efforts. safety
This figure is a global measure of the number of accidents Our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) management
resultinginatleastonedayofmissedworkperonemillion system is the responsibility of our Group Environment,
man-hours. We track the LTIR for both employees and Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) function, which
temporarystaff.OurpreviousgoalwastolowerourLTIRto reportstotheViceChairoftheExecutiveBoardandDeputy
1.5 (accidents resulting in at least one day of missed work CEO. EQ sets objectives, globally oversees the respective
per one million man-hours) by 2020. Having achieved an initiatives, and conducts internal EHS audits, while local
LTIRof1.3in2020,weonceagainsucceededinremaining EHS managers and their teams ensure that our individual
below the ambitious target. We are now working on a new sites comply with occupational safety laws and regulations.
target for the future. They are also responsible for local projects, campaigns and
We use our Environment, Health and Safety Incident programs.
Rate (EHS IR) to track unplanned accidents. Alongside this Employees worried about their health or safety are
indicator, since 2019 we have also been using the Occu- encouraged to use our global SpeakUp Line and are also
pational Illness Rate in the United States to monitor work- allowed to temporarily step back from their work until the
related illnesses and their long-term effects. issue has been resolved.
AtourDarmstadtandGernsheimsites,wecontinuedto AtourDarmstadtsite,wealsohavesafetycouncilsand
pursueourBeSafe!programin2020,givingitnewdirection committees that meet to address health and safety issues,
and impetus. In line with the motto “Let’s keep each other discussing strategy and focus areas with senior leaders,
safe”, we are striving to bolster team spirit and empower health and safety experts, and employees.
our people to be mindful of one another. At our Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites, our Health
Through the efforts of our Health Management (HM) Management unit helps embed health awareness in our
unit, we are bolstering our company and leadership culture company culture. The appropriate strategy, individual focal
atDarmstadtandGernsheim.ToverifytheefficacyofHM’s areas and steps required are developed by an interdis-
initiatives and programs, we have developed a perform- ciplinary steering committee consisting of various senior
ance indicator system. In 2020, we once more included leaders. Meeting six times a year, the committee discusses
questions regarding employee health in our Group-wide, topicssuchasworkplacehealthfundamentals,goodleader-
anonymous employeeengagementsurvey.Inthelongrun, shipandtailoredapproachestopromotingemployeehealth.
we intend to use this input to calculate our Healthiness After implementing each measure, Health Management
Index, which should reflect the general state of health of teamasksallparticipantsfortheiranonymousfeedbackand
107
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Employees
suggestions for improvement, which help shape the evolu- In 2020, we furthermore introduced our internal
tion and growth of the initiatives. Contractor EHS Management standard, which has replaced
At both of these sites, our interdisciplinary Mental EHS Compliance for Contractor Management. This new
Health Team is working to tackle the growing challenges standard helps us ensure that our contractors adhere to
surrounding mental health in an effort to protect our work- environment, health and safety requirements throughout
force against psychological stress. Our Mental Health Team the entire process, from starting a task to completion.
provides our people interdisciplinary support from a single Alongside this document, our new standard operating
source. In 2020, for instance, we offered mental health procedure entitled “Procedure Construction Safety” clearly
seminars. With the Covid-19 lockdown causing many of lays out practices for safe conduct on construction sites.
our employees anxiety and uncertainty, our Mental Health AtmostofourfacilitiesinGermany,weworkinpartner-
Team published extensive information on coping with the ship with employee representatives to draw up company
situation and maintaining a healthy mental state on our agreements on occupational health and safety. For
intranet. Moreover, we set up a telephone hotline for each instance, our Occupational Integration Management
country. Since then, our employees and their families have company agreement, which applies to all our sites in
had access to confidential counseling services around the Germany, governs the procedure for employees who have
clock. been on extended sick leave. This approach aims to retain
an employee’s position while also helping to prevent
Safety officers and health partners adverse health impacts after the respective employee
Atoursitesworldwide,wehaveemployeeswho,inaddition returns to work.
to their usual duties, help their supervisors ensure compli-
ancewithsafetyregulationsandrequirements.Atthesame Safety certification at our sites
time, they also act as points of contact for their colleagues In2020,wetransitionedouroccupationalhealthandsafety
regardingsafety-relatedmatters.In2020,wesurveyedour managementsystemtothenewISO45001occupational
safetyofficersabouttheirrolesandresponsibilitiesinorder health and safety certification guideline, which has
toidentifyunmetneedsanddeterminethenecessarysteps replacedthepreviouslyapplicableOHSAS18001.Ouroccu-
going forward. pationalhealthandsafetymanagementsystemiscurrently
At our sites in Darmstadt and Gernsheim, we also have ISO 45001-certified at 42 sites. At 41 of these facilities,
health partners in place who are the interface between 100% of employees are covered by this certified system.
our employees and Health Management. They function as AtourglobalheadquartersinDarmstadt,ISO45001covers
a health-related liaison for their colleagues while also around 70% of the workforce; the occupational health and
informing their teams about the health programs and safety of the remaining 30% of Darmstadt employees, who
servicesonoffer.Theyfurthermoremakerecommendations do not work in operating units, are safeguarded by our
to Health Management regarding employee needs. company’s management system. The certification process
Our employees undergo training before taking up their helps us pinpoint weak areas and identify scope for
role as safety officer or health partner. improvement, allowing us to take the necessary steps in
a timely fashion to ensure the health and safety of our
Our commitment: Policies and company employees going forward. Other sites are also urged to
agreements apply this standard.
Defining our principles and strategies for environment,
healthandsafety(EHS),ourGroupEHSPolicyisanintegral Accident rates
part of our EHS management system, which undergoes an Atoursites,wetrackoccupationalsafetydataonamonthly
externalISO 45001audit every year. basis. Our employees are required to immediately report
OurGroupHealthPolicydetailsourapproachtoensuring relevant occupational accidents to EQ, where the incidents
workplace safety for our employees while also promoting are assessed. If necessary, we then implement additional
their health and well-being. This document sets out our safety measures at our sites. This procedure is an integral
Group-wide approach to health and safety manage- practice across all of our production facilities around the
ment, which is aimed at preventing workplace accidents world.
and occupational illnesses. One component of the policy The majority of incidents resulting in lost time were
is our Global Well-being and Health Promotion Framework, slips, trips and falls, along with contusions and lacerations
which describes the differing requirements in a wide array from the operation of machinery and equipment. In 2020,
of countries. Our individual sites are responsible for we recorded no fatal accidents.
performing local workplace risk assessments and hazard
analyses.
108
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Employees
Clear rules of conduct are able to work out twice a week with a professional
Experience shows that most workplace accidents can be trainerincloseproximitytotheirworkplace.Theprogramis
prevented by proper conduct. For our occupational health designed in particular to prevent musculoskeletal disorders
and safety, it is therefore essential that our employees while also educating employees about exercise and nutri-
havetherelevantEHStrainingandcertification.Weeducate tion.InMarch2020,wehadtosuspendthisofferduetothe
our employees on occupational health and safety, actively Covid-19 pandemic. However, in its place, we offered the
engaging them in our efforts. For instance, we invite them option of personal training sessions via video chat.
to participate in inspections together or in the selection In Taiwan, we offer an array of fitness programs under
of personal protective gear. This involvement is crucial the banner of “Enrich your health deposit”. Our site in
because our people best understand their actual working Gillingham (United Kingdom) has an initiative in place that
conditions and what is needed, enabling us to constantly encourages employees to cycle to work and do something
improve our occupational health and safety practices and good for their health. In Tokyo (Japan), we offer special
performance. anti-stress programs to promote employee mental health.
Group-wide, all new EHS managers must complete a
three-day EHS onboarding that covers topics such as occu- Ergonomics training
pational health and safety as well as our BeSafe! safety We regularly assess the ergonomics of individual work-
culture program. Through this initiative, we raise stations, taking appropriate measures as required. Our
employee awareness of workplace dangers and teach them employees also receive training on occupational ergo-
rules for safe behavior. Nearly all our manufacturing and nomics tailored to specific areas, whether manufacturing,
warehouse facilities have now been incorporated into the administration, laboratories or when working from home.
BeSafe! program. In addition, our sites regularly conduct Moreover,weofferemployeesatmanysitestheopportunity
occupational safety training that covers both the specific toparticipateinspecialergonomicstrainingcoursessuchas
local risks and legal requirements. Due to the Covid-19 the Industrial Athlete program in the United States, which
pandemic,wehadtocancelmanyon-siteactivitiesin2020 helps employees improve their physical and general well-
and instead held all BeSafe! workshops virtually. being.
Promoting employee health Examinations and support for our employees
ForemployeesatoursitesinDarmstadtandGernsheim,our Our Physical Ability Test and Health Preservation process
HealthManagementunitoffersspecifichealthservicessuch allows us to ensure that all employees meet the health
asmindfulnesscoursesandworkplaceergonomicsconsulta- requirements for their particular tasks and duties. Due to
tion. Moreover, we use a standard operating procedure to newlawsandstricterdataprivacyrequirements,onlysome
continuously assess the working conditions and environ- ofouremployeesarerequiredtoundergopre-hiringphys-
ment of our employees and improve these in line with the icals and physical aptitude examinations. In light of
latest scientific findings. We publish a health catalog in these changes, we have adapted our approach. Our Travel
both English and German detailing our Health Management Health & Medical Advisory Service, another program we
services, which cover topics such as ergonomics, nutrition, offer, assists employees who spend time abroad on
stress, and mental health issues. company business, providing them with recommendations
DuringtheCovid-19pandemic,wehavebeeneducating on necessary vaccinations and advice on hygiene risks.
our employees on a wide array of health matters, including
recommendationsonergonomicdesignoftheremoteoffice Rising to the challenges of demographic change
setting, nutrition and fitness. WeexpecttheaverageagewithinourGrouptocontinueto
rise in the coming years. In Germany, we are responding
Fitness initiatives to this trend by designing workspaces that help employees
AcrossGermany,ourpeoplecantakeadvantageofofferings stay healthy and physically fit, thereby maintaining their
such as our company fitness program, which encompasses performance.Toinformourapproach,weutilizeananalysis
arangeofhealthpreventioncoursesthataresubsidized toolthattakesdemographicshiftsintoaccountbyassessing
by our company. Moreover, in Darmstadt and Gernsheim, various age-related stress factors, which in turn enables us
we have a company sports program that currently features to adapt our workplaces to suit the needs of older
33 different types of athletic activity. individuals. Furthermore, we also offer innovative shift
In 2020, we continued our Training Island project. models and a prevention program for shift workers.
Featuring buses converted into mobile gyms, participants
109
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Employees
Handling Covid-19 boardstokeepourworkforceinformedofspecificbehavioral
To cope with the Covid-19 pandemic, we have established protocols.
global and local work groups to develop risk scenarios To mitigate our employees’ risk of infection during the
and action plans. Among other measures, we have set pandemic, we have been offering them personal protective
up internal Covid-19 testing centers at Darmstadt and equipment (PPE). A special PPE work group has ensured
other sites, where our business critical employees undergo that the equipment be distributed in the correct quantity
regular testing or have access to special testing in cases of according to specific needs. For instance, we shipped face
suspected infection. masks for personal and work use to the home addresses
ofouremployeesworkingattheDarmstadtandGernsheim
Enhanced protective measures sites.
During the pandemic, we have developed special occu- In 2020, we furthermore tightened up our travel
pational safety standards for numerous sites covering guidelines Group-wide in order to protect our workforce.
all functional units (offices, laboratories and manufacturing InIndiaandItaly,forinstance,weexpandedourinsur-
facilities). We have used our intranet along with notice ance coverage to ensure additional financial support for
hospital stays.
110
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Environment
EEnnvviirroonnmmeenntt
Within this chapter:
112 Environmental stewardship
114 Climate action
117 Waste and recycling
119 Water management
122 Plant and process safety
111
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Environment
EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall  sstteewwaarrddsshhiipp
 Part of the non-financial report
Our business operations impact the environment, generating greenhouse gas emissions, wastewater and waste.
In addition, we also make use of use materials that can adversely affect ecosystems if not handled properly.
Across all our production sites, we meet a strict set of environmental regulations and continually adapt our
processestonewregulatoryrequirements.Withnaturalresourcesgrowingeverscarcer,weaimtoutilizeenergy,
water and materials as efficiently as possible.
Our approach to environmental stewardship quarter, the OLC members update their leaders on matters
Minimizing negative environmental impacts and taking relating to environmental sustainability.
meaningfulclimateactionrequiresaholisticapproachwhile Whenever designing new sites or plants, we always
also constantly monitoring practices and performance. We involveEQ,whichisresponsibleforreviewingtheecological
do our best to prevent detrimental emissions into the air, aspects of a project and advising our sites. Additionally,
water and soil. Our production sites are located in estab- EQperformsdetailedenvironmentalimpactassessmentsfor
lished industrial and commercial zones. Before acquiring large-scale projects.
a company – and thus its facilities – we first conduct an
environmental risk assessment, taking into consideration Our commitment: Standards and standard
information from publicly accessible sources such as local operating procedures
neighbors and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Ourapproachtoenvironmentalmanagementisbuiltonour
Group EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) Policy,
How we structure environmental stewardship which has been approved by our Executive Board. Closely
The Vice Chair of the Executive Board and Deputy CEO aligned with the requirements of the chemical industry’s
is responsible for environmental stewardship, which also ResponsibleCare®GlobalCharterandtheISO14001envir-
coversclimateaction,watermanagement,wasteandrecyc- onmental management standard, this policy underscores
ling, biodiversity, and plant and process safety. Her duties our leaders’ responsibility for environmental stewardship,
include the approval of overarching Group-wide guidelines health and safety. It is also aimed at our suppliers, calling
such as ourEHSPolicy. on them to likewise adopt higher standards of environ-
Our Group Environment, Health, Safety, Security, mental sustainability and safety. Our EHS Policy thus
Quality (EQ) function oversees all related efforts Group- complements the Responsible Sourcing Principles of our
wide. EQ senior leadership approves operational standards Group Procurement function.
andregularlyreportsonenvironmentalsustainabilitytothe Internal guidelines, standards and standard operating
ExecutiveBoard.Onceayear,EQpreparesanenvironment, procedures define how we put the principles of our EHS
healthandsafetyreportfortheExecutiveBoardthatcovers Policy into practice, structure our environmental stew-
topics such as climate action, water management, waste ardship efforts and implement occupational safety
and recycling, and plant and process safety. The Executive Group-wide.Inaddition,wealsohaveinplaceanumberof
Boardusesthisreporttosteerthestrategicdirectionandas other internal environmental sustainability standards such
documentation for ourISO 14001certifications. as our Air Emissions Standard, Waste Management
At our individual sites, each site director is responsible Standard, sustainable water management standards, and
for environmental stewardship as well as occupational Energy Management Standard.
healthandsafetyattheoperationallevel.Atlargerfacilities, Potential EHS risks posed by acquisitions, divestments
thesitedirectors receive supportfromEHSmanagers, with or site closures are assessed within the scope of due dili-
EHS coordinators performing this role at smaller sites. gence,aprocessoutlinedinourEHSDueDiligenceandPost
These local EHS units report to the respective business Merger Transaction Standard. We prioritize new sites when
sectorandworkinclosecollaborationwithEQ.In2020,we performing audits.
employed more than 200 EHS managers, supported at
the local level by further staff members. Material investments in environmental impact
Within our business sectors, the Operations Leadership mitigation
Committee (OLC) makes strategic decisions on issues Effortstopreventandmonitorair,waterandsoilemissions
pertaining to emissions and energy, water and waste. This entailsignificantexpenseonourpart,asdoesproperwaste
body consists of representatives from Healthcare, Life disposal. Moreover, we set up provisions for groundwater
Science,PerformanceMaterials,andourGroupEQfunction. andsoilremediationtoensurethatwecanexecuteallthe
Decisions made by the OLC and any resulting actions are necessary measures. As of December31, 2020, our provi-
implemented by the respective business sector. Once per sions for environmental protection totaled €148million,
112
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Environment
95% of which was attributable to Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, climateaction,watermanagement,occupationalhealthand
Germany. safety, and plant and process safety, along with our Rapid
Incident Report System (RIRS). In 2020, the Covid-19
Assessing environmental impacts pandemic prompted us to offer this onboarding as a series
In general, we conduct risk-based assessments along with of topic-specific webinars. We recorded these classes so
internal and external audits on all our production facil- that they are accessible on our intranet any time. Beyond
itieseverythreeyearswiththegoalofanalyzingandminim- this training, all EHS managers also regularly participate
izing our environmental footprint. Conducted by our Group in virtual and in-person courses on new requirements and
EQ function, these assessments serve to ensure that our regulations.
requirements are being met, with appropriate corrective
measuresbeingtakenasneeded.InourGroupEHSaudits, ISO 14001:2015 Group certificate
weassessoursites’performanceonafive-tierscale(excel- Since 2009, our company has held an ISO 14001 Group
lent, good, satisfactory, poor, and critical), which in turn certificate that requires all production sites with more than
determineshowfrequentlyauditsareconducted.Ifthefind- 50 employees to implement an environmental manage-
ingsaredeemedtobegood,weauditthefacilitylessoften, mentsystemwithpredefinedindicatorsforfactorssuch
while significant violations can increase the frequency. asgreenhousegasemissionsandwaterconsumption.Other
Because of the travel restrictions during the Covid-19 sites are not obligated to undergo this certification. The
pandemic, we could not conduct the majority of the audits annual internal audit reports and management reviews
scheduledfor2020andthereforepostponedthemto2021. carried out under the Group certi
It was, however, possible to perform audits either virtually
or on site in ten cases. All audited sites received a good or
satisfactory rating, and no site was rated as critical.
92
Reporting incidents and violations
Toreviewcriticalsituations,nearmissesandenvironmental
incidents as quickly as possible and take countermeasures,
wehaveasetofreportingproceduresinplacethatallow of our sites worldwide are currently covered by our ISO
us to track the respective incident, its degree of severity 14001 certificate.
andallriskmitigationefforts.WerecordallincidentsGroup-
wide and report them to the Executive Board on an annual
basis.
In the event of a major occurrence, our digital Rapid Every year we contract a third party to perform a certifica-
Incident Report System (RIRS) promptly notifies the tion audit. In 2020, a random sampling of 13 sites under-
Executive Board as well as our Group EQ and Commu- went an audit for our Group certificate, with all audited
nications functions. Major incidents could include fatalities, facilities passing. Beyond undergoing external inspections,
accidents with multiple casualties, incidents that impact we also conduct internal audits to ensure Group-wide
neighboring communities, or natural disasters such as compliance with our requirements.
earthquakesandflooding.ThroughtheRIRS,wecanquickly
coordinate with all those involved and inform the impacted Biodiversity at our sites*
sitesimmediatelyoftherespectiveevent.Apartfromusing
Unsealedsurfacesrepresentanimportanthabitatforplants
thissystemtoidentifyissues,wealsoencourageemployees
and animals. At our facilities, however, we are required
to report potential breaches of our standards to Group
to seal certain surfaces to minimize the risk of chemicals
Compliance. In 2020, we recorded no significant violations
entering the ecosystem. When safety requirements permit,
of environmental laws or regulations Group-wide.
we increase the number of surfaces that are unsealed. The
nextspeciesconservationassessmentofourDarmstadtsite
Environmental training and continuing
isscheduledfor2021andwilldocumentthespeciespresent
education
along with the protected nesting areas and refuges located
All new EHS managers are required to complete EHStart- on our premises. The last species conservation assessment
up!,athree-dayorientationheldatourglobalheadquarters was conducted in 2015.
in Darmstadt. This seminar covers energy efficiency and
*TheparagraphonBiodiversityhasbeenassignedtothechapteronEnvironmentalStewardshipforthematicreasons.SinceBiodiversitydoesnotcorres-
pond to the criteria of double materiality, this paragraph is not part of the non-financial report.
113
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Environment
CClliimmaattee  aaccttiioonn
 Part of the non-financial report
Climatechangeisoneofthemajorchallengesfacingusinthe21stcentury.Becauseourcompanyisnoexception
when it comes to generating greenhouse gases, we aim to reduce these emissions in order to mitigate our
impactontheclimate.Thisissuemattersnotonlytous,butalsotoourcustomersandmanyotherstakeholders.
Changesintheclimatecanleadtoplanningandinvestmentuncertainty.Regulationsandlegalrequirementsare
also evolving in a bid to encourage climate-friendly behavior. We believe that climate action and energy effi-
ciency will pay off in the long run, benefiting both the environment and our business.
Our contribution to climate action 50001-certified energy management system. The sites
Wearetakingactiontomitigateourimpactontheclimate. subjecttotheserequirementsareresponsiblefortakingthe
In 2009, we set out to reduce our direct (Scope 1) and requisiteactionsandfurthermoreundergoauditsconducted
indirect (Scope 2) greenhouse gas emissions by a total of by internal and external experts. In total, 13 sites have
20% by the end of 2020 (2006 baseline), a goal that we been certified to ISO 50001.
achieved on schedule. Ourco-generation plantinDarmstadtandheatingplant
In 2020, we therefore drew up new objectives. By in Gernsheim (both in Germany) have made it necessary
2030, we intend to lower our direct (Scope 1) and for us to participate in EU emissions trading since 2005.
indirect (Scope 2) emissions by 50% (2020 baseline), The EU’s 2030 climate and energy framework is designed
to be achieved by executing energy efficiency measures, toachievetheobjectivesofthe2015ParisAgreement,with
reducing process-related emissions, and purchasing more EU emissions trading playing a key role in reaching the
electricity from renewable sources. We are also aiming to greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets. The amended
cover80%ofourelectricityconsumptionwithrenew- EU Emissions Trading Directive (2003/87/EC) took effect in
ables by 2030. Moreover, we plan to set a new reduction April 2018, thereby updating the legal framework for the
targetforouremissionsfromtheupstreamanddownstream fourth phase of the EU emissions trading program (2021
value chain (Scope 3). We are currently setting up – 2030) and tightening the rules for free CO2 allowances.
processes to record non-reported Scope 3 data more Going forward, we will therefore increasingly have to
precisely.Wewillvalidatethedatabasisforaspecifictarget purchase emission allowances.
in 2021. The German Fuel Emissions Trading Act (BEHG) stip-
By 2040, we intend to achieve net zero carbon oper- ulates the introduction of a national carbon pricing
ations along our entire value chain. This target covers our systemforfuelinGermanystartingin2021.Wetherefore
Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions. expect the cost of fossil fuels to increase.
How we structure our climate action Slight rise in energy consumption
Our Group Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality We consumed 2,372 gigawatt hours of energy in 2020,
(EQ) function is responsible for overseeing climate action versus 2,178 gigawatt hours in 2019. Our energy intensity
within our company, with our individual sites worldwide relative to sales totaled 0.14 kilowatt hours per euro in
implementing the necessary measures at the local level. 2020.
Further information can be found under Environmental
stewardship. Our emissions
In 2020, we integrated Versum Materials, which we
Our commitment: Standards and legal acquired in October 2019, into our reporting. Because
frameworks Versum Materials has no data that dates back to 2006,
Two of our EHS standards, “Energy Management” and we could not reflect these additional emissions in our 2020
“Emissions of Refrigerants”, enable energy and process- climate action target.
related emissions to be managed consistently across the We lowered the greenhouse gas emissions of our
Group.Weutilizeaninternalauditprocesstocheckcompli- legacybusiness(excludingVersum)byroughly25%from
ance with all EHS standards on a random basis. our2006baseline,thusachievingouroverallreductiongoal
In addition to our own standards, we are subject to despite growth in our operating business.
a wide array of national and international energy and The integration of Versum Materials caused our green-
climate regulations. At the European level, for instance, house gas emissions to rise sharply. In 2020, we emitted
we are required to comply with the EU Energy Efficiency aproximately 2,010,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalents
Directive 2012/27/EU, which stipulates that companies (CO2eq) (2019: 630,000). Our direct emissions (Scope 1)
must conduct regular energy audits or implement an ISO totaled1,706,000metrictonsofCO2eq,withindirectemis-
114
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Environment
sions (Scope 2) of roughly 304,000 metric tons calculated amounted to 0.11 kg of CO2eq per euro of net sales in this
according to the market-based method (2,101,000 metric period.
tonsaccordingtothelocation-basedmethodwhichdoesnot In 2020, we focused on creating more transparency
specifically take renewable energy sources into account). on our Scope 3 emissions. Going forward, we will be
Greenhouse gas emission intensity (Scope 1 and 2) including all Scope 3 categories in our reporting.
1
Greenhouse gas emissions, Scope 1 & 2 (metric kilotons)
(Scope 1 and Scope 2 of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol)
1)InlinewiththeGreenhouseGasProtocol,forallpreviousyears(uptothe2006baseline),greenhousegasemissionshavebeencalculatedbasedonthe
currentGroupstructureinthefiscalyearandretroactivelyadjustedforacquisitionsanddivestmentsof(partsof)companies,orforchangesinemissionfactors
(portfolio-adjusted).
2)Emissions including Versum materials. In blue:emissions excluding Versum materials.
Transparency on CO2emissions and energy headquarters in Darmstadt. For instance, we updated
consumption heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems, imple-
Since 2008, we have been reporting to the CDP on an mented energy-saving lighting concepts and optimized
annual basis. This organization assesses the ways in which cooling lines.
companies are working to lower greenhouse gas emissions
andminimizetherisksandconsequencesofclimatechange, Reducing process-related emissions
along with their success and strategy for doing so. Severalofourproductionlinesrecordhighlevelsofprocess-
Companies are rated from A to D-, with A being the top related emissions. In our Life Science business sector, this
score. We improved to a B in 2020 (2019: C). isfirstandforemostcausedbythereleaseofperfluorinated
carbons(PFCs).In2020,ourJaffreyplant(NewHampshire,
Climate action USA) replaced two emission-heavy production lines with
In 2020, our emissions reduction efforts focused on equipmentthatdoesnotemitPFC.Thus,atotaloffourout
purchasing electricity generated from renewable of14productionlinesatthesitenowoperatePFC-free.
energy sources. In 2020, we sourced 27% of our As a result, we anticipate a 28% reduction from existing
purchased electricity from renewables (2019: 19%). PFCemissionsin2021comparedto2020.Furthermore,four
Renewablesrepresented12%ofourtotalenergyconsump- additional PFC-free production lines are ready to be placed
tion. into service in 2021. Two of these are new assets built for
increased production capacity.
Driving energy efficiency in Darmstadt WithVersumMaterialsnowintegratedintoourPerform-
In2020,avarietyofenergyefficiencyinitiativeshelped ance Materials business sector, our process-related emis-
us save around 1,700 metric tons of CO2eq at our global sions have risen sharply. A large percentage of these
emissions arises from the production of specialty chemicals
115
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Environment
for the electronics industry. We are currently looking into in France, India, Ireland, Switzerland, the United Kingdom,
ways to lower these emissions. and the United States.
Switching to sea freight Employee incentives
In an effort to lower greenhouse gas emissions resulting We encourage our employees to play their part in
from the transport of our products, we use sea freight preserving the climate. Aside from regularly reporting on
rather than air shipping whenever possible. To this end, in our Group-wide climate actions in our EHS newsletter,
2019 our Healthcare business sector launched the trans- wealsoprovidehelpfulinformationandtipsonourintranet.
formation program “Spezzatino”. One of its objectives is to Moreover, we support employees who are seeking greener
transport less than 10% of our Healthcare products by air modes of transportation.
by 2023, converting a majority of transport lanes to sea
freight.ThiswilllowerourannualCO2emissionsby10,000 At our German subsidiaries, we offer a subsidy of €100
metrictons.Between2019and2020,weachievedareduc- towards monthly lease payments to employees who opt
tion of 5,000 metric tons. for agreener company car model.
Our workforce in Darmstadt also has access to a
Green mobility “Jobticket”,anannualpublictransitpasswhosecost
is partially covered by our company. Additionally, we
In recent years, we have significantly lowered the average
also make available an online tool that helps our people
CO2 emissions of our company car fleet. Nevertheless, we
arrange carpools.
didnotachievethe30%reductionintheseemissionsbythe
At our German sites, we also encourage workers to use
endof2020asoriginallyplanned(2013baseline).In2020,
climate-friendly forms of transportation through
we drafted a new Group-wide guideline and an action plan
“bike4me”, a program enabling them to lease a bike
aimedatmakingourfleetmoreeco-friendly.Thesewillboth
at discounted rates with payments coming out of their
takeeffectin2021.Ourobjectiveistotransitionmostofthe
pre-tax income. Furthermore, employees throughout
vehiclesinourcarfleettoloweremissionenginesby2025,
Germany can also take advantage of the Call a Bike
enabling us to reduce the total emissions of our vehicles
service offered by Deutsche Bahn (the German railway
by 25% compared to 2020. This would equal approxim-
company).Thisgivesthemaccesstoasharedbikethatis
ately 733 metric tons of CO2. In this endeavor, we are
freeofchargeforthefirsthalfhourandcanbeborrowed
basing our calculations and measurements on the world-
and/or returned in the immediate vicinity of our sites.
wide harmonized light vehicle test procedure(WLTP).
IntheUnitedStates,wealsoofferourworkforcefinancial
The average emission rate of our company car fleet in
incentives to choose a more sustainable lifestyle. For
DarmstadtandGernsheim(bothGermany)iscurrently111
example, employees can receive up to US$1,000 in
g/km.Thefleetfeatures26electricandhybridcars,repres-
subsidies towards the installation of solar power on their
enting a share of 16%. To facilitate this shift, we have
home and up to US$100 towards the cost of an energy
installed an extensive charging infrastructure at our global
audit. They are also eligible for as much as US$3,500
headquarters, part of which is available to our employees
towards the purchase of a hybrid or electric vehicle that
for their own personal use. In addition, we also provide
has been designated as “SmartWay Elite” by the U.S.
chargingstationsforcompanyandpersonalvehiclesatsites
Environmental Protection Agency.
116
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Environment
WWaassttee  aanndd  rreeccyycclliinngg
Although waste contains valuable raw materials that can be reused in the production stream, it can also pose a
wide range of risks to the environment. We therefore consider it essential to either prevent waste, or to reuse
and recycle as much of it as possible.
Our approach to waste and recycling WastemanagementformspartofourGroup-wideenvir-
We aim to both limit the loss of raw materials and reduce onmental management system, with 92 sites certified to
the impact of our waste disposal practices on ecosystems. ISO14001.Inadditiontoundergoingexternalcertification,
To this end, we are working to lower our Waste Score, our we also conduct internal EHS audits to review our waste
key waste management indicator, by 5% by 2025 (2016 management practices. Moreover, we regularly host activ-
baseline). ities such as EHS forums and conferences to keep our local
We prevent the generation of waste by, for instance, EHSmanagersandsitedirectorsuptodateonthetopicand
developingnewproductionprocessesoroptimizingexisting raise awareness. In 2020, we resorted to virtual training
ones. When this is not feasible, we do our best to recover due to the global restrictions resulting from the Covid-19
materials or energy from the waste we create. Our waste pandemic.
scoring system helps ussupport acircular economy. Waste Further information can be found under Environmental
separation makes it possible to recover and recycle raw stewardship.
materials, while unrecyclable waste is disposed of in an
environmentallysustainablemannerinlinewiththestrictest Our commitment: Group-wide EHS standards
waste disposal standards. In doing so, we comply with OurGroup-wideEHSWasteManagementStandardprovides
local legal regulations and take into account the available a consistent framework for waste management
disposal options. acrossalloursites,definingorganizationalstructuresand
minimum requirements. This standard also stipulates that
Responsibility for the waste disposal process allfacilities documenttheirwastebytypeandquantityand
As a company that generates waste, we are responsible report this data to our Group EQ function.
for the ultimate disposal of our waste products and there-
fore choose our service providers with the utmost care, Systematic waste reduction
contractuallystipulatingdisposalrequirements.Weconduct We use a variety of methods for recycling, recovering and
random audits to verify their compliance with our disposing of the waste we generate, each of which has
disposal standards, especially when it comes to a different impact on the environment. To systematically
hazardous waste. account for these effects, we have put in place a waste
scoring system that allows us to compare the amount of
How we organize our waste management and waste our individual sites generate and track our various
recycling waste streams. Under this system, our waste streams are
Our Group Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality brokendownintofivecategoriesbypercentage:landfilling,
(EQ) function bears overall responsibility for our waste thermal disposal, waste-to-energy, recycling, and preven-
management and recycling practices, while our EHS tion. This percentage is then multiplied by a factor that
managers are in charge of implementing our requirements increases based on the disposal method’s environmental
at our individual sites. We have a Group-wide committee impact. The total from each category is added together to
consisting of experts from EQ and our business sectors to yield our total Waste Score. Prevented waste is multiplied
coordinate our approach to waste management. by a factor of zero, thus lowering the overall score.
117
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Environment
1)The baseline was retroactively adjusted owing to subsequent data corrections.
Reducing the environmental impacts of waste economy. We are refining our solvent recycling practices,
Tosystematicallyaccountfortheenvironmentalfootprintof therebyminimizingtheadverseenvironmentalimpactsfrom
ourwaste,wehaveputinplacetheMerckWasteScore.We thedisposalofourproductionwaste.In2020,weexpanded
are aiming to reduce this score by 5% by 2025 compared our solvent recycling program to include a variety of
with 2016. To achieve this goal, we constantly examine solventsfromOrganicsproduction,whichhasallowedusto
our production processes and disposal methods to identify recycle an additional 600 metric tons of solvent. This move
potentialareasforimprovement,anendeavorsupportedby hassustainablyboostedtherecyclingrateofourproduction
the EHS units of the business sectors at each respective waste in Darmstadt from 8% to 16%.
site. They regularly discuss best practices, share lessons
learnedacrossoursites,anddrivethetransitiontogreener Shifting from landfill to waste-to-energy
disposal methods. In 2020, we succeeded in reducing our In mid-2020, our St. Louis (Missouri, USA) hub shifted
total Waste Score by 4,6% relative to 2016. a large portion of its waste disposal from landfill to
Yearonyear,theamountofwastewegeneratedin2020 waste-to-energy recovery. By the end of 2020, more
decreased slightly, totaling 231 metric kilotons (2019: 244 than 140 metric tons of waste had been sent to waste-to-
metric kilotons). Soil, construction and demolition waste energy plants. In 2021, we expect 330 metric tons at a
accountedfor21%ofourtotalwastein2020(2019:31%). minimum to be processed via this disposal channel, which
OurWasteScoredoesnotfactorinthistypeofwaste,which hasan89%lowerCO2emission ratethanlandfill. Avoiding
canrarelybeavoidedandmustbediscardedinaccordance landfill will help us reduce our emissions from waste at St.
with clearly prescribed methods. Louisby120metrictonsofCO2peryear.In2021,thesite
is planning to shift further waste streams from landfill to
Promoting the circular economy waste-to-energy recovery.
Under the ProMec initiative at our Darmstadt site, we are
promoting a sustainable, resource-efficient circular
118
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Environment
WWaatteerr  mmaannaaggeemmeenntt
Water scarcity is affecting more and more regions worldwide. Because we too depend on the availability of
water, our environmental stewardship efforts focus heavily on sustainable water management. In addition, our
wastewater maycontain tracesubstances suchasheavymetalsoractivepharmaceutical ingredients. Ourwater
management practices and processes comply with all applicable water protection laws and are immediately
adapted to tightened regulations.
Our approach to sustainable water because they have a greater potential for impacting local
management aquatic ecosystems.
To us, sustainable water management means obtaining
freshwater or discharging treated wastewater without How we approach water management
negatively impacting aquatic ecosystems. Our Group Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality
To promote sustainable, efficient water management (EQ)functionbearsoverallresponsibilityforwatermanage-
practices, we avail ourselves of the European Chemical ment. At our sites, engineers work in close collaboration
IndustryCouncil(Cefic)assessmenttool.Oursitesusedthis with our EHS managers to lower water consumption and
tool to evaluate their water management, drew up action treat wastewater.
plans and implemented them stepwise by the end of 2020. Further information can be found under Environmental
We are also concerned with addressing water scarcity. stewardship.
To help us determine whether a site is located in a water-
stressed area, we utilize tools such the Aqueduct Water Our commitment: Standards and procedures
RiskAtlasoftheWorldResourcesInstitute(WRI).Awater- Our Group-wide “Sustainable Water Management Part 1 –
stressedareaiscreatedwhenthewaterwithdrawnexceeds Wastewater” and “Sustainable Water Management Part 2
the amount of water renewed. – Water use and stormwater protection” standards detail
We systematically analyze our water withdrawal data the way we integrate state-of-the-art mechanisms for
and set clear reduction targets. Our previous goal aimed sustainable water stewardship into our management
to lower our water consumption at sites in water- system.Botharebasedonthecommitmentswehavemade
stressed areas by 10% by 2020 (2014 baseline), under the globalResponsible Care®initiative.
which we had achieved by the end of 2020. Our“Wastewater”standarddefinescriteriaforassessing
We have therefore defined new targets to be achieved ourwastewaterdischargesintotheecosystem,while“Water
by 2025 and 2030 (see “Using water more efficiently” and use and stormwater protection” sets out Group-wide
“Our wastewater”). We wish to curb the environmental requirementsfortheresponsibleconsumptionofwaterasa
impacts of our wastewater and make our processes more resource.Inaddition,itestablishesawayforustomanage
efficient when it comes to water use. Going forward, we the risks that arise from direct or indirect water extraction
will also be taking into account water-related risks that are and also covers risks such as contaminated rainwater and
associatedwithkeyrawmaterialsinoursupplychain.Inthe flooding. We perform internal EHS audits to verify that
longterm,weintendtotransparentlymapoutthewateruse our sites comply with these standards. All our sites are
and environmental impacts throughout the entire life cycle requiredtomeasureandassesstherisksandimpactsofthe
of our products. hazardous substances in their wastewater and to analyze
Our regular EHS audits at our production and develop- water withdrawal and rainwater risks. They must also
ment facilities also review site-specific water manage- comply with the respective requirements imposed by local
ment practices. authorities.
Our water management efforts focus more heavily on
our manufacturing sites than our administrative facilities
119
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Environment
Water withdrawn from our own sources
For the most part, we draw water used for our production processes from our own wells and source drinking water from
localsuppliers.Weneverdoanythingtocompromisesensitivewatersources.Nevertheless,wekeepaneyeontrendsthat
could potentially lead to sources being reclassified as sensitive.
3
Water withdrawals (millions of m ) – 2020
Thecoolingwaterusedforourproductionprocessesgener- Ourgoalfor2020wasa10%reductioninannualwater
ally runs in a circular system. Depending on regulatory consumption in water-stressed areas (2014 baseline). By
standards and the energy footprint, we sometimes use the end of 2020, the respective sites had cut down their
freshwaterforcoolinginaonce-throughsystem.Forcertain water withdrawals by roughly 27% versus 2014, which
applications, we treat production wastewater and reuse it. means that we actually exceeded our target.
In 2020, we recycled a total of 22 million cubic meters of
water. New goal for 2025
Local conditions determine whether a sufficient supply of
Using water more efficiently waterisavailable.Inourwaterconservationefforts,weare
We seek to minimize our impact on the water situation particularly concerned with sites in water-scarce areas. To
in the vicinity of our sites. In 2020, we withdrew 14.2 boost our water efficiency, we have therefore created the
cubic meters of water in total, with 700,000 cubic meters "Merck Water Intensity Score" that reflects the amount of
originatinginwater-stressedareas.Thisfigureincludesour water withdrawn at a given site relative to the local avail-
manufacturing facilities in Mexico City (Mexico), Mollet del ability of water and the number of man-hours worked. We
Vallès (Spain), Kankakee (Illinois, USA), Norwood (Ohio, havecommittedtoimprovingthisindicatorby10%by2025
USA),Savannah (Georgia, USA),andHsinchu andTaoyuan (2019 baseline). In calculating our Water Intensity Score,
(both in Taiwan). These seven sites must both transpar- we factor in the local water stress levels as mapped out in
ently report their water use and identify the process theAqueductWaterRiskAtlasoftheWorldResourcesInsti-
steps that require a particularly high volume of water. tute(WRI).
Buildingonthisinformation,wearedrawingupactionplans
tohelpthesefacilitieslowertheirwaterconsumption.Atour Our wastewater
Taiwansites,forinstance,weutilizeprocesswastewaterfor In 2020, we generated 13.4 million cubic meters of
heating and cooling and also collect rainwater. wastewater. This consisted of around 9.2 million cubic
meters of freshwater, which was directly discharged into
120
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Environment
surfacewaters,and4.2millioncubicmetersofotherwater, generated from these activities undergoes an additional
which was treated at external treatment plants or disposed purification process before being discharged into the
of in an ecologically sustainable manner. When directly ecosystem, thereby minimizing remaining antibiotic
dischargingwastewaterintoaquaticecosystems,wecomply residues.
with all legal requirements. Before we obtain a discharge
permit, the local authorities review the profile of the local New goal for 2030
aquatic ecosystems to ensure that they will not be When it comes to discharging wastewater, we strictly
compromised by our activities. Approximately 50% of our adhere to government regulations. However, even though
total wastewater was discharged by three of our sites. wemeetallapplicablerequirements,slightamountsoftrace
Our Gernsheim site in Germany discharges its treated substances still end up in the environment. Our new target
wastewater into the Rhine and our Onahama site in Japan therefore goes beyond the stipulations of legal require-
into the Pacific Ocean. The wastewater generated at our ments: By 2030, we plan to reduce potentially harmful
Darmstadt site in Germany is treated in our own treatment residues in our wastewater to below the no-effect
plants before being released into the Schwarzbach/Ried threshold, a scientifically defined limit below which no
Creek,atributaryoftheRhineRiver.Thevolumeoftreated negative environmental impacts are to be expected.
wastewater we discharge represents approximately 4% of
the average annual water volume of the Schwarzbach/Ried Enhancing water treatment quality
Creek, which complies with all statutory regulations. We In2020,ournewindustrialwatertreatmentplantinJaffrey
coordinatecloselywiththerespectiveauthoritiestoaddress (New Hampshire, USA) opened its gates. The facility will
and adapt to the increasingly stringent legal requirements allow for the reuse of up to 90,000 cubic meters annually.
for the discharge of treated wastewater. This equals a water reusage rate of 80% and significantly
reduces the wastewater loadings to the local municipal
Residues in wastewater treatment works. Additionally, the plant generates energy
We continuously work to optimize our production streams savings of more than 500,000 kilowatt hours per year due
and purification processes in order to conserve water and to various process improvements.
minimize residues. An expert has been appointed for each
ofourbusinesssectorstoprovideguidanceforoursites.For Assessing our water management practices
ourpharmaceutical manufacturing facilities, thispertains in In addition to reporting on our climate action efforts, we
particulartoactivepharmaceuticalingredientresidues also report water-related data to the CDP, which collects
in our wastewater. All such sites have their own environmentaldatafromcompaniesonceayear,evaluating
wastewater treatment plants and regularly analyze their their processes and performance on a scale from A to D-.
wastewater to check for harmful substances. In2020,wewereawardeda“B”forourwatermanagement
We also process antibiotic active ingredients on a small practices (2019: B).
scale. In order to prevent adverse effects, the wastewater
121
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Environment
PPllaanntt  aanndd  pprroocceessss  ssaaffeettyy
 Part of the non-financial report
Thesafetyofourplantsandprocessesisakeyfunctionofourmanagementsystemsforenvironmentalsteward-
ship and occupational health and safety, allowing us to protect both our employees while on the job as well as
the people in the immediate vicinity of our sites. Besides management systems, we also have high-performance
safety systems in place to minimize production errors and lower the risk of financial losses.
Our approach to plant and process safety concept contains an overview of potential risks and the
We seek to minimize manufacturing process hazards corresponding protective measures. After any alterations
wherever possible in order to avoid workplace accidents, are made to a plant, we also reassess the hazard and risk
production outages and chemical spills, which is why we situation.AtourDarmstadtsite,werevisedourplantsafety
regularly review our approach to plant and process safety. concept in 2020 to incorporate the latest recommendations
Our EHS performance indicators (see “Keeping a close eye from the German Commission on Process Safety (KAS).
on safety”) are utilized to continuously gauge our safety We conduct internal EHS audits (see Environmental
performance and practices. We train our employees regu- stewardship) to verify the safety of our plants and
larly in an effort to prevent human error and also to detect processes. Our sites are required to rectify any deficiencies
technical defects before they can cause harm. discovered during the audit, with the auditor then checking
whether the specified corrective actions have been taken.
How we organize our plant and process
safety Keeping a close eye on safety
Our Group Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality We track EHS performance indicators at all production and
(EQ) function coordinates plant and process safety within warehouse facilities, as well as at major research sites,
ourcompany.Attheoperationallevel,thisishandledbyour including both accidents and near misses. We investigate
individual site directors with support from their local EHS each individual incident and then devise appropriate coun-
managers/coordinators. termeasures in an effort to reduce the likelihood of such
Further information can be found under Environmental eventsreoccurringinthefuture.EHSperformanceindicator
stewardship. dataarereportedonceamonthwithineachbusinesssector,
withtheExecutiveBoardreceivingreportsonthetopiconce
Our commitment: Standards and legislation a year. Five indicators are particularly important to us
Setting forth the safety rules for all production plants and here:
warehouses, our Group-wide EHS Plant and Process Safety
Under our EHS Incident Rate (EHS IR, see below), we
standard covers the entire life cycle of a plant, from plan-
track and evaluate all major and minor accidents and
ningandconstructiontooperation,retooling,servicing,and
incidents.
maintenancethroughtodecommissioning.OurEHSSpillage
TheEHSIRalsoincludesourLossofPrimaryContainment
Control standard governs the handling of hazardous
(LoPC) indicator.
materials Group-wide and stipulates organizational
AlsoimportantistheEHSLeadingRate(EHSLR),whichis
requirements to prevent toxic substances from spilling or
calculatedbasedonananalysisofnearmissesandcritical
leaking during storage and transport. Our Fire Protection
situations. Some of our individual business sectors have
standard provides our sites with a clear framework of fire
alsodefinedtheirownannualtargetsforEHSIRandEHS
protection requirements.
LR.
Alongside these standards, our Risk Management
IntheUnitedStates,weadditionallyusetheOccupational
Processguidesalloursitesinidentifyingandassessingrisks
IllnessRate(OIR)totrackwork-relatedillnessesandtheir
and is used to devise further measures to minimize them.
long-term effects.
Our Group Procedure Hazard and Operability Study defines
OurgoalwastostabilizeourLostTimeInjuryRate(LTIR)
theindividualsresponsibleforpinpointingpotentialhazards
–thenumberofaccidentsGroup-wideresultinginatleast
during new plant construction, plant retooling or safety-
one missed day of work per million man-hours) at 1.5
related plant modifications; it also outlines the manner in
Group-wide by 2020. We exceeded our objective, having
which these dangers should be assessed and documented.
achieved an LTIR of 1,3 in 2020.
Assessing potential risks
Before commissioning a plant, we draft a safety concept
that is then subject to continuous review and, when neces-
sary, updated until the facility is decommissioned. This
122
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Environment
EHS Incident Rate In 2020, we recorded no significant incident-related spills
To document accidents and other incidents, we track the acrossanyofourproduction,researchandwarehousesites
EHS Incident Rate (EHS IR), an indicator that covers the Group-wide.
following four types of data:
Training and sharing lessons learned
The number of workplace accidents involving our The safety of our plants and processes is predicated on
employees and the contractors who work at our sites the smooth interplay of man and machine. We provide our
Environmentally relevant incidents as defined by the employees with regular plant and process safety training
European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic) and the and offer internal continuing education to site, production,
GermanChemicalIndustryAssociation(VCI),forinstance engineering, and EHS leaders. Likewise, we train all newly
product spills hiredEHSmanagersonplantandprocesssafety(seeEnvir-
The activation of operational safety precautions with no onmental stewardship) during their EHStart-up!
adverse impact on people or the environment, such as onboarding.
preemptive systems shutdowns In the interest of improving safety, it is extremely
Deviationsidentifiedduringthird-partyreviewsandaudits important to continuously share best practices and
conducted by regulatory agencies and/or our certifiers lessonslearned. This approach enables all our production
sites to learn from incidents at other facilities and take
The calculation of the EHS Incident Rate includes the
preventive measures. Once a month, for instance, site
number of incidents and the severity of the event relative
directorsandEHSmanagersparticipateinsafetyleadership
to the number of man-hours worked. The lower the EHS
callstosharenewlessonslearned.Additionally,oursiteEHS
Incident Rate, the safer the site is.
managersregularlyholddiscussionsessionstobenefitfrom
each other’s experiences.
Transparent communication
3.4
In line with the stipulations of the German Hazardous
IncidentOrdinance,oursafetyreportsarefullyaccessible
to the public upon request. At our Darmstadt site, we hold
neighborhoodmeetings to inform people about potential
Our EHS IR was 3.4 in 2020, representing a slight
hazards and protective measures in the event of a
decrease compared to 2019 (3.6).
hazardousincident.Furtherinformationcanbefoundinour
accompanying Incident Brochure, which we update every
three years and send to approximately 17,000 households
in the vicinity of our global headquarters. This document is
also available on ourwebsite.
123
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Community
CCoommmmuunniittyy
Within this chapter:
125 Community engagement
124
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Community
CCoommmmuunniittyy  eennggaaggeemmeenntt
We see ourselves as part of society – both at our individual sites as well as worldwide. Our aspiration is to help
shapesociety.Wedothisboththroughourproductsandtechnologiesandthroughourcommunityengagement.
That is why we work with our employees to promote a diverse array of social initiatives that help tackle chal-
lenges at the local level.
Our approach to community engagement How we structure community engagement
Worldwide, we are deeply committed to supporting the The Group Corporate Affairs function monitors our Group-
communities in which our sites are located. We focus on wide community outreach and coordinates some of our
health, education and culture as well as environmental activities, including the Merck Schistosomiasis Elimination
stewardship. Moreover, we provide disaster relief and offer Program, the Global Pharma Health Fund (GPHF), the
support to people in need in the vicinity of our sites. EmbracingCarersinitiativeaswellastheDeutschePhilhar-
We are particularly determined to facilitate access to monie Merck. In addition, our business sectors launch their
healthforpeopleworldwide.Wedothisbygettinginvolved own projects, such as the educational program SPARK™.
in numerous healthcare projects. In doing so, we specific- Our local subsidiaries are responsible for planning and
ally contribute our experience in all aspects of healthcare. implementing local activities on a decentralized basis. They
Wealsopromotescienceandcultureeducation.This decideforthemselvesinwhichfocusareastheywanttoget
has a long tradition in our company. As a science and involved. We include some of our health initiatives in low-
technology company, we champion creativity, the joy of and middle-income countries in theMerck Foundation.
discovery, curiosity and the courage to push boundaries. The Merck family of entrepreneurs also has a long
That is why we award scholarships and literary prizes, for history of supporting charitable causes. Their activities are
example, or promote practice-oriented curricula. organized via the Merck Family Foundation and the
Protecting the environment and using natural resources Merck’sche Gesellschaft für Kunst und Wissenschaft (Merck
responsibly is a task for us all. Therefore, we support Society for Art and Science). The Merck Family Foundation
various initiatives around the world that help raise aware- supportsinternationalcharitableprojects–preferablythose
ness of environmental protection. in which our employees are privately involved. The Merck
We regularly evaluate the achievement of objectives Family Foundation is financed entirely from funds provided
and the impact of our projects. Our analysis is based on by the entrepreneurial family. The Merck’sche Gesellschaft
the so-called iooi method (input – output – outcome – für Kunst und Wissenschaft is a charitable association. It
impact)oftheBertelsmannFoundation.Inthefirststep,we supportsartisticandscientificprojectswithaconnectionto
measureourinputbasedontheproductormonetarydona- either the Rhine-Main region, the city or the government
tions made and the time our employees invest in volun- district of Darmstadt or to our business sectors.
teer projects. In the second step, we record the immediate
output, for example the number of organized training Our commitment: The principles of our
programs that were made possible thanks to our financial community engagement
donations. We are also interested in the impact we have Indesigningourprojects,weareguidedbyourGroup-wide
achievedforthespecifictargetgroup.Ourgoalistoensure “Group Policy on Contributions to Society”. It defines what
that our social commitment continues to have a positive community engagement means for our company and what
impact on society. For this reason, we are constantly objectives we are pursuing. This policy gives our business
working to make the impact of our projects (outcome sectorsandsubsidiariesabroadaframeworkforstructuring
and impact)for our target groups measurable. their respective activities themselves; moreover, it stipu-
The latter is particularly important to us, which is why latesrolesand responsibilities.
we mainly initiate projects that aim to improve specific Health initiatives are also governed by guidelines from
social situations or solve social problems. Around 72% of our Healthcare business sector and our Access to Health
our project spending goes towards this. We also support Charter.Wecalculatethevalueofourpharmaceuticaldona-
short-term or one-off charitable activities and initiatives tions in accordance with the World Health Organization
that are beneficial to our business (for example, in (WHO) Guidelines for Medicine Donations.
recruiting staff) and can help the community at the same With our Corporate Volunteering Guideline, we want to
time. encourage our people to get involved in supporting the
Together with reliable partners, we support many long- community.Wegrantouremployeesuptotwodaysofpaid
term projects and form long-term partnerships. This leaveperyeartotakepartinvolunteeractivitieseitherrun
enables us to strengthen our relationship with our stake- or supported by our company.
holdersand to reinforce our social license to operate.
125
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Community
Our Good Deeds Culture” and “Environment”. In addition, we supported
Our community outreach activities are collectively referred people in need in our local communities and provided
toasOurGoodDeeds.In2020,wesupported274projects disaster relief.
in 96 countries in the fields of “Health”, “Education and
Our community engagement activities – 2020
Our projects include volunteering initiatives as well as donations or volunteer work. As part of the volunteering
monetary and product donations. In 2020, we spent projects, around 1,400 employees volunteered around
a total of around € 53,6 million on community outreach. 7,000 hours during their working hours. The amount
Product and in-kind donations accounted for 55% and cash contributed by the Merck Foundation is not included in this
donations for 43% of this amount. Our employees actively figure. Nor are initiatives that primarily served to market
participatedin20%oftheprojectseitherthroughmonetary our products.
126
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Community
Community engagement spending by region
Ouremployeeswereonceagainabletochoosetheirfavorite ations of health centers in order to provide appropriate
project from all our projects in 2020. We awarded the care for patients. Moreover, access to clean water is the
projects with the most votes and provided them with addi- basicrequirementtoprotectcommunitiesagainstinfectious
tional financial support. diseases. The water systems are designed by local engin-
eerstogetherwiththelocalresponsiblemedicalandwomen
Supporting health projects community leaders from the Matam region to ensure that
We use our expertise to support health initiatives around the platform is ideally adapted to health and social needs
the world. In particular, we focus on providing basic and while creating local ownership. In doing so, the project
advanced training for health workers, promoting local applies a social business approach to create sustainability.
healthcare infrastructure and educating people on health We also recognize scientific breakthroughs in
issues. healthcare. Since 2019, we have awarded the annual
We are dedicated to improving medical care around Future Insight Prize, which is worth up to €1million. The
theworld.Weorganizemedicaleducationprogramsthrough prize recognizes and promotes groundbreaking scientific
our Global Medical Education and Academic Organization andtechnologicalinnovationsforthebenefitofhumanityin
Relationsdepartments,eitherdirectlyorbyprovidinggrants thefieldsofhealth,nutritionandenergy.In2020,Stephan
to third-party medical education providers. In doing so, we Sieber received the Future Insight Prize for his scientific
foster advanced medical education programs designed to researchonovercomingantibioticresistanceinthecategory
broadenthescientificknowledgeandcompetenceofscient- “Multidrug Resistance Breaker”.
ists and healthcare professionals and, ultimately, improve Moreinformationonourhealthprojectscanbefoundon
patient outcomes. theOur Good Deedswebsite.
In 2020, we digitalized 98% of our medical education
programs across selected therapeutic areas in order to Promoting cultural and educational projects
continuedeliveringthemdespitetheCovid-19pandemic.In Our projects in the field of education help to improve
particular, we supported more than 92 Continuing Medical school and university education. In a quest to spark
Education(CME)programsofferedby16thirdpartymedical young people’s interest in science, we hold competitions,
educationprovidersanddesigned22newmedicaleducation recognize special achievements and offer opportunities for
programs. More than 370,000 healthcare professionals hands-on learning.
participatedviae-learningplatformsandin-personcourses. For example, we support and hold the following STEM
The initiatives we launch through our Global Health competitions: For instance, we have been supporting the
Institute help to strengthen local health systems in “Jugend forscht” competition for more than 35 years as
low- and middle-income countries. We are working in the host of the competition in the German federal state of
partnership with the Ministry of Health in Senegal and the Hesse.Inaddition,wesupportthe“InternationaleBiologie-
Access to Water Foundation to provide innovative clean Olympiade Hessen”, the “Internationale Chemie-Olympiade
water platforms to local health centers and Hessen und Thüringen”, the “Chemie – die stimmt!”
communities.Our goal is to improve sanitation and oper- competition, the one-week “Erfinderlabor” as well as the
127
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Community
Germany-wide “Tag der Mathematik”. Due to the Covid-19 Like music, literature is an important mediator between
pandemic,thecompetitionscouldnottakeplaceasusualin cultures. We therefore award five literary prizes world-
2020.Instead,wecarriedthemoutdigitally:Togetherwith wide: in Germany, Italy, India, Japan, and Russia. We
theHackerSchool,weorganizedatwo-dayvirtualprogram- award some annually, others every two years. We thus
ming workshop for young people. We also combined the mainly recognize those authors who build bridges between
“Merck-Abiturpreis” (high school graduation award) with a cultures, as well as between literature and science. The
virtual workshop on Design Thinking – a solution-oriented, Merck Translator Award ceremony in Russia took place
creative approach to idea generation. virtually in 2020 because of the constraints imposed due
As part of our global volunteer program SPARK™, to the pandemic. The Johann Heinrich Merck Prize was also
employeesfromourLifeSciencebusinesssectorsharetheir awarded under Covid-19 restrictions.
skills and experience with students in order to spark their More information about our cultural and educational
curiosity in science and inspire them to consider a STEM- projects can be found on our websiteOur Good Deeds.
related career. As an extension of our flagship Curiosity
Labs™ program, we introduced the digital Curiosity Labs™ Supporting environmental initiatives
at Home program in 2020 to reach students remotely amid We are involved in various environmental initiatives and
the Covid-19 pandemic. Curiosity Labs™ at Home includes promote environmental awareness among our
20easyandeducationalhands-onscienceexperimentsthat employees through group activities. Our engagement
can be completed safely at home with materials typically ranges from joint waste collection and tree planting
found around the house. In 2020, the program generated campaigns to supporting organizations that improve access
more than 2.7million video views on social media in 132 to clean water in remote areas
countries. Moreinformationaboutourenvironmentalinitiativescan
Apart from our educational projects, we also further be found on our websiteOur Good Deeds.
music and literature. We are convinced that culture
inspirespeople–andthatinspirationcanleadtoprogress. Solidarity during the pandemic
We also help to strengthen inclusion and tolerance by The Covid-19 pandemic has posed significant challenges
sparking young people’s interest in culture. for society. To address the most urgent problems, we
WesupporttheDeutschePhilharmonieMerck,aprofes- supported facilities and healthcare workers in 2020. We
sionalsymphonyorchestraestablishedbackin1966.Itisan donated two million respirators in Germany, France and
integralpartofculturallifeinDarmstadtandtheimmediate Brazil,forexample,aswellas200,000litersofdisinfectant
region and regularly tours internationally. The Deutsche in Germany. In more than 30 countries, our sites initiated
Philharmonie Merck also promotes young talent: In the numerous fundraising campaigns, which amounted to
annualOrchestraWorkshop,up-and-comingmusicianswork several million euros in cash and materials. For example,
together with the orchestra professionals to develop ambi- we equipped frontline healthcare workers with protective
tious concert programs. Due to contact restrictions gear and enabled disadvantaged people or schoolchildren
caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, the orchestra workshop to participate in education. Our employees donated around
was cancelled in 2020. However, two concerts could take €70,000forchildreninneedviaaspeciallysetupdonation
place under Covid-19 hygiene regulations. In addition, the platform for the aid organization Save the Children; our
Deutsche Philharmonie Merck brought musical joy with company doubled the amount. The total amount of
small performances in front of nursing homes during the €140,000 primarily benefited educational projects, for
contact restriction phase. Moreover, the orchestra made example providing socially disadvantaged families with
digital video projects available to the public, including a learning material.
musical advent calendar. Via social media, these projects
generated more than 11 million views.
128
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
FFaaccttss  &&  ffiigguurreess
Within this chapter:
130 Report profile
133 Indicators
133 Economics
134 Business ethics
137 Employees
149 Environment
156 Community
158 Goals
170 Recognition and rankings
173 Non-financial report
181 GRI content index
181 General disclosures
187 Economic Standards
190 Environmental Standards
194 Social Standards
201 Global Compact CoP
206 Assurance reports
206 Assurance report NFR
208 Assurance report SR
129
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
RReeppoorrtt  pprrooffiillee
 Part of the non-financial report
For us, sustainable entrepreneurship and profitable growth go hand in hand. We can ensure our own future
competitiveness only by creating value for society. Our ambition is to leverage science and technology so as to
achieve progress for mankind. In this report, we present a comprehensive picture of our understanding of
sustainable entrepreneurship.
We have a long-standing history of embracing corporate responsibility, which is also reflected in our reporting practices.
We have been detailing our efforts to meet our obligations to society since 1993. This initially took the form of environ-
mental reports, evolving in 2003 into the publication of a Corporate Responsibility Report every two years. Since 2016, we
have been publishing a report annually. In 2020, we restructured our Sustainability organization, formulated new, stra-
tegic sustainability goals and, as a result, renamed our “Corporate Responsibility Report” to “Sustainability Report”.
In this report, we describe the newstrategic directionof our sustainable entrepreneurship and the focus areas in which we
intend to achieve our sustainability goals.
With transparency as a key goal, we work to keep ourstakeholdersthoroughly informedabout our activities and
successes, along with the challenges we face.
With this Sustainability Report for 2020, we meet the legal requirements for a combined, separate non-financial report.
TheIndex to the non-financial reportprovides an overview of the relevant content.
Moreover, the Sustainability Report also documents the progress we have made in implementing the guidelines of the
United Nations Global Compact (“Communication on Progress”).
Reporting framework
This report covers fiscal 2020 and pertains to our entire Group, including our 221 subsidiaries in 66 countries. Any devi-
ations from this reporting framework are indicated on a case-by-case basis.
Acquisitions and divestments
In 2019, we acquired Versum Materials, Inc. and Intermolecular, Inc., achieving two milestones in the transformation of
our Performance Materials business sector.
We are currently consolidating the methods, objectives, results, and measures relating to our non-financial topics identi-
fied as being material. We expect to fully complete this by the end of 2021. The sections of the non-financial report in
which the mentioned acquisitions play a significant role reflect the current consolidation measures as of December 2020.
We do not list completed integration measures in this report.
In 2020, we sold our allergy business Allergopharma to Dermapharm Holding SE. We completed the divestment on
March31, 2020, subject to the approval of the relevant regulatory authorities and other customary closing conditions.
Allergopharma is a leading supplier in the field of allergen-specific immunotherapy of type 1 allergies. Allergopharma
products are currently available in 18 markets worldwide. The transaction encompassed the Allergopharma business in
Europe and Asia, with the broad portfolio of therapeutic and diagnostic products and the production site in Reinbek near
Hamburg (Germany).
130
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Data collection and consolidation systems
In general, the 2020 Sustainability Report provides non-financial indicators that represent the entire Group, including the
recently acquired companies Intermolecular, Inc. and Versum Materials, Inc. The Allergopharma business is not included
as it was divested in 2020. The majority of the figures we publish reflect the status as of December31, 2020. If we
deviate from these parameters in individual cases, we will indicate this accordingly.
Since 2005, we have been using a Group-wide electronic data collection system to collect environmental and occupational
health and safety data, which are tracked locally at our individual sites and approved following review. To maximize the
quality of this data, we support the sites in improving their collection processes and their corresponding quality assurance
measures. Moreover, our Group Environment, Health, Safety,Security, Quality (EQ) function takes measures, such as
internalEHSaudits, to review both the processes and the data provided.
We collect environmental performance indicators across all our production sites. We also record these indicators for the
warehouse, research and office locations that are relevant in terms of their environmental impact. This report’s scope of
consolidation therefore covers all Group sites that have relevant impacts on the environment.
All employee master data is continually updated in an SAP database. Some employee data is disclosed only for select sites
or countries, which is accordingly indicated in the respective text passages.
We use community data management software to track data pertaining to our community outreach activities.
Determining report content
We align the content of our report with the internationally recognized guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
and the principles of completeness and materiality as well as input from our stakeholders. This report has been prepared
in accordance with theGRI standards: Comprehensive option. Furthermore, we have taken into consideration the require-
ments of the capital market for assessing companies’ sustainability performance.
We perform a materiality assessment annually to determine the sustainability topics of relevance to our Group. Experts
from our business sectors and relevant Group functions review and validate the findings of this analysis. Moreover, as stip-
ulated by section 289c (2) of the German Commercial Code (HGB), we also check the issues for “double materiality”. We
have derived the content of this CR report from the results of the materiality assessment, which can be found together
with the materiality matrix underMateriality analysis.
Our Executive Board has reviewed and approved this report. The content of the non-financial report has also been
reviewed by the Supervisory Board in accordance with section 111 (2) of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG).
External audit
KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the annual financial statements and management report of our
company for the fiscal year spanning January1 to December31, 2020 and has issued an unqualified opinion.
Furthermore, after undergoing a limited assurance audit, our company has received an independent audit certificate for
the following chapters of thisSustainability Report as well as for thenon-financial report.
The additional contents provided on both the company’s websites as well as external web pages that are linked in this
report are not part of the information assured by KPMG.
131
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Contact:
We welcome your feedback and are happy to answer any questions.
Merck KGaA
Corporate Affairs
Group Corporate Sustainability
Maria Schaad
Frankfurter Str. 250
64293 Darmstadt
Germany
Tel.:+49 6151 72-0
Fax:+49 6151 72-200
The previous Corporate Responsibility Report was published in April 2020. Our next Sustainability Report is scheduled for
publication in April 2022.
132
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
IInnddiiccaattoorrss
EEccoonnoommiiccss
Net sales, operating result (EBIT) and research and development costs, by business sector1
Performance
€million Healthcare Life Science Materials Group
2019
Net sales 6,714 6,864 2,574 16,152
Operating result (EBIT) 1,149 1,280 307 2,120
R&D costs2 1,666 276 267 2,268
2020
Net sales 6,639 7,515 3,380 17,534
Operating result (EBIT) 1,804 1,599 240 2,985
R&D costs2 1,640 313 274 2,288
1 As a non-operating segment, Corporate and Other is not shown here as a separate item, but rather under Segment Reporting in our2020 Annual Report.
2 Part of the non-financial report
133
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
BBuussiinneessss  eetthhiiccss
 Part of the non-financial report
Compliance training
2020
2020 thereof
20171 20181 20192,3 MerckGroup4,5 MerckKGaA5
Total number of persons
trained on anti-corruption
guidelines6 17,044 11,404 36,109 28,827 3,880
Total number of employees
trained on anti-corruption
guidelines 13,345 11,155 35,673 28,805 3,877
% of employees trained on
anti-corruption 25 22 63 50 45
by employee category
Number of Role2+
employees trained on anti-
corruption 7,080 9,257 26,890 27,123 3,848
% of Role2+ employees
trained on anti-corruption 27 36 96 90 93
% of employees below Role
2 trained on anti-corruption 23 7 30 6 1
by region (%)
Europe 18 19 71 51 45
North America 46 36 59 45 not applicable
Asia-Pacific (APAC) 25 16 47 44 not applicable
Latin America 19 12 62 44 not applicable
Middle East and Africa
(MEA) 29 18 80 66 not applicable
1 In 2017 and 2018 the position assessment had not yet been carried out for employees of all Sigma-Aldrich legal entities in Germany, or for employees of Allergo-
pharma. In the facts and figures, these employees are included under “employees below Role 2”.
2 In 2019, the position assessment had not yet been carried out for employees of Versum Materials as well as of Allergopharma. In the figures, employees whose
positions have not been assessed have been allocated to “employees below Role 2”.
3 As of 2019, we changed our reporting method. Previously, our reports covered the active workforce who has been trained on a specific subject during a particular
year. In 2019, we report on the active, trained workforce in the company, regardless of whether their training has already taken place prior to the reporting year.
The possibility of trend forecasts for year-to-year comparisons is therefore limited.
4 In 2020, the position assessment had not yet been carried out for employees of Versum Materials. In the figures, employees whose positions have not been
assessed have been allocated to “employees below Role 2”.
5 In 2020, we began using our own global learning management tool and therefore now have a different reporting structure. As of 2020, we report on the active
workforce that is part of the target group and has completed the training in the reporting year. The possibility of trend forecasts for year-to-year comparisons is
therefore limited.
6 Includes contractors, external supervised workers (e.g. temps) and contract partners working on-site who were trained on anti-corruption guidelines (2020: 22).
The (employee) target audience for a specific training is related to the risk level associated with employee positions and
Role levels. Target audiences therefore may not include all Group employees and also may vary from training to training.
In order to address the special responsibility held by management personnel, and staff with HR responsibility, trainings on
anti-corruption guidelines for these employees are in focus. This applies to all employees rated Role 2+.
Our compliance and anti-corruption principles are communicated to all our business partners who undergo a Business
Partner Risk Management (BPRM) process.
134
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Internal audits on corruption and Human Rights Charter
2020
2020 thereof
2017 2018 2019 MerckGroup MerckKGaA1
Number of audits relating tocorruption 50 54 50 52 26
% of audits relating tocorruption 65 69 65 66 33
Number of audits relating tothe workplace
requirements of our Human Rights Charter 45 46 46 42 20
1 Includes global audits which are conducted at the headquarters in Darmstadt and/or the management of the audited function is reporting into KGaA.
In 2020, during 42 of our audits conducted in 14 countries, we reviewed workplace parameters as per our Human Rights
Charter. No violations were identified.
Human rights violations1
20172 20182 20192 2020
Number of reported violations of Social and Labor
Standards Policy - - - 108
Number of confirmed Violations of Social and Labor
Standards Policy - - - 29
thereof number of incidents of discrimination - - - 2
1 In 2020, we modified our reporting structure for human rights violations. Previously, we reported on such violations in the “Reported compliance violations” table.
Since 2020, we report on violations of theSocial and Labor Standards Policy, which was drafted and rolled out across the entire Group in 2019.
2 Due to our revised reporting practices, we have decided not to report the data from previous years.
Reported compliance violations
2020
2020 thereof
2017 2018 2019 MerckGroup MerckKGaA
Total number of reported compliance
violations
Number of reported compliance incidents 39 72 75 81 8
Number of confirmed cases 14 19 30 41 3
Confirmed cases by category1
Bribery and corruption 3 3 9 6 0
Violation of cartel laws and fair competition
rules 0 1 0 0 0
Fraudulent actions against Merck 1 5 8 11 0
Other violations of the Merck Compliance
Principles for the relations with business
partners 2 1 4 0 0
Other violations of Merck values, internal
guidelines or legal requirements 8 9 9 24 3
1 In 2020, we revised our case categories. The figures from previous years have been retroactively adjusted. You can find detailed information on the revised
categories in the comment below the table.
Revisions to the table have resulted in the following changes: The category “Violation of the Human Rights Charter” is now
being disclosed in the new “Human rights violations” table. As of 2020, the category “Violation of Data Privacy” will be
reported separately in the “Data privacy” table.
135
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
The category “Violation of the Merck Pharmaceutical Guidelines” was partially merged with “Bribery and corruption”. Going
forward, the category “Other violations of values, internal guidelines or legal requirements” will include violations from
“Manipulation of business documents” and “Infringements in the areas of finance, accounting and banking”, along with
violations that used to be reported in part under “Violation of the Merck Pharmaceutical Guidelines” or “Violation of Confid-
entiality Guidelines”.
Data Privacy
2020
2020 thereof
2017 2018 20191 Merck Group Merck KGaA
Reported violations of Data Privacy Guidelines -2 1 1 3 3
Customer Privacy3
Total number of substantiated complaints
received from outside parties 0 0 0 0 0
Total number of complaints from regulatory
bodies 0 0 1 0 0
Total number of identified leaks, thefts, or
losses of customer data 0 1 1 0 0
1 Since 2019, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018.
2 No violations reported to the authorities as the reporting obligation was introduced only in 2018 as part of the EU General Data Protection Regulation.
3 These data only reflect incidents classified as significant.
As of 2020, this table presents the number of reported cases of data privacy violations. In the previous years, we reported
data privacy violations in one line combined with violations of confidentiality guidelines in the table entitled “Reported
Compliance Violations”. For more information, please see the table entitledReported Compliance Violations.
Legal actions
2020
2020 thereof
2017 20181 2019 MerckGroup MerckKGaA
Total number2of legal actions pending
or completed (for anti-competitive
behavior, violations of anti-trust or viol-
ations of monopoly legislation) 3 3 3 4 2
pending 3 3 3 4 2
completed 0 0 0 0 0
1 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018.
2 As published in the annual reports, the herein listed total number of legal actions refers to the significant legal risks as per the company’s definition. The signific-
ance of legal risks is based on potential negative effects on projected financial objectives as well as on the probability of occurrence.
For further information please see our annual reports:
Annual Report 2017, pages 148-150 and pages 252-253, No. 27
Annual Report 2018, pages 146-148 and pages 247-251, No. 26
Annual Report 2019, pages 115-117 and pages 231-233, No. 26
Annual Report 2020, pages 125-127 and pages 252-256, No. 27
136
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
EEmmppllooyyeeeess
 Part of the non-financial report
Total number of employees
2020
2020 thereof
As of Dec. 31 2017 2018 2019 MerckGroup MerckKGaA
Total number of employees 52,941 51,749 57,071 58,127 8,578
Men 30,083 29,006 32,531 33,204 5,814
Women 22,858 22,743 24,540 24,923 2,764
137
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Number of employees by hierarchical level
2020
2020 thereof
As of Dec. 31 20171 20181 20192 MerckGroup MerckKGaA
Total employees 52,941 51,749 57,071 58,127 8,578
Senior management (Role6+) 197 193 190 193 68
Middle management (Role4&5) 2,927 3,095 3,352 3,637 773
Low management (Role3) 8,904 9,019 9,499 10,286 2,024
Other employees (belowRole3) 40,913 39,442 44,030 44,011 5,713
% of women (total) 43 44 43 43 32
thereof in senior management (Role6+) 30 36 39 42 15
thereof in middle management (Role4&5) 917 1,025 1,146 1,284 228
thereof in low management (Role3) 3,714 3,795 4,029 4,352 703
thereof other employees (belowRole3) 18,197 17,888 19,326 19,245 1,818
% of men (total) 57 56 57 57 68
thereof in senior management (Role6+) 167 157 151 151 53
thereof in middle management (Role4& 5) 2,010 2,070 2,206 2,353 545
thereof in low management (Role3) 5,190 5,224 5,470 5,934 1,321
thereof other employees (belowRole3) 22,716 21,554 24,704 24,766 3,895
by age group
Up to 29 years old (%) 15 15 15 15 14
thereof in senior management (Role6+) 0 0 0 0 0
thereof in middle management (Role4&5) 3 5 8 6 1
thereof in low management (Role3) 194 211 190 199 64
thereof other employees (belowRole3) 7,479 7,279 8,362 8,365 1,096
30 to 49 years old (%) 62 61 60 60 52
thereof in senior management (Role6+) 72 69 69 68 29
thereof in middle management (Role4&5) 1,782 1,829 1,933 2,032 460
thereof in low management (Role3) 6,308 6,206 6,516 6,926 1,280
thereof other employees (belowRole3) 24,733 23,536 25,859 25,948 2,689
50 years or older (%) 23 24 25 25 34
thereof in senior management (Role6+) 125 124 121 125 39
thereof in middle management (Role4&5) 1,142 1,261 1,411 1,599 312
thereof in low management (Role3) 2,402 2,602 2,793 3,161 680
thereof other employees (belowRole3) 8,701 8,627 9,809 9,698 1,928
1 In 2017 and 2018 the position assessment had not yet been carried out for employees of all Sigma-Aldrich legal entities in Germany, or for employees of Allergo-
pharma. In the facts and figures, these employees are included under “other employees (below Role 3)”.
2 In 2019, the position assessment had not yet been carried out for employees of Versum Materials as well as of Allergopharma. In the figures, employees whose
positions have not been assessed have been allocated to “other employees (below Role 3)”.
138
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Average number of employees by functional area1
2017 20182 20193 20204
Group 52,053 53,809 53,645 57,612
thereof women 22,353 23,388 23,503 24,746
Production 15,571 16,240 16,455 17,624
thereof women 5,059 5,359 5,529 6,043
Logistics/Supply Chain 3,729 4,014 4,109 4,298
thereof women 1,442 1,569 1,626 1,734
Marketing and Sales/Commercials 15,115 15,479 13,970 14,127
thereof women 6,609 6,981 6,608 6,787
Administration 9,286 9,864 10,342 11,342
thereof women 4,798 5,067 5,194 5,499
Research and Development 6,789 7,245 7,561 7,504
thereof women 3,591 3,871 4,053 3,996
Infrastructure and Other 1,564 966 1,208 2,717
thereof women 854 541 493 687
1 The average employee headcount is calculated by adding up all employees at the end of each of the last 13 months, and dividing this total by 13.
2 The average employee headcount for fiscal 2018 incorporates the Consumer Health employees on a pro rata basis up until the end of November 2018 due to the
divestment of the Consumer Health business as of December 1, 2018.
3 To calculate the average number of employees in fiscal 2019, the employee headcount of Versum Materials has been included on a pro rata basis as of October
2019 owing to the acquisition. They are allocated to the functional area “Infrastructure and Other”.
4 The average employee headcount for fiscal 2020 incorporates the Allergopharma employees on a pro rata basis up until the end of March 2020 due to the divest-
ment of the Allergopharma business as of March 31, 2020.
139
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Number of employees by region
2020
2020 thereof
As of Dec. 31 2017 2018 2019 MerckGroup MerckKGaA
Total 52,941 51,749 57,071 58,127 8,578
Europe 25,980 25,792 26,715 26,587 8,578
Women 11,627 11,464 11,909 11,743 2,764
Women (%) 45 44 45 44 32
Number of employees with temporary
contracts 1,279 1,209 1,137 1,105 285
% of employees with temporary
contracts 5 5 4 4 3
NorthAmerica 10,520 10,978 12,829 13,312 0
Women 4,518 4,742 5,285 5,527 not applicable
Women (%) 43 43 41 42 not applicable
Number of employees with temporary
contracts 138 148 158¹ 139 not applicable
% of employees with temporary
contracts 1 1 1¹ 1 not applicable
Asia-Pacific (APAC) 11,294 10,486 12,728 13,518 0
Women 4,298 4,348 5,049 5,425 not applicable
Women (%) 38 41 40 40 not applicable
Number of employees with temporary
contracts 2,603 2,846 3,263¹ 3,362 not applicable
% of employees with temporary
contracts 23 27 26¹ 25 not applicable
Latin America 4,050 3,340 3,433 3,387 0
Women 1,896 1,648 1,690 1,630 not applicable
Women (%) 47 49 49 48 not applicable
Number of employees with temporary
contracts 40 62 55 67 not applicable
% of employees with temporary
contracts 1 2 2 2 not applicable
Middle East and Africa (MEA) 1,097 1,153 1,366 1,323 0
Women 519 541 607 598 not applicable
Women (%) 47 47 44 45 not applicable
Number of employees with temporary
contracts 172 189 182 420 not applicable
% of employees with temporary
contracts 16 16 13 32 not applicable
1 Employees whose contract type had not yet been recorded in our database by December 31, 2019 were divided up proportionally between the categories
“Employees with permanent contracts” and “Employees with temporary contracts”.
140
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Employees by business sector
As of Dec. 31 2017 2018 2019 2020
Healthcare employees 19,795 17,456 18,136 17,463
thereof women 9,656 8,884 9,232 8,788
thereof women (%) 49 51 51 50
Life Science employees 19,607 20,667 21,934 23,196
thereof women 8,276 8,837 9,487 10,175
thereof women (%) 42 43 43 44
Performance Materials employees 5,529 5,278 7,329 7,228
thereof women 1,455 1,411 1,712 1,666
thereof women (%) 26 27 23 23
Employees by contract type
As of Dec. 31 2017 2018 2019 2020
Total employees 52,941 51,749 57,071 58,127
Number of employees with permanent contracts 48,709 47,295 52,276¹ 53,034
% of employees with permanent contracts 92 91 92¹ 91
thereof women 20,741 20,545 22,237¹ 22,500
thereof women (%) 43 43 43¹ 42
Number of employees with temporary contracts 4,232 4,454 4,795¹ 5,093
% of employees with temporary contracts 8 9 8¹ 9
thereof women 2,117 2,198 2,303¹ 2,423
thereof women (%) 50 49 48¹ 48
full-time employees 50,498 49,273 54,265 55,220
% full-time 95 95 95 95
thereof women 20,677 20,577 22,208 22,572
thereof women (%) 41 42 41 41
part-time employees 2,443 2,476 2,806 2,907
% part-time 5 5 5 5
thereof women 2,181 2,166 2,332 2,351
thereof women (%) 89 87 83 81
1 Employees whose contract type had not yet been recorded in our database by December 31, 2019 were divided up proportionally between the categories
“employees with permanent contracts” and “employees with temporary contracts”.
141
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
New employees
2020
2020 thereof
As of Dec. 31 2017 2018 20191 MerckGroup MerckKGaA
Total number of new employee hires 7,285 7,129 7,924 6,669 500
by age group
up to 29 years old 2,940 2,967 3,432 2,889 259
30 to 49 years old 3,848 3,728 4,055 3,347 223
50 or older 497 434 437 433 18
by gender
Women 3,412 3,401 3,622 3,016 186
Men 3,873 3,728 4,302 3,653 314
by region
Europe 3,058 2,560 2,529 2,160 500
North America 1,603 1,524 1,733 1,789 not applicable
Asia-Pacific (APAC) 1,955 2,222 2,729 2,206 not applicable
Latin America 497 583 578 396 not applicable
Middle East and Africa (MEA) 172 240 355 118 not applicable
Rate of new employee hires2(%) 14 14 14 11 6
by age group3
up to 29 years old 40 42 43 43 52
30 to 49 years old 53 52 51 50 45
50 or older 7 6 6 7 3
by gender3
Women 47 48 46 45 37
Men 53 52 54 55 63
by region3
Europe 42 36 32 32 100
North America 22 21 22 27 not applicable
Asia-Pacific (APAC) 27 31 34 33 not applicable
Latin America 7 8 7 6 not applicable
Middle East and Africa (MEA) 2 3 5 2 not applicable
1 These figures exclude the approximately 2,400 Versum Materials and Intermolecular employees who are not classified as new hires because they joined Merck as
part of the acquisitions.
2 Formula for calculating the rate of new employee hires: Total number of new employee hires divided by number of employees at the end of the fiscal year.
3 Formula for calculating the rate of new employee hires by age/gender/region: New employee hires of the focus group divided by the total number of new employee
hires.
142
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Staff turnover1,2
2020
2020 thereof
2017 20183 2019 MerckGroup4 MerckKGaA
Total turnover rate 9.05 9.09 9.07 8.22 3.30
Turnover rate by gender
Men 8.75 9.03 8.69 8.22 3.30
Women 9.46 9.18 9.54 8.22 3.29
Turnover rate by agegroup
Up to 29 years old 13.66 14.24 13.13 11.30 3.35
30 to 49 years old 8.38 8.53 8.90 7.74 2.50
50 or older 7.87 7.39 7.03 7.52 4.48
Turnover rate by region
Europe 6.22 5.73 5.72 5.64 3.30
North America 11.02 9.90 11.02 9.79 not applicable
Asia-Pacific (APAC) 12.53 14.51 13.18 10.60 not applicable
Latin America 13.74 15.41 13.47 11.40 not applicable
Middle East and Africa (MEA) 11.22 9.77 12.14 11.80 not applicable
Total number of leavers 4,710 4,613 4,863 4,721 281
by gender
Men 2,596 2,578 2,621 2,697 191
Women 2,114 2,035 2,242 2,024 90
by agegroup
Up to 29 years old 1,058 1,061 1,042 974 40
30 to 49 years old 2,713 2,649 2,898 2,677 110
50 or older 939 903 923 1,070 131
by region
Europe 1,488 1,457 1,500 1,490 281
North America 1,143 1,064 1,264 1,281 not applicable
Asia-Pacific (APAC) 1,387 1,468 1,484 1,394 not applicable
Latin America 570 522 459 398 not applicable
Middle East and Africa (MEA) 122 102 156 158 not applicable
1 The table contains unadjusted turnover rates. The rate excludes employees who depart due to parental leave or a long-term illness, as well as employees who are
transitioning to the non-working phase of partial retirement.
2 Employee headcount is calculated as follows: Total number of leavers from the past 12 months divided by the average employee headcount multiplied by 100.
3 Since 2018, the figures exclude the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018.
4 The figures do not reflect the approximately 500 Allergopharma employees, who were not included in the employee turnover rate due to the divestment of the busi-
ness.
In 2020, the average length of service for employees Group-wide was 9.6 years (2019: 9.5 years), with 16.2 years (2019:
16.3 years) for Merck KGaA employees.
143
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Work-related accidents1
2020
2020 thereof
2017 2018 2019 MerckGroup2 MerckKGaA
Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR = work-
place accidents resulting in missed days
of work per one million man-hours) 1.5 1.2 1.6³ 1.3 2.9
by region
Europe 2.4 1.8 2.6³ 2.4 2.9
North America 1.0 1.1 1.0³ 0.7 not applicable
Asia-Pacific (APAC) 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.1 not applicable
Latin America 1.3 1.5 1.7 0.9 not applicable
Middle East and Africa (MEA) 0.0 0.7 0.0 0.4 not applicable
Number of deaths 0 0 0 0 0
by region
Europe 0 0 0 0 0
North America 0 0 0 0 0
Asia-Pacific (APAC) 0 0 0 0 0
Latin America 0 0 0 0 0
Middle East and Africa (MEA) 0 0 0 0 0
by gender
Women 0 0 0 0 0
Men 0 0 0 0 0
1 Including supervised workers
2 The data include the divested Allergopharma business up to March 31, 2020. See theReport profilefor further information.
3 Figure retroactively adjusted
Both Merck employees as well as supervised workers have been included in the calculation of these indicators.
Through the LTIR, we record work-related accidents that involve at least one day of missed work. A work-related accident
is an injury that results from the type of work, in the course of doing said work, and that has no internal cause. Work-
related accidents are considered relevant if they occur on the premises, on business trips, during goods transport, as a
result of external influences (e.g. natural disasters), or due to criminal acts involving personal injury. Commuting acci-
dents and accidents during company sporting activities are not included. First-aid incidents are generally not included in
the LTIR since these usually do not result in more than one day of missed work.
We aimed to sustainably lower our LTIR to 1.5 by 2020. In the reporting year, we succeeded in outperforming this ambi-
tious figure, which we achieved for the first time in 2015.
The LTIR is the key occupational safety indicator for the Merck Group as a whole. Therefore, we do not publish any other
indicators such as workplace accidents, lost days or days of absence. The LTIR is not broken down by gender as this differ-
entiation is not relevant to our strategic planning.
For Merck KGaA (about 15% of the employees of the Merck Group), we only report work-related illnesses if these have
been certified as an occupational illness by the employers’ liability insurance association. In 2020, no cases of work-
induced illness were verified.
144
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Employees who regularly receive a performance and development evaluation
2020
2020 thereof
20171 20181,2 2019 MerckGroup MerckKGaA
% of employees who receive a perform-
ance and development evaluation 97 98 98 98 100
by gender
Women 97 99 98 98 100
Men 97 98 98 98 100
by employee category
Senior management (Role 6+) 100 100 100 100 100
Middle management (Role 4 & 5) 100 100 100 100 100
Low management (Role 3) 100 100 100 100 100
Other employees (below Role 3) 96 98 98 98 100
1 In 2017 and 2018 the position assessment had not yet been carried out for employees of all Sigma-Aldrich legal entities in Germany, or for employees of Allergo-
pharma. In the facts and figures, these employees are included under “other employees (below Role 3)”.
2 Since 2018, the figures exclude the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018.
Regular feedback and employee performance evaluations are essential to fairly ranking individual performance and to
helping all employees follow their own career path at Merck. Our globally uniform Performance and Talent Management
Process requires annual feedback meetings and performance assessments. Apart from evaluating employee performance,
this helps us to identify individual development opportunities.
In Germany, all permanent employees have been participating in the Performance and Talent Management Process since
2013. In 2020, a total of 56,922 employees worldwide were involved in the process. The Performance and Talent Manage-
ment Process is coordinated via our online platform HR4You.
Internationality of employees
2020
2020 thereof
As of Dec. 31 20171 20181 20192 MerckGroup MerckKGaA
Number of nationalities 131 136 139 141 87
Number of nationalities in management positions
(Role 4 or above) 65 70 73 75 35
% of non-Germans in management positions
(Role 4 or above) 64 64 64 66 11
1 In 2017 and 2018 the position assessment had not yet been carried out for employees of all Sigma-Aldrich legal entities in Germany, or for employees of Allergo-
pharma.
2 In 2019, the position assessment had not yet been carried out for employees of Versum Materials as well as of Allergopharma.
145
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Employee age by region
As of Dec. 31
Europe Middle East
Number of North (including Asia-Pacific and Africa
employees Worldwide America Germany) Merck KGaA (APAC) Latin America (MEA)
2019
Up to 29 years old 8,560 1,829 3,282 1,208 2,713 498 238
thereof women 3,983 773 1,595 440 1,225 289 101
30 to 49 years old 34,377 6,441 15,540 4,355 9,067 2,373 956
thereof women 15,076 2,733 7,191 1,465 3,531 1,200 421
50 or older 14,134 4,559 7,893 2,911 948 562 172
thereof women 5,481 1,779 3,123 814 293 201 85
Average age 41.7 44.4 43.0 43.4 36.8 40.3 38.6
Total employees 57,071 12,829 26,715 8,474 12,728 3,433 1,366
2020
Up to 29 years old 8,570 1,906 3,193 1,161 2,800 472 199
thereof women 4,018 825 1,525 420 1,307 260 101
30 to 49 years old 34,974 6,615 15,416 4,458 9,669 2,323 951
thereof women 15,268 2,841 7,076 1,505 3,776 1,161 414
50 or older 14,583 4,791 7,978 2,959 1,049 592 173
thereof women 5,637 1,861 3,142 839 342 209 83
Average age 41.7 44.4 43.1 43.4 37.0 40.7 39.1
Total employees 58,127 13,312 26,587 8,578 13,518 3,387 1,323
Age of youngest employee
As of Dec. 31 2017 2018 2019 2020
Age of youngest employee, excluding apprentices 18 17 18 18
Voluntary insurance benefits(voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed)
2020
2020 thereof
As of Dec. 31 2017 2018 20191 MerckGroup1 MerckKGaA
% of employees with healthcare benefits2 68 67 68 63 0
% of employees with Group accident insurance3 42 39 36 41 4
% of employees with life insurance4 58 58 58 56 0
% of employees with disability insurance (short-term and
long-term)5 35 37 39 39 0
1 The figures exclude Versum Materials and Intermolecular since the integration process is still underway. For more information, seereport profile.
2 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed healthcare benefits for employees and possibly their dependents. Not taking into consideration any
mandatory social security cover (mostly covered by an insurance policy).
3 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed accident insurance that pays a defined amount in case of death or disability caused by a work-related acci-
dent (not taking into consideration any mandatory social security cover, e.g. workman's compensation).
4 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed life insurance cover that pays a defined amount of money in case of natural death (not accidental).
5 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed insurance cover that disability pays for salary continuation in case of inability to work caused by an insured
incident.
146
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
All our employees are covered by either statutory or voluntary accident and health insurance. Employees of Merck KGaA
are covered by statutory insurance as stipulated by the regulations in force in Germany.
We offer a company pension in numerous countries along with various programs for supplemental company pensions and
survivor’s benefits.
The global benefits listed in the table above are designed to provide additional security to our workforce and their families
and to improve their quality of life. Benefits represent voluntarily employer-initiated as well as employer-financed assist-
ance to our workforce in addition to the regular compensation package.
Our benefits offer meaningful choices, where possible, to support a diverse workforce and are sensitive to the needs and
customs of the employees who use them, regardless of country, age, family status, interests, or values.
Long-term pension obligations and post-employment benefits
€ million 2017 2018 2019 2020
Present value of all defined benefit obligations
asofDec.31 4,707 4,719 5,644 6,352
Pension expenses 304 319 357 408
Depending on the legal, economic and fiscal circumstances prevailing in each country, different retirement benefit systems
are provided for the employees of the Merck Group. Generally, these systems are based on the years of service and
salaries of the employees. Pension obligations of the Merck Group include both defined benefit and defined contribution
plans and comprise both obligations from current pensions and accrued benefits for pensions payable in the future. In the
Merck Group, defined benefit plans are funded and unfunded (see ourAnnual Report 2020, Note on Provisions for
pensions and other post-employment benefits).
Flexible working hours in Germany
As of Dec. 31 2017 2018 2019 2020
% of employees utilizing the “mywork@Merck” working
model 40 42 43 48
In coordination with their teams and supervisors, employees taking advantage of “mywork@merck” can choose when and
where they work.
For more information on flexible working models during Covid-19, seeWork-life balance chapter.
147
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Parental leave1
As of Dec. 31 2017 2018 2019 2020
Number of employees with a right to parental leave 353 308 375 351
thereof women (recorded via maternity leave in the
respective year) 151 188 239 225
thereof men (recorded via special paternity leave in
the respective year) 202 120 136 126
Number of employees who took parental leave2 352 500 542 538
thereof women 150 240 248 265
thereof men 202 260 294 273
Number of employees on parental leave who worked
part time during their leave 49 128 164 104
thereof women 47 109 140 73
thereof men 2 19 24 31
Number of employees who returned from parental
leave2 312 312 536 529
thereof women 143 65 243 252
thereof men 169 247 293 277
Return to work rate(%) 88.6 62.4 98.9 98.3
thereof women 95.3 27.1 98.0 95.1
thereof men 83.7 95.0 99.7 101.5
Number of employees still working for Merck one year
after their return from parental leave 238 268 496 -3
thereof women 89 26 218 -3
thereof men 149 242 278 -3
Retention rate(%) 89.8 93.1 92,5 -3
thereof women 85.6 63.4 89,7 -3
thereof men 92.5 97.9 94,9 -3
1 Figures pertain only to Merck KGaA (which accounted for around 15% in 2020). Figures are calculated on the basis of the data from one entire year, which also
includes those employees who took parental leave during the calendar year but who had not yet returned by Dec. 31.
2 Since parental leave can be taken for a period ranging from one month to three years, it is possible for employees to be recorded across a period of up to four
calendar years. This explains why the number of employees on parental leave exceeds the number of employees who have a right to it. It also explains why the
“Number of employees who returned from parental leave” might exceed the “Number of employees who took parental leave”.
3 Figure will be available on December 31, 2021.
Employees with disabilities1(%)
As of Dec. 31 2017 2018 2019 2020
Employees with disabilities 4.3 4.3 4.4 4.7
1 Only pertains to MerckKGaA (which accounted for around 15% of MerckGroup employees in 2020, calculations based on the German Social Code IX - SGB IX).
Apprentices in Germany
As of Dec. 31 2017 2018 2019 2020
Number of apprentices 588 604 589 607
% of apprentices 4.4 4.5 4.3 4.6
148
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
EEnnvviirroonnmmeenntt
 Individual tables are part of the non-financial report
Total greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2 of the GHG Protocol)1
2020 2020
metric kilotons 20062 2017 20183 2019 Merck Group4 Merck KGaA
Total CO2eq5emissions 754 653 636 630 2,010 132
Thereof
direct CO2eq emissions (Scope 1) 352 341 332 341 1,706 108
indirect CO2eq emissions6(Scope 2) 402 312 304 289 304 24
Biogenic CO2emissions 0 13 13 13 13 0
1 In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, for all previous years (up to the 2006 baseline) greenhouse gas emissions were calculated based on the current corporate
structure as of Dec. 31 of the reporting year and retroactively adjusted for acquisitions or divestments of (parts of) companies, or for changes in emission factors
(portfolio-adjusted). Exceptions to this are company units that were added as a result of the acquisition of Versum Materials. Figures dating back to the 2006
baseline are not available for these units.
2 Baseline for our emission targets is 2006.
3 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018.
4 Includes Versum Materials as of 2020. Excluding Versum Materials, our greenhouse gas emissions totaled 563 kilo tons in 2020.
5 eq = equivalent
6 The figures presented here have been calculated in accordance with the market-based method.
Our responseto the Carbon Disclosure Project contains a detailed description of our calculation methods.
We have included the following gases in our calculation of direct and indirect CO2eq emissions:
Direct CO2emissions: CO2, HFCs, PFCs, CH4, N2O, NF3, SF6.
Indirect CO2emissions: CO2.
In 2020, we emitted 0.11 kg of CO2eq per euro of net sales.
149
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3 of the GHG Protocol)1
2017 2018 2019 2020
Total gross other indirect emissions
(metric kilotons CO2eq2) 328³ 348³ 339³ 308
Fuel- and energy-related emissions, not
included in Scope 1 or 2 (category3) 118 131 127 119
Waste generated in operations
(category5)4 433 473,5 503 85
Business travel - air travel (category6) 98 103 86 14
Business travel - rail travel (category6)6 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.01
Business travel - rental car travel
(category6) 0.6 1.4 1.3 0.2
Employee commuting (category7) 68 66 75 904
Upstream leased assets (category8)7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Processing of sold products
(category10)8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Downstream leased assets (category13) 0 0 0 0
Franchises (category14) 0 0 0 0
1 At present, we only record Scope 3 emissions globally, and not at site or legal entity level. For many categories, local allocations present a significant challenge.
Currently the focus is on creating greater transparency with respect to our Scope 3 emissions at Group level. To this end, we are now analyzing emissions for the
Scope 3 categories 1, 4 and 10 in particular.
2 eq = equivalent
3 Figure retroactively adjusted.
4 Since 2020, we apply a new calculation approach.
5 Since 2018, this figure has excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018.
6 German Railway
7 Already covered under Scope 1 and 2 emissions
8 Merck produces a huge variety of intermediate products for various purposes. Due to their many applications and our customer structure, the associated green-
house gas emissions cannot be tracked in a reasonable fashion.
No data are available for Scope 3 categories not listed above. Their relevance to Merck is assessed in theScope 3 docu-
ment.
Biogenic emissions (Scope 3), if present, are not being recorded.
Emissions of ozone-depleting substances
metric tons 2017 20181 2019 2020
Total emissions of ozone-depleting substances 1.9 1.5 1.0 2.2
CFC-11eq2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
1 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018.
2 CFC-11eq is a unit of measure used to compare the potential of various substances to deplete the ozone. Reference value 1 indicates the potential of CFC-11 to
cause the depletion of the ozone layer.
Substances included: R-12, R-22, R-123, R-141b, R-401a, R-402a, R408a, R-409a, R-502, R-503.
Source for the emission factors: Montreal Protocol.
150
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Other air emissions
metric kilotons 2017 20181 2019 2020
Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3
Nitrogen oxide 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.2
Sulfur dioxide 0.03 0.01 0.01 0.004
Dust 0.04 0.01 0.01 0.010
1 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018.
The VOC, nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, and dust emissions reported here are attributable to production activities as well
as energy generation. These figures do not include emissions from vehicles. Emissions are determined partially based on
measurements and partially based on calculations or estimates. Only some sites are required to measure individual para-
meters.
Transport of finished goods, by means of transportation
2017 2018 2019 2020
% truck 73 74 70 70
% boat 15 14 19 22
% airplane 12 12 11 8
The figures contain the volumes of the biggest global distribution centers of our Healthcare, Life Science and Performance
Materials business sectors. These figures pertain to the total weight of transported products and indicate the primary
means of transport.
In shipping finished goods from our production sites to the local warehouses of our subsidiaries, we have been working to
reduce the use of air shipping in favor of sea freight. This change aims to both reduce costs as well as lower transport-
related CO2emissions.
151
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Energy consumption1
2020
2020 thereof
In GWh 2017 20182 2019 Merck Group Merck KGaA
Total energy consumption 2,073 2,158 2,178 2,372 596
Direct energy consumption 1,205 1,261 1,288 1,265 529
Natural gas 1,140 1,194 1,222 1,178 521
Liquid fossil fuels3 32 33 33 52 8
Biomass and self-generated renewable energy 33 34 33 35 0
Indirect energy consumption 868 897 890 1,107 67
Electricity 723 749 745 944 67
Steam, heat, cold 145 148 145 163 0
Total energy sold 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.0
Electricity 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.0
Steam, heat, cold 0 0 0 0 0
In TJ
Total energy consumption 7,463 7,770 7,839 8,539 2,146
Direct energy consumption 4,338 4,541 4,637 4,554 1,905
Natural gas 4,104 4,298 4,399 4,241 1,876
Liquid fossil fuels3 114 119 119 187 29
Biomass and self-generated renewable energy 120 124 119 126 0
Indirect energy consumption 3,125 3,229 3,202 3,985 241
Electricity 2,603 2,696 2,682 3,398 241
Steam, heat, cold 522 533 520 587 0
Total energy sold 0.4 0.0 0.5 0.7 0.0
Electricity 0.4 0.0 0.5 0.7 0.0
Steam, heat, cold 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
1 In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, for all previous years (up to the 2006 baseline) energy consumption has been calculated based on the current corporate
structure as of Dec. 31 of the reporting year and retroactively adjusted for acquisitions or divestments of (parts of) companies, or for changes in emission factors
(portfolio-adjusted). Exceptions to this are company units that were added as a result of the acquisition of Versum Materials. Figures dating back to the 2006
baseline are not available for these units.
2 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018.
3 Light and heavy fuel oil, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), diesel, biodiesel, gasoline and kerosene
At our sites in Billerica (MA, United States), Bedford (MA, United States), Molsheim (France), Tel Aviv (Israel), Rome
(Italy), Guatemala City (Guatemala), Shizuoka-ken (Japan), and Shanghai (China), we use photovoltaics to produce
power.
Merck currently only records purchased secondary energy – this is primarily electricity and, to a lesser extent, heat/steam/
cold. Details on the local energy mix, including the respective percentage of primary energy, renewable energy, etc. are
not available. Data on local energy efficiency in electricity or heat generation are not available either. Our production sites
are located in countries with a widely varying energy mix.
Our Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites in Germany consume the most energy, representing 25% of our Group-wide total.
Here, fossil energy (coal, gas, etc.) accounts for approx. 42%, nuclear energy approx. 14% and renewable energies
approx. 44% of the energy mix. Renewable energies account for a higher share of electricity generation at production sites
in Switzerland, with nuclear energy taking the lead in France. Based on an estimated global energy efficiency of 37% for
the conversion and distribution of generated electricity, this results in a primary energy consumption of 2,551 GWh for
2020. Based on an estimated global energy efficiency of 85% for heat/steam/cold, this results in a primary energy
consumption of 192 GWh for 2020. This yields a total primary energy consumption of 2,743 GWh for 2020. (The calcula-
152
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
tion is based on factors stated in the “Manual for energy management in practice - Systematically reducing energy costs”
published by DENA, 12/2012.)
In 2020, Merck’s energy intensity relative to net sales totaled 0.14 kWh/€.
Water withdrawal
2020 2020
Merck Water
millionsofm3 2017 20181 2019 Group stress areas
Total water withdrawal 14.0 14.7 14.0 14.2 0.7
Surface water (rivers,lakes) 1.9 2.1 1.9 1.9 0.0
Groundwater 7.3 7.2 6.8 6.7 0.4
Drinking water
(fromlocalsuppliers) 4.8 5.3 5.2 5.5 0.3
Rain water and othersources 0.00 0.05 0.05 0.08 0.00
1 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018.
These figures do not include the ground water that we use for safety measures at our Gernsheim site in Germany. Here,
the water is fed back directly into natural circulation.
The volume of seawater and produced water withdrawn is not significant and is therefore not reported separately.
Water reused
millionsofm3 2017 2018¹ 2019 2020
Water reused 22.4 24.4 23.3 22.0
1 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018.
The recirculating cooling system at our Darmstadt, Germany facility accounts for the majority of reused water as it allows
the water to be re-utilized multiple times. The volume of reused water is thus greater than the total volume of consumed
water.
Wastewater volume
2020
2020 Water
Merck stress
2017 20181 2019 Group2 areas
Total wastewater volume
(millions ofm3) 13.1 13.5 13.2 13.4 0.6
Wastewater discharged directly 9.0 9.6 9.3 9.2 0.4
Wastewater discharged to third
parties 3.7 3.9 3.8 4.1 0.2
1 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018.
2 In 2020, we optimized the way we measure wastewater at our Gernsheim site. The figures reported no longer include wastewater from the municipality of
Biebesheim.
The volume of seawater and groundwater discharged is not significant and is therefore not reported separately.
Discrepancies between total wastewater volume and the sum of directly discharged wastewater and wastewater sent to
third parties arise from other disposal methods, which, however, only result in minor amounts of wastewater.
153
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Direct discharges correspond to the “freshwater” classification of the GRI. Indirect discharges correspond to their “other
water” classification.
Wastewater quality1
2017 20182 2019 2020
Chemical oxygen demand (metric
tons ofO2) 1,537 1,509 1,568³ 2,001
Phosphorous (metrictons) 8 10 12 15
Nitrogen (metrictons) 234 260 481 291
Nickel(kg) 32 30 32 30
Lead(kg) 35 30 34 37
Cadmium(kg) 6 6 6 6
Mercury(kg) 1 0 0 0
1 In alignment withICCA reportingrequirements specified by Cefic, we track heavy metal emissions from lead, cadmium, nickel, and mercury.
2 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018.
3 Figure retroactively adjusted.
The wastewater treatment plant at our Gernsheim, Germany site also treats wastewater from the neighboring municipality
of Biebesheim. The communal wastewater from Biebesheim is included in the emissions stated in the table.
Emissions are determined partially based on measurements and partially based on calculations or estimates. Only some
sites are required to measure individual parameters.
These figures reflect the wastewater as it is when it leaves our facilities. Some of the substances in the water are then
later removed by third-party purification plants before the water is ultimately discharged into the ecosystem.
Hazardous and non-hazardous waste
metric kilotons 2017 20181 2019 2020
Total waste 255 245 244 231
Hazardous waste disposed2 43 44 44 38
Non-hazardous waste disposed2 33 54 41 34
Hazardous waste recycled3 72 75 78 89
Non-hazardous waste recycled3 107 72 81 70
1 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018.
2 Disposed = incineration (without energy recovery) and landfill
3 Recycled = incineration (with energy recovery) and material recycling
We generally use external service providers in order to dispose of our waste outside our sites. Some material recycling of
hazardous waste takes place directly at our sites (2020: approx. 46metric kilotons).
Exported/Imported hazardous waste
metric kilotons 2017 20181 2019 2020
Exported2 4.9 4.5 4.3 4.0
Imported 0.005 0.000 0.000 0.000
1 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018.
2 Disposal primarily within the EU and the United States.
In 2020, approx. 3% of hazardous waste was shipped internationally.
154
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Waste by disposal method
2017 20181 2019 2020
Total waste (metrickilotons) 255 245 244 231
Disposed waste 76 98 85² 72
Landfilled waste 13 35 26 17
Incinerated waste 63 63 59² 55
Recycled waste 179 147 159² 159
Material recycling 149 127 132 135
Waste-to-energy 30 20 27² 24
Recycling rate (%) 70 60 65² 69
1 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018.
2 Figure retroactively adjusted.
As in previous years, the total waste generated continues to be heavily influenced by the waste from construction and
remodeling activities. Construction, excavation and demolition waste accounted for 21% of our waste in 2020. Around 37
metric kilotons of construction, excavation and demolition waste was recycled.
We generally use external service providers in order to dispose of our waste outside our sites. Some material recycling of
hazardous waste takes place directly at our sites (2020: approx. 46 metric kilotons).
Significant spills
2017 2018 2019 20201
Total number of significant spills 0 0 0 0
1 The data include the divested Allergopharma business up to March 31, 2020. See theReport profilefor further information.
155
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
CCoommmmuunniittyy
Spending on community engagement
€ million 2017 20181 2019 2020
Total spending 33.8 35.7 46.2 53.6
1 From 2018 on, we are separating spending on programs of the Merck Foundation from our community involvement figures.
We calculate the value of pharmaceutical product donations according to the WHO Guidelines for Medicine Donations; for
other product donations, we apply their fair value.
Community engagement spending by region1
North Asia-Pacific Latin Middle East and
Europe America (APAC) America Africa (MEA)
2019
€ million 10.6 3.4 2.3 0.5 29.3
% 23 7 5 1 64
2020
€ million 15.1 5.8 4.2 2.6 25.9
% 28 11 8 5 48
1 This table presents the regions across the globe in which we support initiatives. For projects that benefit multiple regions, we have calculated the amount per region
by dividing the project spending evenly per country.
Focus of our local community engagement1
% 2017 20182 2019 2020
Global Health 38 34 33 36
Broad Minds: Education and culture 43 42 38 43
Sustainable Solutions: Environment 4 2 3 1
Disaster relief 2 2 2 1
Other 13 20 24 19
1 Based on number of projects
2 From 2018 on, we are separating spending on programs of the Merck Foundation from our community involvement figures.
156
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Motivations for our community engagement1
% 2017 20182 2019 2020
Charitable activities 9 7 6 23
Community investment 84 88 91 72
Commercial initiatives in the community 7 5 3 5
1 Based on total spending on all projects
2 From 2018 on, we are separating spending on programs of the Merck Foundation from our community involvement figures.
We categorize the motivations for our activities based on the London Benchmarking Group model as well as the guidelines
of the Bertelsmann Foundation for corporate social responsibility. Projects that primarily aim to make improvements within
the community are classified as community investment.
Initiatives that are predominantly aimed at company-relevant factors such as image or personnel recruitment are classi-
fied as commercial initiatives in the community. Charitable activities cover any other projects that benefit a charitable
organization, but cannot be listed under either of the other two motivation categories due to missing data or their narrow
scope.
157
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
GGooaallss
 Part of the non-financial report
Legend: New Goal Goal achieved In Progress Goal not achieved
BBuussiinneessss  eetthhiiccss
Compliance management
Goal: Bring compliance closer to the business
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Third Party Risk Management July 2020 Stepwise implementation of the new Third-
Party Risk Management process commenced in
November 2020.
Goal: Standardize process for disclosure and documentation and increase awareness
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Global harmonization of the Conflict of Interest November The Group Conflict of Interest Policy went live
process 2020 in November 2020 and is applicable to all Merck
employees worldwide, excluding the two
Healthcare legal entities in France. A confirma-
tion course was rolled out for a specific target
group in November 2020. The self-service
digital disclosure process, including the docu-
mentation of the respective mitigation actions,
has been implemented in a new ServiceNow
workflow in August 2020 but rolled out together
with the policy and confirmation course in
November 2020.
Supply chain standards
Goal: Ensure that suppliers adhere to ethical, social, environmental and compliance standards
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Develop a due diligence process for Responsible End of Q3/ In 2020, we finalized a Group-wide conflict
Minerals Sourcing according to the OECD guid- 2019 – minerals due diligence process and published
ance for upstream processes and integrate it extended to our respective Responsible Minerals Sourcing
into the working processes of the affected units. Q4/2020 Charter.
Develop a due diligence process for palm oil Extended to In 2020, ad-hoc validations of palm oil
sourcing according to international guidance and end of 2021 suppliers took place as needed. In 2021, we
implement it within the working processes of the aim to develop a structured due diligence
affected units. process for the procurement of palm oil.
158
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Animal welfare
Goal: Consistently ensure high quality across our animal facilities
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Re-accredit relevant animal facilities. Ongoing No AAALAC re-accreditation was due in 2020
and all accredited sites maintained their status.
The next re-accreditation is due in 2021.
Implement organizational changes and create a End of 2021 A new Animal Affairs unit with independent
new framework of rules for animal welfare to Animal Welfare Officers has been set up. The
empower the businesses and manage risks. implementation of other organizational changes
will be finished by end of 2021.We have
rewritten our Animal Affairs Policy and adopted
six new standards.
Ensure transparency and ease processes by End of 2025 We are implementing a centralized IT landscape
digitalizing the Animal Affairs unit and devel- to support cross-functional processes and
oping an internal reporting system for all knowledge exchange, to foster transparency
animal-related activities. and manage risks. We identified and set up
working groups that will implement procedures
to ensure that all external and internal animal
work is reported and KPIs are managed.
Goal: Ensure animal welfare in our supply chain
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Develop and implement an audit plan for Ongoing Due to Covid-19-related travel restrictions, only
suppliers. limited audits were performed. With the help of
partners, we carried out a total of 11 on-site
audits of CRO facilities. Additionally, we set up
five remote audits.
We have implemented standards across our
vendors globally and will prioritize the qualifica-
tion of vendors based on risk assessments.
Goal: Promote the 4Rs (Reduction, Refinement, Replacement, Responsibility)
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Develop a Group-wide 4R program. Ongoing We added a fourth R (Responsibility) and
presented our internal 4Rs Award to increase
awareness.
By mid-2021, we will agree on aligned and
binding 4Rs KPIs for all our businesses
conducting animal work and for the Animal
Affairs unit.
159
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
PPrroodduuccttss
HHeeaalltthh  ffoorr  aallll
Focus programs
Goal: Eliminate schistosomiasis
Hand in hand with partners, we aim to eliminate the tropical disease schistosomiasis worldwide.
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Donate up to 250million praziquantel tablets Ongoing Following the orders for 2020 from WHO, we
annually to the World Health Organization donated nearly 226million tablets in 30 coun-
(WHO) for African school-age children tries, 27 of which are in Africa. We continue to
maintain production capacities at a level suffi-
cient for manufacturing 250million praziquantel
tablets a year.
Optimize the praziquantel formulation End of 2020 In 2020, we further analyzed the results of the
first bioequivalence study. We also concluded
the second bioequivalence study successfully
and submitted the results to WHO for pre-quali-
fication.
Initiate new partnerships to promote behavioral End of 2020 We extended our partnership with the NALA
change in African school children Foundation for an additional three years.
Milestone 2020: Extend the partnership with the
NALA Foundation
Continue to strengthen the position of the Global Ongoing In 2019 and 2020, the GSA contributed to the
Schistosomiasis Alliance (GSA) as a partner development of the WHO NTD roadmap
platform for advocacy, implementation, 2021-2030 and will continue to work with its
research, communication, and strategy develop- partners on its implementation.
ment
Goal: Availability – Address unmet needs through the research, development and optimization of health solutions
We aim to improve global health for underserved populations in low- and middle-income countries, with a focus on
combating infectious diseases
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Develop a pediatric formulation of praziquantel End of 2020 The Phase III trial started in September 2019
for the treatment of schistosomiasis in children at the Homa Bay clinical center in Kenya. The
under six. study is implemented in Kenya and Côte
d’Ivoire. The Covid-19 pandemic impacted the
Milestone 2020: Completion of the clinical Phase implementation of this study; it was paused in
III trial line with national restrictions. As a result,
project timelines have shifted, with an estim-
ated completion of the Phase III in 2021.
Develop a pediatric formulation of praziquantel End of 2020 The access strategy identified the need for an
for the treatment of schistosomiasis in children implementation field study in African countries.
under six. As part of the strategy, procurement access
mechanisms for the pediatric formulation of
Milestone 2020: Develop access strategy for praziquantel, including local manufacturing, are
selected countries being defined to ensure that the pediatric
medication reaches pre-school age patients in
need.
Develop a new antimalarial (PeEF2inhibitor) End of Q4 In addition to bringing Phase Ib (for cure) to
2020 completion, our work focused on designing a
Milestone 2020: Design of Phase II and identific- Phase II study, identifying a combination
ation of combination partner partner, and devising a commercialization path
to tailor further development.
160
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Prices of medicines
Goal: Update our access to medicine strategic plan
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Create a dedicated cross-functional working Ongoing In addition to existing initiatives, we have
group to update our universal strategy for begun defining new equitable strategy plans to
equitable pricing. make Mavenclad®available in low- and
middle-income countries. The lessons learnt
will be evaluated in 2021 for upcoming
projects and product launches as an ongoing
initiative.
Goal: Provide patients with access to affordable, high-quality products by making more of our branded generics
(branded off-patent products) available.
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Continue with the expansion of our branded Ongoing We are in the process of registering further
generics portfolio. branded generics in low- and middle-income
markets.
Goal: Provide “beyond-the-pill” solutions to patients, caregivers and physicians to enable better management of the
condition while maximizing treatment outcomes.
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
We entered a partnership on a leading medica- Ongoing Following the successful pilots of a customized
tion adherence solution, Medisafe, to pilot a program to cardiometabolic patients in Brazil,
customized program to cardiometabolic Mexico and Russia in 2018/2019, we continued
patients in Brazil, Mexico and Russia. to serve relevant patients in Brazil and Russia
and observed important improvements in
adherence rates.
We entered a partnership with a leading digital Ongoing Following the successful piloting of the digital
diabetes prevention program provider,Blue (2019 goals lifestyle intervention program in collaboration
Mesa Health, to offer an effective and custom- achieved, with Blue Mesa Health (acquired by Virgin
ized lifestyle counselling program to prediabetic continue to Pulse), we are supporting the Virgin Pulse
patients across different regions. develop/expand program in LATAM.
in 2020)
We entered a partnership with leading health 2021 We offer the digital lifestyle intervention
technology and data science companyHolmusk program “GlycoLeap” in collaboration with
to offer a patient lifestyle support program on Holmusk to prediabetics and/or diabetics in
its GlycoLeap platform. Asia, particularly in Hong Kong, Indonesia and
Malaysia.
161
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
PPrroodduucctt  ssaaffeettyy  aanndd  qquuaalliittyy
Chemical product safety
Goal: Guided by the precautionary principle, establish a globally aligned hazard and risk communication system for
all our relevant chemical products in the supply chain
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Projects for hazard communication: End of 2020 In both our Life Science and Performance
Update safety data sheets for non-hazardous Materials business sectors, all safety data
materials sheets for non-hazardous materials had been
updated by the end of 2019, ahead of schedule.
Since there are no non-hazardous materials in
the Versum Materials portfolio and no chemicals
at all in the Intermolecular portfolio, there were
no safety data sheets for non-hazardous mater-
ials that required updating.
Harmonize safety data sheets to align with a End of 2020 In our Life Science business sector, we have
globally uniform standard consolidated our SAP systems for hazard
communication, creating a single platform
approach.
In Performance Materials, we generate safety
data sheets through a centralized SAP system
governed by globally consistent rules.
The continued integration of Versum Materials
focuses on converging work processes and
requirements related to product compliance and
sustainability.
162
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Patient safety
Goal: Enhance patient safety through stakeholder communication
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Enhance patient interface in agReporter applica- Ongoing We initiated the roll-out of the agReporter app
tion and rollout of patient-centric pharmacovigil- in Kenya and Nigeria. As well optimized the
ance videos. usability of the app.
Goal: Empower early and fully informed decisions by addressing unmet medical needs, deep biology and drug safety
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Define a scoring model as basis for product 2023 We incorporated the product prioritization tool
prioritization and tiered portfolio management. during the development of the risk-based oper-
ating model in the Global Patient Safety unit.
Employ an objective scoring tool, based on crit- We published the initial version of the product
ical safety and relevant cross-functional para- prioritization tool in January 2020. Further
meters. details are in the chapter.
Implement a risk-based approach in global 2023 We completed the design phase and started
patient safety processes to improve efficiency. implementation of our risk-based operating
model in the Global Patient Safety (GPS) unit.
Develop real-time pharmacovigilance intelli- 2023 To ensure that requirements and guidance’s of
gence on global, regional and local levels to health authorities are met properly, we formed
enable strategic decision-making.. the Pharmacovigilance Intelligence Council. The
council enables us to have better oversight and
make decisions regarding our actions effi-
ciently.
To improve efficiency and timeliness in the
assessment of new legislation, we are also
working on a tool for process automation.
Goal: Provide up-to-date safety information to our customers worldwide, based on the benefit-risk profiles of our
products
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Practice predictive safety by developing a 2023 We developed concepts, principles as well as
robust, cross-functional benefit-risk strategy guidance documents on the strategy of benefit-
that helps us deliver therapies that are truly risk assessment
differentiated and provide transformational
value to patients. We developed a change management plan to
bring this new Benefit-Risk Strategy to every
function.
We are testing the new Benefit-Risk Strategy
through several pilots, using products from our
Healthcare portfolio.
Optimize and automate the processing of indi- 2023 The project team has worked on actions to
vidual case safety reports (ICSRs) from collec- streamline our activities and to move forward
tion to reporting, in order to significantly reduce into long-term automation
manual efforts and further improve quality,
while maintaining a high level of timely compli-
ance in reporting.
163
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Product-related crime
Goal: Strengthening cross-functional collaboration within the global security network and raising awareness among
other target audiences of the strategic relevance of counterfeit medicines.
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Expand organizational structures and certify Ongoing In 2020, we started to build a regional
employees who deal with product-related crime. corporate security management structure,
which incorporates Product Crime Officers. This
regional corporate security structure is intended
to enable strong cross-functional collaboration.
This is supposed to make security performance,
incidents and risks at our sites more trans-
parent. In addition, the new structure helps to
establish a risk-based approach for more effi-
cient security risk management. The introduc-
tion of this new structure is likely to be
completed in 2021.
In 2020, we also revised both of our internal
guidelines for fighting product-related crime.
Host conferences and seminars; share best Ongoing Due to Covid-19, no training sessions took
practices and lessons learned through interna- place on site in 2020. We held virtual meetings.
tional networks
Establishing the “Security Academy” learning Ongoing Kick-off held in mid-February 2020, thereafter
and communication platform with the aim of quarterly calls.
better imparting all Security functions and key
stakeholder-relevant know-how.
Goal: Develop and implement security technologies and solutions for the authentication, identification, integrity, and
security of the product supply chain
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Support regional activities to counter product- Ongoing Completed a project in China in 2020 to
related crime. monitor online marketplaces more purposefully
and pinpoint suspected cases. As a result, we
identified only a few counterfeit versions of our
products.
Step up Internet research to detect counterfeit Ongoing Completed a project in China in 2020 to
products, illegal parallel imports as well as monitor online marketplaces in a more focused
trademark infringements manner and investigate suspected cases. As a
result, we identified only a few counterfeit
versions of our products.
Monitor counterfeit pharmaceuticals in conven- Ongoing In 2020, we engaged a new Internet-monit-
tional distribution channels as well as online oring provider to monitor counterfeit medicines
sales worldwide.
Goal: Provide and further develop the mobile compact laboratory Minilab™ by GPHF
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Update the Minilab manuals and consolidate all End of 2020 French and Spanish versions of the manuals
test methods into one single volume. were completed in 2020.
164
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Transport and warehouse safety
Goal: Ensure warehouse and transport safety within our company and at contract warehouses and prevent incidents
that pose a risk to people and the environment
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Regularly evaluate audit results, incident reports Ongoing We drafted closure instructions for open ship-
and safety-related complaints and implement ping cartons intended for reuse and started
the resulting corrective actions implementing them in order to reduce our
waste streams.
Beyond this, in 2020 we did not identify any
other aspects of transport and warehouse
safety that could be improved by Group-wide
measures.
165
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
EEmmppllooyyeeeess
Career with us
Goal: Consistently fill at least two-thirds of leadership positions (Role 6+) with internal candidates
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Use the Talent Management Process to identify Ongoing In 2020, 75% of vacant positions (Role 6+)
suitable employees with leadership potential and were filled internally.
optimize the process to systematically advance
them
Build a high-potential talent pool that reflects Ongoing We are continuously developing the talent pool
our demographic structure further. The set-up of the pool reflects the
diversity of the company.
Goal: Position our Group as an attractive employer for university graduates
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Participate in university fairs and organize in- Ongoing We are continuously positioning ourselves as an
house recruiting events for graduates; position attractive employer for university graduates.
our company via employer branding channels; Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, there was less
partner with target universities, student initiat- direct interaction with young talent. Career fairs
ives and organizations/associations did not take place at universities. Instead, we
participated in virtual fairs nationally and inter-
nationally. Since we were unable to welcome
student visitor groups to the Darmstadt site,
our Visitor Communications team carried out
the remaining site tours in virtual formats. As a
result, student groups also continued to gain an
insight into our company and our recruiters
remained in contact with the student talent.
Approach select target universities Ongoing We leveraged existing measures, for instance
intensive collaboration with selected university
departments and career services, to bolster our
position as an attractive employer for university
graduates.
Goal: Increase the share of employees (Group-wide) with development plans to 70% by 2020
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Conduct extensive internal communications and End of 2020 The percentage of employees with development
people development campaigns and optimize plans increased from 75% (2019) to 77%
existing tools (2020).
Create awareness and share knowledge End of 2020 We are taking steps to raise awareness of
development plans and help employees to
create a solid one.
Fairness and dialogue
Goal: Measure and improve employee engagement
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Implement a regularly occurring process to Ongoing In 2020 we once again conducted multiple
measure employee engagement and derive employee surveys worldwide. Our leaders are
actions to improve it.. responsible for analyzing the results, discussing
them with their teams and taking appropriate
action where necessary.
166
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Diversity and inclusion
Goal: Our target is to maintain a 30% representation of women in leadership roles (Role 4+) until 2021.
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Deploy teams at business sector level to develop End of 2021 All business sectors founded their own teams
goals and measures to move women into posi- that are networked with one another and
tions in various hierarchies occupy themselves with objectives and meas-
ures. For example, all areas introduced our
inclusion training. Moreover, we again offered
specific sponsoring or mentoring programs for
women.
Health and safety
Goal: Reduce the lost time injury rate Group-wide (to 1.5 or less).
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Reinforce our safety culture to prevent behavior- End of 2020 In 2020, we achieved a Group-wide LTIR of
related accidents. Roll out our BeSafe! program 1.3. Manager training and safety walkabouts
at all legacy Sigma-Aldrich sites and monitor helped us maintain a high level of safety
ongoing implementation via appropriate awareness. We implemented these measures
performance indicators. across numerous sites.
EEnnvviirroonnmmeenntt
Environmental stewardship
Goal: Incorporate all production sites into our ISO 14001 Group certificate for environmental management systems.
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
At newly acquired production sites, introduce Ongoing In 2020, 13 new sites were added to our Group
environmental management systems in line with certificate. All sites relevant to the Group certi-
our ISO 14001 Group certificate and certify ficate have already achieved ISO 14001:2015
them accordingly. certification.
167
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Climate action
Goal: 20% reduction in our direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2) relative to the 2006
baseline
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Systematically examine the energy consumption End of 2020 In 2020 we piloted a project on digital energy
at our individual production sites management. As part of the project, we
developed software aimed at fully monitoring
energy consumption, which will enable us to
better analyze current consumption and devise
targeted approaches to boosting energy effi-
ciency.
Identify and implement potential energy savings End of 2020 In 2020, a variety of energy efficiency initiat-
ives helped us save around 1,700 metric tons
of CO2eq at our global headquarters in Darm-
stadt.
Reduce process-related emissions End of 2022 Throughout 2018/2019, we initiated two
(will be process emission reduction projects that will
continued continue through the year 2022. Taking 2018
under new production volumes as our baseline, these
target) efforts are expected to save 55,000 metric tons
of CO2eq.
Renewable energy End of 2020 In 2020, we increased the percentage of elec-
tricity from renewable energy sources relative
to total electricity purchased to 27% (2019:
19%).
In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG
Protocol), we are now capturing our emissions
using both the market-based and the location-
based approach.
Goal: 50% reduction in our direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2) by 2030 (2020 baseline)
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
We will start executing measures to achieve this 2030
goal in 2021.
Goal: 80% of purchased electricity will come from renewable sources
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
We will start executing measures to achieve this 2030
goal in 2021.
Goal: By 2040 achieve net zero carbon operations in terms of GHG Protocol Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
We will start executing measures to achieve this 2040
goal in 2021 alongside our efforts to achieve our
2030 targets.
168
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Waste and recycling
Goal: Reduce the environmental impact of our waste disposal practices by a 5% reduction of our Waste Score by
2025 (2016 baseline)
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Continuously look for ways to improve our Ongoing Through our ProMec initiative, we boosted the
production processes and disposal methods. recycling rate of production waste at our Darm-
stadt site to 16%, thereby saving an additional
600 metric tons of waste in 2020.
Furthermore, our site in St. Louis (Missouri,
USA) shifted roughly 140 metric tons of its
waste disposal from landfill to energy recovery
in 2020.
Water management
Goal: Introduce a sustainable water management system at 24 of our manufacturing facilities with high water
consumption by 2020
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Meet the “advanced” requirements set out in the November During stage 3 of the self-assessment, we
CEFIC flagship self-assessment tool (stage 3). 2020 analyzed the environmental impacts caused by
This will assess our sites’ impact on the water our discharged water. Building on this analysis,
situation in the vicinity of each individual site. we stipulated mandatory requirements for our
sites to be successfully implemented by the end
of 2020.
Goal: Reduce our water use at sites in water-stressed areas by 10% relative to the 2014 baseline
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
Processes optimized to curb water consumption 2020 Water consumption has been reduced by 27%
at seven production sites in Mexico, Spain, at the respective sites.
Taiwan, and the United States.
Goal: Reduce our Water Intensity Score by 10% by 2025 (2019 baseline)
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
We will be implementing measures to achieve 2025
this goal starting in 2021.
Goal: Reduce environmentally relevant trace substance residues in the wastewater of all production sites to below
the no-effect threshold
Action(s) By Progress by end of 2020 Status:
2030 To drive our wastewater quality goal, we
drafted a mandatory standard detailing the
individual steps needed to achieve it.
169
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
RReeccooggnniittiioonn  aanndd  rraannkkiinnggss
The following overview presents a selection of major awards and recognition that we have received or achieved.
Information on additional recognition and accolades received by individual businesses or sites can be found in
the respective chapter of our 2020 Sustainability Report, or on our website.
SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy  ppeerrffoorrmmaannccee
Access to Medicine Index
Every two years, theAccess to Medicine Foundationpublishes theAccess to Medicine Index. It benchmarks 20 of the
world’s largest research-based pharmaceutical companies on activities and initiatives that experts consider most relevant
for access to medicine in low- and middle-income countries.
The Foundation revised the Access to Medicine Index methodology in 2020. The latest Index was published in January
2021. We came ineighth place(previously fourth place). Our position among the top ten confirms our continuous commit-
ment to improving sustainable access to high-quality solutions for all. The ATM Index for 2021 recognized us for our
performance in Research & Development, where we ranked fifth. Our leading role in Intellectual Property sharing also
received accolades.
www.accesstomedicineindex.org
CDP climate and water
We’ve been reporting our climate actions to the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) since 2008. In 2020, our
climate impact mitigation activities scored a B in the CDP, up from a C in 2019. This initiative measures the strategies
companies use to reduce emissions along with their successes, as well as how they manage their risks and opportunities
on climate change.
In addition to reporting on our climate action, since 2016 we have been reporting our water-related performance and
processes to the CDP. In 2020, we again received a B for our water management practices.
The CDP evaluates companies’ performance in the areas of climate and water on a scale from A to D-, with A being the top
score.
www.cdp.net
EcoVadis rating
The independent rating agency EcoVadis evaluates suppliers from more than 160 countries across the categories of Envir-
onment, Labor and Human Rights, Ethics, and Sustainable Procurement. As a member of the Together for Sustainability
initiative, we also undergo this assessment. We were again assessed in 2020, and with a score of 79/100 achieved plat-
inum status, which put us among the top 1% of all participating companies.
www.ecovadis.com
ESG Rating from MSCI
MSCI ESG Research provides MSCIESG Ratingson global public and a few private companies on a scale of AAA (leader) to
CCC (laggard), according to exposure to industry-specific ESG risks and the ability to manage those risks relative to peers.
In May 2020, we received a rating of AAA in the MSCI ESG Ratings assessment.
www.msci.com/esg-ratings
170
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
ESG Risk Rating from Sustainalytics
With the ESG Risk Rating Sustainalytics measures company's exposure to industry-specific material ESG risks and
analyses how well companies are managing those risks. In December 2020, Sustainalytics ranked us 13th among 792
pharmaceutical companies with an overall “low” exposure to ESG risks.
www.sustainalytics.com
ESG company rating from ISS
In 2020, the Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS) group of companies again granted us Prime Status (“good” to “very
good”) as in 2019.
www.issgovernance.com/esg
The 100 Most Sustainably Managed Companies in the World
In 2020, The Wall Street Journal newly ranked the world’s most sustainably managed companies focusing on companies’
ability to create long-term shareholder value. Among all companies ranked we took fourth place while reaching the first
place in the subranking “Social and product issues management”. With the first place in the subranking we are recognized
for our social initiatives such as our program to eliminateschistosomiasis.
www.wsj.com
The 200 most sustainable companies in Germany
In 2020, the magazine stern and the market research company Statista analyzed both the sustainability performance of
German companies and the perception of these companies by citizens in the three ESG categories. Among 200 qualified
companies, we took second place in the overall ranking on the most sustainable companies in Germany.
www.stern.de
SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy  iinnddiicceess
Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe
Since 2015 we have been a constituent of the ESI Excellence Europe, a sustainability index that comprises the 200 top-
rated European companies based on their corporate responsibility performance.
www.forumethibel.org
FTSE4Good Index Series
Since 2008, we have been included in the FTSE4Good Index Series, a leading international ethical investment stock
market rating that annually measures the performance of companies in demonstrating strong environmental, social and
governance practices.
www.ftserussell.com
STOXX® Global ESG Leaders Index
In 2020, our company was once again included in the STOXX Global ESG Leaders sustainability index, which assesses
companies based on key environmental, social and governance criteria.
qontigo.com
171
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
AAwwaarrddss
Prize for research and development
The R&D 100Awards are among the most prestigious innovation awards in the world, honoring research and development
pioneers. In November 2019, one of these awards recognized our first-to-market innovationEshmuno® CP-FT Resin,
which can be used to efficiently remove aggregates from antibodies, thus lowering the risk to patients. Moreover, this
product yields higher capacities than traditional methods and results in a smaller ecological footprint from manufacturing.
www.rdworldonline.com
Top Project of the Year Award
In July 2020, we received the “Top Project of the Year Award” from the Environment + Energy Leader journal for our web-
based tool DOZN™. With DOZN™ users can estimate the green scores of their processes and products in order to increase
their sustainability.
www.environmentalleader.com
HR Excellence Award
In 2020, we received the HR Excellence Award for our project “Empowering Leadership” to transform our leadership
culture. By setting clear expectations, providing training for managers at all levels, as well as conducting communication
campaigns, we have been able to achieve strong impact within the company and rising indicators of leadership quality.
www.hr-excellence-awards.de
Most Attractive Employers ranking
The success of our efforts is also confirmed by our ranking among the 100most attractive employers for students and
professional scientistsin Germany. This index is published annually by employer branding specialist Universum and
involves a survey of more than 47,000 people. In the category of Natural Sciences, we ranked eleventh out of 100 in the
student survey.
www.universumglobal.com
Award from Science Magazine
Science, a leading peer-reviewed academic journal, once more named us atop employer. Almost 8,000 employees and
managers from biotech and pharmaceutical companies took part in the magazine’s online survey, ranking our company
sixth in 2020.
www.sciencemag.org
172
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
NNoonn--ffiinnaanncciiaall  rreeppoorrtt
 Part of the non-financial report
Index to the combined separate non-financial report
In publishing our combined separate non-financial report (referred to in the following as “non-financial report”), we are
meeting the legal requirements. In accordance with sections 289b (3) and 298 (2) of the German Commercial Code, the
separate non-financial report of the Merck Group has been combined with the separate non-financial report of our parent
company (Merck KGaA) and incorporated into our Sustainability Report. The following index provides an overview of the
content of the non-financial report and contains links to the passages in the Sustainability Report that are relevant to the
non-financial report. Except for pointers to the Management Report in the Annual Report, pointers to other parts of the
report or links to external websites are not included in this non-financial report.
As required by Sections 289d and 315c (3) of the German Commercial Code, we have prepared this report in line with the
Global Reporting Initiative Standards (“comprehensive” option).
Description of our business model
Our business model as well as our Group structure, governance and strategy are described underCompany profile.
Strategic and organizational approach to sustainability
UnderGovernance, we present external guidelines and projects to which we have made a commitment, along with Group-
wide guidelines that are the cornerstone of our responsible governance. Oursustainability strategysets out how we prac-
tice corporate responsibility, both in terms of strategy and at the organizational level.
173
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Material aspects and topics
To determine the aspects and topics of relevance to the non-financial report, we conducted amateriality analysisthat
identified several issues that could not be assigned to any of the five aspects defined as minimum contents under section
289c (2) of the German Commercial Code. Along with these five aspects, we have therefore decided to report on the
following additional material topics:
Aspect Topic
Environmental matters
Environmental stewardship (incl. production residues in the
environment and abandoned hazardous waste)
Greenhouse gas emissions
Energy efficiency and renewable energy
Plant and process safety
Transport and warehouse safety
Chemical product safety (incl. chemical labeling)
Supply chain standards (incl. Mica supply chain)
Employee-related matters
Health and safety
Good leadership
Employee engagement
Employee development
Recruiting and retaining employees (incl. work-life balance)
Diversity
Future of work
Social matters
Patient safety
Product-related crime
Prices of medicines
Responsible marketing
Data protection
Respect for human rights
Bioethics (incl. genome editing)
Clinical studies
Supply chain standards (incl. Mica supply chain)
Anti-corruption and anti-bribery
Compliance
Interactions with health systems
Other topics
Innovation and R&D
Digitalization
As part of our approach to comprehensive risk and opportunity management, we also identify current and potential risks
and opportunities resulting from environmental, social and governance aspects. This includes tracking information on the
gross risks in terms of potential damage and probability, as well as the residual net risks remaining after mitigation meas-
ures have been executed. We did not identify any net risks that fulfill the materiality criteria as set forth by section 289c
(3) no. 3 and 4 of the German Commercial Code. Additional risks are described in theReport on Risks and Opportunitiesin
the combined management report.
174
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Aspect: Environmental matters
Under “Environmental matters”, we report on environmental stewardship (including production residues in the environ-
ment and abandoned hazardous waste),greenhouse gasemissions, energy efficiency and renewable energies, plant and
process safety, chemical product safety (including chemical labeling), transport and warehouse safety, and supply chain
standards (including Mica supply chain).
Topic Concepts incl. due diligence processes and outcome of activities
Environmental stew-
Our approach to environmental stewardship
ardship (incl. produc-
tion residues in the How we structure environmental stewardship
environment and
Our commitment: Standards and standard operating procedures
abandoned hazardous
waste) Provisions for environmental protection
Environmental stewardship projects and measures
Goals and progress: Environmental stewardship
Greenhouse gas emis-
Our contribution to climate action
sions
How we structure our climate action
Our commitment: Standards and legal frameworks
Climate action projects and measures
Goals and progress: Climate action
Energy efficiency and
Our contribution to climate action
renewable energies
How we structure our climate action
Our commitment: Standards and legal frameworks
Climate action projects and measures
Goals and progress: Climate action
Plant and process
Our approach to plant and process safety
safety
How we organize our plant and process safety
Our commitment: Standards and legislation
Plant and process safety projects and measures
Chemical product
Our approach to safe chemical products
safety (incl. chemical
labeling) How we ensure chemical product safety
Legal requirements and internal guidelines
Chemical product safety projects and measures
Goals and progress: Chemical product safety
175
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Transport and ware-
Our approach to safe transport and storage
house safety
How we achieve transport and warehouse safety
Our commitment: Internal standards and international rules
Transport and warehouse safety projects and measures
Goals and progress: Transport and warehouse safety
Supply chain stand-
Our approach to making our supply chains more sustainable
ards (incl. Mica supply
chain) How we implement sustainability standards in the supply chain
Our commitment: Guidelines and standards
Supply chain standards projects and measures
Our approach to responsibility in the mica supply chain
How we organize our mica supply chain
Our commitment: Compliance with guidelines and standards
Mica supply chain projects and measures
Goals and progress: Supply chain standards
Aspect: Employee-related matters
Under employee-related matters, we report on concepts pertaining to being an attractive employer, which includes health
and safety, good leadership, employee engagement, employee development, recruiting and retaining employees (including
work-life balance), diversity, and future of work.
Topic Concepts incl. due diligence processes and outcome of activities
Health and safety
Our approach to preventing accidents and promoting health
How we manage occupational health and safety
Our commitment: Policies and company agreements
Occupational health and safety projects and measures
Goals and progress: Health and safety
Good leadership
Our approach to good leadership
How we facilitate good leadership
Our commitment
Good leadership projects and measures
176
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Employee engage-
Our approach to employee engagement
ment
How we engage our employees
Our commitment: Group-wide Social and Labor Standards Policy
Fairness and dialogue projects and measures
Goals and progress: Fairness and dialogue
Employee develop-
Our approach to attracting and retaining talent
ment
How we organize recruiting, vocational training and advanced training
Our commitment: Employee development guideline
Projects and measures
Goals and progress: Career with us
Recruiting and
Our approach to attracting and retaining talent
retaining employees
(incl. work-life How we organize recruiting, vocational training and advanced training
balance)
Projects and measures
Goals and progress: Career with us
Our approach to ensuring a good work-life balance
How we strengthen work-life balance
Our commitment: Group guidelines and local regulations
Work-life balance projects and measures
Diversity
Our approach to diversity and inclusion
Making diversity and inclusion a pillar of the company
Our commitment: Industry-wide projects and regulations
Diversity projects and measures
Goals and progress: Diversity and inclusion
Future of work
Digitalization in recruiting, vocational and advanced training
Leveraging the opportunities of digitalization
177
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Aspect: Social matters
“Social matters” encompasses our relationship with consumers. Under this heading, we report on concepts relating to
patient safety, product-related crime, prices of medicines, responsible marketing, and data protection.
Topic Concepts incl. due diligence processes and outcome of activities
Patient safety
Our approach to ensuring patient safety
How we monitor patient safety
Our commitment: Guidelines and statutory requirements
Patient safety projects and measures
Goals and progress: Patient safety
Product-related crime
Our approach to product-related crime
How we are tackling product-related crime
Our commitment: Group-wide guidelines and standards
Product-related crime projects and measures
Goals and progress: Product-related crime
Prices of medicines
Our approach to pricing medicines
Setting medicine prices
Our commitment: Medicine price guidelines and principles
Medicine pricing projects and measures
Responsible
Our approach to interacting with health systems
marketing
How we ensure transparency and compliance
Our commitment: Group-wide guidelines and industry standards
Responsible marketing projects and measures
Data protection
Our approach to data privacy
How we ensure data privacy
Our commitment: guidelines and standards
Data privacy projects and measures
178
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Aspect: Respect for human rights
Under “Respect for human rights”, we report on concepts related to bioethics (including genome editing), clinical studies
and supply chain standards (including Mica supply chain).
Topic Concepts incl. due diligence processes and outcome of activities
Bioethics (incl.
Our approach to ethical business conduct
genome editing)
How we assess bioethics and digital ethics
Our commitment: Identifying topics and issues early on
Bioethics projects and measures
Clinical studies
Our approach to safe and transparent clinical studies
How we govern clinical studies
Our commitment: International guidelines and requirements
Projects and measures for safe and transparent clinical studies
Supply chain stand-
Our approach to making our supply chains more sustainable
ards (incl. Mica supply
chain) How we implement sustainability standards in the supply chain
Our commitment: Guidelines and standards
Supply chain standards projects and measures
Our approach to responsibility in the mica supply chain
How we organize our mica supply chain
Our commitment: Compliance with guidelines and standards
Mica supply chain projects and measures
Goals and progress: Supply chain standards
179
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Aspect: Anti-corruption and anti-bribery
Under anti-corruption and anti-bribery, we report on compliance and interactions with health systems.
Topic Concepts incl. due diligence processes and outcome of activities
Compliance
Our approach to compliance
How we ensure compliance
Our commitment: guidelines and standards
Compliance projects and measures
Goals and progress: Compliance management
Interactions with
Our approach to interacting with health systems
health systems
How we ensure transparency and compliance
Our commitment: Group-wide guidelines and industry standards
Projects and measures for interactionswith health systems
Other topics
In the following section, we report on material issues that are not covered in any of the five minimum aspects stipulated in
section 289c (2) of the German Commercial Code:
Topic Concepts incl. due diligence processes and outcome of activities
Innovation and R&D
Our approach to creating innovation
How we drive innovation
Our commitment: Protecting innovative ideas
Innovation and R&D projects and measures
Digitalization
Our approach to creating innovation
180
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
GGRRII  ccoonntteenntt  iinnddeexx
GGeenneerraall  ddiisscclloossuurreess
GRI Standards and Disclosure Number Comment Reference
Organizational profile
102-1 Name of the organization Company profile
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Company profile
Products & Industries
102-3 Location of headquarters Company profile
102-4 Location of operations Company profile
List of shareholdings
102-5 Ownership and legal form Company profile
102-6 Markets served Company profile
Macroeconomic and Sector-Specific
Environment
102-7 Scale of the organization Company profile
Net sales
Capitalization
Consolidated Balance Sheet
102-8 Information on employees and other Supervised workers such as Indicators: employees
workers temps are not logged in our
employee data system.
102-9 Supply chain Supply chain standards
Mica supply chain
102-10 Significant changes to the organization Company profile
and its supply chain Report profile
Fundamental Information about the
Group
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Sustainability strategy
Patient safety
Transport and warehouse safety
Chemical product safety
Health and safety
Environmental stewardship
Climate action
Plant and process safety
102-12 External initiatives Governance
Stakeholder dialogue
Sustainable Development Goals
Global strategy
Open innovation sharing
Compliance management
Human rights
Mica supply chain
Chemical product safety
Diversity and inclusion
181
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
102-13 Membership of associations Stakeholder dialogue
Animal welfare
Global strategy
Human rights
Mica supply chain
Transport and warehouse safety
Diversity and inclusion
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Letter from the CEO
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Sustainability strategy
Materiality analysis
Sustainable Development Goals
Report on Risks and Opportunities
Ethics and integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms Sustainability strategy
of behavior Animal welfare
Governance
Compliance management
Responsible interactions with health
systems
Human rights
Supply chain standards
Sustainable Development Goals
Bioethics
Clinical studies
Product-related crime
Transport and warehouse safety
Chemical product safety
Good Leadership
Career with us
Fairness and dialogue
Diversity and inclusion
Work-life balance
Health and safety
Environmental stewardship
Climate action
Waste and recycling
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns Compliance management
about ethics Responsible interactions with health
systems
Human rights
Bioethics
Clinical studies
Animal welfare
Diversity and inclusion
Health and safety
Indicators: business ethics
182
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Governance
102-18 Governance structure Sustainability strategy
Management
Statement on Corporate Governance
102-19 Delegating authority Sustainability strategy
Statement on Corporate Governance
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for Sustainability strategy
economic, environmental, and social Environmental stewardship
topics Good Leadership
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Sustainability strategy
environmental, and social topics Stakeholder dialogue
Materiality analysis
Global strategy
Responsible interactions with health
systems
102-22 Composition of the highest governance Management
body and its committees Statement on Corporate Governance
The Executive Board
The Supervisory Board
Objectives of the Supervisory Board
with respect to its composition
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Management
Statement on Corporate Governance
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest Diversity and inclusion
governance body Management
Statement on Corporate Governance
Gender quota
Diversity policy
Objectives of the Supervisory Board
with respect to its composition
102-25 Conflicts of interest Compliance management
Responsible interactions with health
systems
Information on corporate governance
practices
102-26 Role of highest governance body in Sustainability strategy
setting purpose, values, and strategy Values and compliance
Report of the Supervisory Board
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest Sustainability strategy
governance body The Executive Board
Statement on Corporate Governance
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance Board of Partners
body’s performance The Supervisory Board
Articles of Association
Statement on Corporate Governance
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, Sustainability strategy
environmental, and social impacts Materiality analysis
Compliance management
Report on Risks and Opportunities
Statement on Corporate Governance
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management Sustainability strategy
processes Compliance management
Report on Risks and Opportunities
Report of the Supervisory Board
183
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and Sustainability strategy
social topics Compliance management
Report on Risks and Opportunities
Report of the Supervisory Board
102-32 Highest governance body’s role in Report profile
sustainability reporting
102-33 Communicating critical concerns Compliance management
Values and compliance
102-34 Nature and total number of critical Due to the sensitive nature of Compliance management
concerns critical concerns these figures are Values and compliance
only for internal use (except
where external reporting is legally
required).
Significant additions to or
changes in the risk register are
disclosed in due course to the
Executive Board on an ad hoc
basis, as per stipulations in the
risk policy.
102-35 Remuneration policies Compensation report
102-36 Process for determining remuneration Career with us
Compensation report
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remunera- Career with us
tion Compensation report
Voting results Annual General Meeting
2020
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Competitive salaries and addi- Career with us
tional benefits not only increase
our attractiveness as an
employer; they also motivate our
people and build loyalty to the
company. The compensation we
offer is based on market analyses
in the relevant field and the value
of the respective position, as well
as the employee's skill set and
performance. Our Global Rewards
Policy defines the framework for
compensation and benefits across
the entire Group. As far as
possible, we strive to offer all our
employees comparable compens-
ation structures. Furthermore, we
monitor Compliance with
minimum standards. We do not
consider the information required
under GRI 102-38 and GRI
102-39 to be relevant to
assessing the fairness of our
compensation structures.
184
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
102-39 Percentage increase in annual total Competitive salaries and addi- Career with us
compensation ratio tional benefits not only increase
our attractiveness as an
employer; they also motivate our
people and build loyalty to the
company. The compensation we
offer is based on market analyses
in the relevant field and the value
of the respective position, as well
as the employee's skill set and
performance. Our Global Rewards
Policy defines the framework for
compensation and benefits across
the entire Group. As far as
possible, we strive to offer all our
employees comparable compens-
ation structures. Furthermore, we
monitor Compliance with
minimum standards. We do not
consider the information required
under GRI 102-38 and GRI
102-39 to be relevant to
assessing the fairness of our
compensation structures.
Stakeholder engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder dialogue
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Fairness and dialogue
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder dialogue
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder dialogue
Materiality analysis
Good Leadership
Fairness and dialogue
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Materiality analysis
Bioethics
Transport and warehouse safety
Fairness and dialogue
185
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Reporting practice
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Report profile
financial statements Company profile
Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements
102-46 Defining report content and topic Bound- Materiality analysis
aries Report profile
102-47 List of material topics Materiality analysis
102-48 Restatements of information Report profile
102-49 Changes in reporting Materiality analysis
102-50 Reporting period Report profile
102-51 Date of most recent report Report profile
102-52 Reporting cycle Report profile
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the Report profile
report
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI Content Index
the GRI Standards Report profile
102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index
102-56 External assurance Report profile
Assurance Report
186
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
EEccoonnoommiicc  SSttaannddaarrddss
GRI Standards and Disclosure Number Comment Reference
GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Company profile
Boundary Statement on Corporate Governance
Economic performance
103-2 The management approach and its
Pension schemes
components
Report on Risks and Opportunities
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
201-1 Direct economic value generated and Indicators: employees
distributed Indicators: economics
Indicators: community
Community engagement
Consolidated Income Statement
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Operating Activities
Personnel expenses
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and We report in detail on various Water management
opportunities due to climate change aspects of climate change as part CDP
of our participation in the CDP Report on Risks and Opportunities
(formerly known as the Carbon
Disclosure Project).
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and Indicators: employees
other retirement plans Pension schemes
201-4 Financial assistance received from Accounting: Property, plant and equip-
government ment
Research and development costs
GRI 202: MARKET PRESENCE 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Career with us
Boundary
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by This indicator is not relevant to Career with us
gender compared to local minimum wage us, which is why we do not collect
data on the ratio of the standard
entry level wage compared to
local minimum wage. Our Global
Rewards Policy applies to all our
subsidiaries worldwide and guar-
antees a systematic compensation
structure. Both base pay and
short-term variable compensation
are oriented to the median base
pay of the relevant reference
market. Our pay brackets are
reviewed on an annual basis and
reflect market conditions. It goes
without saying that we always
adhere to local minimum wage
levels.
187
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
202-2 Proportion of senior management hired We promote both the recruitment Good Leadership
from the local community of local employees and their inter-
national deployment at all hier-
archical levels. We do not record
the proportion of local managers,
as this is not relevant for the stra-
tegic personnel management of
our company.
GRI 203: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Global strategy
Boundary Focus programs
Prices of medicines
103-2 The management approach and its
Pharmaceutical supply chain
components
Health awareness
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services Global strategy
supported Pharmaceutical supply chain
Mica supply chain
Community engagement
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Prices of medicines
Pharmaceutical supply chain
Focus programs
Community engagement
GRI 204: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Supply chain standards
Boundary Mica supply chain
Human rights
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers We have no internal guidelines Supply chain standards
stipulating that preference be
given to local vendors in alloc-
ating contracts and therefore do
not collect this type of data.
In some countries local laws
require contracts to be awarded
to regional suppliers.
GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Compliance management
Boundary Supply chain standards
Values and compliance
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to Compliance management
corruption Indicators: business ethics
Values and compliance
Report on Risks and Opportunities
205-2 Communication and training about anti- Compliance management
corruption policies and procedures Indicators: business ethics
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and As applicable, we report on risks Compliance management
actions taken from litigation and legal proceed- Indicators: business ethics
ings in our Report on Risks and Report on Risks and Opportunities
Opportunities.
188
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
GRI 206: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Compliance management
Boundary
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive beha- Indicators: business ethics
vior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices
Additional material topics
TECHNOLOGY (Innovation and R&D, Digitalization)
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Innovation and digitalization
Boundary Good Leadership
Career with us
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
DATA PROTECTION
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Data privacy
Boundary
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
189
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall  SSttaannddaarrddss
GRI Standards and Disclosure Number Comment Reference
GRI 301: MATERIALS 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its We only record the weight of the Sustainable product design
Boundary raw materials that are directly Packaging and recycling
used in our pharmaceuticals and
103-2 The management approach and its
chemicals, which came to 387
components
kilotons in 2020 (2019: 434 kilo-
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach tons). Additionally, we utilize
operating supplies and packaging
materials such as folding boxes,
glass bottles and ampules.
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume We only record the weight of the Sustainable product design
raw materials that are directly Packaging and recycling
used in our pharmaceuticals and
chemicals, which came to 387
kilotons in 2020 (2019: 434 kilo-
tons). Additionally, we utilize
operating supplies and packaging
materials such as folding boxes,
glass bottles and ampules.
301-2 Recycled input materials used In all our endeavors, we attempt Sustainable product design
to efficiently utilize materials and Packaging and recycling
recycle as much as possible.
Where feasible, we use recycled
materials (in packaging, for
instance.) Overall, our company
considers material consumption to
be a major concern. There are
few opportunities to use recycled
material in our production
processes, because our business
model puts us at the start of the
value chain. We therefore do not
collect such data at the Group
level. Individual data and meas-
ures are reported in the
respective chapters.
301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging Owing to the multitude of Sustainable product design
materials products we supply and the Packaging and recycling
minimal comparability of our
various initiatives, we do not
collect quantitative data at the
Group level. The individual meas-
ures taken by our various busi-
nesses are reported in the
respective chapters.
GRI 302: ENERGY 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Climate action
Boundary Environmental stewardship
Sustainable product design
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
302-1 Energy consumption within the organiza- Climate action
tion Indicators: environment
190
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the To date, we have not been Indicators: environment
organization tracking energy consumption
outside our organization, but we
are working to create more trans-
parency on our Scope 3 emis-
sions. In particular, we are
currently analyzing Scope 3 emis-
sions from categories 1, 4 and 10.
In the coming years, we will be
including all Scope 3 categories in
our reporting and will also be
incorporating indirect emissions
from energy consumption outside
our organization as well.
302-3 Energy intensity Climate action
Indicators: environment
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Climate action
Indicators: environment
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of Sustainable product design
products and services
GRI 303: WATER AND EFFLUENTS 2018
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Water management
Boundary Environmental stewardship
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared Water management
resource
303-2 Management of water discharge-related Water management
impacts
303-3 Water withdrawal The amount of seawater and Water management
produced water withdrawn is not Indicators: environment
significant and is therefore not
reported separately.
303-4 Water discharge The volume of seawater and Water management
groundwater discharged is not Indicators: environment
significant and is therefore not
reported separately.
303-5 Water consumption Most of the water we use in our Water management
production streams is released
back into aquatic ecosystems
through direct or indirect
discharges. Evaporation processes
are not a material part of our
manufacturing operations. At indi-
vidual manufacturing sites, we
incorporate small amounts of
water into our products. We are
working to implement systems to
track this. Because we lack the
capacity for water storage, such
information is irrelevant to our
company.
191
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
GRI 304: BIODIVERSITY 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Environmental stewardship
Boundary Sustainable product design
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, Our land use planning takes biod- Environmental stewardship
managed in, or adjacent to, protected iversity impacts into account, with
areas and areas of high biodiversity appropriate protective measures
value outside protected areas being taken on a case-by-case
basis.
304-2 Significant impacts of activities, Environmental stewardship
products, and services on biodiversity
304-3 Habitats protected or restored Environmental stewardship
304-4 IUCN Red List species and national Our land use planning takes biod- Environmental stewardship
conservation list species with habitats in iversity impacts into account, with
areas affected by operations appropriate protective measures
being taken on a case-by-case
basis.
GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Climate action
Boundary Environmental stewardship
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Climate action
Indicators: environment
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG Climate action
Indicators: environment
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Climate action
Indicators: environment
CDP
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Climate action
Indicators: environment
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Climate action
Packaging and recycling
Indicators: environment
CDP
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Indicators: environment
(ODS)
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides Indicators: environment
(SOX), and other significant air emis-
sions
192
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
GRI 306: WASTE 2020
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Waste and recycling
Boundary Environmental stewardship
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste- Waste and recycling
related impacts
306-2 Management of significant waste-related Waste and recycling
impacts
306-3 Waste generated Waste and recycling
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Indicators: environment
306-5 Waste directed to disposal Waste and recycling
Indicators: environment
GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Environmental stewardship
Boundary
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
307-1 Non-Compliance with environmental laws Environmental stewardship
and regulations
GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Supply chain standards
Boundary Mica supply chain
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Supply chain standards
environmental criteria
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the Supply chain standards
supply chain and actions taken Mica supply chain
193
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
SSoocciiaall  SSttaannddaarrddss
GRI Standards and Disclosure Number Comment Reference
GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Career with us
Boundary Fairness and dialogue
Work-life balance
103-2 The management approach and its
Human rights
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
401-1 New employee hires and employee Indicators: employees
turnover
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Part-time employees receive the Career with us
that are not provided to temporary or same eligibility for employee
part-time employees benefits as full-time workers.
Employees with temporary
contracts, however, are not
entitled to all company benefits,
such as a company pension.
401-3 Parental leave Work-life balance
Indicators: employees
GRI 402: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Fairness and dialogue
Boundary
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding opera- The regulations on periods of
tional changes notice vary worldwide. We apply
the rules that are in force locally.
There is no need for us to track
periods of notice at Group level.
194
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2018
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its The disclosures under GRI 403 Health and safety
Boundary relate to our employees and other Transport and warehouse safety
supervised staff, both internal
103-2 The management approach and its
and external. The employees of
components
third-party contractors are not
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach included.
403-1 Occupational health and safety manage- Health and safety
ment system
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, Health and safety
and incident investigation Plant and process safety
403-3 Occupational health services Health and safety
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and Occupational health and safety Health and safety
communication on occupational health committees are required by law in
and safety Germany. All employees of Merck
KGaA are therefore represented
by such committees, which
operate at the site level. These
workers account for around 15%
of our total workforce. The
majority of sites outside Germany
also have health and safety
committees to represent their
employees. The organization of
these committees is the respons-
ibility of our individual sites.
Health and safety issues are
governed Group-wide by our EHS
Policy. The organizational imple-
mentation of this policy is the
responsibility of our individual
sites and is subject to local laws
and regulations. Merck KGaA
which accounts for approximately
15% of our total workforce, has
works agreements in place on
occupational health and safety.
403-5 Worker training on occupational health Health and safety
and safety Transport and warehouse safety
Plant and process safety
403-6 Promotion of worker health Health and safety
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupa- Health and safety
tional health and safety impacts directly Transport and warehouse safety
linked by business relationships Human rights
Plant and process safety
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational Health and safety
health and safety management system
403-9 Work-related injuries We have identified the lost time Health and safety
injury rate (LTIR) as a key Plant and process safety
performance indicator for our Indicators: employees
company.
195
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
403-10 Work-related ill health No fatalities resulting from veri- Health and safety
fied work-related illnesses were Plant and process safety
reported to Merck during the Indicators: employees
reporting period. Regarding types
of work-related illnesses we do
not collect quantitative data at
the Group level. Our sites may
collect occupational illness data as
deemed necessary.
GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Good Leadership
Boundary Career with us
Diversity and inclusion
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
404-1 Average hours of training per year per We do not keep track of the
employee average hours our employees
spend on vocational training and
continuing education because this
indicator does not have any
bearing on the quality or success
of our efforts.
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills Supply chain standards
and transition assistance programs Human rights
Product-related crime
Transport and warehouse safety
Good Leadership
Career with us
Fairness and dialogue
Diversity and inclusion
Work-life balance
Environmental stewardship
Plant and process safety
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving Career with us
regular performance and career develop- Indicators: employees
ment reviews
GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Diversity and inclusion
Boundary Fairness and dialogue
Objectives of the Supervisory Board
103-2 The management approach and its
with respect to its composition
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and Diversity and inclusion
employees Indicators: employees
The Executive Board
The Supervisory Board
Objectives of the Supervisory Board
with respect to its composition
196
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of We cannot make any statements Career with us
women to men about the ratio of the basic salary
and remuneration of women
compared with men because our
compensation systems and
processes do not distinguish
between women and men. The
salaries we offer are predicated
on the respective job description
and are based on our Global Job
Catalog, which has fixed salary
bands that are identical for men
and women. Variable salary
components that fall under
performance-based compensation
are paid on the basis of whether
mutually agreed targets have
been achieved. A performance
management system governs this
process.
GRI 406: NON-DISCRIMINATION 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Diversity and inclusion
Boundary Fairness and dialogue
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective Diversity and inclusion
actions taken Indicators: business ethics
GRI 407: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Supply chain standards
Boundary Human rights
Fairness and dialogue
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the Supply chain standards
right to freedom of association and Human rights
collective bargaining may be at risk
GRI 408: CHILD LABOR 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Supply chain standards
Boundary Mica supply chain
Human rights
103-2 The management approach and its
Fairness and dialogue
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant Supply chain standards
risk for incidents of child labor Mica supply chain
Human rights
GRI 409: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Supply chain standards
Boundary Human rights
Fairness and dialogue
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant Supply chain standards
risk for incidents of forced or compulsory Human rights
labor
197
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
GRI 410: SECURITY PRACTICES 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Human rights
Boundary
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
410-1 Security personnel trained in human We are in the process of formal-
rights policies or procedures izing our processes for security
risk assessments as part of our
security governance framework
and are planning to integrate
human rights aspects into
security-relevant processes such
as trainings for security personnel
in the future.
GRI 412: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Human rights
Boundary Fairness and dialogue
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
412-1 Operations that have been subject to Human rights
human rights reviews or impact assess- Indicators: business ethics
ments
412-2 Employee training on human rights Human rights
policies or procedures
412-3 Significant investment agreements and Human rights
contracts that include human rights
clauses or that underwent human rights
screening
GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Supply chain standards
Boundary Mica supply chain
Human rights
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using Supply chain standards
social criteria
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply Supply chain standards
chain and actions taken Mica supply chain
GRI 415: PUBLIC POLICY 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Stakeholder dialogue
Boundary
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
415-1 Political contributions Stakeholder dialogue
198
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Clinical studies
Boundary Patient safety
Product-related crime
103-2 The management approach and its
Chemical product safety
components
Sustainable product design
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Report on Risks and Opportunities
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety Chemical product safety
impacts of product and service
categories
416-2 Incidents of non-Compliance concerning As applicable, we report on risks Clinical studies
the health and safety impacts of from litigation and legal proceed- Chemical product safety
products and services ings in our Report on Risks and Report on Risks and Opportunities
Opportunities.
GRI 417: MARKETING AND LABELING 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Compliance management
Boundary Responsible interactions with health
systems
103-2 The management approach and its
Patient safety
components
Chemical product safety
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
417-1 Requirements for product and service All pharmaceuticals are subject to Patient safety
information and labeling reporting and notification require- Chemical product safety
ments, which we fulfill. In line
with the statutory requirements,
we provide our customers with
easily accessible and relevant
information on the safe handling
and use of our chemical products.
We report on the individual
requirements in the respective
chapters.
417-2 Incidents of non-Compliance concerning Patient safety
product and service information and Chemical product safety
labeling Report on Risks and Opportunities
417-3 Incidents of non-Compliance concerning As applicable, we report on risks Report on Risks and Opportunities
marketing communications from litigation and legal proceed-
ings in our Report on Risks and
Opportunities.
GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Data privacy
Boundary Clinical studies
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning Data privacy
breaches of customer privacy and losses Clinical studies
of customer data Indicators: business ethics
GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC Compliance 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Compliance management
Boundary Report on Risks and Opportunities
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
419-1 Non-Compliance with laws and regula- As applicable, we report on risks Report on Risks and Opportunities
tions in the social and economic area from litigation and legal proceed-
199
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
ings in our Report on Risks and
Opportunities.
Additional material topics
ETHICAL CONDUCT (bioethics, clinical studies, animal welfare)
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Animal welfare
Boundary Bioethics
Clinical studies
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
HEALTH FOR ALL (access to health, prices of medicines, health awareness)
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Global strategy
Boundary Focus programs
Open innovation sharing
103-2 The management approach and its
Pharmaceutical supply chain
components
Prices of medicines
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Health awareness
PRODUCT-RELATED CRIME
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Product-related crime
Boundary
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Community engagement
Boundary
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
FUTURE OF WORK
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Good Leadership
Boundary Career with us
103-2 The management approach and its
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
200
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
GGlloobbaall  CCoommppaacctt  CCooPP
2020 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress
We have been a participant in the United Nations Global Compact since 2005. As a signatory to the initiative,
we have committed ourselves to ten principles derived from key UN conventions on human rights, labor, envir-
onment, and anti-corruption. At the same time, the UN Global Compact calls on all participating companies to
work to implement these principles within their own sphere of influence.
The following table summarizes the key actions we took in 2020 to advance the principles of the Global Compact.
Link:www.unglobalcompact.org
Human rights
Principle 1: Key actions in 2020: Relevant GRI Reference:
Businesses should support disclosures:
and respect the protection Monitored our human rights performance Compliance manage-
of internationally proclaimed and practices through our “Compliance Risk 103-2: 412-1, ment
human rights. Reporting and Self-Monitoring Process” 412-2 Human rights
Incorporated human rights and modern
slavery into our “EHSStartUp!” training for
newEHSmanagers
Offered e-learning courses on ourHuman
Rights Charterand ourSocial and Labor
Standards Policy, targeted to allmanaging
directorsand senior leaders reporting
directly to the Executive Board
Integrated humans rights into our Site
SecurityStandard
Adopted and published ourConflict Mineral
Charter
Analyzed human rights risks connected to
the deployment of new technologies
201
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Principle 2: Key actions in 2020: Relevant GRI Reference:
Businesses should make disclosures:
sure that they are not Invited suppliers to aTogether for Sustain- Compliance manage-
complicit in human rights abilityseminar in Asia 412-3,414-1, ment
abuses. Conducted internal and external sustainab- 414-2 Supply chain stand-
ility audits and inspections of suppliers and
ards
collected self-reported information
Mica supply chain
Held the presidency of the ResponsibleMica
Human rights
Initiative
Labor standards
Principle 3: Key actions in 2020: Relevant GRI Reference:
Businesses should uphold disclosures:
the freedom of association Conducted internal audits on workplace Compliance manage-
and the effective recognition matters covered in ourHuman Rights 102-41,402-1, ment
of the right to collective Charter, which are specified in more detail in 407-1 Human rights
bargaining. ourSocial and Labor Standards Policy Fairness and dialogue
Regularly and extensively included local
employee representatives in company
decision-making
Reviewed human rights issues within the
scope of our SiteSecurityRisk Assessments
Kept track of human rights issues through
our “Compliance Risk Reporting and Self-
Monitoring Process”
Principle 4: Key measures in 2020 Relevant GRI Reference:
Businesses should support disclosures:
the elimination of all forms Conducted internal audits on workplace Compliance manage-
of forced and compulsory matters covered in ourHuman Rights 409-1 ment
labor. Charter, which are specified in more detail in Supply chain stand-
ourSocial and Labor Standards Policy
ards
Published on our website ourUK Modern
Human rights
Slavery Statement, which has been
Fairness and dialogue
endorsed by our Executive Board
Incorporated human rights and modern
slavery into our “EHS StartUp!” training for
new EHS managers
202
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Principle 5: Key measures in 2020 Relevant GRI Reference:
Businesses should support disclosures:
the effective abolition of Conducted internal audits on workplace Compliance manage-
child labor. matters covered in ourHuman Rights 408-1 ment
Charter, which are specified in more detail in
Supply chain stand-
ourSocial and Labor Standards Policy
ards
Held the presidency of the ResponsibleMica
Mica supply chain
Initiative
Human rights
Conducted internal and external sustainab-
Fairness and dialogue
ility audits and inspections of suppliers and
collected self-reported information
Principle 6: Key actions in 2020: Relevant GRI Reference:
Businesses should support disclosures:
the elimination of discrimin- Developed goals and measures to achieve a Diversity and inclu-
ation in respect of employ- more balanced gender structure across 102-8, 202-1, sion
ment and occupation. different hierarchical levels of our business 202-2, 401-1, Work-life balance
sectors
401-3, 404-1,
exceeded our 2021 target of maintaining a
404-3, 405-1,
30% representation of women (2020: 35%)
405-2, 406-1
in leadership roles (Role4+)
Supported numerous local and global
employee networks
Expanded the mandate of our Diversity
Council in terms ofLGBTQI+, disability and
ethnicity
Became a sustaining member of Charta der
Vielfalt e.V., a German organization that
promotes diversity in the workplace
Executed a Group-wide training program on
unconscious bias
Expanded our flexible work options
203
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Environmental stewardship
Principle 7: Key actions in 2020: Relevant GRI Reference:
Businesses should support a disclosures:
precautionary approach to Passed third-partyISO 14001:2015 audits Chemical product
environmental challenges. at 13 sites 201-2, 301-1, safety
Performed 10 internalEHSaudits, with all
302-1, 303-1, Transport and ware-
audited sites being rated as “good” or “satis-
305-1, 305-2, house safety
factory”
305-3, 305-6, Environmental stew-
Reduced CO2emissions around 25% below
305-7 ardship
our 2006 baseline (2019: 15%) amid oper-
Climate action
ating business growth (2020 reduction
Waste and recycling
target: 20% below 2006 baseline)
Water management
Defined new climate action targets for 2030
Plant and process
and 2040
safety
Took action to lowergreenhouse gasemis-
sions
Reduced our water consumption at sites in
water-stressed areas by 27% relative to the
2016 baseline (2019: 21%)
Defined new water targets for 2025 and
2030
Worked towards shrinking the environ-
mental footprint of our waste by 5% by
2025, as measured by our waste scoring
system. In 2020, we achieved a 4.6%
reduction (2019: 1.6%)
Took measures to ensure product safety (for
instanceREACH,GHS), plant and process
safety, and transport and warehouse safety
(such as internal EHS audits)
Principle 8: Key actions in 2020: Relevant GRI Reference:
Businesses should under- disclosures:
take initiatives to promote Systematically examined potential energy Sustainable product
greater environmental savings at our production sites 301 - 308 design
responsibility. Commercialized greener alternative products Packaging and recyc-
such as Cyrene™, our Stericup E filtration
ling
system and our microplastic-free functional
Climate action
filler RonaFlair
Deployed reusable and recyclable pack-
aging, which we also offer to our customers
Offered sustainable mobility options to
employees (such as “Jobticket” public transit
passes and shared bicycles)
Installed at our global headquarters an
extensive electric vehicle charging infra-
structure, part of which is available to our
employees for their own personal use
204
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Principle 9: Key measures in 2020 Relevant GRI Reference:
Businesses should disclosures:
encourage the development Leveraged DOZN™, our web-based tool for Sustainable product
and diffusion of environ- evaluating greener alternatives to various 302-4, 302-5, design
mentally friendly technolo- chemicals. It is also available in a customer- 305-5 Packaging and recyc-
gies. facing version. ling
Developed sustainable products such as
liquid crystaltechnologies, raw materials for
natural cosmetics and “greener” alternatives
to chemicals
expanded our range of “green” solvents
Reduced packaging materials and deployed
more sustainable packaging as part of our
SMASH Packagingsustainable packaging
strategy
Continued to expand the recycling programs
for our Life Science and Performance Mater-
ials customers
Anti-corruption
Principle 10: Key measures in 2020 Relevant GRI Reference:
Businesses should work disclosures:
against corruption in all its Performed 52 internal audits on corruption- Compliance manage-
forms, including extortion related risks 102-16, ment
and bribery. Expanded our range of e-learning courses to 102-17, Responsible interac-
include anti-corruption and money laun-
205-1, tions with health
dering
205-2, systems
Expanded and carried out anti-corruption,
205-3,
antitrust, data privacy, and healthcare
415-1
compliance training
Continued to operate our SpeakUp Line, a
free hotline for reporting corruption
anonymously
Formed partnerships and engagedstake-
holdersto coordinate and enhance anti-
corruption efforts
Published annual EFPIA transparency reports
Rolled out new guiding principles and stand-
ards for ethical interactions with health
systems
205
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
AAssssuurraannccee  rreeppoorrttss
AAssssuurraannccee  rreeppoorrtt  NNFFRR
 Part of the non-financial report
Limited Assurance Report of the Independent Auditor regarding the combined separate non-
1
financial report
To the Supervisory Board of MerckKGaA, Darmstadt
We have performed an independent limited assurance engagement on the non-financial statement of MerckKGaA (further
“Company” or “Merck”) according to §315b of the German Commercial Code (HGB), that is combined with the non-finan-
cial statement of the parent company in accordance with §289b HGB and integrated in the Sustainability Report 2020 of
Merck (further “combined separate non-financial report”) for the period from January 1 to December31, 2020.
Management’s Responsibility
The legal representatives of Merck are responsible for the preparation of the combined separate non-financial report in
accordance with §§315b, 315c in conjunction with 289b to 289e HGB.
This responsibility of the legal representatives includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the
combined separate non-financial report and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual disclosures which are
reasonable under the given circumstances. Furthermore, the legal representatives are responsible for the internal controls
they deem necessary for the preparation of the combined separate non-financial report that is free of –intended or unin-
tended– material misstatements.
Practitioner’s Responsibility
It is our responsibility to express a conclusion on the combined separate non-financial report based on our work performed
within a limited assurance engagement.
We conducted our work in the form of a limited assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on
Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical
Financial Information”, published by IAASB. Accordingly, we have to plan and perform the assurance engagement in such
a way that we obtain limited assurance as to whether any matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe
that the combined separate non-financial report of the Company for the period from January1 to December 31, 2020, has
not been prepared, in all material respects in accordance with §§315b and 315c in conjunction with 289b to 289e HGB.
We do not, however, issue a separate conclusion for each disclosure. As the assurance procedures performed in a limited
assurance engagement are less comprehensive than in a reasonable assurance engagement, the level of assurance
obtained is substantially lower. The choice of assurance procedures is subject to the auditor’s own judgement.
Within the scope of our engagement, we performed, amongst others, the following procedures:
Inquiriesofgroup-levelpersonnelwhoareresponsibleforthematerialityanalysisinordertounderstandoftheprocesses
for determining material topics and respective reporting boundaries for Merck
A risk analysis, including media research, to identify relevant information on Merck’s sustainability performance in the
reporting period
Evaluationofthedesignandtheimplementation ofsystemsandprocesses forthecollection, processingandmonitoring
of disclosures, including data consolidation, on environmental, employee and social matters, respect for human rights,
and anti- corruption and bribery matters
Inquiriesofgroup-levelpersonnelwhoareresponsiblefordeterminingdisclosuresonconcepts,duediligenceprocesses,
results and risks, performing internal control functions and consolidating disclosures
Inspection of selected internal and external documents
Analyticalproceduresfortheevaluationofdataandofthetrendsofquantitativedisclosuresasreportedatgrouplevelby
all sites
1Our engagement applied to the German version of the combined separate non-financial report 2020. This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance
Report issued in German, whereas the German text is authoritative.
206
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Evaluation of local data collection, validation and reporting processes as well as of the reliability of reported data based
on a sample of the sites in Hometown in the USA and in Nantong in China in the form of virtual meetings
Assessment of the overall presentation of the disclosures
As described in the combined separate non-financial report, Merck engaged external providers to perform assessments
and audits. The evaluation of the adequacy and accuracy of the conclusions from these external assessments was not part
of our limited assurance engagement.
In our opinion,we obtainedsufficientand appropriateevidenceforreachinga conclusion for the assurance engagement.
Independence and Quality Assurance on the Part of the Auditing Firm
In performing this engagement, we applied the legal provisions and professional pronouncements regarding independence
and quality assurance, in particular the Professional Code for German Public Auditors and Chartered Accountants (in
Germany) and the quality assurance standard of the German Institute of Public Auditors (Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer,
IDW) regarding quality assurance requirements in audit practice (IDW QS 1).
Conclusion
Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to
believe that the combined separate non-financial report of MerckKGaA for the period from January 1 to December 31,
2020 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with §§315b and 315c in conjunction with 289b to
289eHGB.
Restriction of Use/General Engagement Terms
This assurance report is issued for purposes of the Supervisory Board of MerckKGaA, Darmstadt, only. We assume no
responsibility with regard to any third parties.
Our assignment for the Supervisory Board of MerckKGaA, Darmstadt, and professional liability as described above was
governed by the General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften (Allgemeine
Auftragsbedingungen für Wirtschaftsprüfer und Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften) in the version dated January 1, 2017
(https://www.kpmg.de/bescheinigungen/lib/aab_english.pdf). By reading and using the information contained in this
assurance report, each recipient confirms notice of the provisions contained therein including the limitation of our liability
as stipulated in No. 9 and accepts the validity of the General Engagement Terms with respect to us.
Frankfurt am Main, February 17, 2021
KPMGAG
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
[Original German version signed by:]
Glöckner ppa. Meldau
Wirtschaftsprüfer
[German Public Auditor]
207
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
AAssssuurraannccee  rreeppoorrtt  SSRR
1
Limited Assurance Report of the Independent Auditor regarding Sustainability Information
To the Executive Board of MerckKGaA, Darmstadt
We have performed an independent limited assurance engagement on the qualitative and quantitative disclosures on
sustainability in the “Sustainability Report 2020” (further “Report”) of MerckKGaA, Darmstadt, (further “Company” or
“Merck”) for the period from January 1 to December 31, 2020, published athttps://www.merckgroup.com/en/sustainab-
ility-report/2020/.
It was not part of our engagement to review product- or service-related information, references to external information
sources, expert opinions and future-related statements in the Report.
Management’s Responsibility for the Report
The legal representatives of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the Report in accordance with the
Reporting Criteria. Merck applies the principles and standard disclosures of the Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI) in combination with the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 1 und 2) and the Corporate Value
Chain Standard (Scope 3) of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol initiative by the World Resources Institute and the World Busi-
ness Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) as Reporting Criteria (further “Reporting Criteria”).
The responsibility of the legal representatives includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the
Report and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual qualitative and quantitative sustainability disclosures which
are reasonable under the circumstances. Furthermore, the legal representatives are responsible for the internal controls
they deem necessary for the preparation of the Report that is free of –intended or unintended– material misstatements.
Practitioner’s Responsibility
It is our responsibility to express a conclusion on the Report based on our work performed within a limited assurance
engagement.
We conducted our work in the form of a limited assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on
Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical
Financial Information” and the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3410: “Assurance Engagements
on Greenhouse Gas Statements”, published by IAASB. Accordingly, we have to plan and perform the assurance engage-
ment in such a way that we obtain limited assurance as to whether any matters have come to our attention that cause us
to believe that the Report was not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. We do not,
however, issue a separate conclusion for each disclosure. As the assurance procedures in a limited assurance engagement
are less comprehensive than in a reasonable assurance engagement, the level of assurance obtained is substantially
lower. The choice of assurance procedures is subject to the auditor’s own judgement.
Within the scope of our engagement, we performed, amongst others, the following procedures:
Inquiriesofgroup-levelpersonnelresponsibleforthematerialityanalysisinordertounderstandtheprocessesfordeterm-
ining material topics and respective reporting boundaries of Merck KGaA.
Ariskanalysis,includingmediasearch,toidentifyrelevantinformationonMerckKGaA’ssustainabilityperformanceinthe
reporting period.
Evaluation of the design and implementation of systems and processes for the collection, processing and monitoring of
the qualitative and quantitative disclosures included in the scope of this engagement, including the consolidation of data
Inquiries of group-level personnel who are responsible for determining and consolidating disclosures and for performing
internal controls, including the explanatory notes
Inspection of selected internal and external documents
Analyticalproceduresfortheevaluationofdataandofthetrendsofquantitativedisclosuresasreportedatgrouplevelby
all sites
Evaluation of local data collection, validation and reporting processes as well as of the reliability of reported data based
on a sample of the sites in Hometown in the USA and in Nantong in China in the form of virtual meetings
1Our engagement applied to the German version of the Sustainability Information contained in the Sustainability report 2020. This text is a translation of the
Independent Assurance Report issued in German, whereas the German text is authoritative.
208
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Use of the insights and relevant work regarding audit procedures performed for the group and statutory audit of the
(consolidated) financial statements for the fiscal year 2020 of MerckKGaA for the information and indicators that were
derived from those consolidated financial statements
EvaluationoftheconsistencyofGRIStandardsinaccordancewithoption“Comprehensive”asreportedbyMerckwiththe
qualitative and quantitative disclosures in the Report
Assessment of the overall presentation of the disclosures
As described in the Report, Merck engaged external providers to perform assessments and audits. The evaluation of the
adequacy and accuracy of the conclusions from these external assessments was not part of our limited assurance engage-
ment.
In our opinion, we obtained sufficient and appropriate evidence for reaching a conclusion for the assurance engagement.
Independence and Quality Assurance on the Part of the Auditing Firm
In performing this engagement, we applied the legal provisions and professional pronouncements regarding independence
and quality assurance, in particular the Professional Code for German Public Auditors and Chartered Accountants (in
Germany) and the quality assurance standard of the German Institute of Public Auditors (Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer,
IDW) regarding quality assurance requirements in audit practice (IDW QS 1).
Conclusion
Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to
believe that the qualitative and quantitative disclosures on sustainability for the period from January 1 to December 31,
2020, published in the Sustainability Report, have not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the
Reporting Criteria.
Restriction of use/General Engagement Terms
This assurance report is issued for purposes of the Executive Board of MerckKGaA, Darmstadt, only. We assume no
responsibility with regard to any third parties.
Our assignment for the Executive Board of MerckKGaA, Darmstadt, and professional liability as described above was
governed by the General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften (Allgemeine
Auftragsbedingungen für Wirtschaftsprüfer und Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften) in the version dated January 1, 2017
(https://www.kpmg.de/bescheinigungen/lib/aab_english.pdf). By reading and using the information contained in this
assurance report, each recipient confirms notice of the provisions contained therein including the limitation of our liability
as stipulated in No. 9 and accepts the validity of the General Engagement Terms with respect to us.
Frankfurt am Main, March 12, 2021
KPMGAG
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
[Original German version signed by:]
Glöckner ppa. Meldau
Wirtschaftsprüfer
[German Public Auditor]
209
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
GGlloossssaarryy
African sleeping sickness Due diligence
Human African trypanosomiasis (HAT), also known as A risk analysis exercised with particular care.
sleeping sickness, is a parasitic disease transmitted by the
bite of the tsetse fly. The disease mostly affects poor EDTA
populations living in remote rural areas of Africa. Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) is a chemical agent
Untreated, it is usually fatal. that sequesters metal ions to prevent DNA degradation.
Big Data EHS
Extremely large data sets that may be analyzed Short for “Environment, Health and Safety”, this refers to
computationally to reveal patterns, trends and environmental management, health protection and
associations, especially relating to human behavior and occupational safety throughout a company.
interactions.
End-user declaration
Biodiversity A binding customer statement regarding the intended use
The diversity of ecosystems, habitats and landscapes on of a product.
earth, the diversity of the species, and the genetic diversity
within a biological species or population. Endemic countries
Countries in which a certain disease, in many cases an
Chagas disease infectious disease, occurs.
A potentially life-threatening illness caused by the
protozoan parasite. An estimated eight million people are EQ
infected worldwide, mostly in Latin America. Our Group Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality
function
Chaotropic
A chaotropic agent is a molecule in water solution that can Equality Act
disrupt the hydrogen bonding network between water A pending U.S. law with a special focus on LGBTQI+ people
molecules. This affects the stability of the native state of (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer or questioning,
other molecules in the solution by weakening the intersex, and additional self-identifying members of the
hydrophobic effect. community). It prohibits discrimination on the basis of the
sex, sexual orientation and gender identity.
Chatbot
A computer program or an artificial intelligence that ESG ratings
conducts a conversation via auditory or textual methods. These are used to assess a company’s financial
performance through factors that include aspects of
CO2 equivalents environmental management, social issues and good
CO2equivalents (CO2eq) indicate how much a specified governance.
quantity of a specific greenhouse gas contributed to the
greenhouse effect, using the global warming potential of Exposure assessment
carbon dioxide as a reference. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency defines
exposure assessment as the determination or estimation
CRISPR/Cas (qualitative or quantitative) of the magnitude, frequency,
A biomolecular method for targeting, cutting and editing duration, and route of exposure between an agent and an
the DNA of an organism (gene editing). Experts think this organism. This analysis forms part of the chemical safety
technique has great potential for curing diseases or assessment process.
generating plants and animals with new traits.
Freshwater
DMF Water containing 1,000 mg or less of dissolved solids per
Dimethylformamide is a clear, colorless, hygroscopic liquid liter.
with a high dielectric constant. It is employed as a solvent
in the production of textiles, pharmaceuticals, pesticides, Germline
and adhesives. The ECHA (European Chemicals Agency) The cell sequence from which the germ cells (oocytes and
has designated DMF as a substance of very high concern sperm) arise within the individual development of
(SVHC) and included it in the candidate list for multicellular animals and humans. The somatic cell lines
authorization. branching off from the germ line form the body (the
210
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
soma). used or assembled (formulated or packaged) in a way
different from the approved form, when used for an
GHS unapproved indication, or when used to gain further
Short for "Globally Harmonized System of Classification information about an approved use.
and Labelling of Chemicals", this refers to an international
standard system to classify chemicals that covers labeling ISO 14001
as well as safety data sheets. This international standard defines globally recognized
requirements for an environmental management system.
Good clinical practice (GCP)
An international quality standard that enforces tight ISO 45001
guidelines on ethical aspects of clinical studies. This international standard defines globally recognized
requirements for an occupational health and safety
Good distribution practice (GDP) management system.
An EU guideline that regulates the proper distribution of
medicinal products for human use. ISO 50001
This international standard defines globally recognized
Good manufacturing practice (GMP) requirements for an energy management system.
A system for ensuring that products are consistently
manufactured and controlled according to quality ISO 9001
standards. These guidelines are used in the production of This international standard defines globally recognized
medicines, active pharmaceutical ingredients and requirements for a quality management system.
cosmetics, as well as foodstuffs and feed.
Leishmaniasis
Greenhouse gases A group of diseases caused by protozoan parasites. These
Gases in the atmosphere that contribute to global warming. parasites are transmitted to humans by the bites of the
They can be either naturally occurring or caused by infected female phlebotomine sand fly. There are three
humans (such as CO2emissions generated by burning main forms of leishmaniasis: cutaneous, visceral or kala-
fossil fuels). azar, and mucocutaneous.
GxP LGBTQI+
The general term for good practice quality guidelines and This abbreviation stands for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual,
regulations that are used in many fields, especially the Transgender, Queer or Questioning, Intersex, and
medical, pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical chemistry additional self-identifying members of the community.
industries.
Liquid biopsy
Humanoid Sampling and analysis of non-solid biological tissue such as
A term that means human-like. blood.
ICH Liquid crystals (LC)
The International Council for Harmonisation of Technical A hybrid of a crystalline and liquid state. In general,
Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH) molecules are perfectly arranged only when in a solid
aims to promote uniform assessment criteria for product crystal state, in contrast to the liquid state, when they
registration in Europe, the United States and Japan. The move around chaotically. However, liquid crystals are a
ICH develops guidelines for the evaluation of the quality, hybrid of the two states: Although they are liquid, they
effectiveness and safety of medicinal products. exhibit a certain crystalline arrangement. Their rod-shaped
molecules align themselves like a shoal of fish. In addition,
In vitro they respond to the electromagnetic waves of light like tiny
Procedures involving components of an organism that were antennae. Therefore, such swarms of molecules can either
isolated from their usual biological surroundings (such as allow specially prepared “polarized” light to pass through,
test tube experiments). or they can block it. This takes place in the pixels of liquid
crystal displays – as it does similarly in liquid crystal
In vivo windows, which can provide shade against sunlight.
Latin for “within the living”, this term describes processes
that take place within a living organism. Location-based approach
Location-based figures are calculated on the basis of the
Investigational drug average emission factors of the area in which the electricity
A pharmaceutical form of an active ingredient or placebo consumption takes place. In most cases, the average at
being tested or used as a reference in a clinical trial, country level is used here.
including approved as well as unapproved products when
211
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
LTIR Patient access programs
The lost time injury rate measures the number of accidents Self-sustaining commercial programs with a revenue-
resulting in missed days of work (one or more days) per driven purpose which provide medicines for underserved
one million man-hours. populations, either through free products or a reduced
treatment fee.
Managing director
At Merck, this individual is ultimately responsible for Patient support programs
ensuring that their subsidiary, including R&D and Any organized system providing services and direct patient
manufacturing centers, complies with all laws and or patient-caregiver interactions that are intended and
regulations applicable to its business, including Merck designed to educate patients about certain diseases, and
Guidelines. help patients with access to and/or the management of
prescribed medicines and/or disease outcomes and/or offer
Market-based approach doctors support for their patients.
Marked-based figures are calculated on the basis of
emission factors provided by electricity suppliers Payer formularies
specifically for the electricity they sell. A medication formulary is a list of prescription medications
that are preferred by a recipient’s health plan or insurer.
Neglected tropical disease (NTD)
Diseases that occur primarily in low- and middle-income Pharmacovigilance
countries. NTDs include schistosomiasis, intestinal worms, The science and activities related to the detection,
trachoma, lymphatic filariasis, and onchocerciasis. This evaluation, understanding, and prevention of adverse
group of diseases is called neglected because, despite the reactions or other drug-related problems.
large number of people affected, they have historically
received less attention and research funding than other Phase I study
diseases. Phase I clinical trials test a new therapeutic candidate in a
small group of people (for example, 20-80) for the first
NMP time to evaluate safety (for instance, to determine a safe
N-Methyl-2-Pyrrolidone a polar aprotic compound that is dosage range and to identify side effects).
miscible with water and has good solvency properties. NMP
is used in the manufacture of polymers, semiconductors, Phase II study
batteries and pharmaceuticals. The ECHA (European Phase II clinical trials study the medical or behavioral
Chemicals Agency) has designated NMP as a substance of intervention in a larger group of people (several hundred)
very high concern (SVHC) and included it in the candidate to determine efficacy and to further evaluate its safety.
list for authorization.
Phase III study
Nucleases Phase III studies investigate the efficacy of the medical or
A group of enzymes whose primary function is to partially behavioral intervention in large groups of human subjects
or fully degrade nucleic acids. (from several hundred to several thousand) by comparing
the intervention to other standard or experimental
OHSAS interventions as well as to monitor adverse effects, and to
The Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series collect information that will allow the intervention to be
(OSHAS) is an international occupational health and safety used safely.
management system. As of March 2021 the norm ISO
45001 will replace the former occupational health and Prediabetes
safety standard OHSAS 18001. A condition regarded as indicative that a person is at risk of
progressing to Type 2 diabetes.
Orodispersible tablet
A tablet that dissolves in the mouth within 30 seconds and Process-related emissions
does not have to be taken with water. The active ingredient Greenhouse gases released into the atmosphere during
is absorbed through the mucous membrane in the mouth manufacturing operations.
and also partly through the lining of the stomach.
Public-private partnership (PPP)
Other water A collaboration between public sector (government)
Water containing more than 1,000 mg of dissolved solids organizations, private companies and/or not-for-profit
per liter. organizations.
Patent pool Pulse survey
A consortium of at least two competing companies that A pulse survey is a short employee survey that focuses on
allows partners to share the use of patents relating to a a specific topic to gauge the current sentiment of the
particular technology.
212
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
workforce. This can, for example, relate to a single example in the generation of energy from fossil fuels.
business unit in the case of change processes or be
targeted to the entire workforce, as in the case of the Scope 2
Covid-19 pandemic. Scope 2 includes emissions from purchased energy such as
electricity or district heating.
(Q)SAR
Structure-activity relationship (SAR) and quantitative Scope 3
structure-activity relationship (QSAR) models – collectively Scope 3 includes indirect greenhouse gas emissions, such
referred to as (Q)SARs – are mathematical models that can as the extraction and production of purchased materials,
be used to predict the physicochemical, biological and transport-related activities, waste disposal, and employee
environmental fate properties of compounds from the travel.
knowledge of their chemical structure. These models are
available for free or as commercial software. Scorecard
An evaluation tool for measuring, documenting and
Read-across controlling activities using metrics.
Grouping of substances and read-across is one of the most
commonly used alternative approaches for filling data gaps Security
in registrations submitted under REACH. This approach This term stands for all necessary measures and
uses relevant information from analogous (‘source') governance activities to detect, analyze, handle, and
substances to predict the properties of ‘target' substances. mitigate security- and crime-based threats to the company.
If the grouping and read-across approach is applied This helps to protect employees as well as the tangible and
correctly, experimental testing can be reduced as there is intangible assets of the company.
no need to test every target substance.
Signal management
Registration dossiers
A set of activities performed to determine whether, based
One part of the REACH registration process is the on an examination of individual case safety reports,
preparation of a technical dossier and its submission to the aggregated data from active surveillance systems or
European Chemicals Agency (ECHA). The information that studies, scientific literature information, or other data
a registration dossier should contain includes the physical- sources, there are new risks associated with an active
chemical, toxicological and ecotoxicological characteristics substance or a medicinal product or whether known risks
of the substances, human and environmental exposure, have changed, as well as any related recommendations,
intended uses, classification and labelling, and decisions, communications, and tracking.
recommended risk management measures.
Soil-transmitted helminthiasis (STH
Risk-sharing agreement
Soil-transmitted helminthiasis (STH) is considered the most
An agreement between the producer or manufacturer and widespread of NTDs and has a particularly damaging
the payer or provider that allows access to a health impact on the health and development of children.
technology through coverage or reimbursement under Approximately 1.5 billion people, nearly 20% of the world’s
certain conditions. population, are infected with STH. It is transmitted by eggs
present in human feces, which can contaminate the soil in
Robotics areas where sanitation is poor. The most common species
Robotics or robot technology concerns the drafting, design, that affect people are roundworm, whipworm, and
control, production, and operation of robots, e.g. industrial hookworm.
or service robots.
Spontaneous reports on adverse effects
Role If a side effect occurs while using a medicine and is
Merck uses a market-oriented system to rate positions reported, this is called a spontaneous report because the
within the company. To facilitate consistency across the adverse reaction is reported spontaneously (for example by
organization, each position is assigned a specific role, with doctors or patients) and not in a trial or an observational
an overarching job architecture classifying each role as one study.
of 11 levels, 15 functions and an array of career types
(Core Operations, Services & Support Groups; Experts; Stakeholder
Managers; Project Managers). People or organizations that have a legitimate interest in a
company, entitling them to make justified demands.
Schistosomiasis Stakeholders include people such as employees, business
A parasitic disease spread in warm lakes and ponds by partners, neighbors in the vicinity of our sites, and
snails that serve as intermediate hosts. shareholders.
Scope 1 STEM
Scope 1 includes emissions that occur in our company, for Science, technology, engineering and mathematics.
213
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
Stem cell lines Translational cell culture models
Groups of stem cells derived from animal or human tissue. A cellular model system that recapitulates and/or predicts a
They can be cultivated in vitro and multiply indefinitely. specific human (in vivo/clinical) outcome.
Stem cells TRIPS
Undifferentiated cells with the potential to develop into The Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual
many different cell types that carry out different functions. Property Rights is an international legal agreement
between all the member nations of the World Trade
Sunshine Act Organization. TRIPS seeks to ensure that the measures and
The Sunshine Provisions of the U.S. Patient Protection and procedures for enforcing intellectual property rights do not
Affordable Care Act aim to create more transparent become a barrier to lawful trade.
relationships between manufacturers of drugs, medical
devices and medical aids on the one hand, and doctors and Vivarium
teaching hospitals on the other. The vivarium, also known as animal research facility, is a
specially designed building type, which accommodates
Thin films controlled environments for the care, use and maintenance
A very thin layer (one atom or one molecule thick) of a of experimental animals.
substance deposited on a supporting material such as a
semiconductor. Customers use our products to create such WASH
thin films. This stands for “water, sanitation and hygiene”.
Traces WLTP
Substances dissolved in water that are present only in Lawmakers require standardized test procedures to
minute amounts. Also referred to as micropollutants, these measure how much fuel a car consumes and whether it
are synthetic substances present in concentrations ranging complies with the emissions limits. The new Worldwide
from one nanogram to one microgram per liter of water. Harmonised Light Vehicle Test Procedure (WLTP) took
effect in the EU on September 1, 2017 and is now the
Transfer of value official type approval testing procedure for new passenger
Direct and indirect transfers of value, whether in cash, in cars across the EU. It succeeded the NEDC (New European
kind or otherwise (for instance promotional purposes). Driving Cycle), which took effect in 1992.
214
Merck Sustainability Report 2020
Facts & figures
PPuubblliiccaattiioonn  ccoonnttrriibbuuttoorrss
Published on April 13, 2021 by
Merck, Group Corporate Sustainability
Frankfurter Strasse 250, 64293 Darmstadt, Germany
Tel.: +49 (0) 6151-72 0
Email: service@merckgroup.com
Website: www.merckgroup.com
Contact for questions regarding this report:
Maria Schaad, Group Corporate Sustainability
Concept and implementation of HTML & PDF:
nexxar GmbH, Vienna – Online annual reports and online sustainability reports
Text and consulting:
Stakeholder Reporting GmbH
www.stakeholder-reporting.com
Photos and graphics:
Merck, Rüdiger Nehmzow
215
