
PU R POSE & PROGRESS
2017 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL   
AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
03 Introductory Letter
 
04 Taking Action to Drive Long-term Value
Five Priorities at Goldman Sachs
09 14 19 23 27
Combat   Bridge Advance Foster   Lead  
Climate  the   ESG and Impact  Our Inclusive,   with 
Change Gaps Investing Service-oriented   Ideas
Culture
11   Wind Power Purchase  16   Post–Hurricane  21   Growing AUS in  25   Harnessing   28   Focusing the  
Agreement Delivering  Harvey, Financing  ESG and Impact  Valued Skills and   Big Power of  
on Clean Energy  Recovery Investing a Willingness   Small Business 
Commitments to Serve
17   Opening Access   22   Mapping ESG  28   Shaping 
12   Capital Deployment   to Healthcare Alpha Signals 26   Analyst Impact  Sustainable 
to Unlock Clean  Fund Finance 
Energy 18   Investing in   22   Stewarding Our 
Urban Vitality Investments 29  Talks at GS
12   Financing Sustainable 
Infrastructure and  29   Sharing  
Resiliency Our Insights:  
GS SUSTAIN
13   Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management
 
30 Metrics
 
33 Recognition
2
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
INTRODUCTORY LETTER
Left:
Lloyd C. Blankfein
Chairman and Chief  Executive Officer
Right:
David M. Solomon
President and  
Chief  Operating Officer
FELLOW GOLDMAN SACHS   
STAKEHOLDERS
Our firm sits at the center of the global capital markets. While we have many different roles in 
serving our clients — as an advisor, an asset manager, a market-maker and an investor — our 
responsibility across each of our businesses is to conduct our work with integrity and to focus  
on achieving superior results for our stakeholders.
As a global financial institution, our businesses benefit from a growing and stable economy. When companies are hiring and 
investors are putting capital to work, it is better for our clients and, ultimately, our shareholders. As such, we strive to do our part 
to contribute to a healthy, expanding economy and to manage our firm in a responsible way. To put it simply, running our firm 
sustainably is good business, and it’s a key ingredient to us delivering long-term value to our shareholders.
We emphasize a long-term orientation in every aspect of our work. Certainly that’s apparent with our clients, many of whom  
we’ve worked with over many decades, and also with our employees. Two-thirds of our latest class of managing directors began 
their careers with us as analysts or associates. We take the same long-term approach with our investors. 
Our position at the crossroads of the global capital markets affords us a unique opportunity to be an influential, positive force  
in the world. We strive to provide leadership on environmental and societal challenges suited to our skills and reach, where we 
can make a difference. This means an emphasis on supporting the communities where we work and live, and, fostering a vibrant, 
inclusive culture of service among our people. 
Our ability to succeed in the years to come will depend on seeing clearly today’s challenges to sustainable growth and addressing 
them. In our 2017 Environmental, Social and Governance Report, we demonstrate many of the ways we are executing on  
this mission.
We look forward to engaging with you on these topics in the months and years ahead.
Lloyd C. Blankfein  David M. Solomon   
Chairman and   President and 
Chief Executive Officer  Chief  Operating Officer 
3
GGoollddmmaann  SSaacchhss  22001177  EESSGG  RReeppoorrtt
TA K I N G  A C T I O N  T O 
D R I V E   L O N G - T E R M 
VA L U E
At Goldman Sachs, we view the consideration of 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) factors as  
an important driver of the way we advise clients and 
conduct our business. Whether we are managing ESG-related 
risks or working collaboratively to effect positive change within 
our communities, we seek to run our firm responsibly for the 
benefit of all of our stakeholders. We focus our efforts on the 
areas where we can have the biggest impact over the long 
term; where possible, we hold ourselves accountable with 
ambitious targets and goals. 
In this report, we highlight several key priorities, including 
combating climate change, fostering an inclusive and service-
oriented workforce and strengthening the communities in 
which we work and live. Our focus on managing the firm 
responsibly for all stakeholders guides how we work with  
our clients, manage our operations and conduct our 
philanthropic efforts. 
44
GGoollddmmaann  SSaacchhss  22001177  EESSGG  RReeppoorrtt
INTEGRATING ESG
HOW WE WORK WITH CLIENTS
Our business involves working with a wide variety of clients including companies, governments, 
investors and individuals. We help connect consumers of capital with providers of capital, so they 
can gain stronger financial footing, grow their businesses and create jobs. Our advisory and risk 
management services and ability to access the capital markets play critical roles in contributing to 
economic growth and community building around the world. Integrating ESG into this work enables 
us to better serve our clients and drive long-term value creation for the firm and our stakeholders.
CLIENTS
PEOPLE AND 
PHILANTHROPY
OPERATIONS
HOW WE MANAGE OUR   HOW WE CONDUCT  
PEOPLE AND OPERATIONS  PHILANTHROPY WITH PURPOSE
A key to corporate accountability is responsible  We take action where our skills and leadership can 
management of our people and operations. To do so,  make a clear difference. In some cases, this means 
we instill a strong risk management culture, pursue an  supporting entrepreneurs through programs such as 
inclusive, service-oriented workplace, and build robust  10,000 Women and 10,000 Small Businesses. In other 
infrastructure and processes to govern our approach.  cases, such as our Goldman Sachs Gives program, it 
We work collaboratively across the firm to minimize our  includes a financial commitment to foster innovative 
environmental impact and develop innovative solutions  ideas, solve economic and social challenges, and enable 
that enhance the productivity of our employees. progress in underserved communities worldwide. 
We look to combine our philanthropic efforts with 
direct engagement by our people to support economic 
development where it’s needed most. 
55
GGoollddmmaann  SSaacchhss  22001177  EESSGG  RReeppoorrtt
OUR APPROACH
We take an active approach to managing ESG-related  Clean Energy 
Investments  
risks and tackling environmental and social challenges.  and Financings
We harness the dedication of our people and mobilize  Since 2012:
$ 71B
capital to build thriving, sustainable economies and to 
facilitate the transition to a low carbon future, and we 
Target by 2025:
$ 150B
acknowledge the importance of effective governance  
at the management and Board of Directors level.
Key Highlights 
across Our 
Businesses
THE ENVIRONMENT $  27B
A healthy environment is fundamental to a strong and sustainable economy and  green, social and 
sustainability bonds 
therefore critical to our firm. Today, climate change threatens the well-being of society, 
underwritten since 2014 
and, by extension, the work we do at Goldman Sachs. 
$  17B
For us, addressing climate change requires an integrated, long-term approach including 
significant capital provisioning, prudent risk management and strategic vision.  weather-related 
catastrophe bonds 
structured since 2006
Energy is the largest greenhouse gas contributor globally but remains critical for 
economic growth, especially in developing markets. As a result, we are committed to  $ 11.3B
catalyzing innovative financial solutions to help clean energy achieve scale. Since 2012, 
we have financed and invested more than $71 billion into clean energy, almost half of  assets under supervision 
in ESG strategies within 
our target of $150 billion by 2025. In addition, we are consistently innovating across 
Investment Management
our businesses to unlock sustainable capital flows, from green bonds and climate risk 
4,000
solutions to ESG and impact investments. 
companies covered 
by GS SUSTAIN’s ESG 
investment research 
OUR PEOPLE AND OPERATIONS 
framework
0
Our most important long-term competitive advantage is our people. Our success as a 
firm and that of our clients depends on the determination and dedication of our people 
net carbon emissions 
to generate long-term value for our shareholders and meet the unique needs of our  since 2015
66
GGoollddmmaann  SSaacchhss  22001177  EESSGG  RReeppoorrtt
diverse client base and the communities in which we operate. As a result, we invest heavily 
to attract, develop and retain the best people from diverse backgrounds, and to create and 
sustain an inclusive workplace where their diversity and talents can thrive. 
Within our workplace, we take great strides to strengthen our commitment to sustainability. 
We maintain net carbon neutrality and deploy renewable energy for our operations, and we 
continue to make progress toward green building certifications, responsibly sourced products, 
sustainable supply chain management and reduced water use and waste generation. 
Progress toward 2020 Goals for Our Operations
Many of the environmental commitments set out in our updated 2015 Environmental Policy Framework 
have been achieved. We have achieved our target to reduce our energy use by 10 percent from our 2013 
baseline through the rightsizing of our real estate portfolio and migration into newer, certified green 
building spaces. In 2017, more than 95 percent of our global electricity needs were met by renewable 
energy, and we are on track to achieve 100 percent by 2020.
Category Progress to Date1 2020 Goal2
Renewable Energy 
Sourcing renewable power to meet   95% 100%
our global electricity needs
Energy Efficiency 
Reducing absolute energy use across   12% 10%
our operationally controlled facilities
Green Buildings 
Achieving LEED Gold or equivalent   55% 70%
green building certifications
Business Waste 
93% 100%
Diverting business waste from landfill
Paper 
26% 20%
Reducing our consumption per capita
Water 
Reducing our absolute consumption   5% 5%
in operationally controlled facilities
Certified Management Systems 
Environmental Management Systems across   79% 100%
our operationally controlled facilities
Green Operational Investments 
Dedicated budget for investing in green buildings and  $701M $2B
innovative green technologies
Surpassed goal
1Through 2017 year-end.   22020 goals are from a 2013 baseline except for our Green Operational Investments, which includes capital invested since 2015. 
77
GGoollddmmaann  SSaacchhss  22001177  EESSGG  RReeppoorrtt
EFFECTIVE GOVERNANCE 
While an acknowledgment of ESG risk factors is important, it is not enough. Appropriate 
oversight at the management and Board level, as well as effective policies and practices, are 
key contributors to our ability to effectively manage a wide variety of risk factors. 
Our Board and each of its committees are focused on the oversight of reputational risk. In 
addition, our Board’s Public Responsibilities Committee has primary oversight of the firm’s 
approach to ESG, which includes reviewing key ESG-related policies. These policies and 
procedures provide transparency of our practices and are generally developed with the 
consultation of stakeholders, including regulators and investors. 
At the management level, our focus on business standards and reputational risk is 
fundamental to running our business. We have two management-level committees that are 
dedicated to these critical issues. Our Firmwide Reputational Risk Committee has developed 
formalized processes for analyzing reputational risk and reviews certain transactions that 
may present the potential for heightened reputational risk. In addition, our Firmwide Client 
and Business Standards Committee assesses and makes determinations regarding business 
standards and practices, reputational risk management, client relationships and client service. 
While the tone at the top is set by our Board and embodied by our senior management, we 
reinforce this focus throughout our organization. We ensure that our people are trained on our 
business standards and culture, underscoring the importance we place on each employee 
playing his or her part in serving our clients and managing the firm responsibly for all 
stakeholders. For example, our partners and managing directors worldwide participate in the 
Chairman’s Forum, a mandatory, in-person 2.5-hour training session focused on reputational 
risk management, conduct and the critical responsibility of every employee — particularly our 
leaders — to strengthen our culture and protect our reputation.
88
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
CO M B AT
CLIMATE CHANGE
Advancing clean energy as part of our  
long-standing commitment to environmental progress
As a firm, our approach to addressing climate change is multifaceted. 
Our goal of deploying $150 billion to clean energy through our financing 
and investment activity by 2025 is purposefully ambitious and builds 
on our commitment to scaling up low carbon solutions. We are also 
helping clients manage climate-related risks and harness innovative 
green solutions. At the same time, we are actively mitigating our own 
operational impact on the environment and strengthening resiliency. 
9
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
COMBAT CLIMATE CHANGE
We believe that the business case for 
renewables remains compelling, despite 
policy uncertainty in some regions. Technology 
innovation, significant cost reductions and 
market dynamics will continue to drive growth 
in the low carbon economy. These drivers make 
an ever more compelling business case for us, as we 
work with our clients and stakeholders toward  
a cleaner future.
Our breadth of financial capabilities, market-making capacity 
and best-in-class advisory services enable us to be innovative 
in helping our clients more effectively manage their risk. We 
are focused on reducing our clients’ risk to climate change, 
from reducing financial exposure to climate extremes through 
weather-related catastrophe bonds to adapting to the potential 
climate impacts with resilient infrastructure. 
We continue to research and invest in innovative ways to reduce our 
global footprint, including procuring renewable energy and undertaking climate 
vulnerability assessments to improve resilience for our global operations. We 
have conducted a global hot spot analysis of the long-term impact of climate-
related risks on our facilities, and in India we completed flood risk assessments 
for our Bengaluru facilities.
10
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
COMBAT CLIMATE CHANGE
WIND POWER PURCHASE 
AGREEMENT DELIVERING ON   
CLEAN ENERGY COMMITMENTS
As part of Goldman Sachs’ commitment to clean energy, 
the firm entered into a 15-year power purchase agreement 
(PPA) in 2017 with NextEra Energy Resources that will enable 
the development of a new 68-megawatt wind project in 
Pennsylvania, adding renewable capacity onto the grid. 
This is the first PPA executed by a U.S. bank for the entire 
output of a new wind power project, thereby enabling the project’s 
development. The transaction, executed through our commodities-
focused subsidiary J. Aron, required innovative thinking and the 
development of new processes to meet market regulations.
“ We are committed to being a leader in the development of  Wind Power  
Project Will Enable
renewable energy. By enabling this new wind project to come 
online, the agreement will help grow the renewable grid and  1  50
contribute to the momentum behind a lower carbon economy. 
Leveraging the firm’s intellectual capital and J. Aron’s expertise in  new construction jobs
power markets, we were able to structure the agreement in a way   
 200,000
that allowed us to meet our operational and sustainability goals 
tons
through a creative market-based solution.”
greenhouse gas 
Lloyd C. Blankfein 
emissions avoided  
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
per annum
PPA for 68-MW 
Corporates’ commitment to leveraging their operational footprint to become  
Wind Project
long-term creditworthy off-takers of renewable energy resources is catalyzing  
the market for clean energy beyond traditional investment and financing activities.  55%
We are applying lessons learned from our own PPA and are now helping other 
companies more efficiently meet their renewable energy goals. of our global  
electricity load
The PPA is a continuation of our long and productive business relationship with  35 
NextEra Energy, which has involved numerous transactions, including helping  
take NextEra Energy Partners public.  turbines
11
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
COMBAT CLIMATE CHANGE
CAPITAL 
Innovative   Investing in  Broadening  
DEPLOYMENT    Financing Competitive  Capital Sources
Technology
TO UNLOCK   
Sole arranger of  Approximately  Advised Enel Green 
CLEAN ENERGY 
JPY5.4 billion  $500 million invested  Power on the sale 
(U.S.$47.0 million)  directly into multiple  of an 80 percent 
The core of what we do in clean energy is  dual-tenor green  large-scale solar  stake in its 1.7 GW of 
serving the capital and financial advisory  project bond to finance  projects in the U.S.  renewables plants in 
Canadian Solar’s   (California) and Japan,   Mexico to Caisse de 
needs of our clients; we also partner with 
19-MW Gunma  a reflection of how  dépôt et placement 
them as co-investors. Through these activities, 
Aramaki Solar Power  solar has continued  du Québec. With an 
we help our clients grow and scale clean  Plant in Japan. The  to come down  enterprise value of 
energy solutions around the world, while  innovative tenor  the cost curve  $2.6 billion, this was 
mechanism provided  and is increasingly  the largest transaction 
supporting long-term sustainable economic 
options to maximize  competitive with other  in the region in 
growth and the transition to a low carbon  the value of the  power sources in a  terms of renewable 
economy. We continue to make progress  investment while  growing number of  power capacity and 
preserving long-term  locations. unlocked capital flow 
toward our target to deploy $150 billion to 
financing support. for developers while 
clean energy by 2025, with a number of 
providing sustainable 
landmark transactions in 2017 bringing our  long-term yield to 
total progress to $71 billion.  institutional investors.
Financing Sustainable 
$17B
Infrastructure and Resiliency
in weather-related 
catastrophe bonds 
SNCF   structured since  We have worked with clients to fund a wide variety of sustainable 
2006 infrastructure, helping to reduce emissions, conserve resources, and  
Réseau
build a stronger and more sustainable economy. This includes helping 
2 green bonds totaling 
government-owned entities to fund their needs through green bonds  
€1.75B
and public–private partnerships, as well as risk management solutions  
for climate-related impacts through catastrophe bonds. 
Public transportation in particular plays a critical role in a well-functioning  
to upgrade and expand 
rail lines and protect  economy. Following Superstorm Sandy, we acted as joint structuring agent and  
biodiversity co-manager on the first catastrophe bond to solely cover storm surge, for the  
New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority (NY MTA), and in 2017, we led  
a second catastrophe bond for the NY MTA as a joint bookrunner.
Ferrovie dello 
In Colombia, we structured more than $2 billion in financing, including  
Stato Italiane
$489 million in 2017, to fund the modernization of the country’s highway system 
€600M
through the development of a series of key toll roads. This will reduce congestion, 
connect rural regions with major cities and create thousands of new job 
inaugural green bond  opportunities. The projects adhere to international best practices — including  
to upgrade efficiency  the International Finance Corporation Performance Standards on Environmental  
and reduce emissions 
and Social Sustainability — and incorporate innovative engineering in their design,  
through the modal shift 
such as the use of top-down construction to build a bridge while avoiding impacts  
to rail transport
to a sensitive mangrove wetland, the Ciénaga de la Virgen. 
12
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
COMBAT CLIMATE CHANGE
ENV IRON MENTAL AND   
ENGAGEMENT  
SOCIA L RIS K M ANAGE MENT ON CLIMATE-
RELATED RISK
We manage environmental and social risks, including those related to climate 
As one of the first global investment 
change, with the same care and discipline we apply to any other business risk. 
banks to adopt a comprehensive 
Business teams conduct environmental and social risk reviews for relevant  environmental policy and acknowledge 
climate change as one of the most 
opportunities prior to commitment. 
significant challenges of the 21st century, 
Goldman Sachs has had a long-standing 
The Environmental Markets Group, which sits within the Executive Office,  
commitment to harnessing markets to 
works with other experts at the firm to conduct independent reviews and,   help address climate change. 
where appropriate, collectively identify positive engagement opportunities to  With climate change-related impacts 
becoming increasingly tangible, there 
reduce material environmental or social risks.  has been growing investor-led demand 
for increased transparency on material 
For example, in 2017, we explored an investment opportunity in a port network  climate-related risks and opportunities, 
most prominently led by the Financial 
with operations in South America. Given the business had potentially sensitive 
Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-
environmental, health, and safety (EHS) and security considerations, we worked  related Financial Disclosures. We 
support the overall goal of providing 
with experts to identify steps that could be implemented toward best-in-class 
material and decision-useful climate-
EHS performance as well as safeguards against security concerns. With the  related information and we are looking 
at ways to enhance our existing 
successful close of our investment, we intend to continue working with other 
disclosure. For our latest climate-related 
shareholders and the company to address any pending gaps and implement  disclosures, please visit our website  
and latest CDP submission.
a comprehensive EHS audit. Through our involvement, we are demonstrating 
continued prudent EHS risk management for the firm while supporting the 
Transaction Reviews
company’s growth and the goals of our investors.
In 2017, our Environmental Markets 
Group reviewed 1,032 deals across 
We also recognize that environmental and social issues are often linked. Our 
the following sectors.
respect for human rights is fundamental to our business; it guides us in how  
we educate our people, our business selection decisions, and how we work  Oil and gas 478
Power generation 210
with our clients and vendors. To foster responsible ESG practices within our 
Metals and mining 205
supply chain, in 2017, we published our Vendor Code of Conduct, which sets  Chemicals 40
Transportation 35
forth our expectations for how our vendors will conduct business.
Other 64
Transaction Approved Subject to Conditions  Transaction Declined 
Prior to a new public listing for an extractives company, we worked with the  A team considered a potential financing 
potential client and a third-party consultant for a year conducting in-depth  related to an oilfield in sub-Saharan Africa. 
due diligence to understand the environmental and social impacts of the  Upon initial review, the team noted patterns 
company’s operations. The assessment included review of the company’s  of legal disputes and EHS-related issues 
stakeholder engagement process, particularly with local tribes, and the  associated with the asset. With additional 
formalization of benefit agreements, as well as commitments to remediate  due diligence, we were unable to develop 
the environmental impacts of historical extractive activities. These factors  sufficient mitigants to address these concerns 
were key conditions for us proceeding with the transaction.  and declined the opportunity. 
13
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
B R I D G E
THE GAPS
Strengthening communities by harnessing the  
firm’s unique skillsets to meet unmet needs
We believe it is incumbent upon successful businesses to 
improve the communities in which they thrive. We look to 
harness the firm’s capabilities as a global financial services 
company and the unique skillsets of our people to help drive 
economic and social progress where we work and live, as 
well as in the larger, global community around us.
14
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
BRIDGE THE GAPS
We put this belief into action in two ways.  
First, we find innovative commercial solutions — 
investment strategies that produce both strong 
financial and social returns. Second, we  
focus our philanthropic efforts on practical 
initiatives designed to foster community and 
economic growth. 
Clients count on our ability to raise and 
provide capital. We meet community needs 
through focused investment strategies, the 
shepherding of client capital and purpose-
Our investment in Oncoclínicas 
driven philanthropic initiatives that make use   will enable larger-scale projects 
such as this 100,000-square-foot 
of our unique array of talent and capabilities.  integrated cancer center in Belo 
Horizonte, Brazil, scheduled to 
open later this year.
In all our endeavors, we bring a rigorous, 
measured approach. 
Our efforts include helping a client improve global access 
As evidenced by 
to healthcare through innovative financing and investment 
our ESG efforts 
strategies, such as vaccine bonds that support vital  across the firm, 
Goldman Sachs 
immunization programs in the developing world. On 
supports, in 
the local front, our community efforts and impact span 
principle and 
many types of initiatives and incidences, ranging from  action, the UN’s 
2030 Sustainable 
microfinancing local small businesses in the wake of 
Development 
a natural disaster to financing a state-of-the-art cancer  Goals. 
treatment center in New York City to revitalizing urban 
centers with affordable housing. 
15
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
BRIDGE THE GAPS
Post–Hurricane  
Harvey, Financing  
Recovery
In the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey, many small  Texas Small 
Business Rebuild 
businesses along the Texas Gulf Coast were devastated. 
Initiative
The firm’s 10,000 Small Businesses program and  
$  7M 
Urban Investment Group responded, teaming with  
loan program
local partners to offer zero percent microfinance  
0%
loans to get local businesses back on their feet and 
serving customers. loans
 
 up to 
Partners from business, government, nonprofit and 
$25,000
philanthropy came together to create the $7 million  
per business
loan program. Goldman Sachs funded $5 million, and  
$2 million was provided by Rebuild Texas, a collaboration 
between the Michael & Susan Dell Foundation and the 
Office of the Texas Governor’s OneStar Foundation. The 
loans are administered through LiftFund, a nonprofit 
The people 
organization we have worked with for many years.  of Goldman 
Sachs, Goldman 
Sachs Gives and 
The rapid response was enabled by the active presence 
our Matching 
of 10,000 Small Businesses in the community. The  Gift Program 
contributed more 
program has been operating in the greater Houston area 
than $620,000 
since 2010 and has helped nearly 600 local business  to the Hurricane 
Harvey recovery 
owners grow their companies.
efforts. 
16
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
BRIDGE THE GAPS
O P E N I N G  A C C E S S   
TO   H E A LT H C A R E 
Healthcare is a basic human need and value, but often inaccessible in areas 
across the world. We take a market-based approach to meet this challenge.
Pediatric Immunization Investing to Win 
the Fight Against 
We support the immunization of children in the 
developing world through the International Finance  Cancer in Brazil
Facility for Immunization (IFFIm). IFFIm raises 
Oncoclínicas do Brasil Serviços Médicos 
funds for immunization programs disbursed by 
SA (Oncoclínicas) is the largest private 
Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, by issuing vaccine  provider of cancer treatment in Latin 
bonds in the capital markets and repaying these  America. We have been an investor in 
Oncoclínicas since 2015, supporting its 
bonds with long-term donor pledges — offering a 
growth into 22 cities across Brazil. The 
market-rate return while demonstrably saving lives.  organization provides individualized 
In 2017, we helped bring to market a $300 million floating rate vaccine bond. This   treatment to more than 35,000 patients 
a year based on the best clinical practice 
was IFFIm’s fourth access to the USD market in syndicated format. This is de facto 
and latest technologies in oncology, 
the longest-standing social bond issuer — beginning before “social bonds” existed  
radiation therapy and hematology, 
as a discrete concept. IFFIm was established in 2006, and Goldman Sachs led   including precision medicine supported 
IFFIm’s inaugural bond, a $1 billion 5-year benchmark issuance. by genetic testing.
In March of 2018, Goldman Sachs led 
a new round of capital investment 
Precision Cancer Treatment 
for Oncoclínicas, making our firm the 
organization’s largest shareholder. With 
The first of its kind in New York State, the New York Proton Center  
the capital provided by the investment, 
will offer highly targeted radiation therapy that is effective for pediatric  Oncoclínicas will be able to build larger-
cancer, as well as cancers in sensitive areas of the body such as the  scale projects, further expand into new 
brain, spine or eyes. The center will begin accepting patients in 2019,  markets and continue investing in the 
most advanced technologies in cancer 
and is expected to treat roughly 1,400 patients annually.
treatment, including bolstering its 
Proton therapy destroys cancer cells while minimizing damage to  research and clinical trial capabilities, 
surrounding healthy tissues and organs by delivering a thin beam of  which will enhance the organization’s 
ability to contribute to the global fight 
protons directly to the tumor. This is especially important for children, 
against cancer. Oncoclínicas has a 
whose bodies are still growing and developing. Given that treatment 
scientific collaboration with the Dana-
requires daily sessions over a four- to six-week period, a convenient  Farber/Harvard Cancer Center. 
The New York Proton  location is essential.
Center, located in  Later this year, Oncoclínicas will open 
East Harlem, began  The $300 million center began construction in 2015. As one of the  the first facility financed by our latest 
construction in 
largest capital providers to develop the property, we worked with a  investment, a 100,000-square-foot 
2015 and will begin 
accepting patients   consortium of leading hospital systems — Memorial Sloan Kettering  integrated cancer center in the city of 
in 2019. Belo Horizonte. The center will provide 
Cancer Center, Montefiore, and Mount Sinai Health System — and in 
radiotherapy and chemotherapy 
collaboration with the developer Murphy & McManus, facility manager 
treatment facilities, with specialized 
ProHEALTH, equipment provider Varian and New York City’s Economic  wings for pediatric oncology and bone 
Development Corporation to get the project off the ground. marrow transplantation.
17
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
BRIDGE THE GAPS
I N V E ST I N G   I N   
U R B A N  V I TA L I TY 
Our Urban Investment Group partners with local leaders 
Since 2001 through today,  
our Urban Investment 
and nonprofits to transform urban neighborhoods and 
Group has committed to 
underserved American 
cityscapes across the U.S. The group focuses on community 
communities 
nearly
development through innovative public–private partnerships 
$   7B
and financing for small business through the Goldman Sachs 
10,000 Small Businesses program.    
 Sixup
1,000
A Rebirth  
Helping  
loans made to date  50 Years in 
Aspiration:  
Sixup Give   10,000 loans  the Making
Low-income 
Essex Crossing represents the culmination of a half century of community 
Students   redevelopment — a project that began with moving tenants out of 
substandard housing in Manhattan’s Lower East Side in 1967. The buildings 
a Leg Up 
were razed immediately…and then the lots stood empty for decades as 
plans to redevelop the empty lot repeatedly fell through. 
Sixup is a committed lender that   In 2012, city leaders took a new tack: bottom-up development. The local 
puts academically gifted but low- community board and disparate community groups collaborated on 
income youth on track for advanced  development objectives that included affordable housing, office space and 
parks, and emphasized local retailers and entrepreneurs. In a competitive 
degrees and future success. Sixup 
process, the city in 2013 selected the development team that included our 
provides college loans for students  
Urban Investment Group.
or their families who would not 
normally qualify. As the cost of  
college has skyrocketed, financial   Urban Investment  ~$400M ~$100M
Group’s Largest 
aid resources have not kept pace.  
Investment Ever:  in equity  loan
This has created a new generation  
of “could but can’t” young scholars.  
To help Sixup turn this around, we   The first building in the $1.5 billion Essex Crossing project is now open  
are providing the organization with   to tenants. The project eventually will include over 1,000 apartments, 
more than half permanently designated for low- to middle-income families, 
a $10 million loan facility. 
as well as a movie theater, a Trader Joe’s, the International Center for 
Photography and a new home for the historic Essex Street Market.
18
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
A DVA N C E
ESG AND IMPACT
INVESTING
Embracing rigorous, data-driven  
approaches to drive value 
ESG and impact investing is one of the fastest-growing areas of our 
Investment Management Division. This growth is propelled by the rapid 
increase of investor interest in this space, combined with our ability 
to deliver differentiated, innovative investment strategies with distinct 
environmental and social impact. In addition to dedicated ESG and impact 
strategies, we incorporate the consideration of ESG factors in our active 
and passive investment strategies across our business.
1199
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
ADVANCE ESG AND IMPACT INVESTING
Fundamental to the growth of ESG and impact investing is an increased 
understanding that a disciplined approach can potentially generate competitive 
risk-adjusted returns while also driving measurable social and environmental 
alignment. An additional growth driver is greater understanding of the tools 
available to investors — from risk-managed, ESG-aligned passive strategies, 
to ESG-integrated fundamental strategies, to private-market impact 
investments seeking sustained alpha alongside measurable 
social and environmental impacts. This clarity of approaches 
and their corresponding portfolio applications has also helped 
spur rapid growth in assets under supervision (AUS).
We believe that ESG factors are among the variables that 
have the potential to drive return and manage risk in active 
investment strategies. For example, our Private Real Estate 
team has implemented initiatives such as energy efficiency 
upgrades in properties they have purchased. These ESG upgrades 
seek to reduce costs and enhance brand value, which are fundamental to 
how the team thinks about material value creation.
We have also harnessed the firm’s big data and technology capabilities to help 
identify specific ESG data that may be tied to alpha signals in our quantitative 
alpha strategies. This is an important area of research and focus for our 
Quantitative Investment Strategies team.
Increasingly, a wide variety of our clients are also choosing to integrate more 
specialized ESG and impact objectives or views into their investment portfolios. 
We have built dedicated ESG and impact investing strategies and capabilities in 
order to address these investment objectives.
20
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
ADVANCE ESG AND IMPACT INVESTING
Growth of ESG AUS at Year-End
2015 2016 2017
$3.8B $6.5B $11.3B
Driving Real  
Estate Value 
G ROW I N G  AU S   I N   E S G    Through ESG
We look to improve 
A N D   I M PAC T   I N V E ST I N G 
competitive position and 
property value and to 
Assets under supervision in this   Fund. That strategy has reduced the  mitigate long-term risks 
by making ESG-driven 
vital arena continue to grow at a brisk  portfolio’s carbon emissions intensity by 
improvements to real 
pace. ESG and impact investing allows  approximately 70 percent relative to their 
estate we and our clients 
clients to achieve a range of objectives,  benchmark, while maintaining broad- invest in. For example, 
from aligning their investments with  based equity market exposure similar to  we invested in an office 
tower in Charlotte, North 
certain ESG priorities or views, to  that of the benchmark. In 2017, New York 
Carolina, and initiated a 
integrating ESG factors as a means to  State committed an additional $2 billion  
nearly half-million-dollar 
manage risk and long-term value, to  to the strategy, bringing their total  environmental efficiency 
pursuing measurable environmental   commitment to more than $4 billion.  capital improvement 
project that is expected to 
and social impact. 
result in estimated annual 
With holistic ESG integration, we 
savings of $160,000.
Our ESG alignment strategies seek to  recognize that ESG factors can affect 
help investors optimize their investment  investment performance, expose  2.9 yrs
portfolios for specific ESG factors,   potential investment risks, and provide  
such as portfolios that weight stocks  an indication of management excellence  estimated payback on 
with a focus on carbon efficiency. For  and leadership. We integrate ESG   environmental efficiency 
improvements
example, our Risk Aware, Low Emissions  factors into fundamental management 
investment strategy was created  strategies — across both public and 
three years ago in partnership with  private markets — where material from  
New York State Common Retirement  a risk and return standpoint. 
Designing Low Carbon  
Fixed Income Portfolios
We recently started working with the University of Portsmouth, which is at the forefront of 
research, teaching and engagement on environmental sustainability. To align their investments 
with the university’s sustainability agenda, we created a bond portfolio that has materially 
lower carbon emissions than the overall market and avoids investing in specific sectors, 
companies or practices that run counter to the university’s ESG objectives.
21
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
ADVANCE ESG AND IMPACT INVESTING
Stewarding Our  
Investments
Stewardship is an integral part of our 
fiduciary duty across the full spectrum 
of our investment activities. We fulfill our 
stewardship responsibilities by continually 
evaluating companies’ corporate strategy, 
investment and financing activities, 
management incentives, regulatory policies, 
M A P P I N G   E S G    and environmental and social impacts. As 
active managers of our equity investments, 
A L P H A   S I G N A L S engagement with company boards and 
management teams gives us insights  
Our Quantitative Investment Strategies  into management quality, business model, 
financial strategy and future business 
team within Goldman Sachs Asset 
prospects — as our investment teams work 
Management manages a suite of active 
closely with the companies to grow their 
equity products, known as Equity 
shareholder value over the long term. 
Insights, which seek to find data-driven 
Key 2017 Voting  
characteristics of companies that may be  Statistics
useful in predicting future returns. ESG 
Meetings voted: 
1 1,000
data are starting to play an increasingly 
significant role in our ongoing research.  
Proposals voted: 
For example, we’ve seen that more 
1  09,000
efficient companies, and those that 
minimize negative impacts to the 
Markets voted: 
69
environment per dollar of revenue, tend 
to trade at a premium. We are now 
employing ESG as a data-driven, alpha- Number of shareholder  
proposals voted: 
additive investment signal in our equity  2,500
insights process — helping us to identify 
strong investments going forward. Engagements: 
2,600
22
GGoollddmmaann  SSaacchhss  22001177  EESSGG  RReeppoorrtt
F O S T E R
OUR INCLUSIVE, SERVICE- 
ORIENTED CULTURE
Tackling complex challenges demands a workforce  
that reflects the world’s diversity
Fostering an inclusive, service-oriented culture is fundamental to attracting and 
retaining the people we need to better serve our clients, generate long-term value 
for our shareholders and make lasting contributions to society. As such, diversity is a 
business imperative. While we have made progress in recent years with respect to 
representation of diverse professionals at the firm, there is still significant progress 
to be made. We aspire to have a workforce representative, at every level, of the 
diversity of the world we live in, where inclusiveness and pay equity are givens. 
2233
GGoollddmmaann  SSaacchhss  22001177  EESSGG  RReeppoorrtt
FOSTER OUR INCLUSIVE, SERVICE-ORIENTED CULTURE
GENDER PAY EQUITY
With respect to gender pay, we believe men and women in similar 
roles with similar performance should be paid equally, and each 
year we review pay equity across the firm to ensure that happens. 
We have conducted an analysis that shows women at the firm on 
average make 99 percent of what men earn. However, the more 
fundamental issue is a lack of adequate representation of women 
across the firm and particularly at the most senior levels of our firm. 
We remain committed to being vigilant to ensure that women and men who 
have the same roles and perform at the same level are paid equally. In terms 
Senior women 
leaders at the firm 
of increasing our female population overall and particularly at senior levels,  shared advice and 
perspectives during 
we know that effecting change takes time, focus and accountability and, to  a moderated panel 
discussion hosted 
that end, we have announced our commitment to having women  by the GS Women’s 
Network.
represent 50 percent of our global talent over time, starting 
with our goal of 50 percent representation of women in  
our incoming analyst class by 2021. 
SERVICE ORIENTATION
We encourage our people to lend their unique skills to contribute to 
society. Service is embedded in our culture, and our people are eager to 
use their skills to make meaningful contributions, whether that is through 
skills-based volunteering or service projects initiated by our employees to 
lend their expertise to a worthy organization. We target service opportunities 
where our people can make an outsized impact. This enables us to maximize the power of 
our people, helps us attract and retain the best employees, and amplifies the impact we can 
have on the communities where we work and live. 
222444
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
FOSTER OUR INCLUSIVE, SERVICE-ORIENTED CULTURE
Final presentations for the GS Local  HARNESSING VALUED SKILLS 
College Collaborative, a leadership 
program for 40 high-performing college 
AND A WILLINGNESS TO SERVE
students, were hosted at GS global 
headquarters, 200 West Street.
Skills-based volunteering leverages the   The Goldman Sachs Social Impact Advisory (SIA) 
Supporting  
individual strengths of our people, channeling  program, an Investment Banking Division (IBD) 
Posse Scholars their desire to do good in the world in ways that  program launched in partnership with the Office 
maximize their impact. From coaching small  of Corporate Engagement and Human Capital 
The Posse Foundation partnered 
business owners to delivering career readiness  Management, provides nonprofit organizations 
with the Goldman Sachs Social 
and financial literacy workshops, Community  with access to financial management and strategic 
Impact Advisory program to 
conduct a feasibility study to test  TeamWorks (CTW), the firm’s signature   planning resources, matching teams of high-
the idea of building a targeted  employee community engagement program,   performing analysts and associates from IBD with 
endowment to expand and  has evolved to place a greater emphasis on   nonprofits for engagements of up to 16 weeks. 
support its existing college  skill-based volunteering. The program was created with two objectives in 
partnerships. A team of five  mind: to bring needed expertise to community 
analysts and associates, led by  500+ organizations, and to accelerate the personal and 
two managing directors, worked 
professional development of our junior bankers. 
over four months with Posse to 
estimate the endowment size  In helping nonprofits improve their organizational 
needed to reach Posse’s goal and  effectiveness, our SIA bankers get to take the lead 
determine fundraising strategies  CTW skills-based volunteer  on critical challenges, applying and strengthening 
aimed at major donors. The 
opportunities deployed globally  technical, strategic and project management 
nonprofit has identified, recruited  in 2017 skills in a new environment. They lead external 
and trained more than 8,400 
relationships, develop their professional network 
public-high-school students with 
and engage with Goldman Sachs senior bankers 
extraordinary academic and  CTW creates unique, high-impact opportunities 
who oversee and advise the project teams. This 
leadership potential, with its  for the people of Goldman Sachs to contribute 
college and university partners  optional program is always oversubscribed. 
their time and talent to their local communities 
providing full-tuition scholarships 
through team-based service projects completed  In addition to the two programs above, the firm 
worth $1.2 billion to date. Susie 
over the course of a day. The global program, now  conducts a six-month leadership development 
Scher, co-head of the Americas 
in its 22nd season, is open to all employees, from  program for high-potential vice presidents that 
Financing Group in our Investment 
Banking Division, sits on the  the executive suite to support staff. Participants  culminates in a capstone project focused on a 
foundation’s board. reflect the full range of the firm. The vast majority  specific, community-based social challenge. We 
of projects are curated by the firm, coordinating  also bring together 40 high-performing college 
Posse Scholars  with hundreds of nonprofit partner organizations  students with Goldman Sachs employees to 
graduate at a rate of  around the world. CTW also supports employee- develop leadership, career readiness, business 
90% initiated projects, which allows our people to create  management, analytical, teamwork, networking 
opportunities for volunteerism with nonprofits   and presentation skills through the Goldman Sachs 
that are personally meaningful to them.  Local College Collaborative. 
25
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
FOSTER OUR INCLUSIVE, SERVICE-ORIENTED CULTURE
Analyst 
Impact Fund
The Analyst Impact Fund provides our 
analysts with the opportunity to collaborate 
with peers across the firm to compete to 
win a grant from Goldman Sachs Gives, the 
firm’s donor-advised fund, for a nonprofit 
organization of their choice. The initiative 
is sponsored by the Partnership Committee, whose mission is to 
steward the firm’s culture and cultivate our current and future leaders. 
In 2017, teams made up of nearly 300 analysts from Goldman Sachs offices around the 
world participated. The top six teams presented to Chairman and CEO Lloyd Blankfein, 
President and COO David Solomon, and the firm’s Partnership Committee, and the 
sessions were broadcast to all employees. 
Each of the finalist teams had identified interesting nonprofits that 
are offering creative solutions to pressing social challenges in 
underserved communities around the world. The grand prize 
of $150,000 went to Kiron Open Higher Education, pitched 
by a group of London-based analysts. Kiron is a Berlin-based 
nonprofit with the mission to provide access to higher education 
and successful learning for refugees through digital solutions. 
Second place was awarded to Educate Girls, presented by a 
team from our Bengaluru and London offices, and third place went 
to The Bronx Freedom Fund, pitched by a team from New York.
Applications were judged across a number of criteria, including the nonprofit’s 
leadership, reach and potential for impact, the uniqueness of the proposed project  
or work of the nonprofit, the team’s analysis of the project goals, and the scalability of 
the organization’s work. 
26
GGoollddmmaann  SSaacchhss  22001177  EESSGG  RReeppoorrtt
L E A D
WITH IDEAS
Using the convening power and thought  
leadership of the firm to spur progress
At Goldman Sachs, we harness our thought leadership and use our 
convening power to further public dialogue and progress on critical 
economic issues and societal challenges. Recent events include  
the 2017 Sustainable Finance Innovation Forum and the inaugural  
Goldman Sachs 10,000 Small Businesses Summit in Washington, D.C., 
that gave voice to small business owners who collectively represent  
a vital driver of job creation and economic growth. 
2277
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
LEAD WITH IDEAS
F O C U S I N G  T H E   
B I G   P O W E R   O F 
S M A L L   B U S I N E S S
Our 10,000 Small Businesses program held its first national  
summit in Washington, D.C., convening small business owners  
with a select group of business leaders, industry experts and 
policymakers to discuss the important role that small businesses 
play in the economy. It was the largest-ever gathering of small 
business owners from across the U.S., coming together to share 
ideas, discuss common challenges and elevate their collective 
voice to inform key issues on Capitol Hill. 
Goldman Sachs 10,000 Small Businesses is a program to  Alumni from more than 2,000 businesses comprising a diverse  
help entrepreneurs create jobs and economic opportunity.  range of industries, representing every state, participated in  
The program provides greater access to education, capital 
breakout sessions on hiring, leadership, accessing capital and  
and business support services in the U.S. and U.K. 10,000 
Small Businesses has graduated more than 6,700 business  more. An additional 1,000 alumni attended remotely, and over 
owners in the U.S., who collectively employ more than 
6,000 people tuned into the webcast. Participants also met with 
130,000 employees and represent annual revenues of 
more than $9 billion. The program has served over 1,300  policymakers to advocate for policies that support the continued 
business owners in the U.K., who boost employment 
ability of small businesses to grow and compete, meeting with 
an average of 31 percent and revenues an average of 
81 percent annually. members of Congress representing all 50 states. 
Shaping Sustainable Finance 
The growing economic thesis around low carbon solutions and sustainable 
business models is reshaping industries and markets. To help focus the 
conversation around key themes shaping environmental markets and 
sustainability, Goldman Sachs hosted the 2017 Sustainable Finance Innovation 
(SFI) Forum, convening more than 300 corporates, investors, public sector 
representatives and nonprofit organizations from around the world, who are at 
the forefront of catalyzing sustainable finance. 
The forum was held against the backdrop of shifting U.S. policy, including the 
pullback from the Paris Climate Agreement. The forum underscored the increasing 
investor focus on ESG integration across asset classes and rapid ongoing technology 
gs.com/sfi 
innovation, which is making the economic case increasingly compelling. Together, the 
View the SFI Forum highlights 
fundamental market drivers are continually strengthening the case for sustainability  video and recap paper.
and clean energy. Topics ranged from the future of utilities and the transportation 
revolution to green bonds and impact investing. Leaders from each of our business 
divisions moderated the discussions, underscoring how sustainable finance has 
become core to how we serve our clients. 
28
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
LEAD WITH IDEAS
TA L K S  AT   G S
Talks   +
80
at GS  
in 2017
conversations
Key theme:
Leadership/
Overcoming  
Adversity
Talks at GS features conversations with some of the world’s most dynamic leaders across industries, helping to inform our 
people on issues of broad relevance and drive innovative thinking throughout the firm. In 2017, these included: documentary 
filmmaker Jeff Orlowski addressing the devastating impacts of climate change; Virgin Money’s Jayne-Anne Gadhia, the 
longest-serving CEO of a European bank, on gender equity; and Bozoma Saint John, Uber’s first chief brand officer, on diversity. 
Other leading thinkers and influencers included Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, entrepreneur and journalist Arianna Huffington, 
professor and author James Forman, Jr., author Ron Chernow, and philanthropist and former professional athlete David 
Beckham. We recently began streaming episodes of Talks at GS on Hulu, Amazon Prime, Yahoo Finance and Spotify, making 
them accessible to an even wider audience, and signaling our firm’s commitment to fostering dialogue on critical topics. 
Sharing Our Insights: GS SUSTAIN 
GS SUSTAIN, our global, long-term investment research team now entering its second 
decade, has placed Goldman Sachs at the forefront of integrating ESG criteria into  
The GS SUSTAIN  
the fundamental analysis of companies to find those that are best placed to manage  
50 List from 
inception in 2007  21st-century business risks.
to year-end 2017 
In 2017 our GS SUSTAIN group, part of the firm’s Global Investment Research division,  
has outperformed  
its global  published The PM’s Guide to the ESG Revolution, a how-to guide for ESG integration focusing  
benchmark by
on the metrics that matter most for investors. The analysis suggests that, by focusing on a select 
40%
suite of metrics, ESG integration offers a differentiated and alpha-additive complement of risk 
analysis for mainstream investors, while tapping into a growing asset pool. 
The group has developed a screening framework that we believe offers a simpler, more  
transparent and more “materiality-focused” alternative to commonly used third-party ESG ratings 
solutions. The selected metrics lie at the intersection of: 1. material links to operations and franchise 
value; 2. data availability; and 3. best relationship with historical stock performance. The framework 
sorts through the noise and narrows the number of data points from hundreds to about a dozen  
for each sector, which are used to score companies against global sector peers.
29
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
METRICS
KEY METRICS   
AND INDICATORS
Below we provide an overview of selected key metrics. For a complete list of our ESG-related 
resources and disclosures, please visit our Resource Guide.
GOLDMAN SACHS U.S. WORKFORCE DEMOGRAPHICS
Native 
American  Hawaiian   
Black or   Indian/  or Other 
African  Alaskan  Hispanic or  Two or More  Pacific 
White Asian American  Native Latino Races Islander Females
Exec/Sr. Officials & Managers 80.4% 11.4% 2.9% 0.1% 4.3% 0.8% 0.0% 21.6%
Officials & Managers 59.5% 29.6% 4.4% 0.2% 4.7% 1.5% 0.1% 28.8%
Professionals 57.0% 26.8% 5.2% 0.1% 8.5% 2.2% 0.2% 37.2%
All Others 63.3% 12.6% 8.5% 0.2% 13.1% 2.1% 0.3% 56.6%
Total 59.7% 24.1% 5.4% 0.1% 8.5% 2.1% 0.2% 37.8%
Source: Goldman Sachs 2017 Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO-1) reports. “All Others” is a combination of the following EEO-1 job categories: technicians, sales 
workers, administrative support, craft workers (skilled), operatives (semi-skilled), laborers & helpers and service workers. Data as of 11/30/2017 (U.S. Only)
ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS
Trend  
2016–2017 2017 2016 2015
Organization
  Global Facilities Reported 178 186 187
  Revenues ($M) $32,073 $30,608 $33,820
  Operational Rentable Square Feet (million ft2) 9.4 9.5 9.8
  Full-time Occupants (FTO = FTE + FTC) 36,600 34,400 36,800
Certification
  ◊LEED-Certified Buildings (% of sq. ft.)1, 2 55% 55% 55%
  ◊ISO 14001 Certified Operations (% of sq. ft.)2 79% 70% 36%
30
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
METRICS
Trend  
2016–2017 2017 2016 2015
Energy
  Global Direct Energy Consumption (MWh) 41,207 42,283 43,623
    Natural Gas   90% 88% 87%
    Fuel Oil   10% 12% 13%
  Global Intermediate Energy Consumption (MWh) 493,163 502,837 515,779
    Purchased Electricity   97% 97% 97%
    Purchased Steam & Chilled Water   3% 3% 3%
  Global Direct and Intermediate Energy Consumption (MWh) 534,370 545,120 559,401
    ◊Reduction in Global Energy Consumption from Baseline (%) -12% -10% -8%
  Global Renewable Energy Consumption (MWh) 453,518 440,902 429,924
    ◊Percent Green Power 95% 90% 86%
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions
  Scope 1 — Direct (metric tons CO equivalent [tCOe]) 11,147 11,520 11,900
2 2
    Natural Gas   67% 66% 65%
    Fuel Oil   9% 11% 12%
    HFC Refrigerants   23% 24% 24%
  Scope 2 (location) — Indirect (tCOe) 186,991 210,054 221,964
2
    Purchased Electricity   99% 99% 99%
    Purchased Steam & Chilled Water   1% 1% 1%
  Scope 2 (market) — Indirect (tCOe) 15,802 34,179 51,690
2
    Purchased Electricity   85% 93% 95%
    Purchased Steam & Chilled Water   15% 7% 5%
  Scope 3: Category 6 — Business Travel (tCOe) 120,001 102,266 148,918
2
    Commercial Air   88% 88% 90%
    Other Transport3   12% 12% 10%
  Total Emissions: Scope 1 & 2 (location) (tCOe) 198,138 221,573 233,865
2
    Office Scope 1 & 2   53% 54% 58%
    Data Center Scope 1 & 2   47% 46% 42%
  Total Emissions: Scope 1, 2 (market) (tCOe) 26,949 45,699 63,590
2
  Total Emissions: Scope 1, 2 (market), and 3 Category 6 (tCOe) 146,950 147,965 212,508
2
  ◊Net Emissions: Scope 1, 2 (market), and 3 Category 6 (tCOe)   0 0 0
2
    Verified Carbon Offset Emissions Reductions (tCOe)   146,950 147,965 212,508
2
  Revenues (tCOe/$M)4 6.2 7.2 6.9
2
  Rentable Square Feet (kgCOe/ft2)4 21.1 23.3 23.9
2
31
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
METRICS
Trend  
2016–2017 2017 2016 2015
  Full-time Occupants (tCOe/FTO)4 5.4 6.4 6.4
2
Water
  Global Water Withdrawal (m3) 979,323 981,060 1,037,061
    ◊Reduction in Global Water Withdrawal from Baseline (%) -5% -5% 0%
Waste
  Global Business Waste (metric tons) 5,979 6,083 6,502
    Recycled/Composted Material 57% 51% 47%
    ◊Landfilled Material 7% 9% 10%
    Waste to Energy 36% 40% 43%
  Global e-Waste (metric tons) 265 138 144
  Global Construction Waste (metric tons) 4,171 56,639 78,915
    Recycled Material 99% 99% 46%
    Landfilled/Waste to Energy Material 1% 1% 54%
Paper
  Paper Consumption (million sheets) 233 258 262
    New Fibers (FSC/SFI) 69% 71% 71%
    Post-Consumer Recycled 22% 20% 20%
    New Fibers 9% 9% 9%
  ◊Paper Consumption/FTO (sheets) 6,375 7,513 7,120
CDP
  Climate Change Survey: Score5 A A A-/100
  Climate Change Survey: Leadership Recognition A List A List CDLI
Supply Chain
  ◊Vendor Code of Conduct6 100% – –
  CDP Supply Chain Engagement6 – 148/83% 111/86%
Notes:
Note 1: This symbol ◊ before an indicator denotes an environmental commitment through Goldman Sachs’ 2015 EPF; reductions are from a 2013 baseline.
Note 2: The total for LEED square footage is based on total RSF where Goldman Sachs has certified as the project owner. The total for ISO 14001 square footage is based 
on RSF where Goldman Sachs maintains operational control. 
Note 3: This includes charter air, rail/bus, ferry and car.
Note 4: Metrics are normalized using Scope 1 & Scope 2 (location) emissions.
Note 5: CDP made an adjustment to climate change scoring methodology and leadership designations starting in 2016.
Note 6: The Vendor Code of Conduct was launched to all suppliers in 2017. Prior to this, the CDP Supply Chain program  
was used to engage suppliers on climate, with number of vendors and response rate indicated.
32
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
RECOGNITION
FEATURED AWARDS   
AND RECOGNITION
Each year, Goldman Sachs receives awards across categories including business, employer of choice, 
and environmental, social and governance (ESG). Selected awards are shown below. For a complete 
list, please visit our Awards page.
ENVIRONMENTAL AWARDS AND RANKINGS: 
Climate Leadership Awards  Just100
May 2017  December 2017
Innovative Partnership Certificate  #2 in Industry 
#65 Overall  
#1 on Environment in Industry  
#11 on Environment Overall
CDP Climate Change EPA Top 100
September 2017  January 2018 
Climate “A List” Ranked #29
Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America Green Power Partnership 
September 2017  January 2018 
Listed  Fortune 500® Partners List: #14 in 2018 
BUSINESS AWARDS AND RANKINGS:
Euromoney Awards for Excellence  IFR Awards 
July 2017 December 2017
World’s Best Bank for Financial Institutions   Bank of the Year for Financial Sponsors 
World’s Best Bank for Global Financing  EMEA Loan House of the Year 
Western Europe’s Best Investment Bank
Risk Awards 2018 
November 2017 
Credit Derivatives House of the Year 
33
Goldman Sachs 2017 ESG Report
RECOGNITION
EMPLOYER OF CHOICE AWARDS AND RANKINGS:
CR Magazine: 100 Best Corporate Citizens  Working Mother 
April 2017 October 2017
Ranked #59  100 Best Companies 
Hall of Fame Award, marking 15 years of inclusion on  
this list 
The Times: Top 50 Employers for Women 2017  Fortune World’s Most Admired 
April 2017 January 2018
Ranked Ranked #27
Vault Banking 50  Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For 
October 2017 February 2018
#1 Best Banking Firm  Ranked #89 
#1 Most Prestigious Banking Firm
DIVERSITY AWARDS AND RANKINGS:
Community Business Awards: LGBT Workplace  Fortune: Best Workplaces for Diversity
Inclusiveness Index  December 2017
May 2017
Ranked #61
Ranked #1
Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index 
November 2017
Rating of 100% 
Named a “Best Place to Work for LGBT Equality”
34