
2021
ESG & Impact 
Report
Building a decarbonised future
1
CONTENTS
Our vision:  Acting for a decarbonised future  3
Key figures for 2020  4
Editorial: A future focused on the decarbonisation of our societies  6
Interview with Christian de Perthuis: 2020, a tipping point year  7
DEMETER, pioneer and leader in investment in the ecological transition sectors
Our identity  10
Our investment sectors 11
Our investments in 2020 & 2021 12
Our 3 new funds projects in 2021  13
Our contribution to decarbonisation
oInterview with Alexandra Palt – L'Oréal 17
oDecarbonisation case studies: Plan A, Ynsect, Deepki, Alterea and Cityscoot 19
Our contribution to biodiversity
oInterview with Claire Tutenuit – Entreprises pour l’Environnement 25
oBiodiversity case studies: Kapsera, Jungle & VitiRev Innovation  27
Our contribution to the UN's Sustainable Development Goals 30
Our commitments in our communities
DEMETER, increasing ESG commitments since 2005  33
Our awards & honours in 2020 & 2021  34
8 companies supported by DEMETER labelled "French Tech"  35
Our Environmental, Social and Governance policy  36
Our commitments at the management company level  37
Our commitments to our portfolio companies 39
Our commitments to our employees  40
Our commitment to our investors 41
Our commitments to our ecosystem 43
Our 2020 initiatives for diversity  47
d
Innovative and in-depth impact measures
Overall ESG performance of our portfolios in 2020 51
Environmental performance of our portfolios in 2020 52
Social performance of our portfolios in 2020 53
Governance performance of our portfolios in 2020 54
Paris Green Fund: a detailed and innovative assessment of territorial impact 55
Innovative impact measures for our new funds projects  59
Three DEMETER funds labelled GreenFin 61
Our achievements in 2020 and our roadmap for 2021 62 
Appendices
Key ESG performance figures by fund  64
Correspondence table - Article 173 of the energy transition law 77
2
ACCOMPAGNER LES CHAMPIONS DE LA CROISSANCE ECOLOGIQUE
OUR VISION: ACTING FOR A 
DECARBONISED FUTURE
Intentionality
We invest exclusively in companies with a 
positive environmental impact
Since2005,DEMETER hasput theenvironment attheheart of itsinvestment strategy.Itscorepurpose
isto"combinefinancialperformancewithenvironmentalcommitment".
With more than €1 billion in assets under management, DEMETER is a pioneer and leader in
investment in the ecological transition. We develop responsible and impactful investment
approacheswithallourstakeholders.
Impact measure
We implement innovative and in-depth 
impact measures
Measuring ESGimpact is key to ourinvestment strategy.Asapioneer and leader in theenvironment
sectors,weuseinnovativemethodologies toassess theoverallimpactofourportfolios.
Assisted by external experts, we have set up territorial and environmental impact audits for Paris
GreenFundwiththeconsultancyfirmCarbone4andareimplementinginnovativemethodologiesfor
our new funds projects, integrating the two-degree trajectory, the triple top line (People, Planet,
Profit)andimpactmeasure regardingbiodiversity.
Alignment of interests
Our commitments and initiatives reflect our 
core purpose
To maximise financial performance and environmental engagement, we believe it is essential to share
our vision, commitments and values with our investors, the managers of our portfolio companies
andourteams.Forallournewfunds,wethereforeincludeperformance-basedremunerationlinked
toimpactobjectives..
3
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
KEY FIGURES FOR 2020
€1bn assets under management focused 
on the ecological transition
€28m
invested in 15 new companies
invested in 26 existing portfolio 
€16m
companies
4 ESG honours
Best Sustainable ESG Engagement Report 
EquityInvestor, 2021 Study on DEMETER
tonnes of CO2 emissions avoided
3.9 m
Equivalent to the annual emissions of 2 million cars (1)
of renewable energy generated
430
GWh
Equivalent to the electricity consumption of 92,000
French households (2)
98
patents registered 
(1) Source E-rse.net: a car emits 2 tonnes of CO2 a year 
(2) Source https://prix-elec.com/energie/comprendre/statistiques-consommation-France::
an average French household consumes 4,710 kWh of electricity per year
4
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Editorials: 
2020, 
a tipping point 
year
5
EDITORIAL – A FUTURE FOCUSED ON THE 
DECARBONISATION OF OUR SOCIETIES 
2020 was an extraordinary year. In 2020, the health and economic crisis took centre stage, bringing
with it a new, uncertain reality. All our teams adapted very quickly, not only at the level of our
managementcompanybutalsotosupportourportfoliocompaniesthroughthiscrisis.
In this context, the ecological transition sectors in France and in Europe proved remarkably
resilient, driven by the competitiveness of technologies and the awareness by citizens, companies and
politicaldecision-makersoftheurgencyof committing tocarbon-neutraltrajectories,whetherinEurope
with theGreen Deal,theUnited States sincethe electionof Joe Biden,orChina, etc.Forthefirst timein
2020, green investments exceeded those in fossil fuels; Nextera, the green renewable energy giant,
overtook Exxon on the stock exchange; and sales of electric cars to consumers outstripped all
expectations (12% of vehicle sales in Europe, compared with 3% in 2019). We are at a tipping point.
The massive stimulus plans for the ecological transition in France and Europe confirm that the coming
decade will be marked by a sharp acceleration in the decarbonisation of our societies and the
disseminationoftechnologiesthatsupportthem.
Asapioneerandleaderin investment intheecologicaltransition,wearemoreconvincedthanever
that it is essential toinvest overthelong termin thesectors key tothis transition:environment,energy,
agriculture and health. Despite a challenging 2020, DEMETER continued to grow by successfully
investing in 15 new companies and reinvesting in 26 existing portfolio companies. This noteworthy
performance reflects our expertise, the uninterrupted growth of our markets and the talent, innovation
andknow-howofourentrepreneurs.
We are continuing to expand at the national level, with extensive territorial coverage boosted by the
opening of a new office in Bordeaux. It is home to VitiRev Innovation, which specialises in sustainable
wine growing and is one of our three new projects of funds. The two others are the Green European
Tech Fund (GET), dedicated to technological scale-ups for a sustainable future, and the Climate
Infrastructure Fund (CIF), specialising in territorial energy transition infrastructures. Reflecting our ESG
policy and demonstrating our strong commitment, these three new projects of funds both include an
innovativeandin-depthimpactmeasuremethodology,andlinkremunerationtoperformanceonESG
objectives.
With more than €1 billion in assets under management, we are strengthening our business model,
which combines financial performance and a commitment to demanding ESG standards. The 2020
indicators of ourportfolio companies aretestament tothis:theiractivitiesmadeit possibletoavoid 3.9
million tonnesofCO2emissionsandtogenerate430GWhofrenewableelectricity.
In 2020, we upped our game in all aspects of the ESG approach, with the deployment of ESG
Ambassadors for each activity, a gender equality workshop, a biodiversity focus and impact
assessmentmeasures,inparticularthedevelopmentofahighlydetailedterritorialimpactmethodology
withCarbone4.WereceivedfourawardsinrecognitionofourpioneeringandleadingroleinESG.
Along with our ecosystem as a whole and with growing assets under management and the launch of
new funds, we are determined to accelerate our ESG commitment in 2021, reconciling the ecological
andsolidarity-basedtransitionwithgrowthandvaluecreation.
Philippe Detours Yann Lagalaye
6
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
INTERVIEW – CHRISTIAN DE PERTHUIS
"For me, 2020 is the year
when  things changed"
Christian de Perthuis
Professor at Paris Dauphine-PSL University
Founder of the Climate Economics Chair
In your book Covid-19etréchauffementclimatique("Covid-19 and global warming") you
statethat"2020isatipping pointyear".Whatmajorchangesareyoutalkingabout?
Christian de Perthuis. With lockdown and the economy at a standstill, the pandemic reduced CO2
emissions in the short-term like no event in history. Beyond this short-term effect, I believe that
Covid-19isacceleratingthreemajorchanges:
-thedigitaltransition,withthelarge-scaleuseofdigitaltoolsmadeindispensable,inparticular
forteleworking;
- the ecological transition, as the Covid-19 crisis has revealed our vulnerability to global and
climate risks and increased the public's awareness of these risks. For example, there has been a
general realisation of the environmental impact of the mobility, or rather hypermobility, of goods
and people. Similarly, the pandemic accentuates all our concerns related to junk food, obesity and
the lack of traceability of food, all sources of vulnerability in the virus context. This contributes to
the emergence of practices such as the production and consumption of local products, from short
supplychains,andpromotes agroecology;
-thedemographic transition isthelastchange, in thatthehealthcrisishas notonlyincreased
mortality but also led to a slowdown in birth rates. This has been observed in both developed and
developing countries. The big unknown for demographers is how long this impact on birth rates
will last. If it were to persist, it would accelerate the movement towards a stabilisation of the global
population.
Do you think that this "tipping point year" concerns only certain players in particular, or all
citizens,governmentsandcompanies?
CP. It is global: lockdown has affected more than four billion people worldwide. Global risks,
whether health,climateorenvironmental, willbeamuchbiggerconcern thaninthepast.
2020stoodoutforanumberofnotableeventsandstatistics,suchasthevaluationofNextEra
(a major US renewable energy company), which overtook that of Exxon Mobil in October. Do
youthinkthisisjustatrendoraglobal,irreversiblemovement?
CP.Thisis anearlywarningas to whatwill happen to any economicassetsthatfail to keepup
withthelow-carbontransition:theywillendupdevalued,or“castoffs”,tousetheproverbial
term. It is worth noting that fossil energy producers are currently suffering much more from this
crisis than their green energy counterparts. And this is likely to be a drawn out, irreversible process
extending beyond the confines of the Covid-19 crisis. Companies will therefore have to get moving
andadapttheirbusinessmodelstothefuturechallenges.
7
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
INTERVIEW – CHRISTIAN DE PERTHUIS
As mentioned earlier, 2020 was a tipping-point year. In your opinion, could 2021 be a
continuation of 2020 or are we already into a "post-tipping point" period, with the
implementationofactionplans?
CP. What will be important in 2021 is how the plans to reboot economies shape up. None of
them is completely green, but some are greener than others. The European Union has
structured its stimulus plan around the Green Deal. That’s a positive. In the United States, a major
change in environmental policies was noted following the presidential elections. Joe Biden's
stimulus package, which is more ambitious than the European Union's, was adopted before his
infrastructure investment programme, which should include more "green" and less "grey". It’s a
shame to have separated the two initiatives for political reasons. And there is a great deal of
concern about China, which has relaxed its environmental rules limiting investments in coal and
whereahighlyinfelicitousrecoveryistakingplaceinthissector.
Since DEMETER's creation in 2005, we have supported and advised a large number of energy
and ecological transition stakeholders. In your opinion, how could our ecosystem (investors,
managementcompanyandemployees)strengthenitscommitment?
CP.ThemosteffectivesolutionistomeasuretheCO2emissionsgeneratedbyyourportfolios
and apply a price that reflects the cost of these emissions to the climate. The higher the price, the
faster theswitchfromcarbonintensivetolowcarbonassets willbe.
Today, we are in a system, or a world, governed by market rules, with expectations in terms of
profitability. For low carbon solutions to be sustainable and marketable they have to be
profitable. Technical progress and innovation help here, but will not be enough. We need a high
CO2 price, calculated based on a reliable metric. Governments' role in imposing tradable quota
systems ortariffsiskeyinthisregard.
For investors, an additional ecological transition challenge is divestment. We talk a lot about green
investment,andthat'sgood.Butitisnotbyaddinggreen to greythatwereduce emissions, itisby
replacing grey with green. This means rapidly divesting fossil fuel assets and reallocating the
associated physical and human capital. I believe this divestment to be a huge hidden cost of the
transition.
This year DEMETER is highlighting two causes close to our heart: decarbonisation and the
conservation of biodiversity. You have been studying carbon issues for a long time. What in
yourviewaretoday'smajordecarbonisation challenges?
CP.Theimportantthingisto linkthetwo issues.Therearetwo stages on theroadtowardsclimate
neutrality: rapidly decarbonising energy systems by cutting our addiction to fossil fuels, and
conserving the carbon sinks that absorb CO2 from the atmosphere – while slashing the
methane and nitrous oxide emissions produced by farming. Agriculture and forestry account for
nearly a quarter of global greenhouse gas emissions. The agroecological transition, which consists
principally of conserving biodiversity, is the major challenge for the coming decades. Without this
transition, which also puts our food security at risk, targeting the climate neutrality required by the
ParisAgreement willbeimpossible.
8
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
DEMETER, 
pioneer and 
investment leader in 
the ecological 
transition sectors 
Pioneer & leader
OUR IDENTITY
3 ACTIVITIES
INNOVATION GROWTH INFRASTRUCTURES
DEMETER invests in ecological transition sector companies at all stages of their development:
innovativestart-ups, rapidlygrowingSMEsandmid-caps,andinfrastructureprojects.
€1bn 32 186 100%
under  people investments independent
management
Our offices in Europe & our international partnerships 
Bordeaux
Bordeaux
DEMETERhas offices in Paris, Lyon, Grenoble, Metz, Bordeaux, Madrid and Münster and two partnerships: Cycle Capital 
in Canadaand Munich Venture Partners in Germany.
10
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Pioneer & leader
OUR INVESTMENT SECTORS
DEMETER supports innovative start-ups, fast-growing SMEs and mid-caps and
infrastructureprojectsintheecologicaltransitionsectors.
11
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Pioneer & leader
OUR INVESTMENTS IN 2020 & 2021
In 2020 and at the start of 2021, DEMETER invested nearly €28 million in 15 new companies in
thevariousecologicaltransitionsectors.
ASaaS platform that  Calculates companies'  Food service payment 
optimises pallet logistics carbon footprintand assists  solution based on food 
them with their ESG  recognition
between businesses
development strategy
INNOVATION
AI solution dedicated to 
Production of lettuces  cardammage detection
and herbs using vertical 
growing technology
SaaS solution for 
Generation of 
monitoring welding  Intelligent LED lighting 
Independentgeneratorof  sustainable energy 
quality and predictive  system for crop 
renewable energy from from paper and 
maintenanceof  optimization in the 
hybrid solar power plants enzymes
industrial tools greenhouse
GROWTH
Distribution of  Software for collectingand 
photovoltaic equipment  consolidatingsmart meter 
and design of self- and energy management 
consumption solutions  data
Fault diagnosis, spare parts sales 
and repair support services system
INFRASTRUCTURES
Production of  Personal electric scooter 
photovoltaic energy for  long-term rental service
electric mobility
Networkof more than 
1,200 charging stations 
in 11 departments
* Illustrative sample from our portfolio
12
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Pioneer & leader
OUR 3 NEW FUNDS PROJECTS IN 2021 
(1/3)
CLIMATE INFRA FUND (CIF) 
€300 million climate impact fund project 
dedicated to energy transition
infrastructures and SPVs
Investments of
€5 - 30 million
CLIMATE INFRA FUND, in a nutshell …
"OurstrategywillcontributetotheParisAgreementclimate
objectives. We will make equity and quasi-equity
investmentsinthreeareas:renewableenergyproduction,
energyefficiencyandsmart&sustainablecities.CIFwill
investinFranceandEurope..
Ourimpactwillbemeasuredbyatrustedthirdpartybased
onthreecriteria:observanceoftheEUtaxonomy,carbon
footprint, and compatibility of projects with a two
degreestrajectory.
Lastly,theremunerationofthemanagementteamwillbe
linkedtotheacheivementoftheseclimateobjectives.”
Philippe Detours
Managing Partner, Climate Infrastructure Fund
13
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Pioneer & leader
OUR 3 NEW FUNDS PROJECTS IN 2021 
(2/3)
VITIREV INNOVATION
€50 - €60 million fund project dedicated to 
financing of companies in the ecological 
transition of the wine sector
Investments of 
€1 - 5 million 
VITIREV INNOVATION, in a nutshell …
"VitiRev Innovation will fund young, innovative
companies whose solutions will be adapted to the
ecologicaltransitionandwillcontributetothegrowth
ofthewinemarket.
Ourobjectivewillbetoadaptwine-growingcompanies
to climate change and reduce their environmental
impact,inparticularbyconservingbiodiversity.
Oursupportwillbedesignedtohelpthemgrow,thereby
creatingvalueandimpact.”
Amaury Kalt
Investment Director, VitiRev Innovation Fund
14
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Pioneer & leader
OUR 3 NEW FUNDS PROJECTS IN 2021 
(3/3)
GREEN EUROPEAN TECH FUND 
(GET)
€250 - 400 million fund project dedicated
to 
technological scale-ups
for a sustainable future
Investments of
€5 - 25 million 
GREEN EUROPEAN TECH FUND, in a nutshell…
"GreenEuropeanTechFundwillbeaEuropeanscale-
upfundbornofaFranco-Germaninitiativethatwill
investingrowthphasetechnologicalsolutionsthat
supporttheecologicaltransition.
Ourobjectivewillbetogrowthesecompaniesby
settingnon-financialperformance,or‘tripletopline’
targetswhosemainfunctionwillbetofosterbalanced
growthintermsofsocial,ecologicalandeconomic
equity."
Yann Lagalaye
General Partner, Green European Tech Fund
15
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Pioneer & leader
OUR CONTRIBUTION TO 
DECARBONISATION
DEMETERmakes a significant contribution to decarbonisation through its investment strategy, by 
implementing carbon-cutting maximisation processes and initiatives as well as innovative carbon 
impact measurement methodologies.
Decarbonisation at the heart of our investments *
RENEWABLE INNOVATIVE&  ENERGY
ENERGY RESPONSIBLE PROCESS EFFICIENCY
Construction and  Production of  Measures and  Sensor solutions  Sustainable energy  SaaS solution to 
development of a  photovoltaic energy  reduces companies' to measure air  storage from  reduce energy 
wind farm for electric mobility carbon footprint quality biofuecell batteries consumption of 
buildings
SUSTAINABLE BIODIVERSITY GREEN 
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION TECHNOLOGIES
Develops low carbon  Micro capsules for  Impact fund that finances  Smart food for  Sustainable micro- Micro-algae for 
impactfood production efficient, sustainable  ecological wine-growing  animal nutrition algae food solutions nutrition and well-
bio-inputs solutions
being
Our action plan
DEMETERactivelyincorporatesdecarbonisation intoitsinvestmentstrategy:
• Investments in companies that contribute significantly to decarbonisation, as indicated
aboveanddetailed frompage19;
• Completion ofourannualcarbonauditwithPlanA;
• Internaladoptionofasustainablepolicytoreducethecompany'scarbonfootprint;
• EngagementwithLeadersforClimateActiontopromotedecarbonisationamong investorsand
investeecompanies.
* Illustrative sample from our portfolio
16
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Pioneer & leader
INTERVIEW – ALEXANDRA PALT (1/2)
"As far as L'Oréal is concerned, the biggest 
challenge is to get our entire ecosystem on board 
in our transformation process. "
Alexandra Palt
Chief Corporate Responsibility Officer, L'Oréal
Senior Vice-President, L'Oréal Foundation
This year, DEMETER is focusing on two themes that have come to the fore with the Covid-19
crisis: decarbonisation and biodiversity conservation. How does a company like L'Oréal adapt
tothesenewconstraintsandopportunities?
Alexandra Palt - L'Oréal chose the path of sustainable development very early on. Our first
sustainable development programme was launched in 2013 and completed in 2020, with tangible
results. Last year, we reduced the CO2 emissions of our factories and distribution centres by
81% compared to 2005, and improved the environmental or social profile of 96% of new or
revamped products. Eco-design is already integral to the development of all our products.
However, we know that we have to continue to adapt and accelerate our transformation. It is no
longer enough for companies to reduce their environmental impact with self-set targets. Our
commitmentatL'Oréalistoensurethatour activitiesrespect"planetarylimits",inotherwordswhat
the planet can bear, in accordance with what environmental science teaches us. To reconcile our
needs with the preservation of a planet with limited resources, we have therefore scaled up our
ambitions and launched a new sustainable development strategy through 2030. Reducing climate
change and protecting biodiversity (as well as managing water sustainably and conserving natural
resources) areattheheartofthisprogramme.
You recently stated that a company's economic performance also depends on its social and
environmental performance. How do you develop this threefold performance dynamic at
L'Oréal?
AP - Yes, it’s true, by 2030 economic performance will not exist without sustainability. At
L'Oréal, corporate responsibility is now a key factor in performance measurement and assessment,
not only for the Group as a whole, but also for its management. This is a major structural change.
While sustainable development had long been part of the Group's strategy, now our company's
transformation has become everyone's business. We expect as much in terms of environmental,
social or societal performance as in terms of economic and financial results. The proof is that part
oftopmanagement's bonusisconditionalontheachievement oftheseobjectives.
17
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Pioneer & leader
INTERVIEW – ALEXANDRA PALT (2/2)
Innovation is a fundamental factor in understanding future climate challenges. How can
economic and financial players actively promote this innovation, which is driven by a
plethoraofstart-ups,SMEs andresearchcentres?
AP - Beyond in-house innovation, we work with a vast ecosystem of partners to ensure
access to the best technologies. For example, L'Oréal co-founded a consortium with the plastic
waste recycling start-up Carbios to develop the industrialisation of enzymatic PET bio-recycling
technology. We also invested in the Swiss start-up Gjosa, with whom we developed a low-flow
shower head. Combined with an easy-to-rinse shampoo, this innovation reduces the amount of
waterneededforrinsingbyuptofivetimes(1.5litresinsteadoftheusual8)andthereforereduces
the CO2 emissions fromusing our products. Wealso invested in thegreen chemistry group Global
Bioenergies, a French start-up specialising in biotechnological processes for producing chemical
compounds previouslyderivedfromoil.Lastly,theGroupisdueto channel€50 millionintoimpact
investingtoaccelerate thedevelopment ofthecircular economy.
Whatdoyouthinkarethemainchallengesthateconomicplayerswillfaceinthistransitionto
alesscarbon-intensivefuture?
AP - As far as L'Oréal is concerned, the biggest challenge is to get our entire ecosystem on
board in our transformation process. We need to involve our consumers, our suppliers and the
communities we work with in our sustainable development strategy. Many of our goals for 2030
focus on ensuring that our suppliers' sustainable development policies are as demanding as ours.
We are also working to reduce the environmental impact from using our products and to offer
greater transparency to consumers so that they can make informed and more sustainable
consumption choices. To this end, we have created an environmental and social labelling system
for our products, which Garnier launched in France in July 2020 for its hair product ranges and
which is being extended to other countries (Germany and the UK have already launched it this
year),brandsandproductcategories.
18
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Pioneer & leader
CASE STUDY: PLAN A
Presentation
Plan A has developed an original digital platform that
enables companies to measure, monitor and reduce their
environmental footprint in order to improve their business
andESGperformance.
Created in  Lubomila Jordanova
2017  Nathan Bonnisseau
Investment by 
Berlin 29 employees
DEMETER 6 in 2021
Contribution to decarbonisation -
Minimising companies' 
carbon footprint
Key figures
1 M tonnes of CO2e measured  companies 
+150
using Plan A's technology assisted
SincetheParisAgreements in2015,numerous measures andregulationstocounterglobalwarming
havebeen put in place.However, a challenge remains for many economic actors:quantifying their
impactinordertoproposethemosteffectivedecarbonizationplans.
This challenge was taken up by Plan A,a Berlin-based company which, thanks to itstechnology and
software, collects and centralizes all company data, measuring their impact and proposing
solutionstomakethecompanymorecompliantwithnew environmentalregulations.Realsupport
for companies is then ensured with the implementation of defined and measurable objectives
according to the different scopes taken into account (Scopes 1, 2 & 3) as well as support for the
communication ofthesesustainable development efforts.
19
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Pioneer & leader
CASE STUDY: YNSECT
Presentation
Ynsect Next 40 company and certified Bcorp, is the world
leader in the breeding of insects and their conversion into
food ingredients. Ynsect transforms insects into premium
ingredients with high added value for animals, plants and
humanbeings.Itsecological,healthyand sustainablesolution
meets the growing global demand for protein and plant
consumption.
Antoine Hubert, Jean-
Created 
Gabriel Levon, Fabrice 
in 2011 
Berro & Alexis Angot
Investment by 
Paris, Dole &  150 employees DEMETER 3 and 
Ivry Emertec 5 in 2014
Contribution to decarbonisation -
Delivering low carbon 
impact food production
Key figures
tonnes of CO2e avoided  kg CO2 per kg of Ynsect 
6,400 per 81,000 tonnes of  < 0.5 product vs. 35.8 kg 
produced ingredients CO2 per kg of beef
Oneof the agricultural sector 's mainproblems is the sustainability of its system.Theaimisto
adapt production and breeding methods in order to preserve the ecosystem's balance while
meetinghumanneeds.
Ynsect's worm flour allows it to promote and contribute to the agricultural system's sustainability
through three key levers: reducing the environmental impact of food production for a lighter
carbonfootprint,reducinginputquantitiesandimprovingthenutritionalbenefitsoffoodstuffs.
* Source: Ynsect carbon footprint completed in July 2020
20
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Pioneer & leader
CASE STUDY: DEEPKI
Presentation
Founded in 2014, Deepki has developed a SaaS solution to
support real estate players in their zero-carbon transition
through data intelligence. Through the combination of its
technology and expertise, Deepki designs effective
strategies across all dimensions of the GSS: energy, water
and waste consumption, social impact and best governance
practices to accelerate positive impact. After the French
market,todayDeepkiextendsitsbusinesstoEuropewithnew
officesinGreatBritain,GermanyandtheNetherlands.
Vincent Bryant & 
Created 
Emmanuel 
in 2014
Blanchet
Paris, Milan, 
Emertec 5 investment 
Madrid &  103 employees
in 2016
London
Contribution to decarbonisation -
Making real estate parks 
virtuous on a large scale
Key figures
of m² monitored 
tonnes of CO2 of 
180K + 400M
with their 250+ 
savings identified
customers in 2020
In Europe, the building stock sector generates 40% of energy consumption and accounts for 36%
ofCO2emissions.
Although the health crisis has slowed its growth, this sector is growing every year, which represents
an environmental and economic risk for investors. Deepki allows them to position themselves on a
zero-carbon trajectory in order to limit their risk of obsolescence and depreciation while fighting
global warming. Today, Deepki is active in more than 34 countries and helps leading companies,
such as Gererali Real Estate, Allianz Real Estate, JLL and the French government, to make their real
estateassetsmorevirtuousonalargescale.
21
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Pioneer & leader
CASE STUDY: ALTEREA
Presentation
ALTEREA Groupe, a building sector company, has been
advising and assisting its clients with the sustainable
renovation of their buildings since 2004. Its expert teams
support its customers in three areas: ecological transition,
energy transition and digital transition.ALTEREA Groupeis
building on a successful track record to continue expanding
throughoutFrance.
Created  Alban Lapierre
in 2004 
Nantes, Lyon, Lille, Paris,  Paris Green Fund 
More than 300 
Marseille, Strasbourg,  investment in 2019
employees
Bordeaux & Toulouse
Contribution to decarbonisation -
Improving the energy 
performance of buildings
Key figures
3.1 m tonnes of CO2 avoided  14 tonnes of waste
in 2020 * processed in 2020
ALTEREA has been advising and assisting its clients with the sustainable renovation of their
buildings since 2004. The company provides its clients with a three-phase service for optimising
their environmental impact: inventory and diagnosis, needs and strategy assessment and change
management andsupport.
To lock in this environmental and territorial impact optimisation, the company then offers clients
energy performance guarantee contracts enabling them to considerably reduce energy
consumptionandsavelargeamountsofCO2overthelifetimeoftheirbuildings.
* For Alterea, the avoided emissions and energy savings are particularly significant because they take into accountthe impact of 
the work carried out in 2020 on the life of the buildings concerned. Carbon 4 calculated that Alterea is participating in the3.1M 
tCO2e reduction in 2020 through its activity.
22
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Pioneer & leader
CASE STUDY: CITYSCOOT
Presentation
Cityscoot is the leading self-service electric scooter rental
service in Europe’s major cities. Now based in Paris, Nice,
Barcelona and Milan, Cityscoot aims at expanding to other
European cities, including mid-size. Indeed, a growing
number of cities are sensitive to the quality of life they offer
their residents to offer them alesspolluted, lessnoisysetting
withmoregreenspaces.
Created 
Bertrand Fleurose
in 2015
Paris, Nice, Milan &  FMET* investment 
Barcelona  320 employees in 2019
Contribution to decarbonisation -
Reducing air and noise 
pollution in cities
Key figures
tonnes of CO2e
tonnes of waste 
avoided thanks to the 
2 000 35.4 processed in 2020 
trips made by 
(tyres, pallets, metal, 
Cityscoot users
etc.)
The main cause of the air pollution in cities is the pollution caused by road traffic: today, intercity
trafficcauses nearly55%oftheairpollution ofcities.
Cityscoot aimsatexpandingintheFrenchandEuropeanmetropolisesfacingthisproblemofairand
noise pollution. The objective is twofold: contribute to the reduction of inter-urban pollution
caused by road traffic with the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions; then revolutionize urban
travel,notablybyreducingthedensityofcitytrafficandnoisepollution.
* : Fonds de Modernisation Ecologique des Transports
** : Compared to a car trip, calculation based on the average CO2 emissions of new vehicles sold in France estimated at 112 gr of CO2/Km in 
2018 (ADEME calculation).
23
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Pioneer & leader
OUR CONTRIBUTION TO BIODIVERSITY
Demeter is committed to contributing to the conservation of biodiversity to ensure the balance 
of our ecosystems, now and over the long term.
Our action plan
• INVESTMENTS INCOMPANIES WITHABIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION FOCUS*
Micro capsules for  Smart food for  Agricultural robots  Vertical farms 
efficient, sustainable  animal nutrition that reduce  contributing to the 
bio-inputs environmental  reduction of agricultural 
impact environmental impact
• FOCUS ONBIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION INOURINFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS
We are very careful to ensure that the renewable energy generation
projects we finance do not have a significant negative impact on
wildlife. For the H2air project, we have introduced monitoring to
measure turbine noise and assess the wind farm's impact on birds and
bats. Back in 2019, DEMETER and H2air began monitoring the nesting of
local harriers to safeguard their reproduction. The impact study
concluded that the farm only generates a minimal impact on birds and
bats and is therefore compatible with biodiversity conservation
requirements.
• ENGAGEMENT WITHFOUNDATIONS ANDPROGRAMMES
* Illustrative sample from our portfolio
24
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Pioneer & leader
INTERVIEW – CLAIRE TUTENUIT (1/2) 
"Being a responsible impact player means 
conserving biodiversity"
Claire Tutenuit
Managing Director 
Entreprises pour l'Environnement (EpE)
Conservingbiodiversityisoneofthemajorchallengesofourtime.Doyouseethesubjectasa
challengeormoreasanemergencyforoursociety–orboth?
Claire Tutenuit - Biodiversity is a challenge and an emergency for our society: To quote MNHN
president and French naturalist Bruno David, "Wecanavoidasixthmassextinction". We are totally
dependent on the services and products that biodiversity provides. Remember that when
ecosystems collapse, disasters happen. For example, the Covid crisis that we have been living
through for over a year is, according to several scientific analyses*, the result of a chain of
causalities, several of which concern our relationship with nature. It highlights the risks posed by
biodiversityloss.
More and more players are becoming involved in biodiversity conservation. In your opinion,
what initiatives have been taken with a strong positive impact on biodiversity? Do you have a
specificexampletosharewithus?
C.T - Many initiatives are being taken, in a wide variety of sectors. Take the Norwegian fishing
industry, for example. For several years, Norwegian fishermen have been using wider-meshed
fishing nets in the North Sea and the North Atlantic, a measure that allows only large fish to be
caught, leaving fry to carry on growing. This is called corrective action, but the problem is it takes
time to implement: to establish good practice there is a necessary learning process. Once this
good practice has been established, it has to be validated and adopted by the sector concerned
andbylegislation.Assuch, knowingyour ecosystemwellallowsyoutobettermanageit.Wewould
urge you to read our guide containing some 60 good practices to promote biodiversity, entitled
Solutionspourlabiodiversitéd'EpE*("EpE'sbiodiversitysolutions").
We all impact our ecosystem. In your opinion, must we – citizens, governments and
businesses–allplaythesameroleinprotectingourecosystem?
C.T - It's true that these three groups all impact biodiversity, and each not only has a share of
responsibility in the decline of biodiversity but can also contribute to the solutions. The important
thing that these three parties have in common is education: education about nature,
includingunderstandinghowitworksandhowtointegratethisunderstandinginto decisions
about our actual, possible and desirable interactions with it. Public authorities can further
biodiversityconservationbyestablishingprotectedzones,for example,orbylimitingtheexpansion
ofcertain sectorsorlanduses.
* : https://www.fondationbiodiversite.fr/actualite/covid-19-et-biodiversite-la-frb-et-son-conseil-scientifique-sexpriment/
25
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Pioneer & leader
INTERVIEW – CLAIRE TUTENUIT (2/ 2)
Citizens, meanwhile, can think about the consequences that the various decisions they make have
on nature**. The same applies to companies. Before carrying out a project, they can take into
account two factors: its impact on biodiversity and the possible alternatives for avoiding or
reducing this impact. Companies in the luxury sector, for example, have created grazing areas for
certain species at risk of overexploitation, to preserve their ecosystems. These measures to limit
livestock mayseemrestrictive andcostly,buttheyreducetheimpactonlocalbiodiversity.
The 2015 Paris Agreement and the UN Sustainable Development Goals have set targets for
biodiversity conservation. What are the major challenges for biodiversity between now and
2030?Andwhatarethepriority sectorsfacingthischallenge?
C.T-Themainobstacleto takingbiodiversityintoaccountcomesfromthedifficultyofquantifying
it: there is no universal indicator comparable to the carbon-equivalent tonne. As a result,
biodiversity often takes second place in decisions, despite its importance. Almost all sectors
impact biodiversity more or less directly, with the odd exception such as personal services – and
foodisofcourseimportant.
The agricultural sector needs to adapt, for example, given that the IPBES estimates that 70% of
biodiversity loss is due to industrial agriculture. Since the agricultural revolutions, in the 30s in the
United States, in the 60s/70s in Europe and today in Africa and Latin America, many systemic
causes have emerged: soil impoverishment through monoculture, deforestation for cattle farming,
covering over of soils (Almeria market gardens) and pesticide pollution of soil and groundwater.
More recently, climate change is causing parasite blooms in certain ecosystems. One of the
challenges for the coming years is the conservation of large animals such as birds, which are
fastdisappearing:in30years, Francehaslostonethirdofitsruralbirds.
Thisyear,DEMETERjoinedtheFinanceforBiodiversitycommunitytoaffirmitscommitment.
Do you agree that, to encourage financial players (and others) to take action this way, we
needtointroducelabelsormeasurementtoolsapplicable toeveryonetoassesstheir impact
onbiodiversity–whethernegativeorpositive?
C.T - The problem facing investors is that biodiversity does not follow a specific model or
rule, but a vast number of local, variable models. When they invest in a project, therefore, an
impact audit should be carried out to assess its potential positive or negative consequences.
Educating and raising awareness about biodiversity among investment teams and investors is
also an excellent solution. Systems such as Act4nature***, for example, encourage companies to
involve their employees and departments in initiatives to promote biodiversity. As a result, asset
managers regularly introduce the topic into shareholder dialogue, leading other companies to set
themselves specific,measurable targetsforbiodiversityconservationmeasures.
* : http://www.epe-asso.org/solutions-des-entreprises-pour-la-biodiversite-changer-dechelle-octobre-2020/
** :  https://www.rusticaeditions.com/9782815314107-sauvons-la-biodiversite-les-10-actions-pour-re-agir-group.html
*** : http://www.act4nature.com/
26
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Pioneer & leader
CASE STUDY: KAPSERA
Presentation
Kapsera has developed an innovative micro-fluidic
encapsulation technology. Its solution stabilises the
formulation of agricultural inputs, in particular bio-inputs
suchasbiostimulantsandbiocontrolagents.
Another feature of its encapsulation system is that it is
biosourced and biodegradable, thus ensuring the
durability oftheproductanditseffects.
Created  Antoine Drevelle & 
in 2018 Jérôme Bibette
Agrinnovation 
Paris 19 employees
investment in 2020
Contribution to the conservation of 
biodiversity -
Ensuring the future of 
agricultural practices
Key figures
10 
100% responsible, with  of R&D investments 
no artificial inputs years and trials 
Population growth and lifestyle changes are leading notably to growing demand for agricultural
products.Agriculturehas modernised and in some casesintensified to meettheseneeds.However,
this transition has not been without consequences: a significant proportion of cultivated land today
suffersfromerosionandalackofmineralssuchasphosphate.
The technology that Kapsera offers contributes to the sustainability of agriculture while
protecting soil quality and biodiversity. Its capsules ensure a level of agricultural productivity
in line with modern requirements, while reducing harmful effects on soil. Soil conservation is a
majorissue,forwhichKapsera,anengagedcompany, offersaneffective, certifiedsolution.
27
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Pioneer & leader
CASE STUDY: JUNGLE
Presentation
Jungle has developed a vertical growing model for
producing herbs, young shoots and lettuces. Its concept is
geared towards limiting water consumption and CO2
emissions while ensuring higher yields than traditional
agriculture. It markets its products to supermarkets, agrifood
companies andperfume manufacturers.
Created in 
Gilles Dreyfus & 
2019
Nicolas Seguy
Château-Thierry  Agrinnovation 
25 employees
& Portugal investment in 2021
Contribution to the conservation of 
biodiversity -
Providing healthy and 
sustainable food
Key figures
pesticide and  better yields than
100% herbicide free 10 to 30x greenhouse crops
Feeding humanity is one of the major issues of the21stcentury.However, itis often criticized that
agriculture is too intensive, too energy-intensive and disrespectful of biodiversity. According to a
FAOstudy,agriculturetodayconsumesnearly70%offreshwater.Theobjectiveistoreducethe
impact of agriculture on the environment while supporting its productivity to meet the current
foodchallenge.
This challenge is the one taken up by Jungle with its vertical farm concept. Its process increases
agricultural yields, reduces the amountof water neededfor plantssince the company has relied
on a rainwater recovery system, and contributes to the reduction of CO2 emissions related to
transport by basing its production sites close to consumption basins. Jungle thus participates in a
sociallyandecologically responsibletransition.
28
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Pioneer & leader
CASE STUDY: 
VITIREV INNOVATION
Presentation
Initiated in 2020 by the Nouvelle Aquitaine region, DEMETER
wasentrustedwiththemanagementoftheVitiRevInnovation
fund project. The objective of this fund will be to invest in
innovations that will facilitate the ecological transition of
the wine sector and its adaptability to climate
change. Also, these technologies will enable wine players to
better understand the new regulations as well as the
increasingly strongexpectationsofconsumers.
Launch of VitiRev 
Created 
Innovation in 2021
in 2021
Bordeaux & Nouvelle- Partnership with the 
Aquitaine region Banque des Territoires
Contribution to the conservation of 
biodiversity -
Preserving and empowering 
the wine sector
Key figures
extra-financial 
non-financial 
5 indicators related to  5 indicators related to 
environmental and social 
biodiversity*
aspects
Studies by the IPCC point out that an increase in temperatures of two degrees would threaten to
wipe out 50% of wine-growing crops. The erosion or depletion of soil minerals threatens this
industry,whichiswhyactionisurgentlyneeded.
VitiRev Innovation has a unique positioning in Europe: its biodiversity impact is based on the
consideration of more than ten non-financial indicators as well as compliance with five UN SDGs,
in particular SDG 15, "Life on land". Its commitment to protecting biodiversity is part of its
investment strategy, which has a threefold objective: (i) take into account climate issues, in
particular by reducing the use of synthetic inputs, (ii) develop digital and biological technologies,
and (iii) better meet the expectations of winegrowers and consumers, notably as regards health
issues.
* Developed and validated with CDC Biodiversité
29
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Pioneer & leader
OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE UN'S 
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (1/2)
DEMETER contributes to the UN's Sustainable Development Goals as an investor by investing in 
companies that create value for the environment and society. 
95% of our portfolio companies contribute to the UN's Sustainable Development Goals.
INNOVATION GROWTH INFRASTRUCTURES
Smart cities Cities ecological transition  Renewable energies
Sustainable agriculture Eco-industries Energy efficiency
Eco-innovation Eco-energies Eco-mobility
Car fleet management  Quick charging  Construction  Long-term e-
Highly nutritious  Vertical farms 
optimisation software solutions for electric  and  scooter rental 
insect-based products  contributing to the 
vehicles development of  service
with strong  reduction of 
environmental  agricultural  a wind farm
credentials environmental 
impact
Photovoltaic  Optimised  Designer of filling  Self-service 
Agricultural robots  Micro capsules for  equipment and self- management of  stations for  electric scooter 
that reduce  efficient, sustainable  consumption  construction site  carbon free  rentals
environmental  bio-inputs solutions  waste mobility
impact
Fault diagnosis, spare  Software for  Roofing 
Intelligent LED  Measure and reduction parts sales and repair  collecting data  Production of  adaptation 
lighting system for  of companies' carbon  support services  from smart meters photovoltaic energy for  solutions for 
crop optimization in  footprint system electric mobility solar energy 
the greenhouse production
* Illustrative sample from our portfolio
30
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Pioneer & leader
OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE UN'S 
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (2/2)
The investments madeby our funds in 2020 are aligned with the United Nations' Sustainable 
Development Goals
Calculation of the carbon 
footprint of companies, and 
support in their low-carbon 
strategy
SaaS platform that 
optimises pallet logistics
between businesses
Personal electric scooter 
long-term rental service
Generation of sustainable 
energy from paper and 
enzymes
Intelligent LED lighting 
system for crop optimization 
in the greenhouse
Production of 
photovoltaic energy for 
electric mobility
Distribution of 
photovoltaic equipment 
and design of self-
consumption solutions 
Fault diagnosis, spare 
parts sales and repair 
support services system
Independent generator of 
renewable energy through 
hybrid solar power plants
* Illustrative sample from our portfolio
31
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our commitments 
to our community
Our Commitments
DEMETER, GROWING COMMITMENTS 
SINCE 2005
Finance for  Best Sustainable  French Impact  2021
Biodiversity  Equity Investor  2021 member
signatory 2021
2020
Leaders for 
"ESG Best Practices  A+, highest possible  Climate Action  DEMETER feature in the 
Honours" from SWEN  rating for the UN PRI signatory Stafford report
2019
"Best ESG Investment 
"ESG Best Practices 
Company 2019" award  "Coup de cœur" at the e5t 
Honours" from SWEN 
awards
A+, highest  Signatory of France  Commitment to the Billion  Signatory of
possible rating for  Invest's Diversity  Dollar Fund for Women SISTA Charter
the UN PRI Charter
2018
Environmental and  Assessment of 
Crowdfunding  territorial impact  contribution Paris Green Fund 
partnership assessment to the UN SDGs receives the TEEC 
label Signatory of the 
2017 2015 Carbone 2020
initiative
Signatory of the
2013
Carbon
IC20 becomes Founding  Signatory of the  FMET receives 
Disclosure Project
Climat 2020 member Decarbonize Europe  the TEEC label
Manifesto
2016 2012 Signatory of the PRI
Special ESG training offered  D4 INFRA 
to our companies receives the TEEC  2009 First Sustainable Development Plan 
integrated into DEMETER's procedural guidelines
label
Signatory of the
2008
France Invest Charter
Co-founder of AFIC with Elles
Co-founder of the AFIC Cleantech Club
2006
First ESG survey for our investor Robeco
2005
Creation of pioneer environmental sector funds
33
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Commitments
OUR AWARDS & HONOURS IN 2020 & 2021
"Best Sustainable Equity Investor 2021"
2March2021-London
This award recognises DEMETER's leading role in incorporating
sustainability into its investment strategy, implementing
innovative impact measure and firmly embedding the United
Nations Sustainable Development Goals into Impact and ESG
strategy.
"Best management company for ESG 
practices - small caps"
26November2020–Paris
For the second consecutive year, DEMETER received the Best
Practices Honours in the small cap category. The award marks the
consistency of our investment strategy with the UN SDGs and
ESG values in the reporting of our investments' non-financial
performance. The methodology for measuring environmental and
territorialimpact, developed with Carbone 4 andimplemented over
the last two years, lies behind the innovative proposals that we
make to investors in our new or existing venture capital and
infrastructure funds.
UN Principles for Responsible Investment A+ 
rating 
1September2020–Paris
A PRI signatory since 2012, DEMETER received the highest rating,
A+, for the second consecutive year, in recognition of its overall
strategy and commitment to responsible investment. The PRI is
the world's most prominent initiative to promote responsible
investment. It has been signed by some 2,300 organisations
committed to upholding environmental, social and governance
(ESG)factorsaskeytosustainableperformance.
DEMETER case study by Stafford Partners: 
"European Private Equity ESG Engagement 
Report 2020"
16September2020–Paris
This study is testament to the credit that Stafford Capital Partners
accords our long-term commitment to supporting sustainable
growth and the inclusion of environmental, social and governance
factorsasvaluecreationdrivers.
34
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Commitments
8 COMPANIES SUPPORTED BY DEMETER 
RECEIVE THE "FRENCH TECH" LABEL
In 2014, the French government launched the French Tech initiative to showcase France's
entrepreneurial resources. Today this unique ecosystem includes a whole community of start-ups,
investorsanddecision-makers.Tohighlightandpromotethediversityofsolutionsandtechnologies
that exist within French Tech, a wealth of networks and rankings have been created, such as French
Tech 120,Next40and,more recently,Green20.
DEMETER is proud to have eight companies in its portfolio that are included in these French Tech
rankings,fourofwhicharepartoftheGreen20incubator.
FRENCH TECH 120
Launched in 2020, this programme offers comprehensive support in five areas: financing,
international development, recruitment, market access and regulations. Significant selection criteria
includefundraising,salesexpansionandrevenuegrowth.
NEXT 40
Next40, launched in 2019, is the "French technology CAC40" label. Its selection criteria include
fundraising of more than €20 million, revenue growth exceeding 30% over the last three financial
years andrevenueofmorethan€5million.
GREEN 20
Launched in early 2021, Green20 aims to support and promote "the technological champions of
the ecological transition". Its aim is to combine innovation, growth and ecological solutions to
tackle future challenges. Selection is based on two main criteria: the solution's sustainability and its
internationalexpansion potential.
35
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Commitments
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND 
GOVERNANCE POLICY
DEMETER actively involved in ESG since its inception
DEMETERhasbeenactivelyinvolvedinthedevelopmentofESGpracticessinceitsinceptionin2005.
This commitment is an integral part of our DNA and consistent with our business purpose:
supporting thechampionsofecologicalgrowth.
We engage with all our stakeholders. Beyond helping our portfolio company entrepreneurs
develop responsible business practices and promoting ESG best practices within our own
ecosystem, we believe it is essential to set a good example by making a commitment on these
matters withourinvestorsandemployees.
Our commitments to our stakeholders
At management company level
AnESG approach incorporated into ourinvestment processesanda
dedicatedteamtomeasure andenhanceourimpact.
To our portfolio companies
Dedicated support for our portfolio companies to accelerate the
development oftheirESGpractices.
To our employees
The embodiment of our values in our staff through a collaborative
approach.
To our investors
Dedicated support to guarantee our ESG commitments to investors
andhelpthemwiththeirownreporting.
To our ecosystem
ApioneeringandleadershiproletopromoteanddevelopESGwithin
ourecosystem
To civil society
Long-termsupportforenvironmentally friendlyinitiatives.
36
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Commitments
OUR COMMITMENTS AT MANAGEMENT 
COMPANY LEVEL (1/2)
DEMETER'sESGpolicyisformalisedinaSustainableDevelopmentPlanincludedinthecompany's
procedural guidelines. At each stage of our portfolio companies' life cycle, we ensure that ESG
criteria are met, measured and compliant with the ESG objectives that we set. In particular,
DEMETERusesexternalconsultingfirmstomeasuretheESGimpactofitsinvestmentsandensure
itisfollowingthemostrecent regulations.
ESG in our portfolios' life cycle
PRE-
INVESTMENT
• A responsible thematic 
approach: all of our funds 
are positioned in sectors 
that have a positive 
IN
impact on the 
environment. PORTFOLIO
• ESG criteria included in 
the analysis of potential 
investments:an ESG  • Support and training for 
rating included in the  our investeesto improve 
investment memorandum  their ESG practices and 
and extensive  policies.
environmental and  • Involvement of the Board 
territorial impact due  of Directorsto identify key 
EXIT
diligence in partnership  ESG points and related 
with Carbone 4 for Paris  issues, and  definition and 
Green Fund (see page 55).  monitoring of an ESG action 
• Integrated ESG risk  plan.
• Highlighting 
scoring: scoring of  • Annual ESG survey, 
companies' ESG 
negative impacts on  including the scoring of 
performancein our 
sustainability factors and  negative impacts n on 
portfolio companies' 
ESG risks to measure the  sustainability factors and 
sale documents.
level of ESG impact. ESG risks, for all companies 
• ESG exit survey
• Exclusionary screening: in our portfolios.
the defence industry and  • Auditof territorial and  • Territorial and 
arms sales, gaming and  environmental impact  environmental impact 
betting, tobacco and  carried out by Carbone 4 for  auditcarried out by 
alcoholic beverages, and  Paris Green Fund every  Carbone 4 for Paris 
human cloning are all  year. Green Fund following 
excluded. the exit.
37
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Commitments
OUR COMMITMENTS AT MANAGEMENT 
COMPANY LEVEL (2/2)
DEMETER strengthens and accelerates its ESG strategy through three dedicated bodies: an ESG
team, ESGAmbassadors andanESGCommittee.
Two-pronged ESG body: an ESG team and an ESG Committee
Since 2019, DEMETER has strengthened and accelerated its ESG strategy through a dedicated
team made up of Stéphanie Chrétien, a Partner at Paris Green Fund and Chief Sustainability and
Impact Officer, and a full-time ESG analyst. Sophie Paturle, Managing Partner, who is very active in
promoting ESG within the private equity sphere, helps to design and develop DEMETER's ESG
approach.
Reflecting the strengthening of French and European regulations, DEMETER has set up an ESG
Committee.
This committee handles ESG compliance for our existing and future portfolio companies and
for our internal activity. Given our consideration of ESG risks and negative impacts on
sustainability factors, it is crucial that we measure and interpret the effects of these risks and
impacts on the sustainability of investments. The ESG Committee uses the quantitative ESG risks
andnegativeimpactonsustainabilityfactors scoringtoolsputinplacebyDEMETERasthebasisfor
itsobservations andinvestmentdecisions (seepage42).
DEMETER ESG Ambassadors
The ESG Ambassadors hold in-house meetings to implement initiatives and measures to
strengthen the DEMETER teams' engagement. Their most recent meeting contributed to the
implementationofvariousmeasuresto:
- Reduceourcarbonfootprint
- Encourageourportfoliocompaniestocarryoutcarbonaudits
- Applyfornewresponsiblelabels
- Develop a responsible internal charter focused on measures to promote soft mobility and
responsiblepurchasing
INNOVATION GROWTH INFRASTRUCTURE MANAGEMENT 
COMPANY
Yann Lagalaye  Stephanie Chrétien Vincent Vettier Aurore Charrier 
GeneralPartner Partner Partner Middle Office 
Manager
38
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Commitments
OUR COMMITMENTS TO OUR PORTFOLIO 
COMPANIES
Throughout the course of our investment, we help our portfolio companies move forward with
theirESGapproach:
- WeintegrateESGintoour100-dayPlanassoonasweincludeacompany inourportfolio.
- We incorporate ESG into our tools for measuring ESG risks and negative impacts on
sustainabilityfactors,inaccordance withEuropeanregulatory stipulations.
- Wecarryoutan ESGsurveywhenwefirstinvestin companies,thenonceayear –incorporating
theiranswersinourESGreport –andthenagainintheexitphase.
- We identify ESG-related risk areas and value creation opportunities and draw up an ESG
actionplan,theprogressofwhichwemonitorattheleveloftheBoardofDirectors.
ESG training
With the support of GreenFlex and Bpifrance, in 2016 we
introduced and made available to our portfolio companies
specifictrainingonbestESGpractices.
DEMETER seeks always to go one step further in supporting
its portfolio companies: our objective for 2021 is thus to
create a best practice platform to help investees implement
suchpractices intheirbusiness.
DEMETER Entrepreneurs Club
Twice a year, DEMETER brings together all its 
portfolio company managers and investors at the 
DEMETER Entrepreneurs Club,  which met just once in 
2020 due to the Covid-19 crisis. 
TheagendaatthisJanuary2020eventincluded:
- A presentation by Nicolas Ferrand, Executive Managing Director of Solidéo, the Olympics
Games Delivery Authority,onthethemeCanwemakeParis2024sustainable?
- Presentation ofnewportfolio companies
- Green philanthropy:presentation byTancrède Neveu,CEOofPlantonspourl'Avenir
- Presentation by Andreas Juhlmann, CEO of DENA (Germany's equivalent of France's Ademe
environmental advisorybody)
39
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Commitments
OUR COMMITMENTS TO OUR EMPLOYEES
ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE
Completion of a carbon  Company profit-sharing  45%of DEMETER's 
audit and implementation  and employee savings  employees own shares 
of optimisation solutions planfor all staff  in the company.
Company car fleet made  Provision of upgraded,  Five out of the six 
up of hybrid or electric  responsible healthcare  membersof DEMETER 
vehicles coverage Partners' Supervisory 
Board are independent
Waste recycling Trainingof all staff in 
(including ink cartridges  2020 Promotion of diversity 
and coffee capsules) within our governance 
Women make up 28% bodies
Purchasing of certain IT  of DEMETER's workforce 
equipment refurbished  Dedicated ESG 
Workshop “Women,  committeeconsisting of 
creating value and  a managing partner, a 
performance”  partner and a member of 
the legal team
40
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Commitments
OUR COMMITMENTS TO OUR INVESTORS 
(1/2)
DEMETER is committed to all its investors. We guarantee our funds' regulatory compliance and 
effective contribution to the ecological transition and ensure that we give our investors as much 
supportas possible for producing their own reporting.
DEMETER, guarantor of an effective 
contribution to the ecological transition
- In order to verify and monitor the compliance of our investments with
theEuropeanTaxonomy,wehaveadoptedtwoquantitativeImpacttools:
ESG Risk Scoring & Negative Impact Scoring on Sustainability Factors
(moredetailsp.42).
- Three of our most recent funds have received GreenFin certification:
ParisGreen Fund,FMET&DEMETER4.
- Launch of three new impact funds in 2021, monitored using qualitative
and quantitative measurement tools: Climate Infrastructure Fund, Green
EuropeanTech Fund&VitiRevInnovation.
- Carbone 4, a leading environmental impact consultancy, helps DEMETER
measuretheterritorialimpactofParisGreen Fundcompanies(moredetails
onpage55).
Contributing to our investors' reporting
Our investors are increasingly attentive to their
investments' non-financial criteria – and more
particularlytheirimpact.
Taking ESG criteria into account is key for
DEMETER; as far back as 2006, for example, we
responded to an initial ESG survey submitted by
Robeco, an investor in our first fund. In 2020, we
responded to 18 ESG surveys, a number that
increases everyyear.
Engaged investors
of our funds under 
of our investors
37% management come  20%
are PRI signatories
from PRI signatories
41
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Commitments
OUR COMMITMENTS TO OUR INVESTORS 
(2/2)
Our investments meet the requirements of 
the EU taxonomy 
The Taxonomy Regulation has been introduced to define and regulate activities that comply with a 
low-carbon, resilient and resource-efficient ecological transition. It lays down the following three 
criteria: 
Measuring our impact: ESG risk scoring & scoring of negative 
impacts on sustainability factors
Wehaveadoptedtwoscoringsystemstoensurethequalityofourmonitoringandtheassessment
ofourfunds'impactandregulatory compliance:
-ESG risk scoring 
-Scoring of negative impacts on sustainability factors
These systems measure the materiality of any ESG risks or negative impacts on sustainability
factors thatour portfolio companies carry.They are applied in the pre-investmentphase and also
includedinourannualESGsurvey.
These scoring systems include a rating scale from 0 (little or no risk/impact) to 2 (high
risk/impact), which indicates the company's degree of exposure to these risks. Ultimately, these
scores reflectsustainability risks.If ascore isdeemedhigh, the ESG Committee meets to decide
ontheinvestment'sfeasibilityorthecorrectivemeasures tobeadopted.
42
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Commitments
OUR COMMITMENTS TO OUR ECOSYSTEM 
(1/4)
Actively involved with France Invest in promoting ESG in private equity, DEMETER is also a
founding member and signatory of a wide range of initiatives (SISTA Charter, France Invest
Charter, PRI, CDP, IC20, Decarbonize Europe Manifesto…). We also sponsor or subscribe to
numerous studies, think-tanks, consortia and conferences on topics related to the ecological
transition.
Founding commitments: Climate Commission, IC20 & Leaders for 
Climate Action
DEMETER is co-founder of DEMETER is co-facilitator  In September 2020, 
the France Invest Climate and signatory of the 2020  DEMETER engaged 
Commission. Sophie Paturle, Climate Initiative,the first  alongside Leaders for 
Managing Partner, is the initiative by French private  Climate Action for the 
President. In 2020, the equity firms to seek to  decarbonisation of the 
Climate Commission manage and reduce the  digital industry. This 
celebrated its 10th greenhouse gas emissions  declaration brings together 
anniversary and published of their portfolio  more than 500 companies 
the Cleantech Barometer, companies. committed to fighting 
produced with GreenUnivers global warming by making 
and EY. 2020 was a second a carbon neutrality pledge.
record year for Cleantech in
France: €1.2 billion invested
in94companies.
Sponsorship of ecological and energy transition research studies, 
networks and think tanks
Sponsorship since 2017 of  Sponsoring the annual Energy DEMETER works 
Cleantech Group Europe's  for Smart Mobility Forum in closely with IFPEN, a 
annual Forumin Luxembourg.  Marseille. DEMETER is a historic longstanding key 
DEMETER is on the Advisory  partner of this forum dedicated to partner with whom 
Board of Cleantech Group,  energy solutions for sustainable we promote 
whose mission is to accelerate  and intelligent mobility. Organised academic and 
innovationby promoting  by Capénergie and Greenunivers, it industrial research
networking and knowledge  brings together every year all the to build a genuine 
sharingwithin the global clean  key players in the ecological cleantech 
technology ecosystem. The  transition of mobility in Europe. It ecosystem.
2021 Forum will take place  makes it possible to bring out
online due to the Covid-19  innovations and exchange on
crisis. topics as varied as electro-mobility,
CNG, hydrogen, the production
andrecyclingofbatteries.
43
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Commitments
OUR COMMITMENTS TO OUR ECOSYSTEM 
(2/4)
Member of industry associations and competitiveness clusters 
Member of the French Renewable Energy Member of CAPENERGIES, a
Association (SER), whose goal is to develop competitiveness cluster dedicated to the
the share of renewable energy in France's production of decarbonised energy and
energy production and to support companies energyefficiency.
inthisfield,inFranceandforexport. This cluster brings together more than 1,450
partners and 520 members, including
companies, research and training
organisations andfunders.
Member of the tenerrdis energy transition Financial support to the IAR, the French
competitivenesscluster. bio-economy competitiveness cluster for
This cluster's mission is to promote the industriesandagro-resources.
growth of sustainable business and the IAR's initiatives essentially cover the
creationoflong-termjobsinthenewenergy production and promotion of organic
technologies sectors, in accordance with the resources (agricultural, forestry and marine
challengessurroundingtheenergy transition. resources, co-products and residues) for food,
industrialandenergy purposes.
Event sponsorship and participation
February 2020
1/ DEMETER took part in IPEM 2020, the International Private
Equity Market fair, to promote the launch of two of its new funds:
GETandCIF.
2/ParticipationintheannualAderlydigital-themed conference.
3/ Presentation by Stéphane Villecroze, Managing Partner, at the
Energy transition: Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, at theforefront of a
globalchallengeconference.
44
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Commitments
OUR COMMITMENTS TO OUR ECOSYSTEM 
(3/4)
Event sponsorship and participation
March 2020
Participation in Les Rencontres du Private Equity ("Private Equity Meetings”)
onthesubjectofthegrowingimportance ofnon-financialcriteria.
April 2020
Interview of Lionel Cormier, Managing Partner, by GreenUnivers on
management companies' ecologicaltransitionstrategy.
May 2020 
Participationintheseventheditionof theEco-innovationFactory, dedicated
toambitiousecologicalandinnovativeprojects.
September 2020 
Participation in Think Smart Grids and presentation by Sophie Paturle,
Managing Partner, at the round tableEnergyconsumptionanditsinfluence
onnetworksduringCovid-19,alongsideFranceInvestandMaddyness.
October 2020 
Presentation by Sophie Paturle, Managing Partner, at the colloquiumDigital
andEnvironment,makingthetransitionsconvergeon the subject ofDigital,
atoolforecologicaltransition.
Presentation by DEMETER on the new outlook for farming arising from
recent technological and industrial innovations, at the e5t Foundation's
Summer University.
Sponsorship of the 2020 Price of Young Entrepreneur by the Université de
Grenoble-ProjetPépite Ozer-
November 2020 
Presentation by Stéphanie Chrétien, Partner, at theClimateRiskMetrics
conference.
Presentation by Stéphanie Chrétien in the webinar ESG due diligence,
integrationofsustainabledevelopmentintheinvestmentprocess, on the
differentpracticalapproaches toreasonable ESGduediligence.
OrganisationbyStéphanieChrétienofawebinarentitledWomenexecutives
andinvestors,creatingvalueandperformance, with the participation of
Agnès Bricard, President of the Federation of Women Directors, and Yann
Mauchamp, FounderofMutualBenefits.
45
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Commitments
OUR COMMITMENTS TO OUR ECOSYSTEM 
(4/4)
Seu5ptp Foorutinngd atthieo ne5t Foundation since 2017
The e5t Foundation for energy efficiency
andsavingsatlocallevelisanopenplatform
dedicated to reflection on energy solutions to
be implemented to protect the environment,
maintain individual well-being and contribute
tothesustainabledevelopmentofsociety.
At its eighth annual Summer University in La
Rochelle, DEMETER participated in and
facilitated the series of conferences on
technological and industrial innovations that
help the farming industry adapt to climate
change.
Patronage of the "Plantons pour l'avenir" foundation
This association aims to promote the
sustainable management of forests and
contributetoreforestationinFrance.
Since its inception in 2014, the Plantons pour
l'avenir ("Plant for the Future") foundation has
raised €2.7 million to enable the planting of
onemilliontrees.
At its annual seminar in 2019, DEMETER took
its employees on a volunteering trip to help
Plantons pour l'avenir, which involved taking
part in a reforestation project in Nouvelle Photo of the DEMETER team at the seminar in 2019, before the Covid-19 
Aquitaine. crisis
46
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Commitments
OUR 2020 INITIATIVES FOR DIVERSITY 
(1/3)
Key figures
28% women in Demeter’s  16% women in Demeter’s
teams investment teams
of investments in 2020 were made in 
23% companies founded or co-founded by 
women
Connected objects for stock monitoring
of plant materials (grain, fodder,
Nadine Pesonen, 
compost,etc.)
Founder, President and CEO
Calculates companies' carbon 
Lubomila Jordanova, 
footprintand assiststhem with their 
Founder, President and CEO
ESG development strategy
Stéphanie Gosset,  Personal electric scooter long-term 
Co-founder, President and CEO rental service
Ondine Suavet,  Distribution of photovoltaic 
Co-founder, President and CEO equipment and design of self-
consumption solutions 
* Illustrative sample from our portfolio
47
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Commitments
OUR 2020 INITIATIVES FOR DIVERSITY 
(2/3)
Our commitments
In addition to our investments, we strive to apply measures in favour of diversity. Clearly
underscoring our commitment to action in this area, as well as supporting The Billion Dollar Fund
forWomen association,weareasignatorytotwoCharters:
A charter designed to promote gender equality in French private equity
playersandthecompanies inwhichtheyinvest.
A charter designed to reduce funding inequalities between female and male
entrepreneurs.
The Billion Dollar Fund for Women
Demeter has been a partner of The Billion Dollar Fund for Women since
its inception in 2019. It seeks through this initiative to reduce funding
access difficulties encountered by companies founded or co-founded
bywomen, andtoincrease investments each yearinsuchcompanies.
In 2020, Demeter affirmed its commitment to invest more than $10
million in businesses founded or co-founded by women. We ultimately
wentbeyondourcommitmentbyinvestingatotalof$12millioninsuch
businesses.
48
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Commitments
OUR 2020 INITIATIVES FOR DIVERSITY 
(3/3)
Our workshop: Women executives 
and investors, creating value and 
performance
Demeteriscommittedto takingintoconsideration environmental, socialandgovernancefactors as
key drivers of value creation. A notable social concern, promoting diversity is a key criterion for
creatingvalue.
Consonant with our commitments, we have chosen to focus initially on improving diversity. We
organised theWomen,executivesandinvestors,creatorsofvalueandperformanceworkshop with
all our teams, to promote women in our investment teams and investments in companies
foundedbywomen.
Agnès Bricard,presidentof theFederation ofWomen Directors,andYann Mauchamp,founder of
MutualBenefits, wereinvitedtosharetheirexperience andadviceatthisevent.
The agenda was devoted to highlighting the lack of women in management, investment and
entrepreneurial roles, the value created by dual-gender teams, the obstacles encountered by
women andinitiativestodrivechange.
49
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
50
Our Impact Measures
OVERALL ESG PERFORMANCE OF OUR 
PORTFOLIOS IN 2020
90
%of portfolio companiescompleted theESGsurvey
95
%of portfolio companiescontributetoatleastone of theUN'sSDGs
ENVIRONMENT
tonnes of CO2 avoided
3.9m
(calculation methodology deployed by Carbone 4 for Paris Green Fund and 
in-house for the other funds. More details on the following pages) 
Equivalent to the annual emissions of 2million cars (1)
430 GWh
of renewable energy generated
Equivalent to the electricity consumption of 92,000French 
households (2)
SOCIAL
3,200 people employed by our portfolio 
companies 
of employees have permanent contracts
95%
or contracts lasting more than 18 months 
(+1 point vs. 2019)
98
patents registered in 2020
GOVERNANCE
21% of our portfolio companies have a woman 
president and CEO or co-founder (+2 points 
vs. 2019)
58% of our portfolio companies have at least one 
independent member on their Board of 
Directors (+18 points vs. 2019)
(1) Source E-rse.net: a car emits two tonnes of CO2 per year 
(2) Source https://prix-elec.com/energie/comprendre/statistiques-consommation-France: an average French household consumes 
4,710 kWh of electricity per year
51
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Impact Measures
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 
OF OUR PORTFOLIOS IN 2020
RENEWABLE ENERGY INSTALLED CAPACITY
880 MW 318 GWh
renewable energy  renewable energy 
installed produced in 2020
6 MW of installed wind power capacity
4.03 MWof installed solar power capacity
23 MWof renewable energy installed capacity
5.5 MWof installed thermal power capacity
TONNES OF CO2 EMISSIONS AVOIDED
3.9m
tonnes of CO2 emissions avoided
3.8m tonnes, measured by Carbon 4 for Paris 
Green Fund companies
GiventheevolutionofourESG policyandsincewepartneredCarbone4,our
results have been verified by a third-party expert who measures the full
environmental and territorial impact of each company that Paris Green Fund
finances,overitsentirevaluechain.
R&D AND INNOVATION
€120 million 
invested in research and development in 2020
1,250 
patents, of which 98filed in 2020
Of which, 900patents filed by investees in our INNOVATION business
(1) * Conversion ratio used: 1KW = 0.09 kg CO2e (source: Greenit.fr)
(2) Calculation of companies' overall impact for their entire value chain, not weighted by DEMETER's percentage holding in 
the companies.
52
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Impact Measures
SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 
OF OUR PORTFOLIOS IN 2020
€460m of revenuegenerated by our portfolio companies
3,200 people employed by our portfolio companies
95% of employees have permanent contracts or contracts 
lasting more than 18 months
700
new hiresin 2020
66%
of companies have a budget for training their 
employees
70%
of executive committeeshave at least one woman 
member
28 philanthropic projects supported and €120k invested 
(+€30k vs. 2019]
FOCUS on Ynsect: people at the heart of development
100%
of employees had an annual review in 2020
5.9%
of revenue invested in employee training
Increase
in the minimum wage at Ynsect of 35% more than the 
minimum wage 
Production of insect-
based, highly nutritious 
worm flour 3 
social projects supported, for a budget of €20,000
53
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Impact Measures
GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE 
OF OUR PORTFOLIOS IN 2020
46% of our portfolio companies review ESG issues at least 
once a year at Board of Directors' meetings 
58% of our portfolio companies have at least one independent 
memberon their Board of Directors
48% of our portfolio companies have at least one woman on 
their Board of Directors
65% of our portfolio companies offer non-management 
employees the opportunity to own shares 
21%
of our portfolio companies' CEOsor co-founders are women
FOCUS on Fermentalg: committed governance
50% 
of the Board of Directors' members are women
50% 
of the Board of Directors' members are independent
Microalgae solutions for  44%of managers are women
food and health
Appointment of a CSR manager 
Establishment of specific committees (Remuneration, Audit,   
Scientific and Appointments)
54
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Impact Measures
PARIS GREEN FUND: IN-DEPTH AND 
INNOVATIVE TERRITORIAL IMPACT MEASURE
FortheParisFondsVertgrowthcapitalfund,Demeter hassetupwiththesupportoftheconsulting
firm Carbone 4, an in-depth and innovative methodology for measuring territorial and
environmentalimpact.
OVERALL IMPACT OF PARIS GREEN FUND IN 2020
tonnes of CO2 avoided over companies' 
3.8m
entire value chain, of which 1.6 million 
tonnes of CO2 in Paris 
(1) 
avoided, of which 7,700 
17,500 GWh
GWh in Paris 
(1) 
An overall, impactful measurement
RENEWABLE 
CARBON  ENERGY AIR FAIR
ENERGY CIRCULARITY RESILIENCE
reduction gain quality transition
production & 
consumption
Beforeeachinvestment,Carbone4carriesoutan environmentalandterritorialimpactassessment
for Paris and overall. It bases its analysis on measuring each company's quantitative and
qualitative impact based on the seven criteria listed above. In addition to this impact
measurement, these due diligences establish specific watchpoints and recommendations to
identifyareasforimprovementanddefinemeasuresontwoorthreekeysubjects.
Each subsequent year, and at exit, Carbone 4 assesses its environmental and territorial impact,
enablingittocalculateParisGreenFund'soverallimpact.
(1) For Alterea, emissions avoided and energy gains take into account the impact of the work carried out each year over the 
entire lifetime of the buildings concerned –Source Carbone 4
(2) Source https://prix-elec.com/energie/comprendre/statistiques-consommation-France: an average French household 
consumes 4,710 kWh of electricity per year
55
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Impact Measures
PARIS GREEN FUND IMPACT MEASURE 
CIME CAPITAL
Cime Capital is a French leader in the distribution of
photovoltaic equipment and designer of
innovative, integrated solutions for individual and
collective self-consumption. Through its
subsidiaries Alaska Energies and Mylight Systems, the
group provides optimised renewable energy
solutionsforresidentialandtertiaryuses.
Impact analysis carried out by 
Cime Capital develops and distributes solutions contributing to
make existing buildings less carbonated and to develop
photovoltaicelectricityproduction.
tonnes of CO2 
Alaska Energies provides with transitional equipment, including 250K emissions avoided 
solarpanelsandheatpumpstoreplace lessefficientsystems. in 2020
MyLight Systems' solutions make it possible to optimise the
management of buildings' energy consumption (reduction of
final consumption and a 30 to 100% improvement in self-
consumptionthankstoaninnovativevirtualbattery solution). 550 GWh avoided in 
2020
Contribution to 9 sectorial objectives of the Paris Climate Plan
Completely eco-renovate Paris with ultra low consumption
Renovate 1 million homes by 2050
"Building"  Boilers emitting less GHG
Renovate the most energy-intensive buildings
objective
Performance of new and renewable energy buildings
Halve energy consumption
Reduce energy poverty by 20%
"Energy"  20% of Parisian roofs producing solar energy by 2050
Guarantee 100% renewable energy-compatible energy supply based on smart grids (Paris 
objective
100% renewables)
56
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Impact Measures
PARIS GREEN FUND IMPACT MEASURE
SPAREKA
Created in 2012 as part of Télécommande Express,
Spareka offers a self-repair system suitable for all
types of electric devices (household appliances,
automatic gate systems, swimming pools, gardens
and, more recently, TVs, bathrooms and portable
electricdevices).
Its services include fault diagnosis using an
interactive, dynamic tool capable of diagnosing
thousands of faults and a spare parts and
accessories sales system, as well as repair
assistancebased onYouTubeonlinevideos.
Impact analysis carried out by 
Spareka helps avoid around 5,800 tonnes of household
appliance waste. The company makes a positive contribution
to reducing CO2 emissions and energy consumption by
tonnes of CO2 
extending product lifespans. Its repair video service has an
1,500
emissions avoided 
unquestionably beneficial impact. In terms of fair transition,
Spareka's activities make it easier to repair items, at a lower in 2020
costthanthroughothercompanies inthesector.
Sparekaiscommittedto promotinga repair culture in France,
inparticularthroughitsRepair Tours,organisedwithADEME. 0.11 GWh avoided  in 
2020
Contribution to three sectoral objectives of the Paris 
Climate Plan
1 4 5
Reduce the Combat
production of planned Reuse
waste obsolescence
57
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Impact Measures
PARIS GREEN FUND IMPACT MEASURE
CUCULUS
Cuculus is a German software company that has
developed Zonos, a critical infrastructure software
platform that facilitates the implementation of smart
city, smart metering and smart grid projects and
applications.
Thesefunctionalitiesmake itpossibleto:
-centraliseandanalysecollected data;
- monitor and manage the status of energy
networksinrealtimeand;
- providesmartmeteringservices.
Cuculus helpsto optimise andreduce urban energy
consumption.
Impact analysis carried out by 
Thanks to its software, Cuculus is fully involved in reducing
CO2 emissions and improving the management of water
tonnes of CO2 
andenergyresources thankstoitsZONOSsoftware. 70K emissions avoided in 
2020
Itssoftware analyzes and optimizes energy data management.
Cuculus is also involved in the integration and use of
renewable energy since its system adapts to data from
renewable energy.
170 GWh avoided in 
2020
Contribution to 2 sectorial objectives of the Paris Climate Plan
2 6
Ensurean energy 
Halve energy  approach fully 
consumption by 2050 compatible with smart 
grids
58
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Impact Measures
INNOVATIVE IMPACT MEASURE 
FOR OUR NEW FUND PROJECTS (1/2)
As a pioneer and leader in responsible investment, DEMETER develops innovative impact
measuresspecifictothesectorsconcerned.
Impact measure based 
on alignment with the 2 
degree trajectory
For our new CIF fund project, we co-develop
with the support of expert consulting firms an
impact measurement methodology based on
three fundamental criteria: compliance with the
EU taxonomy (i), carbon footprint of the
project (ii), and compatibility of projects with
a global warming trajectory limited to 2°C (iii).
The third criterion is assessed by comparing an
assetportfolio's climate performance (e.g.its
carbon footprint) with temperature trajectory
scenarios.
Impact measure with a 
focus on biodiversity
VitiRev Innovation will invest in innovations for
sustainable wine growing. Biodiversity
conservation is crucial for this industry. VitiRev
Innovation will design an analysis covering the
entire investment life cycle based on audits of
the environmental and territorial impact of
winegrowing companies' activity, using financial
and non-financial criteria. The analysis will be
carried outbyanindependentconsultingfirm.
59
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Impact Measures
INNOVATIVE IMPACT MEASURE
FOR OUR NEW FUND PROJECTS (2/2)
Triple top line-based
impact measure
Our GET fund project will implement impact
measure combining 9 economic, ecological
and social equity indicators to monitor and
influence before, during and after investment
the impact of the companies invested and in
theendofthefund.
First mentioned by William McDonough and
MichaelBraungartintheir2002bookCradleto
Cradle,theTTL methodisovertlyinclusive.
This analysis will be carried out by an
independent consulting firm and rounded out
byin-houseexpertise.
Alignment of interests: for our new funds, carried interest is linked 
to impact objectives
Responsible carried interest
With the aim of aligning the interests of all its stakeholders (investors, investment management
teams and company managers), Demeter has set up a performance remuneration (carried
interest)structureforallitsnewfundprojectslinkedwiththeachievement ofimpactobjectives.
60
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Impact Measures
3 DEMETER FUNDS RECEIVE THE GREENFIN 
LABEL
France Finance Verte GreenFin label
EY France and Novethic have awarded the GreenFin label to three of our recent funds . This label 
assures our investors that we are contributing actively and fully to the ecological transition.
FMET
Fund for the ecological  Ecological transition of  Environmental and energy 
modernisation of  cities transition infrastructures
transportation
Created by the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, the GreenFin label, formerly the
TEEC Ecological and Energy Transition for the Climate label, is one of the public policy initiatives
arisingfromtheAugust2015lawontheenergy transitionforgreengrowth.
Thislabelseeks to:
- Promote investmentfundsthatfinancethegreeneconomy
- Incentivisethecreationofnewgreenfunds
- Promote companyreporting onthe"greenshare"oftheiractivities
GreenFin certification
The audit performed by trusted third-party,
independent experts enables us to assure our
stakeholders of the quality of the environmental
informationprovidedbytheauditedcompany.
Thecertificationcriteriaare:
- Thegreen shareofthefund'sallocation
- Exclusions
- ESGcontroversies have awarded
- The effective contribution to the
GreenFincertification to 
ecologicaltransition
our funds
61
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Our Impact Measures
OUR ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2020 AND OUR 
ROADMAP FOR 2021
Our progress in 2020
In 2020, Demeter strengthened its ESG policy and ramped up its engagement with stakeholders:
(1) Welaunchedthreenewfundprojectsfocusedontheecologicaltransition.
(2) Weinvestedincompaniesthatcontributesignificantlytodecarbonisation.
(3) Our ESG policy and analyses have been strengthened throughout the investment
process:weputinplacetwoscoringtoolsconcerning ESGrisksandnegativeimpactson
sustainability factors; we carried out 19 pre-investment environmental and territorial due
diligence audits for Paris Green Fund; we introduced innovative impact measurement
methodologies and linked remuneration to performance on ESG objectives for all our
newfunds.
(4) We promoted ESG practices within our ecosystem through our presentations on
behalf of the Climate Commission, France Invest, Finance for Biodiversity and Climate
Risks, and for our employees through the workshop to promote diversity (Women
managersandinvestors,creatingvalueandperformance) and the implementation of
tangiblemeasures toreducethemanagement company'scarbon footprint.
(5) WewonfourawardsreflectingtheprogressofourESGpractices.
Our 2021 goals
In 2021, we aim at renewing and strengthening our support to accelerate ESG value creation:
(1) Finalize the raising of our sustainable fund projects and launch 2 new fund
projects: a regional fund for sustainable industry and an international fund dedicated to
thecirculareconomy.
(2) Innovate and develop new impact measure methodologies to meet the expectations
of our investors and guarantee in particular the compliance of our funds with Articles 8
and9oftheSFDR.
(3) Develop alignment of the interests of all our stakeholders by monitoring compliance
with the ESG process and indexing our compensation to performance with ESG
objectivesforallnewfunds.
(4) Develop the education and engagement of our teams and portfolio companies to
maximize the impact with an ESG workshop that creates performance value, a Diversity
workshop, a workshop on ESG risk scoring, promoting carbon footprint measurement
withPlanA…
(5) Launchofnewbiodiversity conservationinitiativeswithFinanceforBiodiversity.
62
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Appendices
Appendices
OVERALL ESG PERFORMANCE OF 
AGRINNOVATION (2020)
100%of portfoliocompanies completed the ESG survey
100%of portfolio companiescontribute to at least one of the UN's SDGs
ENVIRONMENT
16
patents filed, of which 6 in 2020
€1.6m
invested in R&D
SOCIAL
53 employees, of whom 24 hired on a 
permanent FTE basis in 2020
92% of employees have permanent contracts
or contracts lasting more than 18 months 
GOVERNANCE
of portfolio companies' Boards of 
50%
Directors have at least one woman 
member (+10 points vs. 2019) 
50% of portfolio companies have a female
chair person and CEO or co-founder, or
both (+10 points vs. 2019)
64
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Appendices
OVERALL ESG PERFORMANCE OF
DEMETER 1 (2020)
100% of portfolio companies completed theESGsurvey
100% of portfolio companies contributetoatleastoneof the UN'sSDGs
ENVIRONMENT
100% have initiatives in place to reduce their 
environmental impact
67 tonnes of waste processed in 2020
SOCIAL
74
employees, of whom 14 hired in 2020
92% of employees had a performance 
review in 2020
GOVERNANCE
of portfolio companies have at least one 
100%
independent member on their 
Supervisory Board or Board of Directors
27% of Executive Committee members are 
women
65
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Appendices
OVERALL ESG PERFORMANCE OF 
DEMETER 2 (2020)
100% of portfolio companies completed theESGsurvey
100% of portfolio companies contributetoatleastoneof the UN'sSDGs
ENVIRONMENT
296
patents filed, of which 33 in 2020
€57m
invested in R&D (+€22m vs. 2019]
71% of portfolio companies have a formally 
documented environmental policy
SOCIAL
100% of portfolio companies have a profit 
sharing mechanism in 2020
96% of employees have permanent contracts
or contracts lasting more than 18 months
GOVERNANCE
reviewed CSR issues at at least one 
71%
Supervisory Board or Board of Directors 
meeting in 2020
86% of Management Boards have at least 
one woman member 
66
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Appendices
OVERALL ESG PERFORMANCE OF 
DEMETER 3 (2020)
89%of portfolio companiescompleted theESGsurvey
100% of portfolio companies contributetoatleastoneof the UN'sSDGs
ENVIRONMENT
tonnes of CO2 saved thanks to their 
6,400
operations
€13m
invested in R&D 
of portfolio companies have initiatives in 
100%
place to reduce their environmental 
impact
SOCIAL
387 employees, of whom 111 hired on a
permanent FTE basis in 2020
of employees have permanent contracts
93%
or contracts lasting more than 18 months 
(+6 points vs. 2019)
6
social or societal projects
GOVERNANCE
80% of portfolio companies have at least one 
independent member on their Board of 
Directors
60% of portfolio companies have at least one 
woman on the Management 
Committee 
67
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Appendices
OVERALL ESG PERFORMANCE OF 
DEMETER 4 INFRA (2020)
100% of portfolio companies completed theESGsurvey
100% of portfolio companies contributetoatleastoneof the UN'sSDGs
ENVIRONMENT
54 MW of installed renewable energy 
capacity
67 GWh
of renewable energy generated
46.000
tCO2e avoided in 2020
SOCIAL
Distribution of income throughout the project
GOVERNANCE
of our portfolio companies' Boards of
63% Directors or Supervisory Boards have
at least one woman member
of our portfolio companies contribute
100%
to the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals
68
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Appendices
OVERALL ESG PERFORMANCE OF 
DEMETER 6 (2020)
78%of portfolio companiescompleted theESGsurvey
100% of portfolio companies contributetoatleastoneof the UN'sSDGs
ENVIRONMENT
37
patents, of which 12 filed in 2020
€7.2m
invested in R&D
SOCIAL
employees, of whom 70 hired on a
113
permanent FTE basis in 2020
of portfolio companies have 
71%
implemented a profit-sharing 
mechanism
GOVERNANCE
57% of portfolio companies' Boards of 
Directors have at least one woman 
member 
57% of portfolio companies have at least
one woman on the Management
Committee
69
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Appendices
OVERALL ESG PERFORMANCE OF 
EMERTEC 2 (2020)
100% of portfolio companies completed theESGsurvey
100% of portfolio companies contributetoatleastoneof the UN'sSDGs
ENVIRONMENT
€1m
invested in R&D
15
patents filed
SOCIAL
20 employees, of whom more than half 
have permanent contracts
of employees are eligible for a profit-
100%
sharing mechanism in the form of an 
incentive plan
GOVERNANCE
of portfolio companies have at least
100%
one woman on their Board of
Directors and on their Executive
Committee
of portfolio companies have at least 
100%
at least one independent member
on their Board of Directors
70
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Appendices
OVERALL ESG PERFORMANCE OF 
EMERTEC 5 (2020)
93%ofportfoliocompaniescompletedtheESGsurvey
100%ofportfoliocompaniescontributetoatleastoneoftheUN'sSDGs
ENVIRONMENT
€17.8m
invested in R&D
85 GWh saved by our investees for their 
customers
427
patents, of which 32 filed in 2020
SOCIAL
employees, of whom 87% are employed 
478
on permanent contracts or contracts 
lasting more than 18 months
of portfolio companies have 
67%
implemented a profit-sharing 
mechanism
GOVERNANCE
71% of portfolio companies have a
woman on their Management
Committee
of portfolio companies have at least 
80%
one independent member on their 
Board of Directors
71
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Appendices
OVERALL ESG PERFORMANCE OF FONDS 
EUROPEEN DES MATERIAUX (2020)
100% of portfolio companies completed theESGsurvey
100% of portfolio companies contributetoatleastoneof the UN'sSDGs
ENVIRONMENT
44,3
tonnes of waste processed in 2020
€11m
invested in R&D (+€7m vs. 2019) 
SOCIAL
employees, of whom 40 hired in 
271
2020
of employees have permanent 
99%
contracts or contracts lasting more 
than 18 months
GOVERNANCE
of portfolio companies have at least 
67%
one woman on their Management 
Board
of portfolio companies have at least 
33%
one independent member on their 
Board of Directors
72
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Appendices
OVERALL ESG PERFORMANCE OF FONDS 
LORRAIN DES MATÉRIAUX (2020) 
(1)
100% of portfolio companies completed theESGsurvey
100% of portfolio companies contributetoatleastoneof the UN'sSDGs
ENVIRONMENT
of portfolio companies have 
100%
introduced initiatives to reduce their 
environmental impact
€1.2m
invested in R&D
SOCIAL
98% of employees have permanent 
contracts or contracts lasting more 
than 18 months 
95%
of employees had an annual review
GOVERNANCE
of portfolio companies have at least 
50%
one independent member on their 
Board of Directors
100% of portfolio companies have at least
one woman in a CEO or equivalent
position
(1): 2020 results extrapolated owing to a low response rate
73
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Appendices
OVERALL ESG PERFORMANCE OF FMET* 
(2020)
100% of portfolio companies completed theESGsurvey
100% of portfolio companies contributetoatleastoneof the UN'sSDGs
ENVIRONMENT
5,163 tonnes of CO2 saved through their 
infrastructures
€2.2m
invested in R&D
SOCIAL
424 employees, of whom 75 hired in 
2020
of employees have permanent 
95%
contracts or contracts lasting more 
than 18 months 
GOVERNANCE
of Management Boards have at 
75%
least one woman member 
of portfolio companies incorporate
88%
a code of ethics into their CSR risk
management
* FMET: Fund for the ecological modernisation of transportation
74
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Appendices
OVERALL ESG PERFORMANCE OF 
PARIS GREEN FUND (2020)
100%of portfoliocompanies completed the ESG survey
100%of portfolio companiescontribute to at least one of the UN's SDGs
ENVIRONMENT
tCO2e avoided including 1.6m in Ile-
3.8m
de-France in 2020
of energy consumption
17.500 GWh
avoided in 2020
of portfolio companies have initiatives 
100% in place to reduce their 
environmental impact
SOCIAL
employees, of whom 234 hired on a full-
690
time equivalent basis 
91% of employees have permanent 
contracts or contracts lasting more than 
18 months 
86%
of portfolio companies support 
charitable projects
GOVERNANCE
43% of portfolio companies were founded
or co-founded by a woman
of our portfolio companies have at
71%
least one woman on their
Management Committee
75
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Appendices
CORRESPONDENCE TABLE – ARTICLE 173 
OF THE ENERGY TRANSITION ACT (1/2)
Included in this 
report or in 
Description of information to be presented our internal  Section reference
ESG policies
1 Presentation of the general approach of  Pages 9, 10 & 35 to 45
the entity or asset management 
company
2 Content, frequency and means used by  Pages 40 & 41 -
the entity or asset management  Commitments to investors
company to inform investors of the ESG 
criteria taken into account in the 
investment policy and, where applicable, 
the risk management policy
For asset management companies: list of 
3 Not applicable
UCIs concerned and percentage of their 
outstandings in the total amount of 
outstandings managed by the asset 
management company
4 Any subscription to an ESG charter,  Page 33 –DEMETER, 
code, label or initiative growing commitments since 
its creation
5 General description of risk management  Page 41–Commitments to 
procedures used to identify ESG risks,  our investors & see our Risk 
the exposure of activities to these risks  Policies (available on our 
and general description of these risks website under Legal 
information)
6 Nature of ESG criteria taken into account 
and reasons for choosing these criteria
6.1 ESG criteria: description of the nature of  Page 41–Commitments to 
the main criteria taken into account and  our investors & see our Risk 
reasons for choosing these criteria Policies (available on our 
website under Legal 
information)
Environmental criteria: 
6.2 Page 41–Commitments to 
our investors & see our Risk 
− Risks associated with climate 
Policies (available on our 
change (physical risks and 
website under Legal 
transition risks)
information)
− Assessment of the contribution to 
meeting the international objective 
of limiting global warming and the 
objectives of the energy and 
ecological transition
76
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
Appendices
CORRESPONDENCE TABLE – ARTICLE 173 
OF THE ENERGY TRANSITION ACT (2/2)
Included in this 
report or in our 
Description of information to be presented internal policies Section reference
7 Information used in the analysis of  Page 41–
criteria: for ESG criteria &  Commitments to our 
environmental criteria, details of the  investors & see our 
nature of the information used, which  Risk Policies (available 
may be financial or non-financial  on our website under 
data, internal analyses, external  Legal information)
analyses or ratings.
8 Methodologies & results of this 
analysis
ESG criteria: descriptions of the 
8.1 Pages 12 to 14 -Our 
analysis methodology 3 new funds -and 
Page 41
8.2 Environmental criteria: Pages 12 to 14 -Our 
Accounting with the international  3 new funds -and 
objective of limiting global warming Page 41
Methodology & scope used
Analysis results –exposure to climate 
change risks
9 Integration of the results of this 
analysis into the investment policy
9.1 ESG criteria: description of changes  Pages 40 & 41 as well 
made following the analysis and  as the Risk Policy 
implementation of a strategy of  (available on our 
engagement with issuers and  website under Legal 
portfolio management companies information)
9.2 Environmental criteria: contribution  Pages 49 to 68
to meeting the international 
objective of combating global 
warming and the objectives of the 
energy and ecological transition
77
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
SUPPORTING THE CHAMPIONS 
OF ECOLOGICAL GROWTH
CONTACTS
Sophie Paturle-Guesnerot, Managing Partner
sophie.paturle@demeter-im.com
Stéphanie Chrétien, Chief Sustainability and Impact Officer, Partner Paris Green Fund
stephanie.chretien@demeter-im.com