
ESG at Capital Group
FOR PROFESSIONAL / QUALIFIED INVESTORS ONLY
This material is a marketing communication
We integrate 
environmental,  
social and governance 
(ESG) issues into our 
investing approach.
1
We have always sought  
to invest in firms well-
positioned for the future. 
We believe that a company 
or issuer taking a thoughtful 
and robust approach to ESG 
dimensions is a positive  
indicator of sustainability  
and strategic thinking.”
Robert W. Lovelace
Vice Chairman and 
President of 
The Capital Group 
Companies, Inc.
2 1
Our long-term investing approach 
considers ESG risks and opportunities
At Capital Group, ESG risks and opportunities are  Through engagement, we develop longstanding 
deeply woven into our investment process — The  relationships with management teams who 
Capital SystemSM. In fact, these issues are so crucial  appreciate our knowledge of specific industries 
that we’ve developed a three-component approach  and our commitment to ESG issues. We believe 
that integrates ESG into our investment process. engaging with companies and issuers is more 
effective for improving long-term results as we 
Deep research is the foundation of our  work to positively influence ESG practices. A 
process. Our experienced investment analysts  crucial part of this work, proxy voting is integral 
identify the ESG issues they believe are most  to our investment stewardship process. And our 
material to the sectors they cover to create our  investment professionals are directly involved in 
proprietary ESG investment frameworks. determining our proxy votes with oversight from 
senior investors.
Our ESG integration process also enables us to 
assess holdings against third-party views and data 
We continue to refine and evolve our ESG investing 
through our monitoring process. This information 
approach. It’s a journey that will grow to include 
has value, but its scope can be limited by its 
associates from across our organisation, as we back 
backward-looking approach. Our systematic 
up our commitment with dedicated resources.
process enables us to understand how the market 
may view ESG risks and more clearly identify 
We are incorporating ESG data 
where and why we have a different perspective.
into our investment frameworks, 
monitoring process and 
engagement and proxy voting.
Our best practices continue to develop 
”At Capital Group, our commitment  
In 2020, we made significant progress:
to fundamental research includes 
•  Established a process that will enable us to identify material ESG issues in every 
building a deep understanding of 
security we buy, own or research. 
each investment’s exposure to  
Jessica Ground •  Became a signatory to the Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosures.
Global Head of ESG
— as well as management and  •  Continued our commitment to Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI).
• Today we score above median in all applicable PRI categories, rated A or A+ 
governance of — environmental  
across the board.
and social challenges.”
•  Notable progress in fixed income, where we advanced from median to well 
above median across all fixed income categories.
Source: Principles for Responsible Investment report, 2020 assessment
2 3
We are deeply committed to  
ESG and have dedicated 
Meet the ESG Oversight Group significant resources
ESG is a strategic priority for Capital Group, and the resources 
we have dedicated to it reflect this commitment.
Alan Berro Jessica Ground Heather Lord
Los Angeles London Los Angeles
30 years at  <1 year at  5 years at 
Capital Group  Capital Group Capital Group 
Portfolio Manager Global Head of ESG Global Head 
Chair – ESG  of  Strategy 
Strategy Group & Innovation, 
SVP ESG
Walt Burkley Guy Henriques Rob Lovelace
Los Angeles London Los Angeles
21 years at  1 year at  35 years at 
Capital Group  Capital Group  Capital Group 
Senior Counsel Head of Europe and  Portfolio Manager
Asia Distribution Vice Chairman & 
President of  
The Capital Group 
Companies, Inc., 
Chairman of Capital 
Group Management 
Committee
Riley Etheridge Jody Jonsson David Polak
Los Angeles Los Angeles New York
3 years at  30 years at  15 years at  Research Stewardship Technology
Capital Group  Capital Group Capital Group 
President – Wealth  Portfolio Manager Investment Director
Management  President of 
Group Capital Research 
and Management  More than 4,000  17 specialists  More than 14 
Company. Member 
of Capital Group 
hours of combined  dedicated to  engineers and 
Management 
Committee
investment and ESG  governance and  product developers 
Hamish Forsyth Tom Lloyd Caroline Randall analyst time went  proxy issues  across Capital 
London Los Angeles London
28 years at  17 years at  15 years at  into developing  engaged with more  Group are building 
Capital Group  Capital Group  Capital Group 
President –  Research Director  Portfolio Manager,
proprietary ESG  than 400 companies  systems to support 
Europe & Asia,  for Quantitative  Member of 
Capital Group  Research and  Capital Group 
research in 2020. specifically on ESG  our ESG process.
Companies Global Analytics Management 
Committee 
topics in 2020.
Data as at 31 December 2020
4 5
One strategy incorporates 
three key elements Investment frameworks
At Capital, we are ensuring that ESG is integrated  our fundamental research, due diligence  Approximately 200 investment analysts across  ESG issues they think are most likely to be material, 
across Capital’s investment strategies, rather than  and engagement. Our investment process  our equity and fixed income investment groups  decide how those issues may impact companies and 
building separate ESG products. Consideration of   includes a systematic, three-component  participated in creating our sector-specific views  issuers financially, and determine how to measure and 
ESG risks and opportunities is deeply woven   approach to ESG integration.  of ESG and developing our ESG research process.  integrate those concerns into our investment process. 
into The Capital System and factored into  In all, we spent nearly 4,000 hours integrating 
their perspectives to create more than 30  With the increased interest in ESG-focused investing, 
industry-specific ESG investment frameworks. there are myriad ESG ratings and scores available. 
While there is no shortage of information today, it’s 
Investment  With an average 14 years of tenure, these analysts  important to understand the limits of third-party 
frameworks understand the specific challenges of the industries  data. Our proprietary frameworks enable us to 
they cover; they know the right questions to ask  evaluate external data and cut through the noise 
Sector specialists identify  and can go beyond third-party sources. Leveraging  to focus on what we believe is most material.
the most important ESG  their significant experience, our analysts identify the       
Monitoring 
issues to consider.
process
Multilayered monitoring 
identifies issues that prompt 
analysts to dig deeper 
and provide insight.
Investments are 
repeatedly reviewed, 
and the continuous cycle 
deepens our knowledge.
30 200 14
+ +
Investment   Equity and fixed  Years of average 
frameworks income analysts analyst tenure
Engagement & 
proxy voting
Engagement and proxy 
voting enable us to 
As at 31 December 2020
influence ESG practices.
Capital Group manages equity assets through three investment groups. These groups make investment and proxy voting decisions 
independently. Fixed income investment professionals provide fixed income research and investment management across the Capital 
organization; however, for securities with equity characteristics, they act solely on behalf of one of the three equity investment groups.
6 7
Monitoring process
As we integrate our approach, our goal is to  their attention on material concerns. In some cases, 
continuously monitor holdings across all our portfolios  our analysts may disagree with outside sources. 
to identify investments that may require an elevated 
level of review and discussion. Within our single  Deeper analysis of these flagged securities includes 
ESG data repository, we aggregate multiple third- multiple meetings with management teams to discuss 
party rankings and risk methodologies, including a  specific concerns. Ongoing engagement actions 
UN Global Compact assessment, ratings from MSCI  and learnings are documented in our database, 
and Sustainalytics, as well as other proprietary and  to inform investment decisions. This process is 
third-party sources. Then we integrate our own deep  continually refined as we learn from our fundamental 
research, driven by our proprietary frameworks.  research, frameworks and ongoing engagement.
This process creates a set of flagged holdings —  Our Issuer Oversight Committee (IOC) reviews 
securities that receive an elevated level of scrutiny  companies and issuers with outstanding significant 
and continuous research to evaluate risk. On  ESG-related controversies. The committee's 
average, 5—12% of holdings are flagged within  quarterly meetings include Principal Investment 
each portfolio or strategy. In each case, the analyst  Officers from each of Capital Group's four 
or portfolio manager provides more detailed  investment units, and representatives from our 
insights and guidance on the particular holding,  Legal, ESG Research and Distribution teams.
enabling our investment professionals to focus 
A view of one of our 
global equity strategies 
Portfolio holdings are subjected to 
ESG screens using multiple leading 
data providers and risk methodologies, 
including a UN Global Compact 
assessment, as well as ratings 
from MSCI and Sustainalytics.
8%
Twenty-five of those holdings, or 
Flagged
about 8%, were flagged. These 
holdings are monitored by analysts, 
meaning they require a heightened 
92%
level of research and engagement. 
Non-flagged
For illustrative purposes only.
Data as at 31 December 2020
8 9
Engagement & proxy voting 
We believe that continuing dialogue and remaining  Proxy voting is an integral part of our investment 
closely engaged with management can have a  stewardship process, and we carefully analyse 
positive impact on ESG policies, which can also  our votes to adhere to our guidelines. When we 
deliver better long-term investment results. We’ve  feel it is in the best long-term interests of our 
seen engagement make a difference and believe it’s  investors, we will vote against management.
a more effective approach than simple divestment.
While ongoing engagement is a crucial part of our 
Our investment frameworks enable our investment  approach, we can choose — and have sometimes 
professionals to focus their discussions on the  chosen — to walk away. As a large active manager, we 
highest priority issues. We believe our scale and  can act on our findings by increasing or decreasing 
longstanding relationships can position us well to  the assets we invest. Our ultimate goal, after all, is 
influence policies and priorities, which gives us an  to pursue long-term success for our investors. 
opportunity to positively shape and lead industry 
standards. We document the goals we discuss 
and measure progress to ensure accountability. 
17 1,850 20,000
+ +
specialists  shareholder meetings  annual meetings can 
dedicated to  at which we voted  provide powerful 
governance and  keep us engaged and  leverage with 
proxy issues. influential on behalf  management teams.
of our investors.
Data as at 31 December 2020
10 11
We believe ESG is 
integral to successful 
investing. We are 
systematically 
incorporating these 
issues into our 
investment approach.
Capital Group manages equity assets through three investment groups. These groups make investment 
and proxy voting decisions independently. Fixed income investment professionals provide fixed income 
research and investment management across the Capital organization; however, for securities with equity 
characteristics, they act solely on behalf of one of the three equity investment groups.
This material is intended for the internal and confidential use of the recipient and not for onward transmission 
to any other third party. All information is as at the date indicated unless otherwise stated. Some information 
may have been obtained from third parties, and as such the reliability of that information is not guaranteed. 
This material is not intended to provide investment, tax or other advice, or to be a solicitation to buy or sell 
any securities. The information provided in this communication is of a general nature and does not take into 
account your objectives, financial situation or needs. Before acting on any of the information you should 
consider its appropriateness, having regard to your own objectives, financial situation and needs.
This material is issued by Capital International Management Company Sàrl ("CIMC"), unless otherwise stated, 
which is authorised and regulated by the Luxembourg "CSSF"- Commission de Surveillance du Secteur 
Financier. CIMC manages the Luxembourg based UCITS fund(s), organized as a SICAV, which is a (are)  
sub-fund(s) of Capital International Fund. 
In Asia excluding Japan, this material is issued by Capital International, Inc. ("CIInc") which is regulated by the 
Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) and the Securities & Futures Commission (SFC) of Hong Kong.
In Australia, this material is issued by Capital Group Investment Management Limited (ACN 164 174 501 AFSL 
No. 443 118), located at Level 18, 56 Pitt Street, Sydney NSW 2000 Australia. 
All Capital Group trademarks are owned by The Capital Group Companies, Inc. or an affiliated company in the U.S., 
Australia and other countries. All other company names mentioned are the property of their respective companies.
© 2021 Capital Group. All rights reserved. CR-389604 Europe/AxJ
12 13
capitalgroup.com
© 2021 Capital Group. All rights reserved.