
Advertising material
Responsible Investments
Report 2020
  2
Contents
CEO foreword      3
Year at a glance      4
Sustainability in our Nordic DNA      7
Responsible Investment approach      8
Sustainable choice: Responsible Investment strategies at NAM     12
Active ownership and Engagement      14
Keeping active in the Responsible Investment community      24
Our ESG credentials      25
RI initiatives      26
Climate change: a key focus area      28
Interview – Fundamental Equities goes full ESG      30
Outlook 2021      32
Appendixes      34
Glossary      42
Nordea
Nordea is the largest financial services group in the Nordic region (approx. 9 million personal customers and 500,000 corporate 
customers) and one of the biggest banks in Europe. We want to make a real difference – for our customers and for the communities 
in which we operate – by sharing our extensive expertise based on 200 years in the banking business. 
About Nordea Asset Management*
Nordea Asset Management (NAM) is part of the Nordea Group. We are an active asset manager with a global business model, 
offering services to institutional clients in Europe, the Americas and Asia. We manage investments across the full spectrum of asset 
classes. Our third-party distribution franchise services a wide range of international fund distributors, including many of the leading 
global wealth managers. We distribute our products through banks, asset managers, independent financial advisors, insurance 
companies and family offices. Our client base is equally split between Nordea Group-related and external clients. With EUR 254 bn 
(31 December 2020) in assets under management, we have been experiencing strong growth over the past decade.
*Nordea Asset Management it is the functional name of the asset management business conducted by the legal entities Nordea Investment Funds S.A. and Nordea Investment Management 
AB and their branches, subsidiaries and representative offices. Nordea Investment Funds S.A. is the management company and Nordea Investment Management AB is the investment man-
ager of all funds belonging to NAM.
C EO foreword 3
An ESG turning point
Coronavirus serves as a catalyst for responsible investment.
Never has it been more true that the world around us changes rapidly. Now, as we begin to 
emerge from the fog of Covid-19, much of the worry and stress this pandemic has created for 
people, societies and economies still lingers. Our thoughts are continuously with our clients 
across the world, from Copenhagen to Europe to Asia, Latin America and beyond. 
As I look back on 2020, I would like to extend solidarity, on  issued a Fossil Fuel Policy for our ESG-enhanced funds in an 
behalf of Nordea Asset Management, to our partners and their  effort to align our portfolios, over time, with the Paris Agree-
loved ones. Yet even in the midst of these unprecedented chal- ment. Already in 2021, we have introduced tighter fossil-related 
lenges, there is reason for hope and encouragement. Although  restrictions that will apply to over 200 of our funds. 
we faced unique hurdles, there were many bright spots 
throughout the year which I am pleased to share with you.  Taking the next step in Responsible Investment
Specifically, we expanded our ESG reach with new products  Our continued investment in our ESG analytics platform has 
designed to respond to the unique risks and opportunities of  not only enhanced our responsible investment capabilities, but 
our day, we continued our engagement activities even amid  has strengthened the foundation needed to address the 
social distancing restrictions, and we worked diligently to pre- demands of the European Union’s Sustainable Finance Disclo-
pare for new EU ESG regulations coming into force in 2021. sure Regulation (SFDR). In anticipation of the EU’s approach-
ing deadline, we have been able to leverage our deep ESG 
Expanding our ESG reach expertise to categorize our products according to SFDR 
In December, we launched a new equity solution with a strong  requirements. Hence, we are fully ready to embrace this new 
focus on the “S” factor in ESG: the Global Social Empowerment  regulation, which will facilitate greater transparency for clients 
Strategy. There’s no doubt that the pandemic has catalysed  to gain insight into the ESG characteristics of our products. 
interest in the social aspect of ESG, a trend that we believe will 
continue. The new strategy supports businesses that provide  The new EU’s Sustainable Finance Action Plan and SFDR are yet 
social solutions in the areas of vital needs, economic inclusion  another catalyst for the mainstreaming of responsible invest-
and social empowerment. ment; one that we welcome as we continue our ESG journey.
This wasn’t our only new ESG enhanced product: we further  Facing the future
expanded our ESG STARS family adding new solutions in equi- Coronavirus is essentially an ESG moment as it is a public health 
ty, fixed income and private credit. In fact, our Fundamental  issue. The crisis has generated dramatic social challenges which 
Equities Team, which has been at the forefront of our ESG solu- are pushing people toward ESG thinking. This is being acceler-
tions, managing our ESG STARS Equity franchise and thematic  ated by new EU regulations that will reshape the ESG landscape 
solutions, went through a complete refocus on ESG-enhanced  and provide investors with important information about ESG 
solutions. We ended the year with no less than 16 ESG STARS  factors. But this is not new territory for us. For the past 30 years, 
strategies representing around EUR14bn in AuM2.  we have rigorously pursued sustainable investments and we 
won’t take our foot off the pedal. In the coming year, we will 
Staying engaged and engaging offer our clients new ESG products, resources and education.
Despite restrictions on travel and face-to-face meetings, we 
managed to engage with over 900 companies in 2020 to  As always, we are working hard to stay at the forefront of ESG 
address issues like good governance, climate change and  through engagement, analytics and development of new solu-
human rights, to name a few. For our engagement on pharma  tions. In 2020 we saw a clear surge in interest in responsible 
pollution in India, we won Environmental Finance’s “ESG  investments, the lion’s share reflecting ESG-related products. 
Engagement Initiative of the Year”.
It’s an exciting time to be an ESG investor. I invite you to read 
While we are honored by such accolade, collaboration also  our 2020 RI Annual Report to find out more about our ongoing 
played an important role in our efforts. We signed an Investor  commitment to Responsible Investment.
Statement on Coronavirus Response, urging big pharma to 
respond to the Covid-19 pandemic responsibly. We also joined 
a group of asset managers representing over EUR 7 tn in AuM 
in launching the Net Zero Asset Managers initiative, which 
supports the goal of net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 
2050 or sooner. In keeping with this initiative, we have commit-
ted to a mid-term goal of reducing carbon emissions across our 
Nils Bolmstrand, Chairman of the 
investment portfolios by 50% by 2030. Independently, we 
 Responsible Investment Committee  
2) As of 31.12.2020 and Head of Nordea Asset Management.
Year at a glance
Year 2020 at a glance
ESG AuM ESG professionals Active Ownership
Total of
924
74bn
engagements
19
Dedicated  
s ESG analysts
e
r
u Approx.  + 2 AGM/EGMs
g
fi 30% Voted on
y  Corporate Governance  701
of total AUM
e Specialists
K
PRI ESG Awards European ESG labels
Early signatory of the principles
2007
s A+
l
a
i
t
n
e PRI 2020 Score for 
d Strategy & Governance 
e
r
c
 
I
R
More information on European ESG labels: page 25
Initiatives Transparency Climate goals 
TCFD Net-zero
27
based Climate Report published CO2 emissions by 2050
s international RI initiatives 
p
participated
i
h
s
er 7 9 -50% 
SIF memberships
n
t new sustainability footprint 
r
a reports published carbon intensity by 2030
P
More information on initiatives: pages 26-27
  5
Highlights of 2020
We cannot reflect on the past year without mentioning COVID-19 and the challenges it has 
brought to all of us. We believe that the importance of ESG is only more pronounced during 
times of crisis. Therefore, it is no wonder that during 2020 we kept focusing and working on what 
we are good at and what we believe is important – ESG.
Source: Getty Images
Recognising that the pandemic is highlighting a wide range  Nordea is a founding and advisory committee member of the 
of ESG issues, we signed the Investor Statement on Coronavi- Investors Policy Dialogue on Deforestation (IPDD), which was 
rus Response in the early stages of the pandemic. We were  formally established in July 2020 in response to the increasing 
also quick to bring Covid-related considerations into our ESG  rates of deforestation in Brazil as well as other countries. We 
research by developing a specific COVID-19 module within our  have also taken steps towards our long term aim to align our 
ESG data platform. This application allows us to gauge the  portfolios with the Paris Agreement targets as we launched a 
impact on investee companies and their response to this  new policy on fossil fuel investments for our sustainable strate-
unprecedented challenge, and to take that into consideration in  gies, and led an investor initiative to stop new cross-border 
investment and engagement decisions.  coal investments in Asia, focusing specifically on the compa-
nies behind the Vung Ang 2 power plant project. 
During the year we continued to develop our solutions, pro-
cesses and reporting around ESG, as well as preparing to align 
The targets (of the Net Zero  
our work with the new sustainability-related disclosure regula-
tion for the financial sector. Thanks to the recent developments  Asset Managers initiative)  
in our data platform, our proprietary ESG scoring now covers 
align fully with NAM's  
over 13.000 issuers. New product launches expanded our ESG 
STARS range in both the equity and the fixed income space.  internal climate targets ... 
We have enhanced our existing ESG reporting, and launched 
completely new impact reports, providing investors concrete  Nils Bolmstrand, Chairman of the 
examples of the impact their investments have on selected  Responsible Investment Committee and  
sustainability topics. Head of Nordea Asset Management. 
Starting already in 2019, but also through 2020, Nordea has 
been in global headlines for taking a stand on deforestation. 
 Year at a glance 6
We have been more active than ever in different ESG initiatives.  the Institutional Investor Group on Climate Change (IIGCC) to 
During 2020, we became a founding member of the Net Zero  help investors to set climate targets that align portfolios with 
Asset Managers (NZAM) initiative, a global coalition of asset  the Paris Agreement. More information on NZAM and other ini-
managers working for the achievement of net-zero greenhouse  tiatives can be found on page 28. We were also very pleased to 
gas emissions by 2050, and adopted a historic set of climate  announce that the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
targets to support this ambition. We also co-developed a Net  (SASB) has appointed Eivind Lorgen, Director ESG Active Own-
Zero Investment Framework together with other members of  ership, to chair its Investor Advisory Group (IAG).
Source: Shutterstock 
Our holistic approach to ESG has gained recognition globally.  Even during these times of social distancing, we have expand-
For the 5th year in a row PRI recognised us with the best pos- ed our offering of education on ESG for our clients and other 
sible A+ score for Strategy and Governance. We ranked at 12th  stakeholders, through multiple channels such as our website, 
place in ShareAction’s report “Point of No Returns” where the  social media, virtual meetings and webinars, and ESG E-learn-
75 most influential asset managers were evaluated on their  ing that has been translated into several languages and offered 
approach to responsible investment. We also received interna- to our advisory clients. 
tional ESG awards, including the Environmental Finance Award 
2020 for Best ESG Engagement Initiative, for our long term  We are honoured to say that these efforts have been rewarded. 
engagement with the pharmaceutical industry. More informa- We ended the year with close to 30% of our AUM in specific 
tion on awards and other public recognitions is available on  Responsible Investment solutions. 
page 27 of this report.
S ustainability in our Nordic DNA  7
Sustainability in our Nordic DNA
Sustainability and Responsible Investment are in our Nordic DNA. As part of Nordea Group, the 
Nordic values are an essential part of our business culture guiding us in everything we do.
Source: Getty Images
Nordea Group’s sustainability work is carried out by the  investment and corporate governance at Nordea. This report 
Group Sustainable Finance team. This includes everything from  primarily reflects the work on Responsible Investments within 
setting and meeting our internal sustainability targets, from  the scope of asset management.
resource-usage to diversity, and also integrating sustainable 
considerations into the products and services across the Group.  The two boxes below summarize some of our key sustainability 
At NAM level, the Responsible Investments (RI) team, carries  measures. More information about the work carried out by 
out the research and integration of environmental, social, and  Group Sustainable Finance can be found in the Sustainability 
governance (ESG) aspects into our investments. In total there  Report 2020. 
are 41 people working on sustainable finance, responsible 
Diversity and inclusion Carbon footprint
Age distribution in   Gender balance Nordea has committed to achieving net-zero carbon 
the total workforce emissions by 2050 across investment portfolios and 
internal operations 
20%
27%
Board of directors
40% 60% CO2
Group Leadership Team
53%
36% 64%
CO2e emission  Total CO2e 
People leaders
intensity: emissions:
40% 60%
below 30 years old
1.88 15,898
Asset Management
30-50 years old
32% 68%
above 50 years old Total workforce tonnes/EURm of total  tonnes
Excluding employee representatives. 51% 49% operating income
Source: Nordea Sustainability Report, Nordea Investment Management AB.
 Responsible Investment approach
NAM’s Responsible Investment approach
At NAM, we believe it is our fiduciary duty to deliver returns with responsibility. Our commit-
ment to be a responsible asset manager is not new. We launched our first sector-screened fund 
in 1988 and we were an early adopter of Responsible Investment (RI), signing the UN Principles 
for Responsible Investment (PRI) back in 2007. Responsible Investment Solutions now comprise 
almost 30% of NAM’s AUM and we are confident and determined that this number will continue 
to increase. 
NAM’s Responsible Investment Framework  NAM’s Responsible Investment Policy, which also details the 
NAM has developed policies and procedures to ensure that the  international conventions we subscribe to and what we require 
companies we invest in meet our expectations of ESG perfor- of the companies we invest in. 
mance, and that ESG and sustainability risks are managed in 
all our investment processes. These include corporate-level RI  NAM’s RI Policy defines our position on sectors that are 
approaches ("overlays") and product-specific approaches. linked to material ESG issues, going beyond the international 
norms and conventions. This helps to ensure that the compa-
While the day-to-day management of ESG topics is handled by  nies we are invested in meet our expectations of sound ESG 
the RI and investment teams, NAM’s RI approach is governed  performance. The policy describes the stance we take on a 
by the RI Committee (RIC), chaired by NAM’s CEO Nils Bolm- number of areas within Human Rights, Climate change and 
strand and comprised of senior management representing vari- Governance. Depending on the nature and gravity of individual 
ous departments in the organisation. RIC keeps an overview of  cases, breaches can trigger engagement or exclusion. The RI 
NAM’s RI strategy, engagements and exclusions and determines  Policy applies to all NAM funds and is publicly available on our 
NAM’s overall ESG investment guidelines. It also decides the  website. Our policy is complemented by a robust norms-based 
appropriate reaction when a company is found to breach our  screening process. Together, these inform our active owner-
guidelines. The RIC may decide to exclude, quarantine and/or  ship and engagement policy and our exclusion list at the firm 
engage with the company, depending on the type of violation  level. Although engagement is our preferred approach, we will 
and our ability to influence the company. To support the ESG  consider divesting our holding if we think there is a long-term 
investment guidelines, the RIC approves and is the owner of  risk to the value of the investment. We have divested from, for 
example, coal companies to manage climate risks. 
A comprehensive RI Framework including various forms of RI
Nordea Asset Management corporate level RI “overlays”
Active Ownership Corporate-level Exclusion List Norms-based screening ESG Integration
Product-specific ESG approaches (“RI enhanced” Strategies)
ESG STARS  Solutions with  Sustainability 
solutions enhanced  themed solutions
exclusion 
filters
NAM’s corporate wide ESG positions
Exclusions: Enhanced due diligence on:
Biodiversity Good governance
Controversial weapons
Thermal coal mining   Board diversity Government sanctions
(10% revenue threshold) 
Coal mining   Climate change Human Rights
(30% revenue threshold on all coal)
Conflict areas Soft commodities
Oil Sands (10% revenue threshold)
Corruption Tax transparency
Arctic drilling (5% revenue threshold)
Deforestation Water
9
NAM’s Responsible Investments team
Our award-winning Responsible Investments (RI) team was established in 2009, and now 
comprises 19 dedicated ESG analysts3 with a wide range of experience from academia, 
independent RI organisations and investment.
Besides being fully integrated with the investment boutiques  •  ESG Private Equity team supports NAM’s private equity 
managing ESG products, the team carries out ESG research,  collaboration with Trill Impact
active ownership activities, and represents NAM in interna- •  ESG Products & Research team carries out company spe-
tional RI initiatives. The team is continuously developing NAM’s  cific ESG research and engagement for NAM’s ESG funds, 
RI approach in line with the increasing complexity, depth and  as well as ESG product development 
scope of application of ESG methods, and to maintain NAM’s  •  ESG Quant team develops and maintains NAM’s propri-
leadership in the area. To support our ongoing emphasis on  etary ESG scoring model, as well as other advanced appli-
ESG, we have strengthened our line-up with 5 more ESG profes- cations of ESG data
sionals joining the RI team this year. The RI team’s various func-
tions and main responsibilities can been divided into five areas:  The team maintains both a broad RI coverage and a particular 
focus on our ESG-enhanced strategies (i.e. the ESG STARS 
•  Active Ownership team is responsible for NAM’s engage- and thematic strategies), working closely with their respective 
ment activities, as well as for driving the RIC agenda and  portfolio management teams. The RI team often participates 
the RI Policy development. This group also works with the  in client meetings and ESG conferences to share their latest 
Corporate Governance team on proxy voting  insights and findings. It also leads ESG training (e.g. climate 
•  Climate team maintains focused expertise and analysis on  workshops) both internally and for clients. In 2021 the team 
climate change factors and policies, implementation and  will offer training across the company around the new EU 
reporting on TCFD recommendations regulations on sustainable finance.
Responsible Investments (RI) team
Head of RI
Eric Pedersen
19  
ESG Analysts3 ESG ESG
Active
ESG Quant Climate Products and Products and
Ownership
Research Research
Eric Pedersen  Michaela Zhirova  Katarina Hammar   Hetal Damani 
Head of ESG Quant and Climate Head of ESG   Head of Active   Head of ESG  
Products and Research Ownership Private Equity
3) This number includes only full-time RI professionals in the RI team. Corporate governance and proxy voting professionals, Portfolio managers managing ESG funds and financial analysts 
and other employees with ESG as part of their responsibility are additional to this.
 Responsible Investment approach
NAM’s ESG research approach – 
how we look at companies
We want to find the most sustainable companies: those who make money by creating long-
term value. Business model analysis is augmented by a materiality-focused review of ESG risk, 
governance, environmental footprint and social impacts. 
Company specific Business model alignment with the UN  
Our experiences with companies, through management meet- Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s)
ings and systematic engagement, flows into our scoring. Repu- Our research is qualified by ESG business model analysis, which 
tational risk and exposure to controversy is also something we  is closely intertwined with the financial business model assess-
consider at the company-specific level. Responsiveness to  ment of NAM’s internal investment boutiques. We consider how 
investor concern, tone from the top, and company culture are  a company’s business aligns with the SDG’s, whether the ser-
important parts of final evaluation. This allows us to produce  vice or product the company offers contributes positively to 
forward-looking ESG scores that include the direction a com- society, how significant aligned activities are as a proportion of 
pany is moving in, dimensions that are not found in traditional  revenue, how much capex is directed into them, and whether 
external ESG ratings.  they are a visible driver of growth. This is relevant both because 
the SDG’s present large and durable business opportunities, 
Materiality led and because SDG alignment – or the lack thereof – is an indica-
A key part of our process is identification of financially material  tor of a company’s material impact on the world around it. This 
ESG issues – those which are likely to influence the financial  way, our research takes into account both sides of the so-called 
performance of the company. We weigh these issues flexibly,  “double materiality”. Our assessment of the business model is 
according to their materiality for the specific sector. We use the  weighted at 30% in our internal scoring process. (Governance is 
materiality map of SASB4 as a guideline to determine material- also fixed - at 10%.) In other words, how a company makes 
ity, but we supplement it with our own insight into the work- money and how it is run always matters. 
ings of the company. Both which issues we consider material 
and the weight we assign to them will vary by sector. A soft-
ware company, for example, will have a relatively low environ-
mental footprint, be dependent on skilled labour and intellec-
tual property (social), and be vulnerable to data privacy regu-
lation such as the GDPR (business ethics). A mining company, 
on the other hand, will have a high environmental footprint and 
will also need solid relations with its labour force (social). And 
their exposure to even universal risks such as climate change 
will be different. 
The ESG platform creates scale
Our proprietary ESG platform automates some parts of this analysis and thus allows significant scale with its coverage of 
over 13,000 names. Its backbone is the SASB taxonomy, which provides the material issues per sector. These are then 
populated with data points from a number of providers and calibrated by analyst review. We continuously work to 
improve the accuracy of its estimates, and to align the score with the scores that RI analysts produce from first principles. 
Ultimately, a good algorithm and a good human analyst together produce better results than either on its own.
4) The mission of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Foundation is to establish and improve industry specific disclosure standards across financially material environmen-
tal, social and governance topics that facilitate communication between companies and investors about decision-useful information.
11
ESG Integration – making it work  
across asset classes
The strength of our ESG approach is that our fund managers are involved throughout the ESG 
research process and are able to tie our results directly into their investment decisions. Both 
research and integration methods vary between asset classes.
We integrate ESG considerations into all our investment solu- giving a binary set of outcomes. Nevertheless, we still need a 
tions, with certain firm-level elements applicable to all our  robust ESG scoring process – and ours varies significantly for 
holdings. These include voting and engagement, our company- different types of debt.
wide ESG limits and exclusion list, individual ESG analyses of 
businesses, and the provision of ESG data and research to all  Corporate bonds allow us to leverage a lot of equity work, 
portfolio managers. However, we take integration a step fur- although lower down the credit scale there are many unlisted 
ther in our ESG-enhanced products.  issuers with low data coverage. In those cases, the credit ana-
lysts make an initial assessment of the issuers’ ESG profile 
ESG integration in Equities which the RI team then verifies, doing more in-depth work 
Within our equity ESG research, portfolio managers (PMs)  where necessary. 
work closely with the RI team as we perform our business 
model assessments and engagement dialogues. The resulting  For sovereign debt, we have built an ESG assessment model 
ESG scores that we assign to companies define their invest- tailored to country risks. It makes a detailed assessment of ESG 
ment universe, in that our ESG STARS products cannot invest  factors that contribute to economic development and has a 
in C-scored companies. Importantly, the scores also affect the  grounding in academic research. This model was developed in 
portfolio managers’ stock valuations. The ESG score can affect  close co-operation with the EMD credit analysis team, ensur-
both the discount rate a PM uses when valuing future cash  ing that it not only produces robust results but also meets their 
flows, and how long the PM expects the company to generate  investment needs.
above-average returns. Thus, the ESG score affects how we 
value both the risks and the opportunities a company is facing. ESG Integration across the firm
To ensure the ESG data and research is used appropriately by 
ESG integration in Fixed Income portfolio managers, ESG risk exposure is included in our regu-
The fixed income universe needs ESG outputs that translate  lar portfolio performance reviews, alongside financial data. At 
easily into trading rules, so that PMs can react quickly when  the same time, sustainability risk is included in our company-
new issues come to the market. How the research is integrated  wide approach to remuneration. All employees participating in 
into the portfolio is different too. While ESG integration for  our variable pay scheme are measured against both qualitative 
equities can affect both the discount rate and the “fade” rate  and quantitative targets suitable for their positions and role: 
of excess returns, for bonds it is focused on the risk of default,  these include sustainability risks where relevant.
 Sustainable choice: Responsible Investment strategies at NAM
Sustainable choice:  
Responsible Investment strategies at NAM
NAM’s Responsible Investment solutions include both our ESG STARS family and our thematic 
range. The ESG STARS strategies are about positive selection of quality companies with well-
managed ESG profiles that generate long-term financial value, while the thematic strategies offer 
investors a focus on specific aspects of sustainability5.
ESG STARS strategies – Tomorrow’s sustainable  Gender diversity is another theme we have chosen to highlight 
corporate leaders  in a strategy. As one of the UN’s 17 SDGs it has been identified 
Our ESG STARS range is built on the belief that companies and  not only a fundamental human right but a necessary founda-
issuers that integrate both ESG and financial metrics into their  tion for a peaceful, prosperous and sustainable future. In 2019 
strategic decisions will be tomorrow’s sustainable winners. In  we launched the Global Gender Diversity Strategy building on 
these strategies, we aim to beat the benchmark through invest- our belief that gender diversity is not only key for an equal 
ing in companies or bonds that meet Nordea Asset Manage- society but often goes hand in hand with other drivers of busi-
ment’s ESG standards6.  ness success. Research shows that companies with greater 
gender diversity deliver better financial performance and bet-
Within the ESG STARS strategies, every investment is examined  ter value creation, and therefore, this fund has been developed 
through an ESG lens as well as on financial grounds. Our ESG  to participate in this by investing in companies that have a 
analysts work closely with the investment teams to identify  gender-diverse management and implement concrete mea-
material risks and opportunities relating to the companies’ medi- sures to support gender diversity. 
um- to long-term operational performance and market position-
ing, and the results of their analysis feed into proprietary ESG  The newest thematic strategy in our stable is the Global Social 
models that are integrated into the investment process. Empowerment Strategy, launched in December 2020. This year 
the health crisis and social inequality demonstrations have 
Active ownership and engagement is an important part of the  raised awareness around this theme which has been exacer-
ESG STARS’ investment approach. We engage in productive  bated by historic lack of investment in social infrastructure. The 
dialogues with many of our STARS companies, and this  Global Social Empowerment Strategy targets the “S” in ESG, 
engagement happens in close collaboration between the RI  investing in businesses that offer social solutions, create a posi-
team and the relevant investment boutique. We believe this  tive impact, and generate sustainable shareholder value. 
collaborative process creates value, because it identifies com- Both the ESG STARS and the thematic solutions follow an 
panies that integrate both environmental, social and gover- approach of full ESG integration and positive selection while 
nance metrics and financial metrics into their business model  consciously avoiding companies that do not meet Nordea’s 
and strategic decisions. sustainability standards. 
The ESG STARS range includes equity funds covering different  Sustainability reporting – Keeping our clients 
regions and countries, as well as corporate, high yield and sov- informed
ereign bond funds.  We understand that investing your assets responsibly is not 
enough: transparent reporting on how we do this is essential. 
Thematic strategies – Building a better future Therefore, in addition to the traditional financial reporting, we 
In addition to our ESG STARS family, we also offer investors  offer Sustainability reports for a number of our ESG strategies. 
strategies that focus on specific sustainability themes and  We report on the portfolio’s sustainability in comparison to a 
align with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).  benchmark7, both in aggregate and with specific factors such 
Nordea’s Global Climate and Environment Strategy has been  as carbon intensity, for the Global Climate and Environment 
at the forefront of climate investing since 2008. The strategy  Strategy and most of the ESG STARS equity solutions – and 
invests in companies which, through their resource efficiency,  have begun to roll out these reports for the ESG STARS bond 
environmental protection or alternative energy solutions, are  strategies too. For the ESG STARS family, where engagement is 
providing answers to the climate problem. These companies  a key part of the investment process, we also provide engage-
can generate attractive returns, as proven by the Global Cli- ment case studies to illustrate the results of our activities. 
mate and Environment Strategy’s strong track record6. 
5) There can be no warranty that an investment objective, targeted returns and results of an investment structure is achieved. The value of your investment can go up and down, 
and you could lose some or all of your invested money.
6) The performance represented is historical; past performance is not a reliable indicator of future results and investors may not recover the full amount invested. The value of shares can 
greatly fluctuate as a result of the sub-fund’s investment policy and cannot be ensured, you could lose some or all of your invested money.
7) Where a fund has no official benchmark we have chosen suitable indices for comparison purposes.
Source: Getty Images
In addition, we have recently introduced Impact reports for  We continuously develop our reporting to improve and 
several strategies. These illustrate the difference an invest- respond to feedback from clients. This will continue as we 
ment of 100,000 Eur makes in areas such as water usage and  develop our sustainable solutions, and live up to the enhanced 
waste generation with concrete numbers that make the  requirements that the EU’s Action Plan on Sustainable 
impact more tangible. Finance will entail. 
ESG STARS Equity funds ESG STARS Fixed Income funds
Nordea 1 – Global Stars Equity Fund Nordea 1 – European Corporate Stars Bond Fund
LU0985320562 (BP-USD) / LU0985319804 (BI-USD) LU1927797156 (BP-EUR) / LU1927797586 (BI-EUR)
Nordea 1 – Emerging Stars Equity Fund Nordea 1 – European High Yield Stars Bond Fund
LU0602539602 (BP-USD) / LU0602539354 (BI-USD) LU1927798717 (BP-EUR) / LU1927799012 (BI-EUR)
Nordea 1 – European Stars Equity Fund Nordea 1 – Emerging Stars Bond Fund
LU1706106447 (BP-EUR) / LU1706108732 (BI-EUR) LU1915689316 (BP-USD) / LU1915689829 (BI-USD)
Nordea 1 – Asian Stars Equity Fund Nordea 1 – Emerging Stars Local Bond Fund8
LU2152927971 (BP-USD) / LU2152928607 (BI-USD) LU1160612526 (BP-USD) / LU1160610405 (BI-USD)
Nordea 1 – Nordic Stars Equity Fund
LU1079987720 (BP-EUR) / LU1079987134 (BI-EUR)
Thematic funds
Nordea 1 – North American Stars Equity Fund
Nordea 1 – Global Disruption Fund
LU0772958525 (BP-USD) / LU0772957808 (BI-USD)
LU1940854943 (BP-USD) / LU1940855759 (BI-USD)
Nordea 1 – Global Climate and Environment Fund9
LU0348926287 (BP-EUR) / LU0348927095 (BI-EUR)
Nordea 1 – Global Gender Diversity Fund
LU1939214778 (BP-USD) / LU1939215403 (BI-USD)
Nordea 1 –Global Social Empowerment Fund10
LU2257592514 (BP-USD) / LU 2257592787 (BI-USD)
8) With effect as of 5th May 2020 the sub-fund is renamed from Nordea 1 – Emerging Market Local Debt Fund Plus to Nordea 1 – Emerging Stars Local Bond Fund.
9) Please note that the Nordea 1 – Global Climate and Environment Fund is soft closed since 26 February 2021.
10) With effect as of 25 February 2021 the sub-fund is renamed from Nordea 1 – Global Impact Fund to Nordea 1 – Global Social Empowerment Fund.
 Active ownership and Engagement
Active ownership and Engagement
Being an active owner is central to our understanding of ESG and Responsible Investing. 
Therefore, our active ownership activities span across all of our products.
We believe that active ownership is a powerful way to protect  Engagements typically run over several years and are carried 
shareholder value, enhance long-term returns and foster posi- out either by NAM alone or in collaboration with other institu-
tive change. We are convinced that ensuring good ESG prac- tional investors. Our engagement activities combine the per-
tices in our funds’ holdings is an important part of safeguard- spectives of portfolio managers, financial analysts and ESG 
ing the long-term interests of shareholders and society. When  specialists to form a holistic opinion and establish coherent 
we want to improve a company’s management of its ESG risks,  engagement objectives. During the engagement period, we 
we exercise our ownership right to support and influence the  conduct regular meetings with the company and track prog-
company.  ress against our pre-defined engagement objectives. Progress 
reports and outcomes of the engagement are communicated 
Active ownership, when suitable, is always our preferred  to clients, portfolio managers and financial analysts, allowing 
approach. However, we do believe that there are activities and  the information to be considered in investment decisions. 
types of behaviour that cannot be reconciled with our mission  Should the engagement process fail, we will further escalate 
of delivering Returns with Responsibility. If a company's opera- the issue through other stewardship activities, for example, 
tions are incompatible with our RI Policy or if the company  with our voting rights. 
does not respond to our active ownership efforts, the RIC can 
decide to exclude it. For example, in 2020, after unsuccessful  Our engagement activities fall into one or more of three differ-
engagement with the Brazilian meat giant JBS SA, we decided  ent categories. The first type addresses companies that are in 
to exclude the company from all our portfolios, due to insuf- breach of international norms or conventions or those involved 
ficient handling of deforestation risks, corruption charges, and  in ESG-related incidents. The second type relates to ESG -relat-
employee health and safety amid the coronavirus pandemic.  ed risks or opportunities identified by portfolio managers and 
Active Ownership can generally be divided into two streams –  financial analysts via our company assessments. The third and 
engagement and voting – both equally important and inter- final stream concerns our thematic engagements. Thematic 
dependent on one another. engagements are initiated for investee companies with the 
most material exposure to one or several of our five focus areas:
•  climate 
Engagement •  human rights 
We believe that improved management of sustainability risks  •  good governance
and opportunities is vital to creating returns with responsibility,  •  water 
and that engagement can result in a competitive advantage,  •  biodiversity
increasing the likelihood of the companies being successful 
in the long run – benefitting companies, clients and society  Each theme is closely aligned with the SDGs and relevant ESG 
at large. Engaging with our investee companies enables us  risks, and has been selected and defined through close col-
to address material sustainability risks and opportunities. The  laboration between ESG specialists, portfolio managers, finan-
dialogue allows us to put forward our expectations on corpo- cial analysts and clients. All of our engagement is tracked on 
rate behaviour and to support companies in enhancing their  our in-house database and reviewed by the RI team to monitor 
sustainability performance.  progress.
NAM’s engagement activities are carried out on behalf of all 
Engagement streams
our funds, and follow this process:
1.  Norms- and incident-based engagement: engaging 
Engagement Engagement Research Report 
selection plan with and progress or  with companies breaching the international norms or 
process objective meeting escalate conventions or companies having ESG related 
incidents
2. Investment-led engagement: engaging with 
companies on their material ESG risks 
3. Thematic engagement: engaging on specific 
sustainability themes in focus
15
Water pollution from the pharma industry, India. Source: Shutterstock
Case Study: Long term engagement with 
the Indian pharmaceutical industry
India’s pharma industry, expected to grow to USD 100 bn by 2025, contributes to both the 
country’s severe water pollution crisis and to anti-microbial resistance (through the waste 
generated in the manufacturing process).
NAM has engaged with the some of the world’s largest com- cals into the Environment (PiE) and a sub-team in India, and 
panies in the pharma industry since 2015 on their supply chains  issued a Position Statement on PiE and AMR. The revised PSCI 
and pharma pollution related to drug manufacturing in India.  Principles now include a reference to “managing releases of 
During a field visit to drug manufacturing plants in Hyderabad  PiE”. The pharma industry published discharge targets for anti-
and Visakhapatnam in 2015 we saw disturbing evidence of  biotic manufacturing which are incorporated in the PSCI audit 
water pollution and poor waste-water management. As a  protocol. 
follow-up we commissioned on-the-ground investigations in 
Hyderabad and Visakhaptanam in 2016 and 2017 and pub- In 2020 the Advisory Panel of PSCI met twice and we also 
lished two reports on the findings. The reports show that phar- attended the PSCI annual meeting and the PSCI conference 
maceutical pollution is rife and not being effectively addressed,  for Indian suppliers. Finally, this year the Indian government 
with severe local impacts of drug pollution through con- issued a draft bill to limit concentrations of antibiotics dis-
tamination of waterways and agricultural lands. The reports  charged by pharmaceutical factories into waterways.
also stressed that water pollution related to pharmaceutical 
manufacturing in India is a significant driver of anti-microbial  Nordea's expectations are now more or less met by the phar-
resistance (AMR).  ma industry, nevertheless we will continue our work with the 
industry and retain our position on the PSCI Advisory Panel.
In response to the findings of our research reports, the industry- Nordea Asset Management won the ESG engagement initia-
led Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) developed  tive of the year category in Environmental Finance's 2020 
an industry-wide action plan for India. The action plan includ- Sustainable Investment Awards with the Pharma Industry 
ed mapping Indian suppliers and sharing industry expectations  Engagement on Pharmaceutical Pollution in India. 
on pollution management, and supplier capability training. In 
2018 the PSCI invited us to join its newly-established Advisory 
Panel, where we are the only investor member. Our work with 
this group has been an important part of our engagement. 
The PSCI has also established a sub-team on Pharmaceuti-
 Active ownership and Engagement
Engagement overview 2020
Field trips have normally been an important part of our engagement practices, but due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic, this year we had to emphasize other ways of engaging, such as virtual 
meetings. We were quick to adapt to the new situation, and in fact increased our engagement 
efforts over the 2019 levels. Our team of 19 dedicated ESG analysts manages both our individual 
engagements and collaborative engagements with other investors.
Engagements in 2020
Engagement status
Resolved 
9% Active 
Top 3 engagement topics In 91%
36 di
1. Good governance G Lead vid E
23 . CHluimmaatne rights ual  
348 685 613 239 311
924
 
Total 
engagements
ceToonlpgla a3bg  oermateinvets       C  o lla  Participant % ocfo evqeureitdy  bAyU M 
12..  SCAHSRBB   borative   engagements engaged 
89 %
3. CA100+
S
265
Engaged sectors 
Consumer  Materials Consumer  Industrials Energy Information  Health  Financials Utilities Communication  Real 
discretionary staples technology care services Estate 
16% 13% 12% 11% 10% 10% 10% 7% 6% 3% 2%
17
Geographical breakdown of engagements
Europe
39% Asia
North America 16%
37%
Africa
1%
Oceania
3%
South America
3%
Engagement – SDGs
32%
29%
25%
4% 4%
2% 1% 1%
SDG 17 SDG 13 SDG 8 SDG 16 SDG 6 SDG 5 SDG 15 SDG 10
Complete list of SDGs:
Source: un.org/development/desa/en/news/sustainable/sustainable-development-goals.html
 Active ownership and Engagement
Voting
Voting is an effective tool to influence companies in the right direction. We believe that sound 
corporate governance contributes to shareholder value and adds value to equity investments. 
Source: Shutterstock 
Our Corporate Governance team is responsible for defining  cases where proposals that in principle aligned with NAM’s 
and executing NAM’s corporate governance policy. Together  policies, and that NAM would have preferred to support, were 
with our overall ESG focus areas, our Corporate Governance  contingent on other elements such as changes to a company’s 
Principles guide the way we vote, and in which issues we  articles of association. In such cases, we can and do engage 
decide to engage with companies. with the promoters of a proposal to suggest adjustments to 
make a proposal more practical to implement, and therefore 
Every year, we vote and engage on a myriad of issues. On  easier to gain support for. 
some of those we have a very clear stance. One of our strongly 
held beliefs is that the Chief Executive should not be the same  We also generally vote against any proposal to limit minority 
person as the Chairman of the Board. One of the most impor- rights, such as a higher threshold to call extraordinary general 
tant tasks of companies’ Board of Directors is to oversee and  meetings or limiting the ability of shareholders to vote or 
evaluate top management, and in our view combining the CEO  express their views. 
and CoB roles compromises this duty. 
Generally, we focus our stewardship efforts on companies on 
Furthermore, we are strict when it comes to remuneration pro- which we can have a significant impact, such as firms in which 
posals containing time-based awards. Any long term incentive  we have a substantial ownership share or if we have a large 
program should have additional KPIs over and above long ser- aggregated position. In addition, we strive to put extra empha-
vice - just showing up for work should not be sufficient.  sis on companies which we own in our ESG-enhanced prod-
Accordingly we disapprove of any pay package containing a  ucts, such as the STARS funds. 
large part of time-based compensation. 
The Corporate Governance team works closely together with 
Increasingly we see non-financial KPIs being introduced into  the RI team and the Portfolio Managers to align the steward-
compensation programs. We are supportive to this as it  ship work on various ESG aspects. The RI team gives input on 
enables the companies to tie part of the compensation to, for  all proposals related to environmental and social issues, and 
instance, ESG-related criteria. It is also encouraging to see how  provides an overview of industry-related issues affecting mul-
dramatically the number of shareholder proposals on climate  tiple companies. We have been a signatory to the International 
and social issues has increased over time, and it is natural for  Corporate Governance Network´s general corporate gover-
us to support such proposals. Unfortunately, we have seen  nance principles since 2018. 
  19
Voting overview 2020
The ongoing pandemic has had a significant impact on Corpo- ciples. One key theme we voted on in 2020 was the separation 
rate Governance in general and on AGM voting in particular.  of the CEO/ Chairman role. Cisco, Facebook and Amazon are 
Sadly, we have not been able to physically attend as many  examples of companies where we supported shareholder pro-
general meetings as we normally would, but instead we have  posals to separate the CEO and CoB roles and we also voted 
voted by proxy and increased our support for environmental  against election of the CEOs to the board. More information 
and social shareholder resolutions. In addition, we focused on  about last year's important votes can be found on p 40.
providing support to companies on, for example, dividend poli-
cies and renumeration implications.  Increasingly we are being invited by companies in the Nordics 
to join their nomination committees. Membership of nomina-
During 2020 we voted in about 701 Annual General Meetings/ tion committees is a very efficient way to engage with the 
Extraordinary General Meetings on thousands of proposals,  companies we have large holdings in, and it enables us to 
including ESG issues such as climate, data privacy, diversity,  drive real change – for instance in the Board gender ratio. For 
as well as remuneration programmes and capital structure.  the 2020-season, we sat on 41 such committees, and during 
In 2021 our voting activities will cover the majority of our  2019-2020 we saw female representation on these companies' 
holdings.  boards improve to 40%. This is in line with our goal of 40-60 
representation of any gender. We also strive to introduce own-
We regularly engage with companies to explain our voting  ership-led nomination committees in other countries, and over 
rationale, and we try to be as proactive as possible to get com- the last couple of years we have managed to help facilitate 
panies, if possible, to alter their proposals in line with our prin- such changes in both Finland and Denmark. 
Meetings by sector
Energy 2% Utilities 2%
Nomination committees Real estate 3%
Meetings by country
42
41
Industrials USA  25% UK  4%
Materials  18% Sweden  11% Finland  4%
6%
36 China  7% Denmark 4%
Communi-  Japan  6% Other  39% 
cation 6%
2018 2019 2020
Consumer 
staples 8%
Financials
Gender diversity in 
17%
nomination committees Voted on 701 AGM/EGMs
40% Consumer 
discretionary
38% 12%
Alignment with management
36% Information 
technology 10%
Heath care 14% against 90% for
2018 2019 2020 13%
Our Corporate Governance team actively engages with companies in 
which the funds have significant ownership by voting at annual gen-
eral meetings in accordance with the Corporate Governance Principles. 
We strive for transparency and have therefore made our voting portal 
publicly available.
Erik Durhan Jan Särlvik   For more information on voting:
Head Corporate  Corporate
  nordea.com/voting-portal
Governance Governance Specialist
 Active ownership and Engagement
Engagement Deep Dives
Xcel Energy 
Xcel Energy is a major electric power company that supplies electricity and natural gas to retail 
customers in the United States. Before this engagement began, the company based 60% of its 
electricity generation on coal and other fossil fuels. NAM is part of the CA100+ engagement 
with its Xcel, which started in 2018, to transition to clean energy and reduce its climate risk. 
Nine months after the engagement started, Xcel became the first US utility to commit to 
delivering 100% emissions-free electricity by 2050. The company also committed to an 80% 
reduction in emissions associated with electricity by 2030. Xcel included climate KPIs in its 
CEO’s remuneration for 2019-2021 and published its inaugural TCFD report in 2020. While 
the company does not yet have a detailed plan for achieving its targets beyond 2030, the 
2050 targets are in place and have already begun driving its business planning and strate-
gies. The ongoing dialogue with the company is currently focused on the company’s efforts 
in the 2020-2030 period, and the concrete possibilities for realising earlier-than-planned clo-
sures of coal-fired power plants and adding more renewables capacity. 
Power plant interior. Source: Shutterstock
Samsung SDI 
Samsung SDI specializes in Lithium Ion Battery (LIB) technology, producing 
rechargeable batteries for products such as mobile phones, energy storage 
systems, solar panels and electric vehicles. Cobalt is a key raw material for 
these. However, 70% of the global cobalt supply is sourced from Demo-
cratic Republic of Congo (DRC), where the mining is often unregulated 
- even illegal - with extensive reports of human rights abuses, including 
child labour. We are urging Samsung SDI to ensure its cobalt supply 
is sustainably sourced. After a field visit to South Korea in 2017 and 
follow-up meetings, we asked Samsung SDI to audit and increase the 
transparency of its cobalt supply chain and also to use only smelters 
which get their own independent audit. Samsung SDI has set up a risk 
management tool and begun auditing its direct supply chain. The com-
pany has taken steps to secure a direct supply line with full transparency 
with a lead supplier, but is also working with industry peers to address 
the issue at government level. In addition to continuing work around supply 
chain transparency, we have commissioned a report expected to be published 
next year reviewing the ESG risks in DRC’s cobalt mining industry. We will use 
Cobalt mine. Source: Shutterstock this report’s findings to engage with Samsung SDI and other companies with expo-
sure to cobalt on the more general ESG risks associated with mining operations in DRC.
21
Varun Beverages 
Varun Beverages (Varun) is an Indian company which manufactures, bottles and  P
distributes carbonated soft drinks and non-carbonated beverages, including bot- oiloftro
tled water. The company has 32 manufacturing plants around India and 6 plants  M 
a
n
outside India. Varun uses significant amounts of groundwater and freshwater  ga
e
in its products – a scarce resource in these locations. We have engaged with  E fo r
Varun around its water management since 2018 to ensure that it doesn’t risk  m
e
gr
the lives and ecosystems around its operations by drawing too much ground- ni
g
water or freshwater from sources around its operations. As a result of this   Sta
engagement, Varun has implemented several water management programs.  rs E
q
u
I1t0 h0a%s  orefd itusc weda stthee w waatteerr,  annede dheads  iinm tphreo vmeadn iutsf arectpulerinnigsh pmroecnets os,f  nwoawte rre tchyrcoleusg h  ity, Julian
factory harvesting and pond harvesting. The group’s water usage and recharging  a H
iraisnec cpntriooverwiattisi enaesgu  i.ttd osGi t toperildanan gnbs typfso  aatrr hwtehanatircr cddyu   pwarrareeor ntuwytn,lo ydau  nailtddrse   li lsinok onreetg  tpi-onot e srwrtemeaedt  Vew mraa rsotuterrnere   seemsxxeaptednan anasgdrieevinmaeglsye  ai ntinnst  d swit ttsrao ast techeroag nrryeet.ichnhoualedr getoer    ansveden, and Senior ESG Analyst Arvinder Tiwana visiting Varun Beverages.
Millicom 
Millicom is a telecom operator providing cable, mobile and broadband services in 
emerging markets in Latin America and Africa. The company is exposed to markets 
at high risk for corruption. Through a long term (since 2013) engagement, we 
have worked with Millicom to improve its business ethics program, transpar-
ency and governance. Following a field trip to Columbia and subsequent 
meetings, NAM has developed a strong enough relationship with Millicom 
to be invited on various occasions to share our ESG knowledge, material-
ity analysis and expectations on areas to prioritize. NAM is also a member 
of Millicom’s Board nomination committee. Since NAM’s engagement 
was initiated, Millicom has established local business ethics committees 
and included business ethics targets as part of remuneration. Subsidiary 
TigoUne has been recognized as the first telecommunications company in 
the list of Anticorruption Active Companies in Colombia. The group has also 
made board changes to strengthen its board ahead of its US listing, and has 
met our expectations for responsible management during the Covid-19 pan-
demic. Our next expectations are that Millicom will improve transparency on data 
pprroivgarceys sa nodn  ionutrro Cdouvcied -r1e9p eoxrtpinegct iant iloinnes .w  ith SASB standard. We will also follow   Telecom operators. Source: Shutterstock.
 Active ownership and Engagement
Highlights of our collaborative 
engagements
In addition to engaging individually, we also collaborate with other investors in order to make the 
engagement efforts more impactful. 
Collaborative engagements are conducted through a group of 
investors, who come together to increase the weight of their  Petrobras – an example of collaborative 
demands on companies. In collaborative engagements, the  engagement 
collaboration agrees on engagement priorities and strategy 
and divides the responsibility for the engagement amongst the  Petrobras is a partly state-owned Brazilian petroleum 
signatory investors. company, and one of the largest oil and gas extraction 
companies in the world. A sound strategy for a transition 
Engagement around SASB reporting standards to low-carbon energy would allow Petrobras to play a key 
The Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB) aims to  role in achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement.
help businesses identify, manage and report material sustain-
ability topics. In November 2018, SASB published a set of 77  Representing the more than 500 investors in the Climate 
industry-specific standards that help investors to compare  Action 100+ (CA100+) coalition, NAM has led the engage-
companies’ sustainability performance within an industry. NAM  ment with Petrobras since 2017 to communicate what 
is a founding member and the current chair of SASB’s Investor  steps we believe they need to take going forward. As with 
Advisory Group (IAG). all other CA100+ engagements, the dialogue has been 
centred on our expectation on Petrobras to take action to 
In 2020, the SASB IAG set a target of having 75% of S&P500  reduce their emissions in line with the Paris Agreement’s 
companies reporting SASB metrics by 2025. By the end of the  objectives, strengthen their governance around climate 
year, 25% of these companies had already begun reporting in  risks and opportunities, and become more transparent in 
line with the SASB Standards. their climate reporting and risk management.
Climate Action 100+ engagement During 2020, we reached a milestone with the company 
NAM is part of the Climate Action 100+ (CA100+), a global  when they significantly enhanced their climate reporting 
investor initiative on climate change launched in 2017. The  and announced their support for the Task Force on 
initiative’s aim is to curb emissions, improve governance and  Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). This will 
strengthen the companies' climate disclosures. CA100+ has  enable stakeholders to better assess the company’s com-
over 545 signatory investors and is one of the largest investor- mitment to the clean energy transition. Going forward, our 
driven climate initiatives to date.  expectation on Petrobras is to work more actively to curb 
emissions. The company set its first emissions-intensity 
The initiative has made significant progress in 2020, with 22 of  targets in 2019, and following our feedback that these 
the 47 companies engaged in Europe committing to net zero  were not sufficiently aligned with the Paris Agreement, 
emissions during 2019-2020. NAM is the lead investor for the  they introduced more ambitious targets in November 
Petrobras engagement and supportive investor for Xcel Energy,  2020. We still believe there is further room for improve-
Walmart, TC Energy, Volvo, SSAB and Fortum. ment. In our ongoing dialogue with the company, we 
continue to recommend improvements to the company’s 
target-setting, including using an approach that bench-
marks their performance against the Paris Agreement and 
encompasses more of the company’s total emissions.
  23
The Investors Policy Dialogue on Deforestation  Human rights engagement 
(IPDD) initiative The Corporate Human Rights Benchmark (CHRB), of which 
Nordea is a founding and advisory committee member of the  Nordea has been a funding member, published its 2020 corpo-
Investors Policy Dialogue on Deforestation (IPDD) initiative,  rate human rights benchmark assessment of 230 of the world 
which was formally established in July 2020. The initiative was  largest companies in November. The CHRB data enables us 
developed in response to the increasing rates of deforestation  to systematically and over time track and monitor the human 
in Brazil as well as other countries. The dialogue started with a  rights performance of companies that we are invested in.
letter to the Brazilian government on the issue of deforestation 
which was signed by 29 financial institutions. Following the  We have continued to engage on the CHRB results and togeth-
letter, the investors were invited to a meeting with the gover- er with fellow CHRB investors, Aviva Investors and APG Asset 
nor of the Brazilian Central Bank and the Speaker of the  Management, we initiated in-depth engagements with six top 
House, and congressmen from the House of Representatives of  priority companies. As a member of the Investor Alliance on 
Brazil. The objective of the IPDD initiative is to ensure long- Human Rights, a collaboration of 175 investors, we sent let-
term financial sustainability of investments by promoting sus- ters sent to the Chairmen of 95 companies that scored zero on 
tainable land use and forest management and respect for  human rights due diligence in the CHRB assessment. These 
human rights. letters will be followed-up in 2021. 
The CHRB data is very  
Vung Ang 2: Engagement underway
important as a driver for  
In October 2020, we initiated a collaborative engagement 
our work on human rights.
against the construction of the planned coal-fired Vung 
Ang 2 power plant in Vietnam. We have a critical position  Katarina Hammar, Head of Active Ownership, 
on any of our investments being involved in the construc- Nordea Asset Management
tion of new coal-fired power plant projects, as we believe 
that it is inherently inconsistent with the goals and time-
lines of the Paris Agreement. Vung Ang 2 would further 
expand development of a site proximate to two other 
plants which have already caused major environmental 
pollution accidents in the area including spilling toxic 
chemicals into the ocean, devastating the coastline and 
marine life.
The consortium of 21 investors, gathered by NAM, sent a 
letter urging companies associated with Vung Ang 2 to 
withdraw from the project citing the high climate-related 
risks – both financial and reputational - associated with 
the project. The letter stresses the important role listed 
companies play in addressing climate change, as well 
as the risk they pass along to investors when failing to 
address climate risk exposure.
NAM is committed to continuing its engagement activities 
concerning the Vung Ang 2 and is urging the companies 
involved to withdraw from the construction project and 
to make commitments to end involvement in new coal 
projects in line with the recommendation of the United 
Nations Secretary General. Thus far, the work carried out by 
the collaborative group has contributed to Kepco, Samsung 
C&T, Mitsubishi Corporation and SMFG all announcing an 
end to coal projects going ahead.
 Keeping active in the RI community 24
Keeping active in the RI Community
We are actively taking part in the discussions around responsible investment and promoting the 
best practices across the investment community.
EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive consultation Covid-19 Response
Standardised, complete and accurate ESG disclosures are vital  The Covid-19 pandemic has created a plethora of ESG issues. 
to enable investors to make informed investment decisions.  Over the year we have carried out various Covid-19-response 
The EU’s Action Plan for Sustainable Finance is addressing this  activities. We have engaged a number of companies in sectors 
through both its own legislation and amendments to already  with high exposure to the pandemic. Together with other 
existing legislation. Some of these disclosures fall within the  investors we co-signed investor statements directed to the 
Non-Financial Reporting Directive, which is currently undergo- management teams and boards of directors of companies we 
ing revisions to reflect the need for transparency on ESG mat- are invested in, including pharmaceutical companies and meat 
ters. We have contributed to the consultation, recommending a  processors, asking them to prioritize worker protection and 
minimum standard disclosure requirement. We suggest that  health and safety, workers’ rights and the highest level of ethi-
this should be informed by existing frameworks, most impor- cal financial management and responsibility. We also signed 
tantly, Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures  an open letter to EU leaders urging them to work towards 
(TCFD) and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board  making the economic recovery from Covid-19 green and 
(SASB).  sustainable. The Corporate Human Rights Benchmark (CHRB) 
will publish a Covid-19 response study by companies included 
NAM in SASB Community in its 2020 corporate human rights benchmark assessment of 
NAM is a founding member and current chair of SASB’s Inves- 230 of the world largest companies. We will use the findings in 
tor Advisory Group (IAG), which includes asset owners and  our research and follow-up dialogues with companies. 
asset managers committed to improving the quality and com-
parability of sustainability-related disclosure.  Founding member of  
Net Zero Asset Managers initiative
During 2020, SASB has arranged three large Corporate-Inves- During 2020, NAM further cemented our commitment to the 
tor Dialogues webinars with breakout sessions, with strong  Paris Agreement by becoming a founding member of the Net 
turnout of 279 companies. We led one of the sessions to share  Zero Asset Managers (NZAM) initiative, a global coalition 
investor perspective and use of SASB with the companies  of asset managers working for the achievement of net-zero 
present. Positive feedback from the participants emphasised  greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, and adopted a historic 
how companies find it helpful to discuss ESG reporting with  set of climate targets to support this ambition. We also co-
peers and investors. developed a Net Zero Investment Framework together with 
other members of the Institutional Investor Group on Climate 
Supporting RI in academia Change (IIGCC). This framework is the first-ever practical 
During the spring Nordea participated in the SIPA (School of  blueprint for investors to maximise the contribution they make 
International and Public Affairs), Columbia University Capstone  in tackling climate change, and its emphasis on achieving real-
project - a project with Master program students and external  world emissions reductions in our investee companies is the 
clients outside of SIPA. Students made a case study on three  foundation for our climate targets.
companies - BHP, Iberdrola, LUKOIL - regarding their perfor-
mance in managing community impact and a gap analysis of 
their policies and management measures against benchmark-
ing standards. Their research identified key factors explaining 
why controversies related to community impact occur and reoc-
cur. The results were presented in a publicly available report. 
 Our ESG credentials 2255
Our ESG credentials
ESG labels
European SRI  Towards 
LuxFLAG  FNG 
Nordea 1, SICAV Funds  Transparency  Sustainability  Label ISR5
ESG Label2 ESG Label3
Code1 Label4
Emerging Stars Equity • • H   H   H • •
Global Stars Equity • • • •
European Stars Equity • • H   H   H •
Nordic Stars Equity • •
North American Stars Equity • • • •
Global Climate and Environment • •
Emerging Stars Bond • • •
European Corporate Stars Bond • • •
European High Yield Stars Bond • • •
1) The European SRI Transparency logo signifies that Nordea Investment Funds S.A. commits to provide accurate, adequate and timely information to enable stakeholders, in particular consumers, to under-
stand the Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) policies and practices relating to the fund. Detailed information about the European SRI Transparency Guidelines can be found on www.eurosif.org, and infor-
mation of the SRI policies and practices of the Nordea STARS range can be found at: Nordea.lu/STARS. The Transparency Guidelines are managed by Eurosif, an independent organisation. The European SRI 
Transparency Logo reflects the fund manager’s commitment as detailed above and should not be taken as an endorsement of any particular company, organisation or individual. 2) LuxFLAG is an internation-
al and independent non-profit association and labelling agency. To promote sustainable investing in the financial industry, LuxFLAG awards an independent and transparent label to eligible investment vehi-
cles in Microfinance, Environment, ESG (Environment, Social, Governance), Climate Finance and Green Bonds. The objective is to reassure investors that the labelled investment vehicle invests in a responsible 
manner. The LuxFLAG ESG Label is valid for one year. Investors must not rely on LuxFLAG or the LuxFLAG Label with regard to investor protection issues and LuxFLAG cannot incur any liability related to 
financial performance or default. 3) Forum Nachhaltige Geldanlagen (FNG), founded in 2001, is the industry association promoting sustainable investment in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. FNG’s goal is 
to improve quality standards for sustainable investment products, to secure the adherence to internationally recognized minimum norms. The FNG ESG label (1 to 3 stars) is awarded on an annual basis. 4) 
We have received recognition from the Belgian Central Labelling Agency in the form of “Towards Sustainability” label. The label was launched in 2019 and it aims to install trust and reassure potential inves-
tors that the financial product is managed with sustainability in mind and is not exposed to very unsustainable practices, without requiring of investors to do a detailed analysis themselves. For more informa-
tion on the “Towards Sustainability” label, visit www.towardssustainability.be 5) Label ISR is created and supported by the French Finance Ministry. The label’s goal is to increase the visibility of SRI products 
among savers in France and Europe. For more information on the Label ISR, visit https://www.lelabelisr.fr/en/what-sri-label/.
PRI signatory since 2007
A+
s Strategy & Governance 
d
r
a
w
A
  RI initiatives
Initiatives
The benchmark analyses the top 20  We’ve joined the FAIRR’s collaborative 
research-based pharmaceutical compa- investor engagement on sustainable 
nies on how they make medicines, vac- proteins which asked a number of global 
cines and diagnostics more accessible in  food companies to diversify their protein 
low- and middle-income countries. It  sources to drive growth, increase profit-
Access to 
highlights best and innovative practices,  ability, reduce risk exposure, and improve 
Medicine  FAIRR
and areas where progress has been  their ability to compete and innovate in a 
Index
made and where action is still required.  resource-constrained world.
IIGCC provides investors with a 
 Nordea is a member of this expert group 
collaborative platform to encourage 
first convened in May 2020. A cross-
public policies, investment practices 
industry group to advance governance 
Institutional  and corporate conduct that address 
AMR Cross  and collective action around anti-micro- Investors Group  long-term risks and opportunities 
Industry Expert  bial resistance (AMR) and share insights  on Climate  associated with climate change. 
Group, Business  and best practices. Change (IIGCC)
Council for the UN
International Corporate Governance 
The AMR Benchmark tracks how phar- Network's mission is to promote 
maceutical companies are responding  effective standards of corporate 
to heightened drug resistance. We were  International  governance and investor stewardship 
Antimicrobial  a member of the expert committee  Corporate  to advance efficient markets and 
Resistance (AMR)  between 2017 and 2019.  Governance  sustainable economies worldwide. 
 Benchmark Network (ICGN)
We are a signatory to the CDP, a project  We are a member of this investor initia-
that aims to collect and share informa- tive focusing on the investor responsibil-
tion on greenhouse gas emissions and  ity to respect human rights, corporate 
climate change strategies. We are also  engagements that drive responsible 
Carbon 
represented on the CDP Water Advisory  Investor Alliance  business conduct, and standard-setting 
Disclosure 
Council.  for Human Rights  activities that push for robust business 
Project (CDP)
(IAHR) and human rights policies.
We are a signatory of the Climate 
Action 100+, a collaborative five-year 
global initiative led by investors to  IISF works to foster investor 
engage with the world’s largest cor- collaboration and engagement to 
porate greenhouse gas emitters to  eliminate deforestation from soy and 
Investor Initiative 
Climate  improve governance on climate change,  cattle supply chains in South America. 
on Sustainable 
Action 100+ curb emissions and strengthen climate-
Forests
related financial disclosures. 
The first ever ranking of the world’s larg- Investor Mining and Tailings 
est publicly listed companies on their  Safety Initiative is an investor led 
human rights performance. The 2020  engagement which advocates for 
CHRB ranks the top 230 globally listed  Investor Mining  increased tailings dam safety and 
companies on their human rights policy,  and Tailings  transparency in the mining industry.
process and performance. Between 2016  Safety Initiative
Corporate Human 
and 2020, we were a funding and steer-
Rights Bench-
ing committee member of the CHRB 
mark (CHRB) We are a founding and advisory com-
which has now been integrated with the 
mittee member of the IPDD initiative, 
World Benchmarking Alliance (WBA).
which was formally established in July 
2020. The objective of the IPDD initia-
tive is to ensure long-term financial sus-
Investor Policy 
EITI’s aim is to promote the  Dialogue on  tainability of investments by promoting 
transparent and accountable  Deforestation  sustainable land use and forest man-
management of oil, gas and  (IPDD) agement and respect for human rights.
Extractive 
mineral resources. Nordea has 
Industries 
been a member since 2016.
Transparency 
Initiative (EITI)
  27
We have signed the investor statement 
on Coronavirus response covering 5 
recommended measures for companies  PRI is an investor initiative to incor-
COVID-19
to consider during the crisis, and for  porate ESG in investment processes. 
investors to use as basis for company  Principles for  We were an early adopter of RI and 
engagement dialogues. The recommen- Responsible  signed the PRI as early as 2007.
Investor  dations address: paid leave, additional  Investments 
Statement on  health and safety measures, maintaining  (PRI)
Coronavirus  employment, maintaining supplier and 
Response customer relationships, and exercising 
We are founding member and current 
fiscal prudence.
chair of the SASB’s Investor Advisory 
Group (IAG). As part of this work we 
lead disclosure engagements with 
Sustainability 
companies, and demonstrate how 
Initiative where 251 investors together  Accounting 
SASB standards are used by investors 
urged companies to assess their  Standards 
Investor statement  operations and supply chain for  Board (SASB) in different fora. 
on deforestation  deforestation risks.
and forest fires in  We are an official supporter of TCFD. 
the Amazon The recommendations provide a foun-
dation for climate-related financial 
disclosures for all companies, aimed at 
We signed the Montreal Pledge in 
Task Force on   encouraging companies to report on 
2014 as one of the first signatories. 
Climate-related  the climate-related risks and oppor-
By signing this pledge, we commit to 
Financial   tunities that are most relevant to their 
Montreal  measuring and publicly disclosing the 
Disclosures (TCFD) business activities. 
Carbon  carbon footprint of our investment 
Pledge portfolios on an annual basis. 
We are a supporter of the Transition 
Pathway Initiative (TPI), which is 
In December 2020, we became an  a global, asset-owner led initiative 
early joiner, committing to support the  assessing companies' preparedness 
goal of net zero emissions by 2050,  Transition  for the transition to a low carbon 
The Net Zero  in line with the global efforts to limit  Pathway Initiative economy.
Asset Managers  warming to 1.5 degrees through our 
initiative investments. 
We signed the UNEP FI in 1994.  
It is a partnership between UNEP and 
Nordea joined PCAF in 2020, a global  the global financial sector to mobilise 
partnership of financial institutions  private sector finance for sustainable 
launched in 2015 to develop a harmo- UN Environmental  development. We became a member 
nised approach to measure and dis- Programme  of the UNEP FI Banking Committe in 
close GHG emissions associated with  Finance Initiative   2018 and now since August 2020 holds 
loans and investments. A harmonised  (UNEP FI) the Scandinavian seat on the UNEP FI 
accounting approach provides financial  Banking Board. 
Partnership  
institutions with guidance in develop-
for Carbon 
Accounting  ing risk management and regulatory  Initiated by the UN to encourage 
Financials (PCAF) compliance as well as a starting point  businesses to align their strategies 
required to align their portfolio with  and operations with ten universal 
the Paris Agreement.  principles building on UN conventions 
in the fields of human rights, labour 
standards, environment and anti-
Since 2018 we are on the Advisory 
corruption. We became a signatory to 
Panel of this industry-led organization  UN Global 
the UN Global Compact in 2002, first 
aimed at establishing and promoting  Compact (UNGC) 
through Nordea Bank Finland. From 
responsible practices for pharma sup-
December 2004 the coverage was 
ply chains. The dialogue and relation-
extended to the whole Group. 
ship with PSCI is part of our engage-
Pharmaceutical 
ment with the worlds largest pharma 
Supply Chain 
companies to address pharma water 
Initiative (PSCI) Since 2017, we have been part 
pollution in India, one of the largest 
of WBA Allies representing 
drug manufacturing hubs in the world. 
organisations working at global, 
regional, and local levels to shape 
World  the private sector’s contributions  
Benchmarking  to achieving the SDGs. 
Alliance (WBA)
 Climate change: a key focus area
Climate change: a key focus area
Climate change presents long-term risks to companies, industries and society at large. Our 
mission is to deliver returns with responsibility and integrating climate risk into our investment 
decisions is therefore critical.
Climate change has been a strategic focus for NAM since we  In 2019, we made a public commitment to align our investment 
became a signatory to the UN PRI in 2007. Our work on climate  portfolios with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. This 
change represents both our fiduciary duty and a means by  means that we have a long-term strategic objective to reduce 
which we help meet the goals of the Paris Agreement (to limit  the greenhouse gas emissions impact of our investments, 
the increase in the global average temperature to well below  increase our investments based on climate-related opportuni-
2°C above pre-industrial levels). We have a process to identify  ties, and ensure that our investment portfolios are resilient to 
the most exposed sectors and companies and we implemented  climate-related risks. To support this, we developed NAM’s 
our first climate-related divestment from coal mining in 2015  Climate Change Strategy, which was adopted by the RIC in 2019. 
and our approach has continued to evolve since then. We also  This strategy is built on five pillars, each one of which has made 
vote and engage to achieve climate-resilient portfolios. progress this year – ESG integration, active ownership, divest-
ment and mitigation, product development and policy support 
These pillars support our commitment to the TCFD recommen-
Addressing climate change  dations, which we meet fully in our separate Climate Report. 
is high on the agenda and 
During 2020, NAM became a founding member of the Net 
Nordea supports the TCFD  Zero Asset Managers (NZAM) initiative, a global coalition of 
asset managers working for the achievement of net-zero green-
recommendations since we 
house gas emissions by 2050, and adopted a historic set of cli-
firmly believe that climate change  mate targets to support this ambition. We also co-developed a 
Net Zero Investment Framework together with other members 
risk disclosure is key in order to 
of the Institutional Investor Group on Climate Change (IIGCC). 
strengthen the stability of the  This framework is the first-ever practical blueprint for investors to 
maximise the contribution they make in tackling climate change, 
financial system.
and its emphasis on achieving real-world emissions reductions 
Nils Bolmstrand, Head of Nordea Asset Management in our investee companies is the foundation for our targets.
Core elements of recommended climate-related financial disclosures
Governance
Governance The organization's governance around climate-related risks and 
opportunities
Strategy
Strategy
The actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities 
on the organization's businesses, strategy and financial planning
Risk 
Management  Risk Management 
The processes used by the organization to identify, assess and manage 
climate-related risks
Metrics  
Metrics and Targets
and Targets
The metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-
related risks and opportunities
Nordea’s response to the TCFD recommendations is reflected in our Climate Report
29
To continue building climate resilience and managing our cli- Achieving such substantial reductions in our carbon intensity 
mate risk exposure, NAM has also developed and implemented  requires efforts across assets, sectors and portfolios. In prac-
a range of metrics that allow us to identify and respond to  tice, this will be achieved through three mechanisms, which in 
systemic climate risk, which are laid out in our Climate Report.  order of priority are:
During 2020, we expanded our efforts to provide asset owner 
clients, regulators and internal stakeholders with information  • Pushing current investee companies towards accelerated
and analytics on net-zero investing and climate risk and oppor- decarbonization
tunity, through workshops with our climate experts as well as  • Investing in companies that facilitate real-world
augmented reporting and transparency. Alongside our par- decarbonization
ticipation in industry-leading initiatives like NZAM, IIGCC, and  • Shifting portfolio allocation away from high-emitting com-
Climate Action 100+, collaboration with asset owner clients will  panies and sectors
remain a critical part of managing climate risk across all our 
assets under management. Since the average carbon intensity of our investments does not 
reflect company- or sector-specific decarbonization efforts, 
Our climate targets we strive to reach our intensity targets by continuing to link 
Our overarching long-term target is to achieve net-zero emis- our investment processes as closely as possible to real-world 
sions for NAM’s operations and investments by 2050 (Target 1).  decarbonization.
To support the fulfilment of this goal, we have also devised a 
set of short- and mid-term goals, illustrated in the figure below.  To this end, we will also phase out all our investments in coal-
Since the Paris Agreement effectively requires a halving of  related companies11, since the reduction of coal use is one of 
global emissions every decade, NAM has set a target to reduce  the most critical levers for achieving the Paris goals (Target 
the weighted average carbon intensity (WACI) of our invest- 3). Additionally, we also set a target for companies in other 
ments by 50% by 2030, compared to a 2019 baseline (Target  sectors critical to the climate transition, to engage with them 
2). In addition to the focus on reducing overall emissions,  to set Paris-aligned transition plans by 2025, and phase out 
another key for achieving net-zero is to focus on climate solu- investments in those who fail to present such plans (Target 
tions, which is why we have also included a target to increase  4). Critical sectors in this context are those sectors that must 
such investments by 2030 (Target 5). The exact extent of this  undertake the most decarbonization for the Paris targets to be 
target for climate solutions investments still remains to be  achieved. Our exact definition of which sectors fit this defini-
defined, and our work in this area is evolving in line with regu- tion may evolve over time, but as a minimum includes fossil 
lations and industry standards.  fuel-related sectors.
Long term goal for 2050
1 Net-zero emissions
Mid term goals for 2030
50% reduction in carbon intensity
2
of investments (WACI)
Increase investments in climate solutions 5
Short term goals for 2025
Paris-aligned decarbonization plans for 
selected sectors
3 By 2025, phase out investments in coal-related companies  
without plans to achieve a full exit from coal globally by 2040
Engage with companies in critical sectors, requiring 
4
Paris-aligned decarbonization plans by 2025
Adopted climate targets Targets needing further definition
As we work towards these specific targets, we will continue to implement our climate approach through the five pillars defined 
in our climate strategy; ESG integration, active ownership, divestment and mitigation, product development and policy 
support. For more detail about our climate strategy please see our 2020 Climate report.
11) We define coal-related companies as those that are involved in the mining for coal or use it for electricity generation. NAM already excludes companies with more than 10% of their rev-
enues from coal production from all its portfolios, and applies our Paris-Aligned Fossil Fuel (PAFF) policy or even stricter exclusion criteria to all portfolios designated ESG (currently 
approx. 30% of NAM AuM). 
 Interview – Fundamental Equities goes full ESG 
Interview – All in: NAM’s Fundamental 
Equities Team goes full ESG
A conversation with Hilde Jenssen, Head of Fundamental Equities.
The Fundamental Equities Team (FET) has always worked 
with ESG strategies, but the team recently transitioned to 
all ESG products. Why the shift in focus? 
It’s true that ESG is nothing new to Nordea, as we have been of-
fering our clients sustainable products, and have been undertak-
ing analysis in this space for over thirty years—we’ve built up a 
lot of expertise. This transition to full ESG integration across the 
FET’s products allows us to completely utilise our core skills and 
gives ESG greater visibility within the solutions we offer. 
Also, ESG investing is truly aligned to our thinking. As our name 
suggests, we are fundamental investors and we take a long-
term view on the companies we invest in. Pricing sustainable 
competitive advantages, which includes ESG factors, is part of 
this. 
Finally, the long track record of many of our ESG-enhanced solu-
tions demonstrates that ESG factors can contribute positively to 
performance when compared both to competitor products and 
relevant market indices.
What does a full ESG focus mean in practice? 
To achieve full integration, we work very closely with NAM’s Re-
sponsible Investments Team (RIT) to synthesize fundamental 
analysis and ESG research. We have embedded in each strat-
egy’s investment team a dedicated ESG specialist. Our ESG ana-
lysts are there every step of the way through the investment pro-
cess – participating in daily and weekly meetings, as well as in 
idea generation and case presentations. 
We believe that a more sustainable company will find both op-
portunities and risk reduction arising from its treatment of ESG 
issues. This should be reflected in the valuation of the company. 
However, we often find that the market is not an efficient price 
setter in this regard. Hence there is an opportunity for us as fun-
damental, long-term investors to earn excess returns compared 
to benchmarks for our clients. We specifically take our internal 
ESG assessment into consideration when we value a company, 
so that a more sustainable business will enjoy a greater excess 
returns on its invested capital than a less sustainable one. Intui-
tively, this makes sense, but our methodology ensures it is ap-
plied consistently across our ESG funds.
  31
Can you give us an example of how this collaboration plays  How do you see the ESG market evolving? 
out in stock selection? 
My experience tells me our clients will increasingly want more 
Our holistic investment approach allows us to identify competi- information on how we generate returns and how their invest-
tive advantage and tailwind which are some of the most impor- ments impact society, particularly as new ESG regulations come 
tant concepts in investing. If you are aligned with positive trends  into force. One of the big trends we are seeing in Europe is the 
it is easier to grow, but it also reduces the risk. Some time ago,  movement towards a common set of standards for ESG invest-
our team became interested in an Indian company, Varun Bever- ing – which is a positive development. At the same time, it 
ages, which are exclusive distributors of PepsiCo's products in  means greater scrutiny on documentation and reporting as well 
India. From a financial perspective, the company looked interest- as access to reliable data. Country-specific or regional labels are 
ing with good growth and profitability prospects from growing  the first step; we are extremely proud to have 21 ESG label des-
Indian income levels, but our ESG analysis identified the com- ignations across our ESG STARS products.
pany's water consumption as an ESG risk.
We currently share information on the many company engage-
Certain areas of India have been regularly hit by drought for the  ment efforts we are undertaking with our clients, as well as 
last several years. With global climate change, the Responsible  other various metrics – such as the carbon intensity of our port-
Investments team expects that India will increasingly experience  folios versus benchmarks. In addition, we produce online train-
climate challenges that may take the form of floods and / or  ing, investment-led engagement cases, insights and other user-
droughts. friendly tools clients can access to deepen their understanding. 
We welcome the dialogue on ESG impact, as we can share more 
Varun Beverages uses groundwater from the local area of their  of our thinking, our process and our view of the path moving 
production facilities, which from an ESG perspective places  forward.
great demands on their water management and consumption. 
To gain a better understanding of the company's actions, one of 
our portfolio managers travelled to India with an ESG analyst 
from our Active Ownership team. They met with representatives 
from the board, management and visited one of the production 
facilities.
Although Varun had implemented several measures to address 
their water consumption, our team made recommendations for 
further improvements. The company today has a positive water 
account in relation to how much groundwater they use and how 
much rainwater they collect and return to the groundwater. In 
addition, water consumption in all their production facilities is 
today being audited by an independent third party. While the 
company improved its ESG profile, we also saw improving finan-
cials, as the company has grown its profits from $30mil in 2017 
to an expected $100mil in 2021. Today, Varun is the most profit-
able bottling company globally, posting a 20% EBITDA margin. 
We continue our engagement with the company on the ESG 
front and expect further profitable growth from the company. 
 Outlook 2021 
Outlook 2021 
Source: iStock
Looking towards the year ahead, we are convinced that ESG factors will continue to grow even 
further in importance for our clients. And despite having built, over more than a decade, one of 
the leading ESG approaches, and perhaps the broadest ESG product suite, in the industry – we 
too must continue developing our approach to ESG and sustainability.
2021 will be the year when  For clients, and for those in the industry (NAM among them) 
the European Union’s Sus- who have integrated ESG into their business for years, this is a 
tainable Finance Disclo- boon. Even if the regulation is rigid in places, and generally very 
sure Regulation (SFDR)  demanding in terms of data, it will facilitate greater transparency 
comes into force. This will  and make it easier – though not necessarily less complex – for 
transform the asset man- clients to gain insight into the ESG characteristics of the prod-
agement industry in Eu- ucts of the industry. This, in turn, means that those managers 
rope – and in fact globally,  who have already started their ESG journey will have to ensure 
as asset managers from  that their ESG processes are formalised and rigorous enough to 
now-no-longer-member  withstand scrutiny. For managers who have still to embark on 
country United Kingdom,  the work of integrating ESG, the task is proportionately larger. 
and even further afield,  Many will be surprised at the scale of the demands that they 
count European entities  face, as they attempt to claim the ESG mantle and remain com-
Eric Pedersen
Head of Responsible Investments among their clients. For  pliant with the regulation.
both this reason and be-
cause client demand has finally swung fully towards integrat- At NAM, we are fully ready to welcome this brave new, and 
ing ESG and sustainability concerns, the mainstreaming of ESG  more sustainable world. We have worked intensively with the 
will continue. Asset managers who do not in one way or another  categorisation of our products according to the SFDR, and have 
claim to take ESG factors into account will become rare indeed. chosen a conservative approach, e.g. labelling only those prod-
33
We believe it is our 
responsibility to be 
transparent and educate 
our clients on topics 
around ESG and 
sustainability. 
ucts Article 8, which have heightened ESG focus beyond our  In conclusion, although we feel confident in our capabilities, ESG 
already extensive firm-wide ESG integration. We are also ready  and sustainability will remain an area of constant development 
to document even further our integration of ESG/sustainability  for NAM. On many fronts, and perhaps especially in the areas of 
risks in investment processes, and we have a developed a meth- Climate Risk and Human Rights, every ESG challenge met pres-
odology for handling Principal Adverse Impacts, or PAI for short.  ents several new avenues to potentially pursue. This is why we 
This work has built on our long experience within ESG and in  continue our work with the Institutional Investor Group on Cli-
most cases has not meant significant change to our underlying  mate Change, Climate Action 100+, the Corporate Human Rights 
processes, as these were already broadly in line with the Com- Benchmark, SASB and many other industry initiatives, and why 
mission's goals.  we expect to expand further our industry-leading engagement 
programme. Here at NAM, therefore, we aim to make 2021 a 
Moving beyond the Commission’s initiatives, we believe it is our  year of further strides in our effort to provide Returns with Re-
responsibility to be transparent and educate our clients on topics  sponsibility, both in terms of depth of analysis, product capabili-
around ESG and sustainability in general. In our efforts to share  ties and client relationships – and in our contribution to realising 
our knowledge, we are developing a new version of our ESG E- the Paris Agreement, the United Nations SDG’s, and the Green 
learning, which is already available to our clients in 8 languages.  Deal of the European Commission.
Of special interest to our clients in the UK, it is relevant to men-
tion our intention to become compliant with the UK Stewardship 
code in 2021, which will add further transparency to our work in 
the area of active ownership. 
 Appendixes 
Appendixes
35
Implementation of Principles for 
Responsible Investment (PRI)
Principle 1: We will incorporate ESG issues into investment  Principle 4: We will promote acceptance and implementa-
analysis and decision-making processes. tion of the Principles within the investment industry.
•  We have a RI policy that is applicable to all our funds •  We include indicators related to the Principles in perfor-
•  We have a dedicated ESG research function whose ana- mance evaluation and incentives
lytical process is subject to constant development. We run  •  We extensively collaborate with service providers to help 
and maintain an internal ESG scoring platform them meet our ESG requirements
•  We source ESG research from brokers and specialist re- •  We support regulatory and policy developments that pro-
search providers mote the Principles
•  We collaborate with academic and other researchers to   
further knowledge on ESG  Principle 5: We will work together to enhance our effective-
•  We run a series of workshops internally on ESG issues,  ness in implementing the Principles.
and we teach investment professionals how to integrate  •  We collaborate with selected fellow investors to enhance 
them in their analysis our practices 
•  We work closely with PMs running ESG-enhanced prod- •  We participate and lead various collaborative initiatives, 
ucts to enhance the integration of ESG into their invest- see list under Principle 2 
ment processes  
  Principle 6: We will each report on our activities and prog-
Principle 2: We will be active owners and incorporate ESG  ress towards implementing the Principles.
issues into our ownership policies and practices. •  Our RI annual report contains a section that explains how 
•  We publish a RI policy which extensively covers active  ESG issues are integrated in investment practices 
ownership and has the Principles at its core •  Our RI annual report contains a section that details active 
•  We vote our holdings and frequently use the vote as an  ownership activities 
engagement tool  •  We report on achievements related to the Principles in our 
•  We have a track record of filing, co-filing or supporting  RI annual report 
shareholder resolutions with a long-term ESG focus •  We seek to determine the impact of integration activities 
•  We have extensive engagement capabilities and an  throughout our portfolios, for example by benchmarking 
award-winning engagement program  carbon footprint and SDG exposure
•  We are active participants in policy development, regula-
tion and standard setting through bodies such as the 
SASB Investor Advisory Group, TCFD pilot group, and 
Swedish nomination committees
•  We participate in numerous collaborative engagement ini-
tiatives, such as Climate Action 100+ and the Corporate 
Human Rights Benchmark (CHRB) 
•  Investment managers are encouraged to include ESG en-
gagement in their reporting 
 
Principle 3: We will seek appropriate disclosure on ESG is-
sues by the entities in which we invest.
•  We advocate for standardised reporting on ESG issues 
and are active and prominent supporters of SASB
•  We consistently encourage companies to include ESG is-
sues in their annual reports 
•  We are a part of the TCFD pilot group, and systematically 
promote better climate disclosure across industries 
  Appendixes 
UK Stewardship Code 
The UK’s Financial Reporting Council’s (FRC) is the body that  expectations in our Responsible Investment, Corporate Gover-
establishes the UK Corporate Governance and Stewardship  nance and Stewardship methods. Below, we list the Principles 
Codes. Its mission is to promote transparency and integrity in  of the UK Stewardship Code and highlight which sections of 
business. this report demonstrate how we live up to the FRC’s standards.
The UK Stewardship Code sets high stewardship standards for 
asset owners and asset managers, and is encapsulated in 12 
key principles. At Nordea, we strive to meet the highest of 
PRINCIPLES FOR ASSET OWNERS AND ASSET  Principle 4: Promoting well-functioning markets
MANAGERS
Information regarding: Can be found:
Purpose and governance
Management of systemic  p 29 Climate change 
Principle 1: Purpose, strategy and culture risks p 26 RI initiatives 
p 18–19 Voting
Information regarding: Can be found:
NAM’s philosophy and  p 3 CEO foreword
culture p 7 Sustainability in our   Principle 5: Review and assurance
Nordic DNA
p 8 Responsible Investment  Information regarding: Can be found:
approach
Review process p 8 Responsible Investment 
How NAM’s activity imple- p 3 CEO foreword  approach
ments this philosophy p 8 Responsible Investment 
Assurance p 25 Our ESG credentials
approach 
p 12 Sustainable choice 
p 32 Outlook 2021
The outcomes of our  p 3 CEO foreword
approach p 5–6 2020 Highlights  Investment approach
p 14–23 Active ownership,  Principle 6: Client and beneficiary needs
Engagement, Voting 
p 40–41 Examples of 
Information regarding: Can be found:
important votes
Client base and assets p 39 Asset breakdown
Principle 2: Governance, resources and incentives  Meeting clients’ needs p 3 CEO foreword
p 12 Sustainable choice 
Information
p 5–6 2020 Highlights 
p 32 Outlook 2021
Information regarding: Can be found:
Governance structures, pro- p 8 Responsible Investment 
cesses and incentivisation approach  Principle 7: Stewardship, investment and ESG integration
p 14–17 Active ownership 
p 18–19 Voting Information regarding: Can be found:
Third-party service  p 38 Additional information ESG through the invest- p 14–21 Active ownership, 
providers ment lifecycle Voting, Engagement Deep 
Dives
The outcomes of our  p 14–25 Active ownership, 
approach Voting, Engagement Deep  ESG Integration p 10 NAM's ESG research 
Dives, Keeping active in the  approach
RI Community, Our ESG  p 11 ESG Integration
credentials
Third-party providers p 38 Additional information
Principle 3: Conflicts of interest
Information regarding: Can be found:
Conflicts policy, actual or  p 38 Additional information
potential conflicts 
37
Principle 8: Monitoring managers and service providers
Information regarding: Can be found:
Third-party service  p 38 Additional information
providers
Engagement
Principle 9: Engagement
Information regarding: Can be found:
Engagement approach,  p 14–25 Active ownership, 
activities and outcomes Voting, Engagement Deep 
Dives, Collaborative 
Engagements, Keeping 
active in the RI Community 
and Our ESG credentials
Principle 10: Collaboration 
 Information regarding: Can be found:
Collaborative engagement  p 22 Highlights of our 
activities and outcomes collaborative engagements
Active in the RI Community  p 24 Keeping active in the 
RI Community
p 26 RI initiatives
Principle 11: Escalation
Information regarding: Can be found:
Escalation of engagement  p 8 Responsible Investment 
activities and outcomes approach 
p 14–17 Active ownership
Exercising rights and responsibilities 
Principle 12: Exercising rights and responsibilities
Information regarding: Can be found:
Voting approach, activities p 18–19 Voting 
p 40–41 Examples of 
important votes
Voting outcomes and  p 18–19 Voting 
reporting  p 40–41 Examples of 
important votes
  Appendixes 
Additional information
How we handle conflict of interest For market data and ESG ratings, we use Bloomberg, MSCI 
In all our activities, we act in the best interests of our clients and  ESG/Carbon Delta, ISS ESG and Truevalue Labs. We source data 
we act honestly, fairly and professionally. We have a document- from the following providers into our ESG platform: CDP, 
ed Conflict of Interest policy, covering situations that may arise  Impact-cubed, Verisk Maplecroft, RepRisk, as well as the SASB’s 
in the normal course of business, to which all employees are  Industry Classification System. All of these sources provide com-
expected to adhere, on which they receive training and which is  plementary additional information for our ESG research process.
reviewed annually. The policy sets forth the organizational and 
administrative procedures to identify, prevent and manage Con- Asset Management: Third-party managers
flicts of Interest in order to ensure that the clients’ best interest  All third-party asset managers who manage Nordea sub-funds 
is always considered and to prevent that clients’ interests are  must be PRI Signatories. In addition, the funds they manage for 
damaged by Conflict of Interest. A review of all identified poten- Nordea must adhere to Nordea’s exclusion list. ESG-related 
tial Conflicts of Interests are conducted, at least, on a yearly  questions are incorporated within the Request for Information 
basis to ensure that preventative measures are deemed suffi- (RFI) which is sent to all short-listed candidates as part of an 
cient to ensure clients’ best interest is not damaged. Where a  external manager search. Our selection managers comment on 
conflict of interest is identified, it is recorded in writing. Nordea  ESG aspects for all short-listed candidates, and finally send a 
also has internal rules and controls that prohibit employees  dedicated ESG questionnaire to the preferred candidate. We 
from having external engagements that interfere with their abil- evaluate the completed questionnaire and give the candidates 
ity to perform their duties and functions or undermine trust and  an ESG score (on a scale A-E). This score is reviewed annually 
confidence in Nordea. as part of our standard process, but can also be done on an ad-
  hoc basis if we see a need for it.
Third-party providers Review and assurance of policies and procedures
Corporate Governance: Use of proxy advisor  The RI policy and procedures are reviewed at least annually. 
For Nordea’s funds we receive proxy-advisor research from both 
the Nordic Investor Service and the ISS for upcoming general  The regulatory requirements and the compliance risk related to 
meetings. This is, however, only one component of our voting  “active ownership” are included in the compliance risk assess-
decisions. We will also be informed by company reporting, com- ment performed annually and updated continuously. The out-
pany engagements, engagements with stakeholders and the  come of the risk assessment forms the basis for the risk-based 
views of portfolio managers and analysts. It is important to  compliance monitoring program. Activities in the monitoring 
stress that our own research is also integral to our final voting  program are prioritized to ensure comprehensive monitoring of 
decision; this will be conducted by both our financial and ESG  the compliance risk.
analysts. All voting decisions are made by Nordea; our external 
advisors only provide input and second opinions, when prompt- Internal Audit prepares an audit plan that covers all activities 
ed. The ISS technical platform is used for execution of proxy  and functions of NIM over a multi-year period (typically three 
votes. We continually monitor our voting and make sure out vot- years), taking into account both the risks of a given activity or 
ing record is updated on the Voting Portal.  function of NIM, including its Branches, and the effectiveness of 
the organisation and internal control in place for that activity or 
RI Team: External data providers function.
The RI Team uses external providers for a number of purposes.
All of Nordea’s funds and index funds undergo annual portfolio  In addition, PRI are performing an annual assessment on our 
screenings by ISS-ESG to identify companies that are in viola- fulfilment of the six principles of responsible investing.
tion of international norms regarding environmental protec-
tion, human rights, labour standards and business ethics. The 
RI team verifies and evaluates all screening data provided by 
ISS-ESG.
Source: Nordea Investment Management AB as of 31.12.2020.
39
Asset breakdown
Nordea Asset Management is active asset manager with a global business model, offering ser-
vices to institutional clients in Europe, the Americas and Asia. We manage investments across the 
full spectrum of asset classes. Our client base is equally split between Nordea Group-related and 
external clients. 
Assets under Management € 254bn1
Client base Asset mix  AuM by benchmark
3%
12%
29% 22% 30%
52% 36% 55%
19% 27% 15%
Institutional2 Equities Balanced Nordic
Wholesale2 Fixed Income Alternatives3 European
Nordea Bank’s Nordic  Multi Asset & Quant Rest of the world
sales channels incl. Life
1) Source: Nordea Investment Management AB as of 31.12.2020. 2) External clients (Institutions and 3rd party distributors). 3) Liquid and Illiquid alternatives.
ESG Assets
NAM’s corporate-level overlays are applied to all funds man- For more information on the corporate overlays and product-
aged by NAM. This represents 180.1bn, or 71% of NAM’s total  specific approaches please see “NAM’s Responsible Investment 
AUM of 254bn. These overlays include ESG Integration and ESG  Approach”, p 8.
Screening. Product specific ESG approaches may be added on 
top of the overlays, such that all assets with product-specific 
approaches, including the sustainability themed strategies, also 
incorporate ESG integration and screening as well as other cor-
porate-level overlays. 
Source: Nordea Investment Management AB as of 31.12.2020
  Appendixes 
Examples of important votes 2020
SUMMARY OF THE   RATIONALE FOR THE  
COMPANY OUR VOTE OUTCOME
RESOLUTION VOTING DECISION
We think that bonuses and share based 
incentives only should be paid when 
management reach clearly defined and 
relevant targets which are aligned with the 
Advisory note to ratify 
interest of the shareholders. For a majority 
Oracle named executive  AGAINST FOR
of executive officers targets are lacking 
officers' compensation
and for some the levels are extremely high. 
We also voted against re-election of the 
proposed board members in the Compen-
sation Committee.
Report on Gender  Oracle is lagging other large IT companies 
Oracle Pay Gap (shareholder  FOR when it comes to reporting on gender  AGAINST
proposal) pay gap.
Our opinion is that it is in the best interest 
Require Independent  of shareholders to separate the CEO and 
Cisco Board Chairman   FOR COB functions and therefore we supported  AGAINST
(shareholder proposal) the shareholder proposal as well as voted 
against Charles H. Robbins as COB. 
Our opinion is that it is in the best interest 
Require Independent  of shareholders to separate the CEO and 
Amazon Board Chairman  FOR COB functions and therefore we supported  AGAINST
(shareholder proposal) the shareholder proposal as well as voted 
against Jeffrey Bezos as COB. 
We see potential risks with the company's 
face recognition technology, which not 
Report on Potential  least hundreds of the company's own 
Human Rights  employees and human rights groups have 
Amazon Impacts of Customers'  FOR noticed and protested against. We also  AGAINST
Use of Recognition  supported the shareholder proposal to 
(shareholder proposal) publish a report on customers' use of its 
surveillance and Computer Vision Products 
or Clouse-Based Services
Nordea Funds has together with other 
Investors been engaged with the com-
pany for several years. Since Starbuck's 
new sustainability goals do not include 
Elect Director Jorgen 
Starbucks AGAINST any human rights related issues we voted  FOR
Vig Knudstorp
against re-election of Mr. Knudstorp as 
director since he is Chair for the Nominat-
ing and Corporate Governance Committee, 
responsible for sustainability.
At the Alphabet AGM we supported a 
number of shareholder proposals, besides 
Establishment of a risk oversight commit-
tee, such as Report on takedown requests 
Establish risk oversight 
and Report on whistle-blower policies and 
Alphabet committee   FOR AGAINST
practices. Management voting recommen-
(shareholder proposal)
dations was against on all these proposals. 
The dominant position of Google, its im-
pact on society and integrity of individuals 
is very important for us as investors.
41
SUMMARY OF THE   RATIONALE FOR THE  
COMPANY OUR VOTE OUTCOME
RESOLUTION VOTING DECISION
This is a typical incentive program for an 
US company, and we vote against most 
of them. We think that bonuses and share 
based incentives only should be paid when 
Advisory Vote to Ratify 
 Procter &  management reach clearly defined and 
Named Executive  AGAINST FOR
Gamble relevant targets which are aligned with the 
Officers' Compensation
interest of the shareholders. In this case the 
total dilution is high. We also voted against 
election of David S. Taylor as COB since he 
is CEO.
PG lags on implementing its existing 
no-deforestation commitment, achieving 
RSPO certification for only one-third of its 
Report on efforts to  palm oil supply. Additionally, PG lacks a 
Procter & 
eliminate deforestation  FOR comprehensive plan to mitigate exposure  AGAINST
Gamble
(shareholder proposal) to deforestation and forest degradation 
throughout its operations; its current sourc-
ing policies allow the Company to source 
from critical ecosystems.
Report on Lobbying 
Payments and Policy  FedEx spends large sums direct and 
(shareholder proposal)  through memberships in different organ-
FedEx FOR AGAINST
and integrating ESG  izations on lobbying with very limited 
metrics in executive  transparency for shareholders.
compensation
Additional reporting  Several existing and potential controversies 
Tesla on Human rights  FOR in regards to employee rights and suppliers  AGAINST
(shareholder proposal) warrant a FOR vote. 
Disclose plan to outline  We support that the company shall 
business strategy to  disclose in its annual reporting a plan 
Mizuho  
Align Investments with  outlining the company's business strategy, 
Financial  FOR AGAINST
the goals of the Paris  including metrics and targets, to align its 
Group
Agreement  investments with the goals of the Paris 
(shareholder proposal) Agreement.
Board proposal on 
commitment to tack- Multiple climate proposals aimed at tack-
ling Climate Change  ling climate change, being net zero bank by 
Barclays and shareholder  FOR/ FOR 2050 and limit financial services to energy  FOR/AGAINST
proposal to set and  companies that does not live up to the 
disclose climate related  Paris goals.
targets
Apply the Recommen-
dations of the Task 
Report according to Task Force on Cli-
Force on Climate-Re-
mate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). 
lated Financial 
Chr Hansen  The aim is to ensure transparency on how 
Disclosures (TCFD) as  FOR AGAINST
Holding A/S considerations regarding climate change 
the Framework for Cli-
are integrated into strategic business deci-
mate-Related Disclo-
sions, and the risk exposure identified.
sure in the Company's 
Annual Report
 Glossary 42
Glossary
Active Ownership:  ESG integration: 
Actively exercising your rights as a shareholder. It can take vari- The explicit inclusion of ESG risks and opportunities into tra-
ous forms, including the exercise of voting rights or active en- ditional financial analysis and investment decisions based on 
gagement. Actively engaging means having an active dialogue  a systematic process and appropriate research sources. This 
with the managers and boards of directors of investee com- considers ESG factors alongside financial factors in the main-
panies on business strategy and execution, including specific  stream analysis of investments. The integration process focuses 
sustainability issues and policies. Active ownership is generally  on the potential impact of ESG issues on company financials 
regarded as one of the most effective mechanisms to reduce  (positive and negative), which in turn may affect the invest-
risks, maximise returns and have a positive impact on society  ment decision.
and the environment.
Exclusion list:
Engagement:  NAM excludes companies involved in serious breaches of inter-
A form of active ownership. The practice of shareholders en- national norms, where engagement is deemed not to be possi-
tering into a dialogue with the management of companies to  ble or effective. For example, we ban investment in companies 
change or influence the way in which the companies are run.  active in the production of controversial weapons, including 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG): Environmental  – but not limited to – cluster munitions and anti-personnel 
(E), Social (S), and Governance (G) refer to the three main  mines, as well as nuclear weapons. NAM also does not invest 
areas of analysis in modern responsible investment. ESG risks  in companies deriving more than 10% of their revenues from 
and opportunities are identified through careful analysis of a  thermal coal, and excludes companies involved in the produc-
company´s operations. Environmental criteria looks at how a  tion fossil fuels with thresholds for revenues coming from oil 
company performs as a steward of the natural environment.  sands (10%) or arctic drilling (5%). The NAM level exclusion list 
Social criteria examine for instance how a company manages  can be found here.
relationships with its employees, suppliers, customers and the 
communities where it operates. Governance deals with a com- Materiality of ESG factors: 
pany’s leadership, executive pay, audits, internal controls and  Materiality is the principle of defining the social and environ-
shareholder rights. mental topics that matter most to businesses and stakeholders. 
ESG analysis typically considers any factor that can have a 
NAM’s engagement activities can be divided into three differ- significant impact on a company’s core business value driv-
ent categories: ers – namely growth, profitability, capital efficiency, reputation 
1.  Investment-led engagements: Engagement on ESG-relat- and risk exposure – to be financially material. Thus, RI analysts 
ed risks or opportunities identified by portfolio managers  typically start by determining which information is "material” 
and financial analysts via our company assessments. for specific sectors.
2.  Norms- and incident-based engagement: Engagement 
with companies breaching the international norms or con- Norms-based screening:
ventions or companies having ESG related incidents. NAM’s investment products are subject to norms-based screen-
3.  Thematic engagements: Focuses on companies’ exposure  ing, which identifies companies that are allegedly involved in 
to specific sustainability themes in focus. We have identifies  breaches of international law and norms on environmental 
5 focus themes: biodiversity, climate, human rights, good  protection, human rights, labour standards and anti-corruption. 
governance, and water. We engage with these companies  If a company is identified in this screening process, an internal 
both individually and through collaborative engagements.  assessment of the company and the incident is initiated. Typi-
cal actions can consist of engagement, quarantine or exclusion. 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG):  For more information please refer to the NAM RI Policy.
Environmental (E), Social (S), and Governance (G) refer to the 
three main areas of analysis in modern responsible investment.  Positive selection: 
ESG risks and opportunities are identified through careful anal- An approach where leading or best-performing companies as 
ysis of a company´s operations. Environmental criteria looks  identified by ESG analysis within a universe, category, sector or 
at how a company performs as a steward of the natural envi- class are selected or weighted based on ESG criteria. 
ronment. Social criteria examine for instance how a company 
manages relationships with its employees, suppliers, custom- Responsible Investment (RI): 
ers and the communities where it operates. Governance deals  The primary term used for the inclusion of Environmental, So-
with a company’s leadership, executive pay, audits, internal  cial, and Governance (ESG) criteria in the investment process. 
controls and shareholder rights. Through that process Responsible Investment aims to generate 
competitive long term financial returns while creating positive 
change. 
  43
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs):  Sustainability-themed investing: 
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a collection of  Investment in themes or assets linked to the development of 
17 global goals set by the United Nations General Assembly in  sustainability. Thematic funds focus on specific or multiple 
2015. The SDGs are part of Resolution 70/1 of the United Na- issues related to ESG. Sustainability-themed investments in-
tions General “Transforming our World: the 2030 Agenda for  herently contribute to addressing social and/or environmental 
Sustainable Development”. The goals are an urgent call for ac- challenges such as climate change, eco-efficiency and health.
tion by all countries – developed and developing – in a global 
partnership. They recognise that ending poverty and other de-
privations must go hand-in-hand with strategies that improve 
health and education, reduce inequality, and spur economic 
growth – all the while tackling climate change and working to 
preserve our oceans and forests. 
For more information:
Publisher 
Nordea Asset Management
Cover image: Getty Images
The sub-funds mentioned are part of Nordea 1, SICAV, an open-ended Luxembourg-based investment company (Société d’Investissement à Capital Variable), validly formed and existing in accordance 
with the laws of Luxembourg and with European Council Directive 2009/65/EC of 13 July 2009. This document is advertising material and does not disclose all relevant information concerning the 
presented sub-funds. Any investment decision in the sub-funds should be made on the basis of the current prospectus and the Key Investor Information Document (KIID), which are available, along with 
the current annual and semi-annual reports, electronically in English and in the local language of the market where the mentioned SICAV is authorised for distribution, without charge upon request from 
Nordea Investment Funds S.A., 562, rue de Neudorf, P.O. Box 782, L-2017 Luxembourg, from the local representatives or information agents, or from our distributors. Investments in derivative and foreign 
exchange transactions may be subject to significant fluctuations which may affect the value of an investment. Investments in Emerging Markets involve a higher element of risk. The value of shares 
can greatly fluctuate as a result of the sub-fund’s investment policy and cannot be ensured. Investments in equity and debt instruments issued by banks could bear the risk of being subject to 
the bail-in mechanism (meaning that equity and debt instruments could be written down in order to ensure that most unsecured creditors of an institution bear appropriate losses) as foreseen 
in EU Directive 2014/59/EU. For further details of investment risks associated with these sub-funds, please refer to the relevant Key Investor Information Document (KIID), available as described 
above. Nordea Investment Funds S.A. has decided to bear the cost for research, i.e. such cost is covered by existing fee arrangements (Management-/Administration-Fee). Nordea Investment Funds S.A. 
only publishes product-related information and does not make any investment recommendations. Published by Nordea Investment Funds S.A., 562, rue de Neudorf, P.O. Box 782, L-2017 Luxembourg, 
which is authorized by the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier in Luxembourg. Further information can be obtained from your financial advisor. He/she can advise you independently of 
Nordea Investment Funds S.A. Please note that all sub funds and share classes might not be available in your country of jurisdiction. Additional information for investors in Switzerland: The Swiss 
Representative and Paying Agent is BNP Paribas Securities Services, Paris, Succursale de Zurich, Selnaustrasse 16, 8002 Zurich, Switzerland. Additional information for investors in Germany: The In-
formation Agent in Germany is Société Générale S.A. Frankfurt Branch, Neue Mainzer Straße 46-50, 60311 Frankfurt am Main, Germany. A hard copy of the above-mentioned fund documentation is also 
available here. Additional information for investors in Austria: The Information and Paying Agent in Austria is Erste Bank der österreichischen Sparkassen AG, Am Belvedere 1, 1100 Vienna, Austria. 
Additional information for investors in the Netherlands: Nordea 1, SICAV is a Luxembourg Undertaking for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities (UCITS) registered in the Netherlands in the 
register kept by the AFM, and as such is allowed to offer its shares in the Netherlands. The AFM register can be consulted via www.afm.nl/register. Additional information for investors in France: With 
the authorisation of the AMF the shares of the sub-funds of Nordea 1, SICAV may be distributed in France. Centralising Correspondent in France is CACEIS Bank, located at 1-3, place Valhubert, 75206 
Paris cedex 13, France. Investors are advised to conduct thorough research before making any investment decision. Additional information for investors in Spain: Nordea 1, SICAV is duly registered 
in the CNMV official registry of foreign collective investment institutions (entry no. 340) as authorised to be marketed to the public in Spain. The Depositary of the SICAV’s assets is, J.P. Morgan Bank 
Luxembourg S.A. In Spain, any investment must be made through the authorised distributors and on the basis of the information contained in the mandatory documentation that must be received from 
the SICAV’s authorised distributor prior to any subscription. The Representative Agent is Allfunds Bank S.A.U., C/ de los Padres Dominicos, 7, 28050 Madrid, Spain. A complete list of the authorised dis-
tributors is available in the CNMV’s webpage (www.cnmv.es). Additional information for investors in Portugal: The Management Company of the SICAV, Nordea Investment Funds S.A., and the De-
positary of the SICAV’s assets, J.P. Morgan Bank Luxembourg S.A., are validly formed and existing in accordance with the laws of Luxembourg and authorized by the Commission de Surveillance du 
Secteur Financier in Luxembourg. Our distributor in Portugal is BEST - Banco Electrónico de Serviço Total, S.A., duly incorporated under the laws of Portugal and registered with the CMVM as a financial 
intermediary. Additional information for investors in Italy: Fund documentation as listed above is also available in Italy from the distributors and on the website www.nordea.it. The updated list of dis-
tribution agents in Italy, grouped by homogenous category, is available from the distributors themselves or from the Paying Agents: State Street Bank International GmbH – Succursale Italia, Allfunds 
Bank S.A.U. – Succursale di Milano, Société Générale Securities Services S.p.A., Banca Sella Holding S.p.A, Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena S.p.A., CACEIS Bank S.A., Italian Branch and on the website 
www.nordea.it. Any requests for additional information should be sent to the distributors. Before investing, please read the prospectus and the KIID carefully. We recommend that you read the most 
recent annual financial statement in order to be better informed about the fund’s investment policy. The prospectus and KIID for the sub-funds have been published with Consob. For the risk profile 
of the mentioned sub-funds, please refer to the fund prospectus. Additional information for investors in the United Kingdom: The Facilities Agent is FE Fundinfo (UK) Limited. , 3rd Floor, Hollywood 
House, Church Street East, Woking GU21 6HJ, United Kingdom. Additional information for investors in Ireland: The Facilities Agent is Maples Fund Services (Ireland) Limited, 32 Molesworth Street, 
D02 Y512 Dublin 2, Ireland. Additional information for investors in Sweden: The Paying Agent is Nordea Bank Abp, Swedish Branch, Smålandsgatan 17, 105 71 Stockholm, Sweden. Additional informa-
tion for investors in Denmark: The Representative Agent is Nordea Danmark, Filial af Nordea Bank Abp, Finland, Grønjordsvej 10, Postbox 850 0900 CopenhagenC, Denmark. A hard copy of the above-
mentioned fund documentation is available here. Additional information for investors in Norway: The Nordea 1, SICAV is registered in Norway. Additional information for investors in Finland: The 
Representative Agent is Nordea Funds Ltd, Satamaradankatu 5, 00020, Helsinki, Finland. Additional information for investors in Latvia: The Representative Agent is Luminor Bank AS, 62 Skanstes iela 
12, 1013 Riga, Latvia. Additional information for investors in Estonia: The Representative Agent in Estonia is Luminor Bank AS, Liivalaia 45, 10145 Tallinn, Estonia. Additional information for investors 
in Lithuania: The Representative Agent in Lithuania is Luminor Bank AB, Konstitucijos pr. 21 A, 03601 Vilnius, Lithuania. Shareholders must evaluate possible investment risks and take this into consider-
ation when making investment decisions. Source (unless otherwise stated): Nordea Investment Funds S.A. Unless otherwise stated, all views expressed are those of Nordea Investment Funds S.A. This 
document may not be reproduced or circulated without prior permission. Reference to companies or other investments mentioned within this document should not be construed as a recommendation to 
the investor to buy or sell the same but is included for the purpose of illustration. The level of tax benefits and liabilities will depend on individual circumstances and may be subject to change in the future. 
