
TM
ESG Themes 
Take Center 
Stage
The ﬁrst Earth Day was proposed at a 
UNESCO conference in San Francisco in 1969 
and held in 1970. Now, more than 50 years 
later, Earth Day activities were supported in 
193 countries with more than 1 billion people 
taking part on April 22.  Investors are rapidly 
joining the ranks of those who support 
protection of the environment and slowing 
the rate of climate change. Real estate has 
been at the center of the broader Environ-
ment, Social, and Governance (ESG) move-
ment, which includes social and governance 
priorities alongside environmental ones. 
The ESG approach is based on the proposition 
that investors can improve the world for 
future generations without sacriﬁcing ﬁnan-
cial returns. In fact, there is evidence that 
under the right conditions, ESG criteria are 
consistent with superior investment perfor-
mance. Real estate is likely to oﬀer many 
favorable opportunities for LaSalle and our 
clients.  using local or natural materials, generation of electricity from 
solar panels and other renewable sources, waste recycling, 
and electric charging stations for tenants’ vehicles. Technolo-
Here are some reasons why:   
gies that aid the reduction in energy demand, such as sensors 
that automatically turn oﬀ lights or smart electrochromic glass, 
1. Biggest user of energy. As countries look to  also optimize comfort and daylight for occupants. The intro-
reduce their Greenhouse Gas emissions, it makes  duction of any new technology, requires a balancing of cost, 
sense to focus on the energy used to heat and cool  risk and reward, and changes cannot compromise tenant 
real estate.  Buildings are the largest user of energy  safety and security.3  
on the planet - consuming 40% of the total through  6. Avoiding stranded assets. By virtue of either at risk 
both operations and construction - more than  locations or obsolete systems, some buildings may be 
transportation or manufacturing.1 destined for future ﬁnancial losses. This may be because 
2. Manage what is measured. Energy usage in  properties are located close to the path of rising seas, are 
buildings is measured carefully, because either the  vulnerable to high winds, are too poorly insulated to conserve 
tenant or the landlord must pay for it. Measurement  energy, or have obsolete systems that would be prohibitively 
is the ﬁrst important step toward energy conserva- expensive to upgrade. The ‘stranding of an asset’ may be 
tion. At LaSalle, we collect energy data from nearly  further accentuated by the increased costs to insure – or, 
500 properties each year. more critically, the inability to insure at any cost. Unlike other 
3. Alignment with ﬁnancial performance. Reducing  businesses, which can be moved out of harm’s way, real estate 
energy usage in buildings through more eﬃcient  is immovable. It can also be very expensive to cure energy-in-
cooling, heating, and lighting saves money and  eﬃcient designs, upgrade obsolete building systems, or 
attracts tenants who want to align their values with  protect certain structures from increasing weather volatility. 
the buildings they occupy.  Integration of ESG consideration in investors’ due diligence 
4. Regulations are here and increasing. Nearly  practices and climate-risk assessments can help avoid future 
200 countries signed the Paris Climate Agreement at  ﬁnancial losses. 
COP21 in 2015. Many local and national governments  7. Increased investor interest. Perhaps most important of 
are using both “carrots and sticks” to reduce Green- all, institutional and individual investors are demanding that 
house Gases as 2025 or 2030 targets approach.2 The  their investments meet ESG criteria.  Interest in sustainable 
World Bank has identiﬁed 60 countries with a carbon  investing among the general population of investors jumped 
tax today and expects 30 more to add one in the next  from 71% in 2015 to 85% in 2019, and in millennial investors 
few years.  Moreover, 77 countries and 100 cities  from 84% in 2015 to 95% in 2019, according to Morgan 
have pledged to be net zero carbon by 2050.    Stanley’s Institute for Sustainable Investing. In real estate 
5. Improving technology. Real estate investors can  terms, this is likely to mean that properties with ESG attributes 
contribute to carbon reduction targets several ways.  will trade at higher values and lower cap rates, as capital 
These include low-carbon construction techniques  demand for them increases.  
1 Source: United Nations Environmental Program https://www.unep.org/news-and-stories/press-release/build-
ing-sector-emissions-hit-record-high-low-carbon-pandemic.  Buildings are also one of the biggest users of water—representing 25% of total annual 
usage.   
2 Examples include the EU’s Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation (SFDR), which became eﬀective in March 2021,  New York City’s Local Law 97 
passed in 2019, and the U.K.’s Energy Performance Certiﬁcates requirements for commercial buildings which introduced a minimum standard for new 
leases in 2018 and which will apply to all existing leases from 2023.   
3 A good example: The highest grade HVAC ﬁlters and ventilation systems draw more power to purify air and reduce the spread of airborne diseases. 
Yet, it may be possible to reduce energy usage overall, even if some building systems run at higher levels when airborne pathogens are a threat.  
1
Climate  Beyond 
Risk Environmental 
Goals 
Acute weather events, such as ﬂoods, wildﬁres  As the developed world quicky comes back to life 
and hurricanes, as well as chronic increases in  after the “COVID Recession”, the next cycle of 
extreme temperatures, are forcing buildings  growth is likely to emphasize societal values like 
and infrastructure to face conditions well  protecting the environment, assisting the most 
outside their design parameters. But the poten- severely disadvantaged, promoting DEI4 goals, 
tial hazards and value at risk from climate  and contributing to positive social outcomes in 
change varies greatly by asset and geographic  terms of health and well-being. Real estate 
market.  Integrating climate risk data into  investments are well-positioned to help achieve 
assessments of existing portfolios and potential  Social and Governance goals. However, the 
acquisitions provides an opportunity to price-in  routes to “S” and “G” success are not yet as 
future risk and value, and plan for needed  well-marked as the “E” criteria. 
capital expenses for mitigation measures in a 
way that best aligns with the investment lifecy- The provision of aﬀordable housing, creating 
cle over the next two decades.  local job opportunities, and contributing to the 
community life of a neighborhood where an 
asset is located - these are all paths to achieving 
social and governance goals. Important work still 
lies ahead to measure the beneﬁts of these “S” 
initiatives and track their impact over time. 
Our Securities team has focused on the “G” as an 
important driver or destroyer of value for many 
years now. Their consideration of “G” factors as 
an important contributor to performance is 
supported by the academic literature, which has 
produced dozens of studies that demonstrate 
the value of diversity and strong governance for 
listed companies.5 The real estate industry is just 
beginning to establish clear frameworks for 
social and governance goals, tied closely to the 
United Nation’s Sustainability Development 
Goals.6 
Building owners are not in the best position to 
address a broad array of society’s problems - at 
least not all on their own. As ﬁduciaries, asset 
managers must balance maximizing investor 
returns alongside ESG initiatives. Nevertheless, 
the ESG approach could improve the contribu-
tion of real estate owners to broader societal 
goals like diversity and social justice, while also 
meeting or exceeding ﬁnancial targets. 
Moreover, the market forces supporting ESG 
goals are accelerating in just the last year. 
A recent analysis by Jones Lang LaSalle Incorpo-
rated (JLL) shows that the number of businesses, 
companies and local governments pledging to 
reduce their carbon emissions is increasing 
rapidly around the world.7 In time, broader “S&G” 
goals will likely follow the same pattern of 
adoption as environmental goals in both the 
private and public sectors of major economies.
4 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. Focusing on accessibility, gender, race and marginalized populations.   
5 Researchgate.net and Google Scholar list over 30 such studies in the last 20 years in peer-reviewed journals. The literature for listed and unlisted real estate is 
still accumulating but several landmark studies have been done by NAREIT and the Journal of Property Research. https://www.researchgate.net/publica-
tion/329379682_Gender_diversity_and_ﬁnancial_performance_evidence_from_US_REITs
6 Zooming in on the “S” in ESG: A Road Map for Social Value in Real Estate, ULI-Europe, March 2021.  The measurement of the social beneﬁts of moving from 
temporary to permanent housing is a recent example from the U.K.:  House of Commons Library, “Households in temporary accommodation” November, 2020.
7 https://www.us.jll.com/en/views/committed-to-net-zero-carbon  
2
Dynamic Regulatory 
Environment
ESG activities are undertaken within a regulatory environment that is dynamic at each of the local, state, 
province, country, and global levels, impacting not only real estate but the asset itself and investment manag-
ers. In addition to the regulations listed in this overview, there are securities, emissions, and land use laws in 
every country and many of the cities in which we operate and invest. In addition, there are numerous self-reg-
ulatory eﬀorts being undertaken that LaSalle has signed on to. 
Many of these have been hastily written or refer to more detailed regulations to follow that in some cases 
leave the real estate industry guessing as to what will be required or trying to interpret where a moving target 
will ultimately land. The consequences of failing to comply these run the gamut from reputational risk to 
criminal sanctions and everything in between. A big governance focus for the real estate industry will be to 
make sure that practitioners are aware of and comply with the rapidly evolving regulations. 
ESG at 
LaSalle
Real estate owners and investment managers 
like LaSalle hold highly visible positions in their 
local markets and contribute to both national 
and local public services through property taxes 
(rates) and transaction taxes (stamp duty). 
The real estate investment management indus-
try provides a home for myriad businesses and 
households, and we are in a good position to 
improve the quality of life for our tenants and 
neighbors. 
These contributions can provide tangible bene-
ﬁts to surrounding communities while maintain-
ing or improving ﬁnancial returns. Yet, this can 
only be accomplished by ﬁrms and their employ-
ees who are willing to learn how to manage 
properties for community beneﬁts alongside 
their own proﬁts.   The Penﬁeld, St Paul, United States
First apartment community in Minnesota to earn the Fitwel certiﬁcation
In sum, we believe real estate is well-suited to 
helping investors achieve their broader ESG 
goals.  At the same time, ESG skills and strate- Over time, this means that our clients will evaluate 
gies need to be honed by real estate investment  LaSalle’s capabilities of helping them advance their 
managers and our partners.  own, speciﬁc ESG goals. As we move forward, we expect 
to share our rapidly-evolving experience, strategy, 
research, and tools to contribute to the implementation 
An ESG approach must be 
of our ESG initiatives. 
attuned to seeking a balance 
A brief review from LaSalle’s major markets illustrates 
between achieving strong 
the wide variety of regulatory and market responses to 
ﬁnancial performance and  ESG factors in diﬀerent countries. Although the macro 
trends are similar, the micro-dynamics of how ESG 
positive results for society at 
aﬀects values, reporting, and operations diﬀer greatly 
the same time.   around the world. 
3
Continental  While Europe and the U.K. are well-advanced in terms 
of regulatory measures, it is also a region where 
investors of many diﬀerent types - insurance compa-
Europe
nies, pension funds and sovereign wealth funds - have 
voluntarily signed on to Net Zero Carbon (NZC) pledges.  
A number of recent 
The just-completed INREV meetings empha-
sized ESG themes throughout three days of  regulatory changes in Europe 
high-impact sessions attended by 500+ dele-
have directly impacted the 
gates, including a strong contingent by LaSalle 
and a keynote presentation by JLL’s Global  property sector.
head of Sustainability Services, Guy Grainger.
The topics covered included: healthy buildings, 
For example, Germany has just introduced a carbon tax 
the ESG goals of pension funds and insurance 
on fuels used predominately for heating and transport. 
companies, and several ﬁrms whose sole focus 
While the tax is initially set at a level signiﬁcantly below 
is helping investors meet their ESG goals. 
a “fair” price for carbon emissions, it has the potential 
Owner operators included a French ﬁrm that 
to increase over time, likely pushing up costs meaning-
develops apartment buildings using laminated 
fully for landlords of older buildings. The prospect of 
wood construction, similar to projects in 
the Green Party entering the German government in 
the U.S. and Germany in which LaSalle has 
the election due this year increases the likelihood of 
invested.  
further such regulations.
The EU Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regula-
The standardized nature of the SFDR will make it easier 
tion (SFDR) has rapidly accelerated the docu-
to compare products and over time it should be expect-
mentation and disclosure of many of the ESG 
ed that investors and advocacy groups will look to hold 
practices with which LaSalle is already engaged 
managers such as LaSalle to high standards. As noted 
throughout Europe. More stringent require-
above, “greenwashing” remains a broad concern of the 
ments are still to come in January 2022, when 
SFDR and with enhanced disclosure regimes investors 
processes for identifying sustainability risks 
or activists will be closely watching to ensure that 
must be supplemented by clear metrics 
implementation accords with targeted reductions in 
designed to prevent “greenwashing”. European 
GHG emissions. Claims of false or misleading informa-
investors in funds targeting non-EU markets 
tion will be brought to the relevant national ﬁnancial 
may also be subject to SFDR, which will extend 
market authorities for member states, meaning that 
the reach of these regulations to other regions. 
penalties, ﬁnes or actions that will vary across the EU.  
4
United 
Kingdom
The acceleration of reduced carbon pledges is more 
advanced in the U.K. than in any other country. On April 
20th, the U.K. government set the most ambitious target 
of any nation - a reduction of GHG emissions of 78% by 
2035 against a 2005 baseline.8 Meanwhile, LaSalle is a 
signatory to the Better Buildings Partnership’s NZC 
pledge. 
Sophie Carruth, LaSalle’s Head of Sustainability for 
Europe, is leading our eﬀorts across Europe to map the 
ﬁrm’s pathway and to set milestones for meeting this 
ambitious goal by 2050. This commitment covers both 
embodied carbon as well as whole building9 operational 
carbon emissions. Regulations with direct impact on 
property owners are also coming into force. For example, 
a prohibition on leasing properties with Energy Perfor-
mance Certiﬁcate (EPC) ratings below a certain level were 
introduced in 2018 and will apply to all existing leases in 
2023. 
On the “G” dimension, JLL has been committed to foster-
ing more equitable outcomes for employees by publish-
ing its annual Gender Pay Gap Report in the U.K. since 
2018.10 LaSalle’s research and portfolio management 
teams have also analyzed “S” criteria for real estate within 
an ESG framework for investors in a brieﬁng note “Impact 
Investing in U.K. Real Estate”.11
Canada has been at the forefront of the advance- Canada
ment of ESG related research, regulation and 
enhancement. From energy codes and bench-
marking disclosure requirements in various 
provinces to the widespread market demand for 
building certiﬁcations, the Canadian real estate 
industry has actively adopted the ESG challenge. 
As an example of how ESG eﬀorts have produced 
strong results in Canada, the LaSalle Canada 
Property Fund (LCPF) achieved a GRESB 5-Star 
rating in 2020. 
In addition, at the end of March, the Canadian 
Supreme Court upheld the Federal Carbon Tax 
Plan which requires Provinces to pass their own 
climate policy or use a Federal Plan which starts 
at $40CAD/ton CO2 in 2021 and goes up to 
$170CAD by 2030.  Eﬀorts to achieve these 
targets will be supported by the Canada Infra-
structure Bank’s Building Retroﬁt Initiative, which 
will provide $2B for green projects including 
energy, water, wastewater and other green 
infrastructure, and has a target to expand to $5B 
Le Sommet, Montreal, Canada
in the long term. 
8 https://www.gov.uk/government/news/uk-enshrines-new-target-in-law-to-slash-emissions-by-78-by-2035
9 “Whole building” refers to carbon emissions that are tenant controlled as well as owner-controlled.  
10 https://www.jll.co.uk/content/dam/jll-com/documents/pdf/other/Gender-pay-gap-2020.pdf
11 https://www.lasalle.com/documents/Impact_Investing_in_the_UK_June_2020.pdf 
5
United 
States
The U.S. is experiencing a new burst of regulato-
ry and policy changes at the federal, state and 
city levels. The Biden Administration has quickly 
taken up the causes of environmental protec-
tion, reduced GHG emissions,12 and rejoined the 
Paris Climate Agreement. Many large U.S.- 
based multi-national companies like Amazon, 
BlackRock, Dow Chemical and IBM pledged to 
net zero carbon goals well before the 2021 
change in Presidential administrations.13 The 
U.S. is also seeking to regain a global leadership 
role in climate change that was reversed under  ESG-related misconduct. The task force’s initial focus 
President Trump. To that end, President Biden  will be to identify any material gaps or misstatements 
hosted a climate summit at the White House on  in issuers’ disclosure of climate risks under existing 
April 22-23 with 40 countries participating and  rules and analyze disclosure and compliance issues 
committed that the US would cut emissions at  relating to investment advisers’ and funds’ ESG strate-
least in half from 2005 levels by 2030, which  gies.
means signiﬁcant activity will start in the short 
term.  At the state level, many states are adopting more 
advanced energy codes as they drive toward zero 
On the federal level, the Biden Administration  energy building performance standards.17 Cities too, 
recently issued an Executive Order intended to  are driving improved eﬃciencies to minimize carbon 
“tackle the climate crisis.” It directed federal  emissions. Thirty-seven jurisdictions now have energy 
agencies to review existing regulations from the  benchmarking disclosure laws, and an increasing 
prior administration that may be inconsistent  number are adding requirements for low- and no-cost 
with ESG policies.14 As a result of the Order, the  measures such as audits, tune-ups and lighting 
U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) announced that  improvements.18 New York City’s Local Law 97 sets 
it would not enforce, among other DOL rules  carbon allowance standards, with ﬁnes aimed at 
passed during the Trump Administration,  landlords for exceeding the allowed emissions starting 
amendments to the “Investment Duties” regula- in 2025 and ramping up signiﬁcantly in 2030.  Wash-
tions15 which generally would have required  ington DC passed a similar law based on energy 
plan ﬁduciaries to “select investments and  performance targets, and more cities are expected to 
investment courses of action based solely on  follow.
consideration of “pecuniary factors.”16
The private and public sectors in the U.S. are also 
As a result of increasing investor focus and  adopting “S” and “G” goals in light of the upsurge in 
reliance on ESG-related disclosure and invest- social justice movements. The American public 
ment, the Securities and Exchange Commission  remains highly polarized on some of these issues, but 
(SEC) announced on March 4, 2021 that it was  the direction of travel has clearly shifted with the 
creating a Climate and ESG Task Force within its  change in administrations. During the last year, COVID 
Division of Enforcement, which is the arm of the  has raised the awareness of healthy buildings to new 
SEC that investigates possible violations of the  heights, especially for oﬃce and residential properties. 
federal securities laws and prosecutes the SEC’s  To address this “S” issue in the U.S., LaSalle is currently 
civil suits in the federal courts. The task force  pursuing the WELL Building Standard’s Health Safety 
will develop initiatives to proactively identify  Rating to improve tenants’ and residents’ well-being in 
our portfolios. 
12 Biden’s proposal is to set a goal to reduce GHG by 50% by 2030. 
13 A good review of the history and evolution of Net Zero Carbon (NZC) policies in the US was discussed at this recent MIT-hosted webinar:  https://twitter.com/mitenergy/sta-
tus/1384162399096164363/photo/1  A review of the 87 investment managers responsible for $37 trillion of AUM who have taken a net zero pledge is here: https://www.netze-
roassetmanagers.org/
14 See Executive Order 13990 of January 20, 2021Protecting Public Health and the Environment and Restoring Science To Tackle the Climate Crisis 86 Fed. Reg. 7037 (January 25, 
2021).
15 Under Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA).
16 See “Fiduciary Duties Regarding Proxy Voting and Shareholder Rights” (85 Fed. Reg. 81658 (December 16, 2020).
17 Under California's Zero Net Energy (ZNE) code (Title 24), new residential and government buildings must be ZNE by 2020-2025, with commercial buildings following by 2030. 
18 See https://www.imt.org/resources/map-u-s-building-benchmarking-policies/
6
Australia
For several decades, Australia has been on the 
leading edge of ESG related issues for real 
estate. The country’s mandated NABERS system 
for scoring buildings based upon energy/ water 
consumption has been in place for many years 
and has driven noticeable ESG improvements in 
the Australian real estate market. In addition, 
while they have made great strides in reducing 
energy usage intensity in buildings, developing 
and using low carbon materials in building 
construction, and providing a high level of 
attention to making the built environment 
healthy and welcoming, the country’s reliance on 
coal and fossil fuels for electricity generation, will 
make it diﬃcult to achieve a Net Zero Carbon 
outcome, without major changes. The new global 
focus on NZC will likely prove to be a signiﬁcant 
challenge for the country as well as the real 
estate industry.  
Real estate investors who seek NZC outcomes 
for their portfolios will have to increasingly look 
to minimize the usage of energy from the nation-
al grid, by incorporating a signiﬁcant component 
222_Exhibition Street, Melbourne, Australia
of renewable energy into their assets. This need 
has been recognized by the Green Building 
Council of Australia (GBCA), which has set a clear 
requirement that buildings wishing to achieve a  Despite a lack of a clear timeline from the 
6 Star Green Star rating, must be NZC. Achieving  Morrison government, Australia remains com-
this rating for new buildings will be a big incen- mitted to the zero-emission target. Various 
tive to seek out a fully renewable energy solu- states have also announced emission reduction 
tion,  however, the technical aspects of making  targets, notably Victoria20 and Queensland21 that 
this happen will not be easy.  aim to achieve a level of 50% renewable energy 
by 2030.
The Australian real estate industry continues to 
lead the world in ESG performance for the tenth 
straight year in 2020, according to the GRESB 
global ranking. The mandated National Austra-
lian Built Environment Rating System (NABERS) 
for scoring buildings’ energy and water eﬃciency 
has been in place for many years. It has driven 
noticeable ESG improvements in the overall 
Australian real estate market. The industry also 
encourages the use of low carbon building 
materials in construction. The pandemic has 
driven attention to the indoor environment to 
support the well-being of occupants. As consum-
ers, investors, and regulators place increasing 
pressure on businesses to reduce their carbon 
323 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, Australia footprint, the Australian real estate industry will 
likely continue to embrace green buildings.
19 This includes being fully electric, fossil fuel free and powered by 100% renewables. In addition, various states have goals to reduce emissions, notably Victoria and Queensland aim to 
achieve a level of 50% renewable energy by 2030.  
20 Department of Environment, Land, Water, and Planning of Victoria
21 Department of Energy and Public Works of Queensland
7
China
Examples that real estate 
investors should expect to see: 
Climate related transition risks will likely play  The current Energy Saving Assessment 
an important part in ESG strategies for China  system will be strengthened to align with the 
real estate investments during the next few  2060 Net Zero Carbon commitment
years. In recent months the China’s President 
Xi Jinping has made two major sustainability  Increased requirements for real estate 
commitments: 1) Achieving a net zero carbon  developments to be certiﬁed under the “3 
economy by 2060 and 2) Vowing to signiﬁcant- Star” Green Building certiﬁcation system, or 
ly reduce the country’s dependence on coal by  perhaps other international systems
2030. We anticipate that there will be increas-
ing pressure via both regulatory changes and  A big push for incorporating renewable 
market pressure on owners of real estate  energy sources into projects 
assets to address these commitments as well 
as all ESG related matters.   Mandates for managing water resources and 
Regulatory changes in China tend to quickly  increasing water reuse. 
follow from policy statements so we foresee 
that energy conservation and the implementa- More stringent anti-pollution and increased 
tion of renewable energy incentives alongside  remediation requirements. 
water and waste recycling and pollution 
(including GHG emissions) regulations will all  We also fo resee increases in ESG reporting require-
increase.    ments including “S” and “G” issues in addition to the 
usual “Environmental” issues. Already, the China 
22 China Daily, November 20, 2020
Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) has require-
23 2020 Asia Paciﬁc Occupier Survey – Mainland China, CBRE Research, April 2020
ments on the disclosure of social responsibility related 
information and some local authorities, like Shanghai 
and Shenzhen, have also issued guidance on corporate 
sustainable development and social responsibility.    
Within LaSalle, we are already addressing these poten-
tial ESG related transition risks in China. For example, a 
major future issue for logistics facilities will be the 
possible requirement to incorporate roof top photovol-
taic (PV) panels to generate renewable energy. While 
currently, it may not be ﬁnancially accretive to install 
PV panels in all markets in China, future regulatory 
mandates and market conditions may change this. 
To plan for this eventuality, we have ensured that the 
structures for the rooftops of all developments, can 
support the weight of future PV panel installation. This 
will allow quick and ﬂexible reactions to either market 
or government regulation changes. In sum, we believe 
that an increased focus on all of these ESG issues in 
China, will improve operating income, increase capital 
values, and help avoid negative impacts of sudden 
regulatory and/or market changes.
With buildings accounting for about 20% of China’s 
carbon dioxide emissions,22 it is expected that the 
Chinese government may enhance eﬀorts to promote 
green buildings by providing favorable policies, such as 
green ﬁnancing for green buildings. Meanwhile, there 
is an increasing trend of tenants’ acceptance of green 
buildings in China. A survey conducted by CBRE in 
2020 showed that 57% of occupiers in China favored 
green buildings, in line with the Asia Paciﬁc average.23 
SIP, Shanghai, China 8
Japan
In Japan, over the course of the past three years, domestic 
institutional investors as well as developers and invest-
ment managers have quickly come up the learning curve 
and have accelerated their know-how around enhancing 
various ESG initiatives within a Japanese regulatory and 
legal framework. Perhaps part of this acceleration was 
prompted by global trends, expectations, and pressures 
focused on complying within a more sustainable built 
environment. Some stakeholders became convinced and 
more focused due to the enormous damage wrought by 
two successive typhoons.24 As a nation with limited natu-
ral resources prone to various catastrophic events, 
coupled with a constrained political will to re-initiate 
nuclear energy generation,25 a broad array of stakehold-
ers have a vested interest in doing their part to follow 
through on ESG initiatives. This includes focusing on how 
buildings can operate at greater energy eﬃciencies with 
reduced Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. These actions 
are viewed as reasonable countermeasures to ensure the 
built environment becomes less vulnerable to extreme 
weather events, while also designing buildings to be 
resilient when such force majeure occurrences happen. 
Singapore
In February 2021, Singapore unveiled the Green Plan 2030 
to provide targets over the next decade to meet its 
commitment under the UN's 2030 Sustainable Develop-
ment Agenda and Paris Agreement. The plan will also help 
drive the country's long-term net-zero emissions aspira-
tion. Before the Green Plan announcement, many green 
initiatives were already underway. The Building and 
Construction Authority of Singapore (BCA) launched the 
Green Mark Scheme in 2005 to assess buildings' environ-
mental impact and energy eﬃciency. 
The Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) has also 
encouraged the development of sustainable ﬁnance26 to 
drive domestic and regional green eﬀorts. HSBC's recent 
survey results on ESG revealed that 80% of Singapore 
investors believe that ESG is an integral part of their 
investments. However, the lack of suitable sustainable 
investment products and limited investor knowledge has 
Project Phoenix, Singapore
curtailed the growth in this segment. 
24 Typhoon No.21 (Typhoon Jebi) and Typhoon No.19 (Typhoon Hagibis) descended upon Japan in September 2018 and October 2019, respectively.
25 The nuclear pushback stems, in part, from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear disaster caused by the 2011 Tohoku earthquake and tsunami. 
26 Sustainable ﬁnance is the practice of integrating environmental, social, and governance (ESG) criteria into ﬁnancial services to bring about sustainable development outcomes, including 
mitigating and adapting to the adverse eﬀects of climate change.
9
TM
CONTRIBUTORS:
    
Mark Gabbay  Elena Alschuler Chris Langstaff
GLOBAL CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Sophie Carruth Rochelle McAllister
Amanda Chiang Tom Miller
Jacques Gordon Michael Coulton Steve Ralff
David Doherty Gordon Repp
GLOBAL HEAD OF RESEARCH AND STRATEGY     
Jake Fansler Ryunosuke Konishi
Eduardo Gorab Kevin Scroggin
David Devos Brian Klinksiek Fred Tang
GLOBAL HEAD OF ESG Richard Kleinman Dennis Wong
Amsterdam Los Angeles Paris Sydney
Atlanta Luxembourg San Diego Tokyo
Baltimore  Madrid San Francisco Toronto
Chicago Mexico City Seoul Vancouver
Hong Kong Munich Shanghai
London New York Singapore
Important notices and disclaimers
This document and the information set out herein is summary in nature and does not constitute an offer to sell, or the solicitation of an offer to acquire any interests in or for the 
services of LaSalle or its affiliates (though, if this document is deemed by any law to constitute such an offer, then it is not being made available in any jurisdiction where it would 
be unlawful to make such an offer).
This document has been prepared without regard to the specific investment objectives, financial situation or particular needs of recipients. This document is not to be construed 
as investment, legal or tax advice and does not consider the particular circumstances of any individual recipient and nor is LaSalle acting as a fiduciary of any recipient of this 
document. By accepting receipt of this document, the recipient agrees not to distribute, offer or sell this document or copies of it and agrees not to make use of the document 
other than for its own general information purposes.
The views expressed in this document represent the opinions of the persons responsible for it as at its date and should not be construed as guarantees of performance with 
respect to any investment. LaSalle has taken reasonable care to ensure that the information contained in this document has been obtained from reliable sources but no 
representation or warranty, express or implied, is provided in relation to the accuracy, completeness or reliability of such information. LaSalle does not undertake and is under 
no obligation to update or keep current the information or content contained in this document for future events. Unless specifically referenced, LaSalle is the source of all data 
in this communication. LaSalle does not accept any liability in negligence or otherwise for any loss or damage suffered by any party resulting from reliance on this document. 
This communication may contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not descriptions of historical facts and include statements 
regarding management’s intentions, beliefs, expectations, research, market analysis, plans or predictions of the future. Because such statements include risks, uncertainties 
and contingencies, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
The outbreak of the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) was declared by the World Health Organisation as a “global health emergency” on the 30th January 2020 and was then 
characterised as a pandemic in March 2020. COVID-19 has impacted global financial markets, severely restricted international trade and travel, disrupted business operations 
(in part or in their entirety) and negatively impacted most investment asset classes (including real estate (whether held directly or indirectly, or whether as a result of being a 
lender to owners of real estate)).
As a result of the above factors, conditions exist in the real estate markets that may result in value uncertainty and valuations are reported on the basis of significant valuation 
uncertainty or extraordinary assumptions related to the impact of COVID-19. Consequently, less certainty – and a higher degree of caution – should be attached to valuations 
than would normally be the case. Given the foregoing and the unknown extent of the impact of COVID-19, LaSalle accordingly highlights that the reliability of real estate values 
in this report may be significantly under- or over-stated and subject to material variance on a short term basis.
LaSalle’s services consist of both regulated and unregulated activities. Direct investment in real estate does not constitute a regulated activity and, as such, falls outside the 
regulation of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Copyright © LaSalle Investment Management 2021. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be reproduced by any means, whether graphically, electronically, mechan-
ically or otherwise howsoever, including without limitation photocopying and recording on magnetic tape, or included in any information store and/or retrieval system without 
prior written permission of LaSalle Investment Management. LaSalle Investment Management is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in the UK.
lasalle.com