
  Bellerive 241 | P.O. Box  info@fam.ch | www.fam.ch 
CH-8034 Zurich  T +41 44 284 24 24 
Sustainability 
Report 
November 2020
 
 
 
 
Fisch Asset Management  Fisch Sustainability Report | November 2020  Page 2 | 8 
Sustainability at Fisch Asset Management 
Overview 
 
 
 
Company 
Corporate Profile 
Fisch  Asset Management  (Fisch) is  an  asset  manager  specialising  in  select investment 
strategies. It  offers convertible bond, corporate bond and absolute return solutions. Its 
objective is to create added value for long-term investors through active management. The 
company’s core strength lies in its long experience in the fields of credit and momentum. 
Founded in Zurich in 1994 by two  brothers, Kurt  Fisch and Dr Pius  Fisch, Fisch Asset 
Management has made a name for itself as an independent asset manager and as a global 
leader in convertible bonds. The company has 90 employees and manages assets of almost 
CHF 11 billion (EUR 10 billion) for institutional investors primarily based in Europe. We view 
our corporate culture, which includes transparency, open communication, mutual respect, 
team spirit and entrepreneurial incentives, as the basis for our long-term success. We are 
proud of the tremendous success that Fisch has achieved over more than 25 years thanks to 
this enduring corporate philosophy. 
 
Clients 
Our client base comprises around 82% institutional and 18% wholesale investors. We have 
started our business in Switzerland and the German-speaking countries and we are now 
increasingly targeting  investors from  beyond these  core markets.  We offer segregated 
mandates as well as mutual fund solutions. 
 
 
Source   Fisch Asset Management, June 2020 
 
Fisch Asset Management  Fisch Sustainability Report | November 2020  Page 3 | 8 
Research 
For Fisch, credit research is an important and integral part of the investment process. One of 
our key strengths is our ability to identify changes in credit fundamentals before they are 
reflected in valuations. Thus, Fisch has made considerable investments in credit research over 
time, through both its in-house credit analyst team as well as via its long-term strategic 
relationship with Independent Credit View (I-CV). Our credit research team is fully integrated 
within the portfolio management team and directly supports both the convertible bond as 
well as the corporate bond teams. 
 
Environmental 
Fisch’s resource consumption, whether of energy, electricity, paper or water has always been 
low in recent years. 
 
The office building of Fisch complies with the Minergie standards. Minergie is a registered 
quality label for new and refurbished low-energy-consumption buildings. This label is mutually 
supported by the Swiss Confederation. 
 
Our office is located adjacent to the platform of Tiefenbrunnen train station and to the 
terminus  of  two  tram  lines.  This  encourages  our  employees  to  commute  via  public 
transportation, with the majority of employees using either the train, tram or bus to reach the 
office. Only a few employees benefit of parking lots within the office building.  At Fisch, 
recycling is of greatest importance. Switzerland is one of the leading nations in recycling glass, 
PET, aluminium, cans and batteries. We do it in the office the same way we do it home. Our 
Green IT Initiative helps us select energy-saving equipment and ensures its proper disposal. 
 
Social Responsibility 
Fisch supports flexible working models which allow employees to balance their career and 
family. 
 
Ongoing  training  and  advanced education is  actively promoted  and  receives generous 
financial support (e.g. through our own Fisch Academy). Fisch regularly contributes to social 
initiatives of its employees and clients.  
 
Fisch manages its own pension fund on a professional level at no costs for the employees. The 
company’s contributions are above average and significantly exceed the legal minimum.  
 
Further we  donate  yearly  to  charitable  organizations.  We  seek  suggestions  from  our 
employees as to which organizations would most benefit from our support, and the executive 
committee selects three projects. In the past year these were two non-profit organizations in 
Africa and Latin America and a third one in Switzerland. Fisch also sponsors children’s sports 
clubs and other activities based on the input of our employees.  
 
Fisch Asset Management  Fisch Sustainability Report | November 2020  Page 4 | 8 
Governance 
 
 
Fisch’s corporate culture places great emphasis on comprehensive transparency. This culture 
applies to all internal information such as executive committee minutes, financial results and 
salaries. We take care to avoid conflicts of interest in any aspect of our business activities. All 
products of Fisch are designed to be as long-term investment opportunities.  
 
Wage differentials between the employees are substantially smaller than with other financial 
service providers. At the same time, employee participation as shareholders in the company 
is actively supported. Fisch belongs to its employees. 
 
We view a clearly articulated and actively supported corporate culture as the basis for our 
long-term success as an asset manager. Transparency, open communication, mutual respect, 
team spirit and entrepreneurial incentives therefore constitute the principles of our corporate 
culture. We are proud of the tremendous success that Fisch has achieved over the past 25 
years thanks to this enduring corporate philosophy. We are also convinced of the need to 
continue along this positive path – as long as we remain true to our principles. 
 
Mutual respect is the basis of our corporate culture. This respect requires each of us to 
consider the views and beliefs of our colleagues and to incorporate these into a constantly 
developing dialogue. 
 
Views can only be drawn upon efficiently and profitably if communication works smoothly. 
Open communication is fundamental. In our company, every individual not only has the right 
but also a duty to share his/her personal viewpoint. This is because we believe diversity 
underlies the potential and strength of a team. 
   
 
Fisch Asset Management  Fisch Sustainability Report | November 2020  Page 5 | 8 
Individual abilities and potential can be deployed to optimum effect when all members of a 
team are fully informed and as a result act on the basis of shared knowledge. We believe this 
transparency is another decisive factor for the long-term success of our company. The rule 
therefore is that everyone must know everything! What’s more, this open flow of information 
has led to satisfaction among all our colleagues. 
 
Entrepreneurial incentives likewise help ensure internal satisfaction.  Thus,  in principle, 
anyone can become a shareholder in the company. Salaries are based on the performance of 
all products as well as the company, and not on the return of an individual fund. We are also 
systematically  transparent on the subject of remuneration. We all know how  much our 
colleagues earn. Salary disclosure forces the Executive Committee to communicate openly and 
fairly with all employees. 
 
A strong and mutually supportive bond between employees fosters better teamwork and, we 
believe, better results. We arrange a number of events each year that  are open to all 
employees, including an annual ski weekend funded entirely by the company. Employees are 
free to propose and arrange a diverse range of events, and are supported by the firm when so 
doing. 
 
At Fisch, we greatly appreciate the support provided, and the role played, by the families of 
our employees. To this end, Fisch arranges and funds every second year a weekend break for 
employees, together with their partners and/or families, to spend their time in a variety of 
ways as suits each person. Further, employees are very welcome to bring their partners or a 
guest to the annual company meal each Christmas. 
 
Truly upholding these principles encourages trust and fosters an unmistakable team spirit. It 
also ensures a high level of motivation – one that can move mountains. By trusting in these 
qualities, we are convinced that we as a team can continue to move ahead in the same 
direction in difficult as well as good times.  This continuity is one of the most important 
components of lasting outperformance.  
 
Our corporate culture applies both internally and externally. Respect, transparency and 
communication can be expected by all our business partners and investors. It is on this basis 
that we strive day-in and day-out to build successful, satisfied client relationships for the long 
term. 
We walk the talk when it comes to sustainability, which we believe benefits our clients, our 
employees, our products and our company. 
 
 
 
 
Fisch Asset Management  Fisch Sustainability Report | November 2020  Page 6 | 8 
Investment process 
Pooled funds 
As an asset manager with a long-term approach and as a signatory of the UN Principles for 
Responsible Investment (PRI), we are diligent in doing our duty to our clients and to society, 
with the aim of producing lasting economic value. 
 
Our investment philosophy takes ESG factors into account across the entire product range. 
 
 
Sustainable Investing 
The FISCH Convertible Global Sustainable Fund invests globally in convertible bonds issued by 
companies that  are classified as sustainable.  The sustainability  approach is  based on a 
combination of exclusion criteria and best-in-class/best-of-class criteria. The sustainability 
research is provided by Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd, a leader in sustainability analysis since 1989. 
It is one of the first sustainable convertible bond funds worldwide. 
 
 
The FISCH Convertible Global Sustainable Fund has been awarded the FNG Label 
and received one out of a possible three stars for its particularly ambitious and 
comprehensive sustainability strategy. Investment funds with the FNG Label 
meet the quality standard developed by Forum Nachhaltige Geldanlagen e. V. 
(FNG) for sustainable investments in the German-speaking countries.  
 
Responsible Investing 
All other pooled funds are responsibly managed. Aside from encouraging issuers to publicly 
disclose their policies, we take a critical look at ESG issues and integrate them into our 
fundamental assessment: 
 
— Evaluate ESG issues to determine the risk 
— Actively engage with issuers  
— Determine  whether  an  issue  leads  us  to  exclude  a  company  from  investment 
considerations or justifies a higher risk premium 
 
We invest globally and do generally not exclude systematically specific sectors or countries 
from the portfolios.  
 
Fisch excludes issuers involved in manufacturing of anti-personnel landmines and/or cluster 
munitions  (controversial weapons)1.  We do  not invest  knowingly in  those issuers as  a 
standard. This does not apply to derivatives or indirect involvement e.g. financial institutions 
which may themselves invest in/offer services to these companies, nor does it exclude 
investment  in  companies  who  through  their  pension  schemes,  are  invested  in  these 
companies. 
 
These companies are on a “negative list” and will cause a red flag in the pre-trade check. The 
“negative list” will be reviewed annually. Fisch does not publicly disclose the “negative list”. 
 
 
1 Fisch exclusions are based on the 1997 Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of 
Anti-Personnel Mines and on their Destruction concluded in Oslo on 18th September 1997 and the Convention on Cluster 
Munitions agreed in Dublin on 30th May 2008. 
 
Fisch Asset Management  Fisch Sustainability Report | November 2020  Page 7 | 8 
Segregated mandates 
We will not restrict segregated mandates from investments related to our negative list. The 
clients themselves control the investment policies for such accounts. 
 
We apply tailor-made sustainable investment products according to the individual needs of 
our clients. Investors may select a sustainability filter according to their individual needs or 
they apply an exclusion list containing companies which repeatedly violate international 
agreements relating to unfair child labor, banned weapons or breaches of environmental 
protection.  
 
We can provide references where we have successfully implemented this approach over years 
on request.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The European SRI Transparency logo signifies that Fisch Asset Management AG commits to 
provide accurate, adequate and timely information to  enable stakeholders, in particular 
consumers, to understand the Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) policies and practices 
relating to the fund. Detailed information about the European SRI Transparency Guidelines 
can be found on www.eurosif.org, and information of the SRI policies and practices of the 
FISCH Convertible Global Sustainable Fund can be found at www.fam.ch. The Transparency 
Guidelines  are  managed  by  Eurosif,  an  independent organisation.  The  European  SRI 
Transparency Logo reflects the fund manager’s commitment as detailed above and should not 
be taken as an endorsement of any particular company, organisation or individual. 
   
 
Fisch Asset Management  Fisch Sustainability Report | November 2020  Page 8 | 8 
Disclaimer 
This documentation (“Document”) is provided solely for information purposes and is intended for 
professional investors only. Non-professional investors who obtain this documentation are please 
asked to discard it or return it to the sender. This presentation is not a prospectus or an offer or 
invitation to buy financial products.  
 
This Document is provided for marketing reasons and is not to be seen as investment research. 
This Document is not prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed to promote the 
independence of investment research, and that it is not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead 
of the dissemination of investment research. 
 
HISTORICAL PERFORMANCE IS NO GUARANTEE OF FUTURE PERFORMANCE. 
 
Investments in financial products are associated with risks. It is possible to lose the entire amount 
of the invested capital. Regarding the specific risks of an investment, please refer to the currently 
valid fund documentation.  
 
Insofar as the information contained in this document comes from external sources, Fisch Asset 
Management AG cannot guarantee that the information is accurate, complete and up to date.  
 
Statements concerning future developments and estimates are based on assumptions that may be 
inaccurate, that could change or that are based on simplified models. Fisch does not know whether 
its statements concerning future developments will be correct. Fisch may also change its opinion 
concerning a future development. In such case, Fisch has no obligation to inform anyone about the 
change in opinion. 
 
The purchase of a product managed by Fisch should only be based on the currently valid 
documents (fund prospectus, fund agreement, KIIDs, etc.). The currently valid documents are 
available at www.fundinfo.com. Before reaching a decision to buy, each professional investor must 
determine based on their specific situation whether they are even permitted to buy the product, 
and if yes, whether they have the necessary risk tolerance for the corresponding product. Fisch 
expressly states that this Document is not intended for private investors and advises professional 
investors to first consult financial, legal and tax experts who are familiar with their specific situation 
and understand the product.  
 
The Austrian ecolabel was awarded to the FISCH Convertible Global Sustainable Fund by the 
Federal Ministry for Sustainability and Tourism (BMNT) as recognition for the consideration of 
economic, environmental and social criteria when selecting bonds. The ecolabel guarantees that 
these criteria and their implementation are appropriate for the selection of relevant bonds. This 
has been independently verified. The award of the ecolabel does not constitute an economic 
evaluation and does not allow any conclusions to be drawn about the future performance of the 
financial product. 
 
This document is especially not intended for US persons (private or institutional) as defined by the 
FATCA legislation or under SEC regulations. US persons may not invest in any investment funds 
managed by Fisch, and Fisch is also not permitted to manage mandates from US persons. If Fisch 
learns that a US person is invested in a product it manages, it will inform the fund management 
company and, if necessary, other persons and demand that the US person sell the product. 
  
Fisch has outsourced the storage and archiving of company data to a specialized third party firm. 
The outsourcing is limited to the storage and archiving of data and occurs abroad. The processing 
of data is done within Fisch and is not outsourced.  
 
Fisch accepts no liability for damages arising directly or indirectly as a result of this document. 
 
 