
A  ddressing 
climate change 
is the next step 
in delivering 
on inclusive 
capitalism
Legal & General Group Plc
2020 Climate Report in line with 
recommendations from the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Improving lives 
through inclusive 
capitalism
Our purpose is to improve the lives of 
our customers, build a better society for 
the long term and create value for our 
shareholders. This inspires us to use our 
long-term assets in an economically and 
socially useful way to benefit everyone 
in our communities. In doing so, we are 
building a decarbonised society. 
2020 Highlights
Investments
Contents
Renewable energy investments  Group portfolio Carbon Intensity 
to date (tonnes CO2e/£1m invested) Chairman’s statement  2
Chief Executive Officer’s statement  3
1.4 117
£ bn Introduction  4
Summary disclosure against TCFD 
recommendations  5
Policy statements  6
(2019: £1.3bn) (2019: 120)
Our approach to TCFD  7
Governance  8
Strategy  10
36% Climate-related risks 
Legal & General 
and opportunities   11
Retirement ESG  Climate strategy for our 
individual businesses  12
policy published
stake in The Kensa  Our bespoke Destination@Risk 
Group, ground source  framework  14
Scenario analysis  18
heat pump specialists
Strategic resilience  20
Risk management  21
Managing transition risks  22
Managing physical risks  27
Longevity risk  28
Carbon metrics and targets  30
Influence
Companies rated by our  Investment  
Climate Impact Pledge¹  stewardship votes¹
1,000 139,000
(2019: 80) (2019: 115,000)
Launch of Climate  LGIM ranked top 
Transition Index Fund  among asset managers 
and Core Fixed Income  for engagement on 
Exchange Traded Fund climate change 
(InfluenceMap)
Operations
Group operational footprint 
40,344  Annual Report: 
tCO2e www.legalandgeneralgroup.com/
AnnualResults/2020fastread
13% reduction vs 2019 LGR ESG policy:  
www.legalandgeneral.com/
institutional/pension-risk-transfer/
who-we-are/esg/
LGIM Real Assets net zero 
carbon roadmap:  
www.legalandgeneral.com/
institutional/real-assets/capabilities/
responsible_investing/
LGIM active ownership report:
www.lgim.com/uk/en/capabilities/
1.  Figures are approximate. investment-stewardship/
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 1
C  hairman’s 
statement
We intend to be on 
the right side of 
climate history.”
Sir John Kingman
Chairman
Leadership on climate comes from the top, 
and our Group Environment Committee is a 
key part of our governance structure. Many of 
my colleagues are engaged in broader climate 
efforts, for example: Nigel Wilson is Chair 
of the Innovation Working Group of the Bank 
of England/FCA’s Climate Financial Risk Forum, 
Legal & General’s third TCFD Report comes  Michelle Scrimgeour is Co-Chair of the 
at an important moment in the global effort to  committee of COP26 business leaders, and 
address climate change. Even as the Covid-19  Jeff Davies is a member of the Bank of England’s 
pandemic brought huge new challenges for  Steering Committee on Productive Finance. 
health systems, economies, businesses and  Their dedication is mirrored throughout the 
individuals, there was no sense of postponing  company – in 2020 nearly 100 of our employees 
efforts to tackle the even larger, unfolding  collaborated on a Climate Change Accelerator 
climate crisis. Quite the opposite: Covid-19 has  Programme to develop viable climate-friendly 
reaffirmed the importance of managing our  business solutions.
relationship with the environment, with the 
knowledge that there is one decade to prevent  Addressing climate change will be one facet 
catastrophic climate change.  of rebuilding our economy after Covid-19. 
We advocate an investment-led recovery, with 
It is fair to say that no company has developed  a greener approach to the built environment 
a perfect formula for climate, and we are no  and concerted efforts to grow climate-friendly 
exception. However, our TCFD Reports  businesses and industrial sectors in the UK. 
document our progress on the path to climate  Legal & General intends to be on the right side 
stability. More accurate metrics, more  of climate history, harnessing the power of 
transparency and better reporting are an  investment to generate positive economic 
important basis for continuous improvement,  and environmental returns. This is an 
and we believe TCFD reporting should be  important component of our commitment 
mandatory for all significant companies. to inclusive capitalism.
Addressing climate change is a strategic priority  I hope you find this report useful, and naturally 
for Legal & General. It is one of our six growth  we welcome your feedback.
drivers and it is embedded in how we run our 
business, from how we invest our proprietary 
assets, how we influence as one of Europe’s 
largest asset managers, and how we operate 
our businesses. The breadth of our businesses, 
from insurance to investment management to 
housebuilding, gives us multiple levers to drive  Sir John Kingman 
progress on climate, and our scale enables  Chairman
us to deliver real change.
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 2
Chief Executive  
Officer’s statement 
To deliver real 
change, actions 
must match words. 
We are fully 
committed to our 
Our institutional retirement business has further 
committed to reduce portfolio carbon emission 
intensity by 18.5% by 2025. We invest in clean 
journey to net 
energy through electric vehicle infrastructure, 
ground source heat pumps, wind farms and 
alternative technologies. All homes that we build 
zero.”
will be capable of operating with net zero carbon 
emissions from 2030. 
We offer climate-friendly products to our 
Nigel Wilson
institutional clients and influence on their behalf, 
Group CEO
consistently engaging with companies they 
invest in and voting on companies’ climate 
resolutions. In 2020 we broadened our Climate 
Impact Pledge and updated the exclusions for 
thermal coal.
In addition to our 2019 TCFD disclosures we 
have now committed to the Science Based 
Addressing climate change is strategically  Target initiative (SBTi) to further align our carbon 
vital for Legal & General. As global finance  reduction targets to the ‘Paris’ objective. 
gets behind the changes our planet needs, 
this creates the most important shifts in  Rebuilding our economy from Covid-19 is a 
investment allocation and the biggest  chance to create a greener built environment, 
investment opportunities of our lifetimes.  to support new climate-friendly business sectors 
We support the Paris Agreement, have lobbied  and create more green jobs. Economic, social 
for the UK Government’s commitment to  and climate benefits can go hand-in-hand if the 
achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, and are  power of finance is deployed effectively, and 
a consistently active voice on climate.  Legal & General is set to play a leading role 
in that change.
To deliver real change, actions must match 
words. We are fully committed to our own 
journey to net zero. We have set Group balance 
sheet carbon intensity targets to monitor 
alignment with the ‘Paris’ objective and will 
reduce our portfolio carbon emission intensity 
by half by 2030.  Nigel Wilson 
Group CEO
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 3
Introduction
We aim to be leaders in four key areas: 
retirement, investment management, 
capital investment and insurance.
We have a strong heritage in environmental, 
social and governance investing and increasingly 
see opportunities in making investment decisions 
informed by climate change.
Global temperatures are currently on a trajectory  Our new policy statements and commitments 
to increase by nearly four degrees Celsius (°C)  include:
above pre-industrial levels. This is expected 
to cause economic disruption and suffering  •  A commitment to the Science Based Target 
on a scale far greater than Covid-19.  initiative, limiting warming to 1.5°C
•  Extended Group balance sheet carbon 
Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions have declined  intensity targets
globally by around 6–7% in 20201,2 yet this is still  •  Climate-related targets in our Executive 
less than the 7.6% annual reduction required  remuneration scorecard.
to limit global warming to 1.5°C2 above 
pre-industrial levels.  We enhanced our energy transition pathway 
modelling through an additional ‘Disorderly’ 
As we rebuild following Covid-19, we can build  scenario, which assumes action to achieve 
back better; we intend to build back greener.  the outcomes from ‘Paris’ is delayed to 2030.
TCFD Report 2020 We expanded our clean energy investments 
The purpose of the TCFD Report is to provide  and product offering:
investors and other stakeholders with a better 
understanding of our business’s exposure to  •  Our capital investment business took a 36% 
climate-related risks and our strategic resilience  stake in The Kensa Group, who are ground 
to these risks as well as the climate-related  source heat pump technology specialists.
opportunities we have identified. •  Our investment management business 
launched a climate transition index fund and 
This is our third report describing our climate- a core fixed income range which provides a 
related financial disclosures in line with the  higher allocation to green bonds and issuers 
voluntary disclosure recommendations of the  with higher environmental, social and 
TCFD: governance, strategy, risk management,  governance (ESG) scores.
and metrics and targets.  •  Our institutional retirement business provided 
long-term financing to HeatRHight air source 
The TCFD supplements our 2020 Annual  heat pump technology.
Report and Accounts.
We continued to build on our three strategic 
Progress in 2020 pillars in response to climate change:
This year, we strengthened our risk policy 
statements to support our climate policies,    Invest
including decarbonising the assets on our 
balance sheet to align with the Paris Agreement³.    Influence 
Our interpretation is that ‘Paris’ aims to limit 
warming to 1.5°C. This interpretation applies    Operate
where we refer to ‘Paris’ throughout this report. 
1.  Earth System Science Data, Global Carbon Budget 2020: https://essd.copernicus.org/articles/12/3269/2020/
2.  United Nations Goal 13, Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts: https://sdgs.un.org/goals/goal13
3.  T he Paris Agreement is an agreement within the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change effective 4 November 2016. 
The Agreement aims to limit the increase in average global temperatures to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels.
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 4
Introduction
Summary disclosure against 
TCFD recommendations 
Governance
The Board’s role in oversight  •  The Board is accountable for the long-term stewardship of the Group and added ‘addressing climate change’ 
as one of our six strategic growth drivers in early 2020. The Board has delegated oversight of the 
management of climate-related risks to the Group Environment Committee (GEC).
Management’s role in assessing  •  The GEC is chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer and membership is comprised of senior executives. 
risks and opportunities The GEC is responsible for providing strategic direction for the management of environmental impacts, 
with a particular focus on the Group’s management of the financial risks from climate change. 
Strategy
Climate-related risks  •  In the short to medium term, we view the journey to net zero as presenting an investment opportunity whilst 
and opportunities  staying aware of transition risk. The development of our Destination@Risk model will feed into investment 
decision making, including through identification of under-priced opportunities or over-priced legacy assets. 
•  In the medium to long term we are exposed to physical risks through our investments and the impact on the 
wider economy resulting from uncontrolled climate change.
Impact on our businesses,  •  Our predominant focus is on our assets’ transition risk as we consider this to have the greatest potential 
strategy and financial planning impact on our business. We also consider physical risks on both our assets and liabilities. 
•  Our individual businesses have embedded climate into their strategies, including through portfolio 
decarbonisation, investment in clean energy, best practice technology and leadership in stewardship.
Resilience based on scenarios,  •  Through our scenario analysis, including ‘Well below 2°C’ and ‘Business as usual’ scenarios, we believe that 
including a 2°C or lower scenario our transition strategy and the policies we have in place will support resilience.
•  Given that our exposure is largely through financial assets, many of which are listed, we have the flexibility 
to adapt by trading to the desired carbon position. We mainly hold investment grade bonds, so the price risk 
is substantially lower compared to investors with portfolios holding a larger exposure to equities. The balance 
sheet is well diversified across different sectors.
Risk management
Processes for identifying and  •  Climate-related risks are broadly categorised as transition or physical risks. We identify transition risk impacts 
assessing climate-related risks on asset valuation and the economy as a result of the low-carbon economy transition, and physical risks 
from the impacts on asset holdings or changes to (life and health) insurance liabilities as a result of more 
frequent and severe weather events and longer-term shifts in climate. 
Processes for managing  •  We integrate carbon controls into the investment process through: portfolio carbon intensity targets, climate 
climate-related risks stock exclusions, high carbon escalation, corporate engagement and implementing high energy efficiency 
standards into our directly owned commercial real estate and residential property businesses. 
How we integrate these risks into  •  Climate change impacts will emerge through risks that we are already exposed to, and the respective risk 
our overall risk management management policies set out our approaches to identifying and assessing these risks, including defining 
substantive financial or strategic impact. 
•  The uncertain nature of the risks from climate change, and the lack of historical data to support decision 
making, has led to us developing a specific approach to managing the risks from climate change. This has 
been reflected through a longer-term time-horizon being applied in the assessment of the risks, and the use 
of scenario analysis that is not linked to a probability of outcome.
Metrics and targets
Internal metrics •  To assess climate-related risks and opportunities, we focus on our Scope 3 investment portfolio carbon 
intensity, portfolio temperature alignment and operational carbon footprint.
Greenhouse gas emissions •  Our total operational emissions were 40,344 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e), 13% lower than 2019. 
This is comprised of Scope 1: 15,163 tCO2e, Scope 2 location: 20,319 tCO2e and Scope 3 (non-investment): 
4,862 tCO2e. The reduction relates to reduced business travel and reductions in carbon emissions from the 
management of our Real Assets but includes our growing construction footprint and a slight increase in our 
operational office footprint. During 2020 over 90% of our electricity was from a renewable source.
Targets •  We have set a number of Group balance sheet carbon intensity targets to align to global efforts to limit 
warming to 1.5°C, including reducing our portfolio carbon emission intensity by half by 2030. 2020 metrics 
are all within previously specified targets.
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 5
Introduction
Policy statements 
Climate risk policy statements 
We have strengthened our policies through inclusion of our commitment to the Science Based Target initiative (SBTi).
1   2   3   4   5 
We will decarbonise the  We advocate for urgent  We will use our influence  We support the goal of  We have committed to 
assets on our balance  action to mitigate the  as a large investor to  carbon neutrality by  the Science Based Target 
sheet to align with the  climate emergency from  promote a transition to a  2050, in line with global  initiative (SBTi)
‘Paris’ objective, which  both governments and  low-carbon economy efforts to limit warming 
we interpret as limiting  the companies we are  to 1.5°C
warming to 1.5°C invested in
Commitments to deliver our policies
Active  Next five years Next ten years
Invest • We have updated the set of exclusions  • Our retirement businesses, covering  • We have set Group balance sheet 
for thermal coal1 and the LGIM Climate  c.90% of our Group’s proprietary  carbon intensity targets to monitor 
How we invest  
Impact Pledge stocks2 written into the  assets, have committed to reduce  alignment with the ‘Paris’ objective 
our £95.1 billion  
Investment Management Agreements  portfolio carbon emission intensity  and will reduce our portfolio carbon 
of proprietary 
for all relevant asset classes.  by 18.5% by 2025 as part of a wider  emission intensity by half by 2030 
assets
• We have implemented additional  ESG policy. and targeting net zero by 2050. 
governance and control around the 
acquisition of high carbon investments. 
This includes controls to comply with 
PPCA³ guidelines that apply to the 
funding of new coal facilities. 
Influence  • We continue to develop investment  • We will launch a climate solution  • LGIM Real Assets will reduce the 
solutions which seek to support the  capability for LGIM’s clients in 2021,  operational carbon and energy 
How we influence 
low-carbon transition and are  quantifying climate risks within,  intensity of our landlord-controlled 
as one of the 
constructing active and index  and temperature alignment of,  areas (Scope 1 and 2 emissions) 
world’s largest 
portfolios with embedded climate  their assets. by 60% by 2030.
asset managers  
objectives, which include defined  • As one of the UK’s most active real 
with £1.3 trillion 
decarbonisation targets and  estate managers, LGIM Real Assets 
of assets under 
‘Paris-Alignment’ objectives. will establish Science Based Targets 
management
• We have renewed and broadened our  for our wider Scope 3 emissions 
Climate Impact Pledge to spur net  during 2021 as part of our Real 
zero carbon emissions globally by  Estate Net Zero Roadmap.
2050 through engagement with 
meaningful consequences, both 
through our voting activity and 
through our investment management 
business’s capital allocation.
• We are a founding signatory of the 
Net Zero Asset Manager Initiative, 
committing to work in collaboration 
with clients to achieve target-based 
net zero goals by 2050 or sooner.
Operate • We have set climate-related  • We will develop energy efficient  • As a large UK housebuilder, we will 
targets in our Executive  commercial properties in our urban  enable all new homes we build from 
How our 
remuneration scorecard. regeneration business and set  2030 to operate with net zero carbon 
businesses  
Science Based Targets that are  emissions. In addition, we are 
operate
aligned with the ‘Paris’ objective  seeking to understand and monitor 
by 2022.  the embodied carbon associated 
with the construction of our homes.
• From 2030, our operational footprint 
(occupied offices and business 
travel) will operate with net zero 
carbon emissions.
1.  These are stocks where thermal coal is more than 20% of revenues of mining companies and 30% of power generating utilities by revenue or power generation (as appropriate). For utility  
  stocks where coal is between 20–30%, additional Group governance is required in advance of acquisition.
2.       These are stocks that have fallen below the minimum thresholds LGIM applies on behalf of the Future World Range of Funds in the assessment of a wide range of climate risk mitigation 
policies. For more details on this methodology see https://www.lgim.com/uk/en/responsible-investing/climate-impact-pledge/
3.  Powering Past Coal Alliance (PPCA) is a coalition of countries, states and businesses working towards the global phase-out of unabated coal power: https://poweringpastcoal.org/
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 6
Introduction
Our approach to TCFD
The TCFD is an evolving reporting structure and  We welcome the UK Government’s  It is not yet clear where the financial 
remains a ‘best endeavours’ analysis. We have  announcement to make TCFD aligned  sector will eventually align on metrics, 
made progress in our understanding and  disclosures mandatory in the UK by 2025,  calculation methodology, time frame 
quantification of climate risk but we are still  with rules applicable for the largest firms  and scenario definition. 
at an early stage.  by 2022.
Whilst reading our TCFD report, the following should be considered:
1. O  wned assets vs  2. I nforms investment  3.  30-year  
managed assets strategy risk horizon
This is a Group TCFD report covering the  The focus of the TCFD Report is on reporting  The risk metrics we show in the Strategy 
£95.1 billion of assets that Legal & General  resilience to climate risk. This is clearly  section are forward looking and projected 
owns to cover the liabilities of our retirement  important and the analysis also informs our  over 30 years. This is a much longer 
and insurance businesses. We have control  investment strategy. We believe there should  timeframe than the normal horizon for 
over the investment strategy of these assets. be an equal emphasis on capital allocation  scenario analysis. There is a wide margin 
plans, as well as risk resilience, to recognise  of uncertainty in these metrics given the 
It is important to distinguish that the majority  the growth opportunities arising from tackling  uncertainty around the global energy 
of these assets are a subset of the £1.3 trillion  climate change. Ultimately, the successful  transition, the associated warming path, 
of LGIM’s assets under management; we  positioning of Group assets to support ‘Paris’  weather outcomes, carbon prices and 
manage the remaining £1.2 trillion on behalf  both mitigates the associated transition risk  technological developments. 
of external clients. We do not directly control  and takes opportunities in the energy 
assets under management, but we provide  transition. This is what is important for our 
appropriate low-carbon products, engage with  shareholders, customers and employees.
shareholders, provide ESG assessments for 
investee companies and vote on companies’ 
climate change resolutions.
4. S  cenarios are not  5. T  hree climate  6.  Use of carbon dioxide 
projections pathways removal technologies
The scenarios presented in the Strategy  In our scenario analysis (Strategy section) we  The ‘Paris’ objective is achievable but the 
section show potential portfolio impacts  present three possible climate pathways: door is closing; this is the decade where we 
under a given scenario. They are not  must reduce emissions. As time passes and 
•  ‘Well below 2°C’¹: warming limited to well 
forecasts or predictions, nor are we saying  we collectively fall short of emission 
below 2°C by 2100. 
they are equally likely.  reductions, it will become increasingly 
•  ‘Business as usual (BAU)’: warming of 
difficult to make up the difference and 
3.75°C; the likely outcome if we fail to act.
Our commitments assume that the ‘Paris’  delivery of ‘Paris’ gets less likely. 
•  ‘Disorderly’: where action to limit warming 
objective, limiting global temperature 
to well below 2°C is delayed to 2030. 
increases to 1.5°C, is achieved. This is our    Our model assumes that negative emissions 
desired outcome and the scenario impacts  To support alignment and comparability we  to meet the carbon budget will be achieved 
of higher warming outcomes represent the  have been transparent in the energy transition  through Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS), 
cost of failure to achieve ‘Paris’. pathways we have assumed. In terms of  although we emphasise that this should not 
warming outcomes our chosen scenarios  be a default option. We currently believe our 
approximately map to the well known  assumption of negative global emissions of 
reference scenarios IPCC RCP 2.6 and IEA  two gigatonnes Bio-energy with Carbon 
SDS (aggressive mitigation) and between  Capture and Storage (BECCS) and four 
IPCC RCP 6 and RCP 8.5 (some mitigation). gigatonnes CCS by the year 2050 is credible.
1.	 Defined	as	Paris	scenario	in	our	2019	TCFD	Report.
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 7
Governance
Our governance around 
climate-related risks and 
opportunities
Given the importance of climate-related risk and 
opportunities to us, we have defined a clear governance 
framework to oversee how we assess, manage and control 
these exposures within the Group’s risk appetite.
Group Environment Governance Group Risk 
L&G Board
Committee
Group Capital Group Asset and Liability  Executive Risk 
Committee Committee (GALCo) Committee
Group Environment 
LGIM Corporate  Committee (GEC)
Governance team 
Environment Climate risk  Group Insurance Risk 
subcommittee  subcommittee  Committee 
Climate risk  Group Credit Risk 
working groups Committee 
Board, GRC and ERC Investment and Market 
Climate Committees Risk Committee 
Other Committees that consider climate risk
Board oversight continued focus on investing in clean energy  The CRO is responsible for ensuring that an 
The Board is ultimately accountable for the  technologies that support zero-carbon homes  appropriate strategy is in place to understand, 
long-term stewardship of the Group. Responding  and climate-committed cities.  identify, measure, monitor, control and report 
to climate change and the risks associated with  risks from climate change in line with the risk 
it are of importance to the Board.  Nigel Wilson, Group CEO, has spearheaded  strategy and risk appetite parameters set by the 
the Group’s engagement on a range of climate  Group Board. The CRO also supports business 
In early 2020 the Group added ‘addressing  change and environmental initiatives. Nigel is  managers in the development of appropriate 
climate change’ as one of our six strategic  actively engaged and takes responsibility for the  processes to monitor and report exposures 
growth drivers, emphasising the importance  Group’s strategic direction and progress on this  to the risks from climate change.
of climate risk and the opportunities arising  important topic.
from the necessary energy transition. The Group Board, through the Group Risk 
The Group Chief Financial Officer (CFO), who  Committee (GRC) and Executive Risk 
Throughout the year, the Group CEO Report,  is also a Board member, is responsible for how  Committee (ERC), has delegated oversight 
divisional CEO Reports and Chief Risk Officer  market risks connected to our investments  of the management of the risks associated 
(CRO) Report to the Group Board detailed the  (including risks arising from climate change)  with climate change to the Group Environment 
challenge of climate change and the new  are identified, considered and managed. Committee (GEC).
opportunities presented by it, including 
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 8
Governance
Our governance and climate-related 
risks and opportunities continued
Group Environment Committee Group Environment Committee’s role
The GEC is chaired by the Group CRO and  The GEC is responsible for providing strategic 
includes the Group CFO, Group HR Director,  direction for the management of environmental  We have designed our 
Group Corporate Affairs Director, LGRI CEO,  impact, with a particular focus on the Group’s  governance model so that 
LGIM Chief Investment Officer (CIO), and  management of the financial risks from climate  climate is a key factor in 
LGIM’s Investment Stewardship team.  change. This includes:
our decision making.”
The senior membership demonstrates 
the importance we place on our response  •  Setting the Group strategy for managing 
to climate risk and enables us to ensure that  environmental impact with a focus on  Simon Gadd
there is a single forum to provide oversight  climate, including setting targets, monitoring  Chief Risk Officer
and encourage debate on this topic.  and reporting on performance.
•  Providing central oversight of the Group’s 
The Group CRO has responsibility for climate  management of climate impact to ensure that 
risk identification and management for the  climate change informs strategic planning 
Group. The role of the Group HR Director and  and decision-making across all Group 
the Group Corporate Affairs Director is to ensure  activities (including investments).
that the management of climate risk is consistent  •  Overseeing the management practices that 
with the broader Group Corporate and Social  ensure these exposures are controlled in line 
Responsibility policy. with the Group’s Risk Appetite and 
environment strategy.
To ensure a consistent Group-wide approach  •  Promoting internal awareness and 
and to support how we are implementing our  understanding of climate-related threats 
ambitious strategy, the GEC has clearly defined  and opportunities.
relationships with other Group oversight  •  Ensuring that the Group’s actions and 
committees. These interactions are designed to  responses to climate are proportionate; and
ensure that the management of the financial  •  Considering both the transition and physical 
risks from climate change is integrated across  risks associated with climate change and 
the Group’s governance system and embedded  their impact on listed and direct investment 
into the existing risk management framework.  assets, equities and bonds, assets and 
The Committee also interacts regularly with  liabilities, in both the short and long term.
Group ALCo, our committee responsible for 
managing all market risks on the Group balance 
sheet, to enable a joined up approach.
GEC Key decisions and discussions
Metrics and targets •  Focus on the direct reduction of our carbon footprint and taking clear steps to measure and 
reduce the direct carbon footprint. 
•  Approval of the approach to setting the 2021 Group Balance Sheet Carbon Footprint targets.
•  Approval of the commitment to the Science Based Targets initiative. 
Assessing our exposure •  Approval of the climate scenarios to be used to model the impacts on the balance sheet, and 
the results of the analysis (see Strategy section).
Risk appetites •  Evaluating the complexities inherent in long-term investments while supporting the energy 
transition, in particular through further development of our tolerances for direct investments 
in the energy sector. 
Setting our strategy •  Approval of our retirement business’s decarbonisation strategy, setting the target of reducing 
carbon intensity of the balance sheet by 18.5% by 2025.
•  Driving the green agenda as part of the Group’s role of supporting the recovery from Covid-19.
•  Approval of sustainable sourcing principles, which seeks to embed carbon net zero criteria 
across our supply chain.
Oversight •  Assessment of the approach and progress in responding to the risks of climate change and 
the delivery of policy commitments within the Group’s TCFD. 
The GEC is supported by subcommittees to  It is further supported by working groups 
review and challenge performance against  to focus on specific additional regulatory  Sustainability Report
tolerances and targets, one for climate risk  requirements on the management of  Our sustainability report will be
and one for other environmental aspects.  climate-related financial risks. published later in 2021. For details see:
www.legalandgeneralgroup.com/csr/
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 9
Strategy
The actual and potential impacts 
of climate-related risks and 
opportunities on our business 
strategy and financial planning.
Our purpose is to improve the lives of our 
customers, build a better society for the long 
term and create value for our shareholders. 
Addressing climate change is the next step  There is a broad set of climate risks and 
in delivering on inclusive capitalism. It is one  opportunities across our balance sheet; 
of our six long-term growth drivers and it is  we focus on our assets’ transition risk as  Economic, social and 
embedded in how we run our business.  we consider this to have the greatest potential  climate benefits can 
impact on our business.  go hand-in-hand if the 
We use our long-term assets to generate positive 
power of finance is 
outcomes for shareholders, customers, wider  To provide us with a better understanding of 
society and the environment. the risks which climate change poses to our  deployed effectively.”
business, we have developed a bespoke model, 
Our response to climate change is built on three  Destination@Risk, with Baringa Partners, which  Nigel Wilson
strategic pillars: will shape our strategic response. Group CEO
  Invest We believe that our transition strategy and the 
policies we have in place to mitigate climate risk 
How we invest our assets: we believe that  will support our resilience.
the key source of climate risk to our business 
is through the shareholder-owned assets.  In this Strategy section, we:
  Influence  •  Identify climate-related risks and opportunities.
•  Define the climate strategies for our Group 
Using our scale to influence, support transition  and for our individual businesses.
to a low-carbon economy and reduce the risk  •  Explain the Destination@Risk model 
of potential adverse physical outcomes. framework.
•  Show the outputs of our scenario analysis.
   Operate •  Describe the resilience of our strategy.
How our businesses operate: through reducing 
the carbon footprint of both the assets that 
we create and our direct carbon footprint, 
we can support our long-term resilience.
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 10
Strategy
Climate-related risks and 
opportunities
Transition risk is the key near-term source of risk, and opportunity, for our business although 
physical risks are still relevant, in particular to our Real Assets business.
Short to medium term Transition risk 
In the short to medium term, we view the  Impacts on asset valuation and the economy 
journey to net zero as an investment  that arise from the process of adjustment 
opportunity whilst managing our transition  towards a low-carbon economy. For 
risk. The development of our Destination@ example, climate-related policies could lead 
Risk model will feed into investment decision  to increased costs or credit risks from costs 
making, whether spotting under-priced  of compliance.
opportunities or over-priced legacy assets.
Medium to long term Physical risk
The catastrophic long-term physical risks  Impacts on asset holdings or changes to 
resulting from uncontrolled climate change  insurance liabilities as a result of more frequent 
on our business, our investments and the  and severe weather events and longer-term 
wider economy provide us with incentive to  shifts in climate. For example, increasing 
promote the transition to a net zero world.  frequency, severity or volatility of extreme 
Over the long term, we are all exposed to  weather events could lead to falls in asset 
physical risk. values and increases in credit risk.
Focus on assets Focus on transition risk
We believe that the key source of climate risk  We also focus on transition risk because 
to our business is through the assets on our  successful delivery of ‘Paris’ implies a 
balance sheet, a portion of which supports  fundamental change in the global economy 
our payments to retirement and insurance  over the next 10 years. We think this is the key 
customers and a portion of which (Shareholder  near-term issue and source of risk for our 
Funds) covers the Regulatory Solvency Capital  business, specifically our investment portfolio. 
Requirement (SCR) and surplus. However, physical risks are still important; see 
further detail in the Risk management section.
We are also exposed to liability impacts, 
in particular changes in mortality outcomes, 
in our retirement and insurance businesses. 
Our early assessment is that the impact of 
temperature changes depends on time horizon 
but is likely to be relatively small and uncertain 
as to their direction out to 2050. We describe 
our initial thinking on liability climate risk in 
the Risk management section. 
Electric vehicles
In February 2020, we increased our 
stake in Pod Point, one of the UK’s 
largest electric vehicle charge point 
operators, from 13% to 22%. By 
investing our capital in clean energy 
assets, businesses and technologies, 
we can accelerate the progress to a 
low-cost, low-carbon economy. Our 
capital has enabled Pod Point to make 
substantial progress and execute its 
growth strategy over the last 12 months. 
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 11
Strategy
Climate strategy for our 
individual businesses
The table below summarises our individual business’s climate strategies and strategic focus.
#1 
Business Focus Climate strategy
Global 
Retirement  •  Decarbonise the portfolio, covering c.90% of our Group’s 
(institutional and  proprietary assets, to align with ‘Paris’.
retail) rating 
Capital investment •  Create energy efficient homes and seek to reduce the 
  
associated embodied carbon. For LGIM’s approach 
•  Continue to invest in clean energy. To date, we have invested in: to climate change in 
2020 (ShareAction).
– Ground source heat pump technology: through our 36% 
stake in The Kensa Group.
– Electric vehicles: we increased our stake in Pod Point 
to 23%, forming a joint venture with EDF. 
–  Onshore and offshore wind: through our fund manager, NTR. 
– Solar: £57.5 million investment in Oxford Photovoltaics (PV), 
developing high-efficiency solar photovoltaic products which 
can produce substantially more power than a typical silicon 
module of the same size.
– Nuclear fusion technology: Tokamak Energy aims to bring 
fusion energy to the market by 2030.
Insurance •  Develop technology to retrofit existing and new build housing 
in the UK to reduce emissions.
Investment  •  As a large investor, we influence companies and regulators 
    
management to step up on sustainability. 
•  Work in partnership with our clients to set decarbonisation 
goals for portfolios. 
•  Develop investment solutions which seek to support the 
low-carbon transition using outputs from our Destination@Risk 
framework.
Ground source heat pump technology
We are sourcing, building and managing 
new clean energy assets to create 
attractive returns over the medium to 
long term. In 2020 we acquired a 36% 
stake in a ground source heat pump 
technology firm, The Kensa Group. The 
investment in ground source technology 
will support our commitment to enable 
all new homes we build from 2030 to 
operate with net zero carbon emissions. 
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 12
Strategy
Climate strategy for our 
individual businesses  
continued
Legal & General Capital (LGC)
•  The associated financial investments 
We consider our main exposure to climate risk is  of specialist commercial real estate and  We believe that climate 
through our £95.1 billion of proprietary assets1.  Small and Medium Enterprise Finance are  change has not yet been 
included alongside listed investments Table 1. fully priced in by the 
Legal & General Retirement (LGR) •  Residential property investments are through 
market. The insight from 
LGR holds c90% of the Group’s investment  the funding of the Housing Operating 
portfolio, the vast majority of which  businesses (including CALA) and are  our understanding of 
(£80.4 billion) relate to listed and unlisted  reflected in the ‘Other assets’ line Table 1.  the risks enables us to 
bond investments (see Table 1).  optimise how we manage 
Legal & General Insurance (LGI)
our portfolio.”
•  Listed bond investments are generally split  Insurance assets are generally held to cover 
between government and corporate bonds,  the business sold in the US and are mostly 
split across multiple sectors.  US-denominated bond investments, see Table 1.  Jeff Davies
•  Direct investments include Infrastructure  Chief Financial Officer
Loans (£11.9 billion), the Lifetime Mortgage  Legal & General Investment Management 
business (£6.0 billion) and Commercial Real  (LGIM)
Estate Loans (£3.4 billion). LGIM manage £1.3 trillion of client assets. Whilst 
•  While Sterling bonds make up most of LGR’s  we are agent to these funds rather than principal, 
assets, a US Dollar portfolio covers both  we strongly support the decarbonisation 
a portion of the UK annuity products and  of these investments.
annuities sold in the USA.
•  Property assets in this business (£4.3 billion) 
are Commercial Properties.
Table 1. Total Group investments 
Group assets (Dec 2020)
Analysed by investment class:
Other 
LGR  LGI LGC shareholder
investments investments investments investments Total Total
2020 2020 2020 2020 2020 2019
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Equities2 68 27 2,943 286 3,324 3,131
Bonds 80,438 2,434 2,343 287 85,502 75,471
Derivative assets3 20,868 – 68 – 20,936 11,556
Property 4,319 – 163 – 4,482 3,957
Cash, cash equivalents and loans 5,192 450 1,822 354 7,818 3,959
Financial investments 110,885 2,911 7,339 927 122,062 98,074
Other assets4 88 – 1,708 – 1,796 1,548
Total investments 110,973 2,911 9,047 927 123,858 99,622
Proprietary assets¹ 84,913 2,461 7,157 573 95,104 84,107
1.	 We	define	proprietary	assets	as	total	investments	to	which	shareholders	are	directly	exposed,	minus	derivative	assets	and	cash,	cash	equivalents	and	loans	from	Table	1.
2.	 Equity	investments	include	a	total	of	£288	million	(31	December	2019:	£324	million)	in	respect	of	associates	and	joint	ventures.
3.			Derivative	assets	are	shown	gross	of	derivative	liabilities	of	£21.2	billion	(31	December	2019:	£11.5	billion).	Exposures	arise	from	use	of	derivatives	for	efficient	portfolio	management,	
especially	the	use	of	interest	rate	swaps,	inflation	swaps,	credit	default	swaps	and	foreign	exchange	forward	contracts	for	assets	and	liability	management.
4.	 Other	assets	include	the	consolidated	net	asset	value	of	the	Group’s	investments	in	CALA	Homes	and	other	housing	businesses.
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 13
Strategy
Our bespoke  
Destination@Risk framework
Destination@Risk is our bespoke framework,  Destination@Risk framework
developed in partnership with Baringa, for 
understanding the 30-year transition and 
Risk type Transition Physical
physical risk financial impacts. 
We use the framework to test the impact 
of different energy transition pathways on  Objective is to  How might the energy system  What are the physical risks due 
individual countries, sectors and assets to  understand: transition? to climate change and extreme 
ultimately understand the potential financial  weather events?
impacts on our investments.
To do this we flex  •  Cost of carbon •  Weather events
The inputs to the framework are analysed 
variables such as: •  Oil price
through a series of models and the outputs 
•  Electricity price
provide us with a detailed understanding of 
the impacts of climate-related risks, enabling  To understand the impact  
us to develop our strategy as to how we: on various sectors.
  Invest
  Influence 
Output allows us  Sector impact, followed by  •  Simplified P&L
to model: impact on the companies   •  Balance sheet
   Operate
we invest in by modelling: •  Cash flow
Impact on our  Financial impact on our: To determine full portfolio 
investments: •  Bond values impact under different 
•  Equity values pathways
Within the following pages we address each element of the Destination@Risk framework.  
The table below summarises each element, as well as the high level outputs. 
Element Summary Outputs of the process
Transition Our bespoke model analysing how the energy system is likely to evolve over  Change in energy mix projected  See Chart 3
the next 30 years. The dataset is built using: to 2050. 
> 100  > 2 million
Different public and proprietary sources Variables and assumptions
Physical An analysis that maps corporate facilities and commercial property locations  Model disruption costs due to the  See Risk 
at a granular level to forward-looking weather outcomes.  impact of climate change and extreme  management 
weather events on companies.
10 years
Impact on  Using the output of the transition and  Sector exposure by carbon intensity,  See Charts  
sectors and  physical models, model impact on each  Utilise up to 10 years of   and asset type, as well as portfolio  4 to 6
companies sector. We then translate sector level  reported carbon emissions   temperature alignment. 
outputs into company level impacts.  (for each stock)
Impact on  We then aggregate the transition and physical impacts at the company level  Reduction in portfolio value due to  See Charts  
our  and model the impact on the financial assets we hold. While the risk models  transition and physical risks under  7 to 10,  
investments are consistently applied, we emphasise that given the uncertainties and  different pathways. and Tables  
assumptions used, we should treat the numbers as being indicative. 2 and 3
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 14
Strategy
Our bespoke  
Destination@Risk framework  
continued
We currently model three energy pathways.
Pathways Outcomes
Business as usual (BAU) World fails to act to make the necessary changes to address climate change.  +3.5°C or greater
Well below 2°C¹  World takes early, definitive, joined-up policy and investment actions. Company and consumers 
align their behaviour with a carbon neutral economy. 
<+ 2°C limit
Disorderly Collective action to achieve the outcomes of ‘Well below 2°C’ is delayed to 2030.
Chart 1.
Global greenhouse gas emissions
Modelling climate risk
GtCO2e-eq/year
LGIM Destination model: global 
80
energy pathways 
In 2018, LGIM entered into a strategic  70
partnership with Baringa Partners to develop  60
a bespoke model, Destination. The model is 
50
dynamic, flexible and can be used to analyse 
scenarios which show how the global energy  40
system is likely to evolve over the next 30 years  30
and what the implications are for investors. 
20
We have built a dataset using over 100 different 
public and proprietary sources and over two  10
million variables and assumptions. 
0
1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050
We have used Destination to model three global 
● ● ● ●
energy pathways:   Historic   BAU   Well below 2°C   Disorderly
Source: Destination@Risk and LGIM analysis
1. Business as usual (BAU): the warming 
outcome is expected to be 3.75°C, which 
Chart 2.
is the likely outcome if we fail to act to make 
the necessary changes to address  Global carbon price
climate change.  $/tCO2
1000
This is a technologically optimistic view of 
the world, with many green and low-carbon  800
technologies becoming cheaper than legacy 
choices over time but there is no aggressive 
600
coordinated international response. The bulk 
of scientific and economic research has 
400
confirmed that the consequences of this are 
significantly negative, potentially catastrophic.
200
2. Well below 2°C: the energy system we will 
have in a world where we take early, definitive,  0
joined-up policy and investment actions to  2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050
move onto a ‘Well below 2°C’ scenario by  ● ● ●
 Today’s world   Future world   Disorderly
the end of the century. 
Source: Destination@Risk and LGIM analysis
Companies and consumers gradually align 
their behaviour with a carbon neutral economy.  In Charts 1 and 2 we show key features under 
Financial markets price in the transition in  our three pathways scenarios up to 2050. Chart 
an orderly fashion and take advantage of the  1 shows projected change in global greenhouse 
opportunities the transition provides. Whilst  gas emissions and Chart 2 shows the implied 
there are significant structural changes and  change in global carbon price.
winners and losers, the economic impacts 
are manageable. Our policy commitment  In terms of warming outcomes our chosen 
is to support the delivery of this outcome. scenarios can be mapped to well-known 
reference scenarios IPCC RCP 2.6 and IEA SDS 
3. Disorderly: the impact of a 10-year delay in  (aggressive mitigation) and between IPCC RCP 6 
taking joined-up policy and investment actions.  and RCP 8.5 (some mitigation) that are likely to 
be used in many TCFD reports which will help 
comparability and alignment over time.
1.	 Defined	as	Paris	scenario	in	our	2019	TCFD	Report.
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 15
Strategy
Our bespoke  
Destination@Risk framework  
continued
Chart 3.
Destination global primary energy mix (%)
1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2015 2020 2030 2040 2050 2020 2030 2040 2050 2020 2030 2040 2050
Historic BAU Well below 2°C Disorderly
● ● ● ● ● ● ●
 Oil   Coal   Gas   Nuclear   Hydro   Renewables   Biomass
Source: Destination@Risk and LGIM analysis
Changes in global energy mix The ‘Well below 2°C’ energy system changes at  Key assumptions
The modelled transition for the three scenarios  somewhere between two and three times the  1. Almost all transition scenarios use Carbon 
is shown in Chart 3 Destination global primary  pace of ‘normal’ historic change. It is significantly  Capture and Storage (CCS) to some extent. 
energy mix. The bars on the left, 1950–2015,  more capital intensive than our ‘BAU’ scenario;  One form of CCS is Bio Energy with Carbon 
show the historic energy mix, and the bars on  our analysis estimates that an additional  Capture and Storage (BECCS) which aims 
the right represent our ‘BAU’, ‘Well below 2°C’  cumulative capital investment of about  to capture CO2 from the atmosphere using 
and ‘Disorderly’ scenarios.  $26 trillion is needed by 2050. This change  ‘natural’ processes (planting trees) and 
is likely to have both positive and negative  capturing that CO2 when it is burnt to 
The contrast between our ‘Well below 2°C’ and  implications for investors. produce energy. 
‘BAU’ scenarios is stark, with dramatic macro 
economic consequences. In our ‘Well below 2°C’  The challenges brought by the scale and speed  In our ‘Well below 2°C’ scenario we have 
transition the energy mix changes very rapidly.  of the transformation under the ‘Well below 2°C’  assumed offsetting negative global 
Disruption is widespread; both coal and oil lose  scenario, now and over the next 30 years, are  emissions of 2 gigatonnes BECCS (biofuels 
roughly 50% of their share of the mix in only 35  significant. We introduced the ‘Disorderly’  and hydrogen) and 4 gigatonnes CCS 
years, with much of that disruption occurring in  scenario to understand more about the risks  (industry and power generation) by 2050. 
the middle years of the forecast period rather  if we do not take early joined-up policy and  We believe this is in the mid-range of 
than the later years.  investment actions and to explore what would  academic and industry scenarios sized 
need to happen if action was delayed for another  to reflect constraints on land usage.
Similarly the electricity system is rapidly  10 years. 
decarbonised. Around three-quarters of all  Under our ‘Disorderly’ scenario this increases 
electricity is generated from low-carbon sources  If we continue along our ‘BAU’ scenario for  to 3 gigatonnes BECCS (biofuels and 
by 2050. In our ‘BAU’ scenario, we forecast an  the next 10 years, green and low-carbon  hydrogen) and 9 gigatonnes CCS (industry 
energy mix that remains remarkably stable. In  technologies are not developed fast enough  and power generation) by 2050, which we 
particular, coal, oil and gas all hold onto roughly  to support the desired temperature outcome.  believe is a plausible maximum.
constant shares. Nuclear should see modest  After the initial delay, emissions reductions need 
growth, mostly in Asian markets. Renewables  to be significantly sharper than in the ‘Well below  2. In our ‘Well below 2°C’ scenario we have 
grow modestly in the ‘BAU’ scenario but rapidly  2°C’ scenario. This delay roughly doubles the  assumed a rate of improvement in non-
in the ‘Well below 2°C’ scenario. Solar becomes  system costs needed to make these changes  energy emissions derived from research 
especially valuable to the system, as costs  compared to our ‘Well below 2°C’ scenario,  from the International Energy Agency (IEA).
continue to decline throughout the  reinforcing the need for urgent joined-up action. 
forecasting period. As an example of the business implications, 
in our ‘BAU’ scenario around 50% of all cars 
driven globally remain powered by petrol or 
diesel in 2050. In contrast in our ‘Well below 2°C’ 
scenario, around 90% of the fleet is electric.
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 16
Strategy
Our bespoke  
Destination@Risk framework  
continued
For sovereigns, in the ‘Well below 2°C’ scenario,  Chart 4.
aggregate corporate sector impacts are combined  GICS sector by valuation %
The Destination@Risk model: Financial  with sector contribution to GDP to give an implied 
impacts on our portfolio change in GDP and an associated Debt:GDP ratio. 
Our approach to asset risk modelling brings  In the ‘BAU’ scenario, an academic economic 
the Destination global energy model (above)  model that relates productivity changes 
together with a physical risk model, company  to changes in average temperatures is used 
impacts model (including earnings, capital  to compute implied changes in GDP and 
expenditure and balance sheet effects) and  Debt:GDP ratios.
a model that helps us calibrate financial impacts. 
Collectively this is our framework for  Our modelling approach has developed over 
understanding 30-year transition and physical  2020, with improved granularity of modelling 
risk financial impacts for our chosen scenarios,  impacts at the company level of the Energy and 
which we refer to as our Destination@Risk  Power Generation sectors, development of the 
Utilities Property (Real Estate)
model, developed in partnership with Baringa. sovereign bond capabilities and improved scope 
Energy Government
  of the assets that can be modelled. 
Materials Other
Our start point is to use the energy model 
Industrials
Destination to define the chosen transition  As in last year’s report, we have modelled 
 
pathway for the modelled scenarios as explained  financial impacts of the ‘BAU’ and ‘Well below 
Chart 5.
above. That pathway, and the associated carbon  2°C’ scenarios. The impacts under the 
price, drives a number of macro and sector/ ‘Disorderly’ scenario are under development.  GICS sector by CO2e intensity %
regional outputs (prices and quantities) that  Whilst these risk models are consistently applied 
impact company earnings in the high carbon  in the scenario analysis, it is worth emphasising 
sectors. They will face new costs in proportion  that given the modelling uncertainties and the 
to the emissions generated by their operations  assumption of a static balance sheet, we should 
and power usage. Suppliers will also face cost  treat the numbers as being indicative.
increases which will lead to higher input costs 
and customer prices will rise to offset these  Our modelling of climate scenario impacts will 
pressures. Demand adjusts given the elasticity  continue to evolve as we build in more company-
assumptions we have made. We have applied  specific information, mitigating actions taken, 
a granular bottom up approach to our earnings  forward-looking product and market 
analysis of stocks in the Energy and Power  characteristics and evaluation of the financial 
Generation sectors. impacts from our ‘Disorderly’ scenario. Utilities Property (Real Estate)
Energy Government
For physical risk we use an analysis that maps  Financial impacts from climate scenarios Materials Other
corporate facilities and commercial property  Exposure to transition risk Group proprietary  Industrials
locations at a granular level to forward-looking  assets: £93 billion1
weather outcomes in terms of a change in  The charts to the right show December 2020  Chart 6.
frequency (hazard heat maps). We use annual  Group asset exposures based on sector asset  Asset type by valuation %
business interruption as a proxy for disruption  values and sector carbon intensity. Sectors are 
costs to model the impact on companies. For  defined and mapped using the Global Industry 
real assets such as commercial property we  Classification Standard (GICS). 
consider this as a reduction in yield connected 
to an increase in insurance costs. Chart 4 shows that weighted by value roughly 
  43% of the portfolio is exposed to the highest 
We then aggregate the transition and physical  carbon sectors, Energy, Utilities, Real Estate, 
risk impacts at the company level and model the  Industrials (including Transport) and Materials. 
impact on the financial assets we hold. Given the  In addition, c.14% is allocated to Government 
uncertainties, we have taken a simple approach:  holdings.
changes in earnings flow proportionately 
straight through to equity price, whereas for  When weighted by carbon intensity (Chart 5) we 
Equity
bonds a <1 sensitivity is applied to reflect the  can see that transition risk is highly concentrated 
Bond
credit rating and lower risk nature of the  in the same sectors (64%, with an additional 23% 
Property
asset class. from Government holdings).
Other
We assume that the nominal size and  Chart 6 shows a breakdown by asset type and 
composition of the balance sheet does not  shows that bonds comprise 84% of the portfolio 
change but the companies we hold in the Energy  analysed. This is an important factor when we 
and Power Generation sectors do adapt and  show financial risk impacts in our ‘BAU’ and ‘Well 
reposition over the scenario period. below 2°C’ scenarios.
1.	 	This	relates	to	the	investments	within	the	c.£95	billion	of	Group	proprietary	assets	qualifying	as	Scope	3	–	Investment	emissions.	
The	emissions	for	the	additional	c.£2	billion	of	operating	assets	(our	housing	businesses)	are	captured	in	the	Operational	Footprint	(on	page	34).
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 17
Strategy
Scenario analysis
Results Chart 7. 
Given our view that climate risk is not fully  2050 Market capitalisation impacts discounted to 2030
discounted in asset pricing, we expect some 
impact on prices as the risk is realised over time. 
0%
A reduction in value can be expected on the 
most at-risk stocks and sectors (indicated by 
-10%
high carbon intensity or a high risk location).
-20%
Equity impacts
Chart 7 gives a good sense of the financial 
-30%
risk connected to a ‘Well below 2°C’ warming 
outcome. It shows for our diversified equity 
-40%
exposure the approximate average sector 
combined transition and physical risk price 
-50%
impact within the pathway, discounted to 2030¹. 
We emphasise that this is only the impact on 
-60%
equity, the highest risk broad asset class. Full 
Group portfolio impacts are shown in Table 2.
-70%
Tswtheroe i dnkegenlyyt  oimfibeasdpe isrnv t atoht iteoh nCe  ihhsa igtrhthsae t4s e tt qocu a6irt bya obpnori vcseee. c rTtisohkres    Energy Utilities Materials REesatlate DCiosncrseutimoenrary IndustrialsInfoTrecmhatnioolnoCgoym municSaetirvoinceCsonsumer Staples Health Care Financials
large impact on the energy sector is magnified 
due to weakened balance sheets over 2020.  Source: Destination@Risk and LGIM analysis
Applying the scenario analysis to the depressed 
company balance sheets identifies these 
as more exposed to the projected impacts 
of transition risks. 
These results show broad sector impacts, but 
within the utility sector for example there are 
clear winners and losers over different time 
periods. Looking at the distribution within utilities 
in the ‘Well below 2°C’ scenario out to 2050, the 
price range indicates that some companies do 
not survive whilst a number nearly double in price.
Group portfolio impacts Table 2. Total portfolio impacts Table 3. Equity only impacts
c.£35 billion of listed bonds and equity
Table 2 shows the discounted pathway impacts  BAU Well below 2°c BAU Well below 2°c
at 2030 and 2050 for our ‘BAU’ and ‘Well below 
2030 2050 2030 2050 2030 2050 2030 2050
2°C’ scenarios, through the estimated 
percentage reduction in portfolio value split by  Physical -0.7% -1.0% -0.1% -0.2% Physical -0.5% -1.7% -0.4% -0.5%
transition and physical impacts. We assume that  Transition – – -1.4% -3.1% Transition – – -5.6% -8.0%
the balance sheet mix of assets does not change. 
Total -0.7% -1.0% -1.5% -3.3% Total -0.5% -1.7% -5.9% -8.5%
c.£35 billion (37%) of the c.£95 billion of 
proprietary assets is modelled in the portfolio  Note, in addition to the listed equity, bond  As a comparison, Table 3 shows the impact 
impacts. This analysis focuses on line by line  and sovereign models, we have also used  on the equity only portfolio under the same 
modelling of corporate issuers and government  the Destination@Risk model to gain insight  assumptions. The difference highlights the risk 
bonds (excludes cash, commercial property,  into impacts on our lifetime mortgage, real  reducing impact of our high bond allocations. 
and number of non-corporate instruments), with  estate and private credit portfolios with more  The key observation is that the total portfolio 
portfolio impacts weighted in line with our bond  detail provided on these asset class exposures  impacts are much lower than the equity 
to equity holding ratio.  given in the Risk management section below. only impacts.
1.	 	Note	this	is	a	change	in	projection	approach	to	the	2019	report.	We	now	report	a	smoothed	discounted	trajectory	approach	to	projected	impacts.	This	change	in	approach	has	been	
adopted	to	cater	for	more	volatile	year-on-year	impacts,	resulting	from	updates	to	the	model	through	the	year.	The	discounted	trajectory	approach	produces	a	smoother	trajectory	and	
higher	transition	risk	impacts	in	the	earlier	years	than	the	year-on-year	build-up.
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 18
Strategy
Scenario analysis  
continued
Group portfolio scenario impacts through time Chart 8.
In Charts 8 and 9 we show the evolving shape 
Well below 2°C discounted physical and transition impacts on our portfolio value
of discounted portfolio impacts to 2050 split 
by transition risk and physical risk in both the 
2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050
‘Well below 2°C’ and ‘BAU’ scenarios. 0.0%
-0.5%
The impacts at the start of the trajectory are 
significant due to the update in projection  -1.0%
approach in this year’s report (as described  -1.5%
above). We now report a smoothed, discounted 
-2.0%
trajectory approach to projected impacts. 
This discounted trajectory approach calls out  -2.5%
the potential transition and physical risk  -3.0%
premiums which is not yet priced in the market 
-3.5%
but implied by our two scenarios with modelled 
Transition risk Physical risk
financial impacts. 
Source: Destination@Risk and LGIM analysis
 
Well below 2°C
We can see that, in the ‘Well below 2°C’ scenario,  Chart 9.
the transition risk dominates the physical risk 
BAU discounted physical impacts on our portfolio value
contribution, and the physical risk impact looks 
relatively low in comparison. This outcome  2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050
is plausible and is in line with our expectations.
0.0%
-0.5%
BAU
In the ‘BAU’ scenario the impacts are exclusively  -1.0%
physical and there is a larger discounted impact  -1.5%
at the start of the trajectory (in comparison to 
-2.0%
the physical risk in the ‘Well below 2°C’ scenario 
above), resulting from the larger projected  -2.5%
physical risk impacts in the ‘BAU’ scenario. -3.0%
-3.5%
In comparison to the transition risk in the ‘Well 
Physical risk
below 2°C’ scenario, however, the physical risk 
Source: Destination@Risk and LGIM analysis
impact still looks relatively low. One issue is 
timeframe: the worst effects of warming under 
‘BAU’ scenario are more apparent in 2050–2100  Chart 10.
which is outside the model framework. 
Change in free cash flow (portfolio average)
To provide an indication of this longer-term 
trajectory for physical risk, Chart 10 shows 
2020 2030 2040 2050 2060 2070 2080 2090 2100
a projection of the change in free cash flow for 
0.0%
equity market holdings until the end of the 
century, which highlights the increasing  -1.0%
impacts beyond 2050. 
-2.0%
In addition, for corporate bond and equity 
-3.0%
holdings, we only analyse the first order impact 
of physical risks on the real assets of the  -4.0%
corporates. We do not assess the full financial 
impacts on the economy from physical risks,  -5.0%
which should also include the human impacts 
-6.0%
including disease, forced migration due to water 
and food shortages and disruption to corporate  -7.0%
supply chains. While the inclusion of sovereigns 
in the model this year starts to capture this  -8.0%
macro impact, the impacts are likely to be much 
-9.0%
higher than shown, though difficult to model.
BAU Well below 2ºC
Source: Destination@Risk and LGIM analysis
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 19
Strategy
Strategic resilience 
3. The balance sheet is well diversified across 
different sectors of the economy. Our initial 
Scenario risk analysis: strategic resilience assessment of our portfolio temperature 
The nature of our business means we have  alignment indicates that we do not have an 
identified three broad mitigations to our  overweight allocation to the highest carbon 
transition risk exposure: intensity names within the market sectors.
1. Given that our exposure is largely through  We will also be taking part in the Bank of England 
financial assets, many of which are listed, we  Biennial Exploratory Scenario on climate change, 
have significant flexibility to adapt by trading to  expected to take place over 2021. This exercise 
the desired carbon position. This is the expected  will test the resilience of the current business 
outcome in the event that our process of active  models of the largest banks, insurers and the 
engagement fails. This gives us more adaptive  financial system to climate-related risks and 
flexibility than a business that may need to make  therefore the scale of adjustment that will need 
large changes to its business model and  to be undertaken in coming decades for the 
correspondingly restructure its operations  system to remain resilient1. 
and facilities.
2. Given that we hold mainly investment grade 
bonds, the price risk is substantially lower 
compared to investors with portfolios holding 
a larger exposures to equities. The extent of this 
is clearly seen in the difference between the 
Group portfolio impacts and the equity only 
impacts (Tables 2 and 3 above).
Energy Saver Cashback
We are addressing climate change 
proactively through our new offer 
of cashback to lifetime mortgage 
customers who are making home 
energy efficiency improvements.
1.	 https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/paper/2019/biennial-exploratory-scenario-climate-change-discussion-paper
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 20
Risk management
The processes we use to 
identify, assess and manage 
climate-related risks
We have carried out a detailed assessment 
of how climate risk may impact our 
business model. 
•  While we would not expect climate change 
Our exposure falls into two broad categories:
to pose significant risk to our short-term 
Identifying climate risks  counterparty exposures, we do have a number 
•  Physical risks from the impacts on asset 
The risks from climate change will emerge  of long-term reinsurance arrangements. 
holdings or changes to our insurance 
through our current risk exposures and the  Reinsurance counterparties would be 
liabilities as a result of more frequent and 
respective risk management policies set out  expected to have a similar exposure to the 
severe weather events and longer-term 
our approaches to identifying and assessing  risks posed by climate change as outlined 
shifts in climate; and 
these risks.  above, and further exposed to the physical 
•  Transition risks from the move to a 
risk from climate change due to their property 
low-carbon economy, in particular how 
The uncertain nature of the risks from climate  and casualty business. This could change our 
this impacts on asset valuation and the 
change, and the lack of historical data to support  assessment of the counterparty risk.
economy. This can be through changes 
decision making, is reflected through 
in consumer sentiment, market 
incorporating the longer-term time-horizon  Assessing climate risks
adjustments, litigation or regulation.
in the assessment of the risks and the use  We seek to limit loss from the risks from climate 
of climate-related scenario analysis that is  change and deploy a range of risk management 
not linked to a probability of outcome. strategies to mitigate unforeseen loss.
The two risks are linked. Continued emissions 
will increase physical risks, and limiting the  We have carried out a detailed assessment  However, we cannot completely eliminate the 
physical impacts from climate change will  of how we could expect climate risk to emerge  risks associated with climate change through 
require substantial emission reductions  across our business model. We describe what  asset allocation, which is why we have focused 
increasing transition risks.  we see are the relevant considerations on the  on developing our governance, our understanding 
different areas below: of the risk and the environmental impact of our 
We are planning our businesses on the basis  business decisions.
that climate change is successfully constrained  •  Climate change may impact on credit risk 
while managing the risk that it is not. Our risk  both through movements in credit spreads 
management framework seeks to reinforce the  and through credit rating transitions as a 
parameters of acceptable risk-taking, allowing  result of changes in actual or anticipated 
business managers to make decisions that are  default rates.
consistent with our risk appetite. This enables  •  Climate change may impact on equity, 
us to embed climate change considerations  property and private credit risk. This may 
in the business decision making process. be through asset values being exposed 
to a, potentially sudden, re-pricing to reflect 
In this section we describe the most material  transition risks to a low or carbon neutral  Assessing the risks of 
considerations across the different areas  economy, or as a result of more frequent and  climate change is an 
of our business, including: severe weather events and longer-term shifts  increasingly important 
in climate impacting on asset values. Both 
part of how we manage 
•  Processes for identifying and assessing  of these may be through actual experience 
climate-related risks; and  or a change in anticipated future experience.  our business.”
•  Processes for managing climate-related risks. Climate change may also present enhanced 
asset returns, for example increased equity  Simon Gadd
This shows how climate change risks are  valuation for a firm enabling transition to  Chief Risk Officer
integrated into our overall risk management. a low-carbon economy.
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 21
Risk management
Managing transition risks 
Managing transition risks If companies do not meet the minimum 
In the Strategy section, we highlighted our  standards we have set out, engagement may 
focus on climate risk in connection with our  Climate risk Investment Management  translate into firm-wide voting sanctions and 
investment assets and the required energy  Agreement exclusions  divestment consequences for LGIM funds 
transition. Our mitigation strategy integrates  Within the wider set of environmental, social and  adopting the Climate Impact Pledge exclusions. 
carbon controls into the investment process,  governance (ESG)-related exclusions, we have 
through the following key control processes:  climate-specific exclusions embedded into our  These exclusions are also applied to the Group’s 
Investment Management Agreements (IMAs)  directly held assets managed by LGIM. The 
•  Portfolio carbon intensity targets.  with our investment management business  companies in the current published exclusion list 
•  Climate stock exclusions.  (LGIM). These exclusions focus on two key  are excluded in our IMAs, helping to drive change 
•  High carbon escalation. areas of transition risk: coal activity and Climate  in the market by supporting LGIM’s engagement 
•  Corporate engagement.  Impact Pledge exclusions.  with the use of the Group’s own balance sheet 
•  Implementing high energy efficiency  capital. This list is reviewed annually and the 
standards into our directly owned commercial  Coal activity IMAs are updated for any changes. The rule we 
property and housing businesses.  Building on our existing exclusions, this year  apply to an excluded stock is ‘do not buy’. If after 
we have tightened our exclusion list in relation  12 months’ engagement we still have concerns 
Opportunities from clean energy infrastructure  to businesses with coal activities in our  about the company’s strategy, the relevant 
and technology investments also form part  retirement business’s portfolio, in the UK,  business and the asset manager will agree 
of this risk management strategy. See Strategy  Europe and North America. a course of action.
section for further detail on how we support 
investments in these areas. The exclusion list now includes stocks where  More detail on the Climate Impact Pledge 
thermal coal is: is given in the engagement section below.
•  More than 20% of revenues of mining 
Portfolio carbon intensity targets  companies; and 
We measure the contribution of our investments  •  More than 30% of power generating utilities  High carbon escalation 
to global CO2e emissions and have set reduction  by revenue or power generation (as  As part of delivering our carbon reduction 
targets to align with the ‘Paris’ objective. We  appropriate). commitments, we have established a process 
calculate portfolio carbon emission intensities  •  For utility stocks where coal is between  to escalate through further governance all 
at both the Group level and the key business  20–30% of the issuer’s activity, additional  proposed individual stock investments where 
areas. This year we have set a commitment to  Group governance is required in advance of  the carbon intensity (emissions and/or reserves) 
reduce our Group balance sheet portfolio carbon  acquisition (see high carbon escalation section). is greater than a top quartile threshold across 
emission intensity by half by 2030, starting  a number of relevant sectors. This gives us an 
with a target reduction of 2% in 2021.  This distinction allows us to apply company  early warning system and a degree of control 
  specific analysis and to recognise that the  over the accumulation of carbon risk 
In addition, our retirement (institutional and  sector has to make significant changes to how  through time. 
retail) businesses have committed to reduce  it operates today. Our approach allows us to 
their portfolio’s carbon emission intensity  engage with companies that are supporting  In addition, proposed utility stocks where coal is 
by 18.5% by 2025.  the clean energy transition and are committed  between 20 and 30% of the issuer’s activity will 
to phase out their use of coal.  now also undergo escalation. Results of the 
These targets are overseen and monitored by  escalation process are overseen by the Group 
the Group Environment Committee and there is  Climate Impact Pledge exclusions Environment Committee.
further detail on our progress against them in  Stocks excluded by LGIM from the Future World   
the Carbon metrics and targets section. product range, as called out under the updated  The escalation process has had a real impact. 
Climate Impact Pledge, also continue to be  In 2020, multiple proposed transactions were 
excluded in our business IMAs. declined based on our assessment of the 
transition and physical risks underlying 
the transactions.
Employee engagement
We engage with our employees on 
climate change through company-wide 
training, information on our intranet 
and the Climate Change Virtual 
Accelerator. Nearly 100 of our 
employees collaborated to identify 
and develop viable climate-friendly 
business solutions. From almost 60 
ideas put forward, we tested the 
potential of 10 projects, ranging from 
new net zero investment concepts to 
retrofitting residential housing stock. 
The programme demonstrates the 
level of engagement and enthusiasm 
from all levels within our business.
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 22
Risk management
Managing transition risks 
continued
Investment solutions 
Part of our risk management strategy 
is to develop investment solutions 
which support the low-carbon 
transition. Using Destination@Risk, 
we are deepening the integration of 
climate and environmental factors into 
our investments and in December 2020, 
we launched a Core Fixed Income 
Exchange Traded Fund range which 
provides a higher allocation to green 
bonds and issuers with the highest 
ESG scores, while retaining a similar 
risk/return profile to traditional indices.
Engagement We have sent letters detailing our assessment to 
Alongside close monitoring of the political and  several hundred companies identified as having 
regulatory landscape, an important part of our  poor scores relative to their size. Through voting,  I am hugely proud of 
strategy is to engage with regulators and  we will sanction companies that persistently fall  the progress we have 
investee companies in support of climate action.  short of our minimum standards at the 2021  made with the Global 
This benefits our own stakeholders, the wider  annual general meeting season. The stringency 
Research and Engagement 
market and society. This is actively pursued by  of our standards and sanctions will increase over 
LGIM on the Group’s behalf, with climate change  time, with the possibility of divestment from  Groups in challenging 
being the number one topic for engagement for  select funds for persistent offenders.  our investment decisions 
the investment stewardship team in 2020.  through the lens of ESG, 
Alongside this quantitatively driven engagement 
whilst also embarking on 
Climate Impact Pledge programme, we have also selected 60 companies 
Through our dedicated engagement  for in-depth engagement, in which sector experts  meaningful dialogue 
programme, the Climate Impact Pledge, we  from across LGIM’s investment teams will also  with our clients on how 
are committed to help companies to step up  participate. These companies are influential in  to achieve climate goals 
on their ambition towards net zero, build resilient  their sectors, but not yet leaders on sustainability; 
through Destination@Risk.”
strategies for this transformative transition  we believe they can and should embrace the 
period and succeed in the low-carbon world. transition to net zero carbon emissions in the 
next few years. Sonja Laud
We use qualitative and quantitative measures  LGIM Chief Investment Officer
to assess companies’ progress. We will publicly  If companies do not meet the minimum 
celebrate the successes we see in our  standards we have set out, engagement may 
companies, but also take voting and investment  translate into firm-wide voting sanctions and 
sanctions against companies falling behind.  divestment consequences for LGIM funds 
Our engagement has consequences. adopting the Climate Impact Pledge exclusions 
– including our Group’s IMAs. 
Climate ratings for c.1,000 companies are 
publicly available under a ‘traffic light’ system.  Global Research and Engagement Groups 
Companies were selected from 15 climate- During 2020, work has continued on the Global 
critical sectors (from aviation to steel-making)  Research and Engagement Groups established 
and are responsible for 60% of all greenhouse  in 2019 by LGIM’s Chief Investment Officer, 
gas emissions from listed companies.  Sonja Laud, which brings together sector 
expertise to identify the challenges and 
This targeted approach – using voting and  opportunities which will determine the resilience 
investment sanctions to motivate companies  of sectors and the companies within them. 
to step up on sustainability – has contributed 
to companies making improvements to their  Sector specialists from the investments and 
In 2020 LGIM was 
climate targets and strategies. Several  stewardship teams have established regular 
companies, including Subaru, were excluded  working groups to assess the evolving  selected as a member 
from our Future World funds for poor climate  materiality of climate and other ESG factors 
of the PRI Leaders’ 
performance but have since made sufficient  across different sectors, from energy to 
progress to be reinstated.  consumer goods; climate change will  Group on climate.
  remain an area of focus throughout 2021. 
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 23
Risk management
Managing transition risks 
continued
Support for mainstream low-carbon funds and 
client education
Climate collaborations Our Group continued its strong support for the  Through our engagement 
To maximise our influence, we work alongside  LGIM Future World Fund Range in 2020, with  programme renewed to 
other large investors and specialist advisory  £476 million of our own capital invested in the  align with the net zero 
groups focused on raising governance and  fund range as at year end. We are committed 
challenge, we want to help 
sustainability standards across the market.  to investing in low-carbon strategies and 
Nigel Wilson, Group Chief Executive, chairs  demonstrating strong engagement on ESG  steer companies and our 
the Bank of England’s Climate Risk Forum,  themes. By investing our own funds alongside  clients towards success 
Innovation Working Group. external capital we bring stronger alignment of  in a low-carbon world.”
interest, and more power and authority to LGIM’s 
We are a member of the Aldersgate Group – an  engagement process.
Michelle Scrimgeour
alliance of leaders from business, politics and 
CEO of LGIM and member 
civil society that drives action for a sustainable  Client and market education on the topic of 
of UK Government’s COP26 
economy and engages with policymakers in the  climate change plays an essential role in the 
Business Leaders
EU and the UK. Aldersgate Group was one of  acceleration of low-carbon investments. 
the key actors which advocated the adoption  Throughout 2020 we have continued to publish 
of net zero legislation in the UK in 2019 and  thought pieces, podcasts and blogs on 
subsequent policy measures.  climate-related topics, such as land use and 
deforestation, the managed decline of the oil 
LGIM is a long-standing member of the  industry, the growth of renewables, green gilts, 
Institutional Investor Group on Climate Change  fossil fuel divestment and the integration 
and a member of Climate Action 100+ (CA100+),  of climate and other ESG considerations 
an initiative engaging with some of the world’s  in emerging market debt². 
largest companies on their management of 
climate-related risks. As part of the work with 
CA100+, LGIM co-led engagements with oil 
major BP which led to the company adopting net  Investing in renewable infrastructure 
zero emissions targets. LGIM has also worked  green technology LGIM’s Active Ownership report 
on sustainable finance as an active member  Part of building portfolio resilience is to invest  For more case studies of company and 
of the United Nations Principles for Responsible  in low-carbon assets and technologies that  policy engagements on climate, please 
Investment, FAIRR¹, and with organisations such  support a speedy transition. We would expect  see LGIM’s Active Ownership report: 
www.lgim.com/uk/en/capabilities/
as the Investment Association and Council  to see a positive return on these assets if a 
investment-stewardship/
of Institutional Investors.  ‘Paris’ consistent economy is achieved which 
will mitigate the transition and physical risks 
We engage with regulators and policy-makers  that arise elsewhere in the portfolio.
globally on the issue, including the UK 
Department for Work and Pensions, Financial 
Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation 
Authority, the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission, and the European Commission.
LGIM’s CEO, Michelle Scrimgeour, co-chairs 
the Business Leaders Group alongside 
The Secretary of State for Business at the 
international COP26 climate negotiations, 
due to be held in Glasgow in 2021, in an effort 
to increase momentum for climate action in the 
private sector. LGIM’s Head of Sustainability and 
Responsible Investment, Meryam Omi, is also 
on secondment as a COP26 ‘high-level 
champion’ for climate finance.
LGIM Real Assets is an active member and 
signatory to the Better Building Partnership 
(BPP) Climate Change Commitment in achieving 
net zero carbon by 2050. The BBP is a coalition 
of some of the largest commercial real estate 
managers in the UK.
1.  An investor initiative addressing ESG issues focused on the risks associated with livestock farming.
2.  https://www.lgimblog.com/categories/esg-and-long-term-themes/
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 24
Risk management
Managing transition risks 
continued
towards a small subset of properties (less than 
5% of the total portfolio), which are largely in 
Residential property Lifetime mortgages coastal areas or known flood risk areas. This 
Transition risks impacting our housing  Our assets include c.£6.0 billion of lifetime  proportion is expected to reduce over time due 
businesses are varied, from policy and market  mortgages (LTMs) held within our retirement  to enhanced new business underwriting controls.
changes, to customer preference and the  asset portfolio. LTMs are a form of equity 
development of new technology. We continue  release mortgage that provide borrowers over 
to seek an understanding of these risks and how  the age of 55 a loan secured against their main 
we can best respond and build resilience into our  residence, without the need for regular  Real Assets
future strategy. In 2020 we developed a framework  repayments. All LTMs provide a ‘no negative  The built environment contributes around 40% 
to measure the embodied carbon within our  equity’ guarantee, where the loan value is never  of the UK’s total carbon footprint. Almost half 
housing construction activities which we are  greater than the property’s net sale proceeds.   of this is from energy used in buildings and 
rolling out in 2021.  Our valuation of lifetime mortgages is linked  infrastructure. Transition risks have therefore 
to the underlying residential properties, and  been identified as a key and immediate risk 
We are also aware that customers’ views and  in turn their exposure to physical climate risks.  to our Real Assets portfolio, and we continue 
expectations of how homes perform are likely to  to scale up and implement programmes and 
change over time, with expectations that they will  During 2019 we started work to ensure we  practices to mitigate this.
perform much better than current standards and  maintain an updated view of emerging physical 
policies require. To meet this challenge we set a  risks associated with flooding. An assessment  Real estate equity
target to ensure that all homes built from 2030 will  of flood risk is included as part of the initial  LGIM Real Assets is responsible for £21.2 billion 
be capable of operating with net zero operational  underwriting assessment. This enables the flood  assets under management of UK real estate 
emissions and over 2020 each of our businesses  risk to each property to be categorised and  investment. LGIM Real Assets also manage 
developed their roadmaps to deliver these. zoned. An increasing body of published scientific  direct investments in specialist commercial 
research indicates that climate change is linked  real estate on behalf of our capital investment 
We are also planning for future policy changes  to an increased risk of flooding in the UK¹, along  business which creates assets for the Group 
in our current building practices: with rising costs to deal with the damage  and third-party clients. Our capital investment 
     caused. This is driving the need for increased  business invests their own capital to generate 
•  We are designing our first net zero carbon  scrutiny of flood risk through regular review. attractive returns and support the transition 
(regulated energy) retirement village in  to a low-carbon economy.
Caddington, utilising ground source heat  Over 2020 we have expanded our work with 
pumps from Kensa, one of our portfolio  Baringa Partners and climate risk specialists  As part of the Group’s commitment to mitigate 
investment companies.  XDI to assess the physical risk exposure in our  climate change and to promote a transition to 
•  In Affordable Homes, 75% of homes are  lifetime mortgage portfolio. We have used these  a low-carbon economy, we have been aligning 
expected to be Energy Performance  models to assess a representative sample of  our business with a low-carbon future for many 
Certificate (EPC) A, and we are exploring  our lifetime mortgage portfolio’s exposure to  years, putting sustainability at the heart of our 
if a proportion can be net zero carbon. different climate hazards. This analysis can be  investment strategy. 
•  CALA has built a new development in  scaled to estimate the total portfolio impact of 
Linlithgow where all homes have green  up to c.0.8% reduction in asset value if there is  In 2019, LGIM Real Assets pledged to achieve 
technology to achieve A rated energy  no mitigating or abatement of climate impacts. net zero carbon for our real estate equity 
performance and we have started our modular  platform by 2050 (or sooner), an essential step 
homes development in Selby in which all  Our properties are well diversified over the UK  in anticipating policy responses to the climate 
homes are on track to achieve an EPC A rating. and our analysis has shown that the potential  crisis and future proofing our assets. 
impacts from physical risk are heavily skewed 
Asset lifecycle Key interventions points Progress to date
Construction New development •  New developments and refurbishment – briefs 
and guidance. 
•  Acquisitions – new net zero carbon due 
diligence audits.
•  Net zero roadmap audits – pilots on new 
Operational Acquisition and existing assets and development of new  Net zero carbon delivery strategy 
overview
net zero roadmap audits to assess transition 
In 2020 LGIM Real Assets released 
Lease event path and initial cost. a roadmap to achieving our net zero 
•  Delivering actions & solutions – working with  goals with our delivery strategy 
our supply chain on new asset sustainability  outlining processes and interventions 
Refurbishment plans estimates. at all stages of the property life cycle. 
•  Performance analysis and reporting – 
Void period new integrated data platform, improving data  Source: LGIM Real Assets Net Zero 
quality and reporting at asset and fund level. Carbon Roadmap: 
www.legalandgeneral.com/
•  Strengthening our occupier engagement strategy.
institutional/real-assets/capabilities/
•  Climate-related risk and resilience – a new 
responsible_investing/ 
methodology to assess the physical risk profile 
End of life New development of climate change scenarios at asset level.
1.	 https://www.metoffice.gov.uk/weather/climate-change/climate-change-in-the-uk
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 25
Risk management
Managing transition and physical risks
Real Assets continued  •  During 2020 we carried out a range of pilot net  Due to the nature and size of the Group’s annuity 
During 2020 LGIM Real Assets established  zero carbon audits to help us better understand  portfolio, we maintain some exposure to 
science based targets which equate to a 60%  the practical considerations and the costs of  fossil-fuel related assets in the private credit 
carbon and energy intensity reduction in the  transitioning existing assets to net zero. portfolio. This is mainly through investments 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions associated with our  •  100% of service charge properties have  in the utilities and energy sectors, where many 
properties and will drive carbon reductions over  IS0 14001 accreditation, an Environmental  companies own both legacy fossil fuel and 
the next 10 years.  Management System which looks at managing  renewable energy assets. Some exposure is 
any environmental risks at a site level.  also through project finance structures, which 
Acquisitions finance specific energy assets or portfolios.
•  We have introduced net zero carbon audits  Private credit
for all new acquisitions. We specify best  Our £12 billion private credit portfolio covers  When considering investments with fossil fuel 
practice standards in terms of sustainability  corporate and alternative debt, infrastructure  exposure, we apply enhanced due diligence 
and have a robust due diligence process to  and real estate debt. We have integrated our  criteria concerning the company’s carbon 
ensure the assets we purchase have high  net zero commitments into investment  intensity and decarbonisation strategy, in 
sustainability credentials. decision-making through energy transition  addition to credit quality, pricing, liquidity and 
•  Energy Performance Certificates are obtained  alignment criteria, which assess how aligned  other investment criteria. The robustness of this 
for all properties where they are required. Our  an asset is with our climate change objectives.  strategy is reviewed through analysis of, among 
standard lease has included sustainability  Proposed investments are assessed against  others: capital expenditure budgets, market 
clauses since 2011. these criteria in the due diligence process  conditions surrounding future investments and 
and are further scrutinised in the multilayer  management commitment to energy transition 
Standing assets investment committee. Alignment criteria  alignment. This leverages knowledge across 
•  All assets have an Asset Sustainability Plan  include: carbon constraints, enhanced due  our business, from sector and ESG specialists, 
which is part of an integrated reporting  diligence for fossil-fuel related investments,  to credit and portfolio management teams. 
platform, allowing us to have full transparency  negative screening criteria (exclusions) and 
and accountability.  control and review frameworks. We have also introduced hard limits on some 
•  An annual operational plan has been put in  carbon-intensive investments, derived from our 
place for offices, with an annual ESG plan for  Private credit investments are assigned carbon  views on potential stranding of certain energy 
each asset which will feed into fund-level  constraints consistent with wider Group targets  assets. Given the pace of decarbonisation in 
targets for reductions in energy, water  and take into account carbon intensity, size and  different regions, proposed investments are 
consumption and waste. duration of potential investments. Constraints  assessed against region-specific qualitative 
•  We are strengthening our occupier  are formulated to optimise portfolio allocation,  and quantitative asset stranding criteria. 
engagement strategy, including the  balancing credit metrics, returns and longer- Any investments deemed to be at a high risk 
development of an occupier engagement  term energy transition risk. They are projected  within our investment horizon will generally 
handbook to support asset managers. using short, mid and long-term decarbonisation  be rejected at the due diligence stage.
•  Sustainability related key performance  targets and progress against these is reviewed 
indicators continue to be included in  regularly, with constraints adjusted as necessary. Portfolio performance against carbon and other 
employees’ performance appraisal targets  alignment targets is monitored and reviewed 
and property management contracts.  Our alignment criteria emphasise enhanced due  regularly within the governance framework. 
•  100% of electricity for our managed  diligence for fossil-fuel related investments.  We manage adverse performance of individual 
properties continues to be purchased from  We have invested more than £1 billion in clean  investments through a variety of actions, 
certified ‘natural’ Renewable Electricity  energy projects, including solar and wind farms,  including introducing more stringent carbon 
Generation, meaning only wind, solar or hydro  geothermal plants, smart networks and energy  constraints, engagements with issuers and, 
sources are used. The electricity is certified  storage assets. in certain cases, divestment.
under the Ofgem administered Renewable 
Energy Guarantees of Origin scheme. 
New developments and major 
refurbishments
At a recently completed major office 
development at 245 Hammersmith 
Road in London, we carried out our 
first detailed embodied carbon study. 
Through this work we reduced 
embodied carbon by 10.4% resulting 
in embodied carbon levels of just 
over 800 kgCO2/m². This study will be 
used to help us develop our approach 
to reducing embodied carbon in 
future developments. 
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 26
Risk management
Managing physical risks
Physical climate risk is expected to pose an  An assessment of current flood risk is already  This analysis has shown that, moving forwards, 
increasing risk to our Real Asset portfolio. As  included in the standard due diligence process  a number of assets that are currently considered 
such, we have continued to work this year with  of all Real Asset property acquisitions. This  a lower risk Zone 1 may move into the higher 
Baringa Partners and climate risk specialists  enables the flood risk of each asset to be  risk Zones 2 and 3 (Chart 11). For Real Assets 
XDI to develop a bespoke approach to assess  categorised and zoned. Our policy is to reject  as a whole, it also indicates that the total number 
emerging physical risk across LGIM Real Assets.  properties in high risk zones (Zone 3), unless  of assets in Zone 3 is expected to double 
We hold an extensive and diverse portfolio  a specific review confirms no risk to structure  between the baseline and 2100 as a result 
across a wide range of sectors, which includes  or operation and that flood defences will be  of climate change.
both single-site assets and large sites spanning  constructed and maintained. Properties in 
multiple postcodes. Our updated approach  medium risk zones (Zone 2) are investigated  Real Assets: next steps
therefore uses Unique Property Reference  in detail for resilience.  We will look to perform an in-depth asset level 
Numbers (UPRNs)¹ to ensure that risks to any  assessment for assets which are identified as a 
individual buildings within larger multi-building  Developments in 2020 high risk now, and those which may move into a 
sites are captured more accurately and at a  This year, we have worked to improve the  higher zone in the near-future. This information 
comparable granularity to single-site locations.  locational accuracy of our baseline data using  will then be built into asset-level adaptation 
our UPRN analysis, which better represents the  planning and will also be used to inform 
In this approach, overall risk is calculated by first  flood risk at a sub-asset level. This zoning is  acquisition and disposal strategy. We will also 
assessing the exposure of each asset to eight  based upon riverine and surface flood risk.  put in place an annual flood risk review to 
different climate hazards². This is then  Costal inundation has also been assessed and  identify any changes in flood risk profiles.
moderated according to asset characteristics.  we are currently in the process of identifying the 
The overall risk at each site is expressed as an  resilience of coastal defences for the small 
Annual Exceedance Probability (AEP): the  number of assets potentially at risk, which will be 
probability of that hazard exceeding a pre- incorporated in future iterations of this analysis. 
determined threshold in any given year, 
expressed as a percentage. The AEPs can then  Building on our existing flood zoning approach, 
be combined to provide an overall level of risk  we have also now incorporated an assessment 
at the asset level, or aggregated at a sectoral,  of future precipitation change. This is used to 
regional or fund level. We are currently working  determine the impact on riverine and surface 
on translating the AEPs into a VaR to better  flooding, which is then used to project future 
understand the financial implications of  changes in flood zone distribution. This approach 
these risks.  maintains the language familiar to our 
stakeholders, whilst also communicating the 
Of the eight hazards reviewed, the analysis  impact that climate change is projected to have 
demonstrated that although other risks will  on future flood risk. 
become more significant moving forwards, 
flood risk poses the biggest threat to our 
portfolio, both now and into the future. We have  Chart 11.
also worked with XDI to further develop our 
% of assets by Flood Zone  1990–2100
flood risk assessment approach, improving the 
accuracy of our baseline data and incorporating  90%
forward-looking data into our analysis. 
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
1990 2020 2050 2080 2100
● ● ● ●
 Zone 0   Zone 1   Zone 2   Zone 3
Change in percentage of assets located in each flood zone between 1990 and 2100. 
Zone 0 indicates a very low flood risk, Zone 1 low, Zone 2 medium and Zone 3 a high flood risk.
1.	 Unique	Property	Reference	Numbers	(UPRNs)	are	unique	identifiers	for	every	addressable	location	in	the	UK.
2.		Climate	hazards	used	in	the	assessment	are:	riverine	flood,	surface	water	flood,	coastal	inundation,	heat,	forest	fire,	wind	damage,	soil	movement	and	freeze-thaw.	
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 27
Risk management
Longevity risk
Our initial modelling work has concentrated on  This change in the distribution of temperature  When holistically considering these factors, 
the link between temperature and mortality as  is expected to lead to prolonged heatwaves,  which are not modelled, alongside the direct 
this is an area with good availability of historical  but also a higher volatility in weather patterns.  temperature relationship with mortality rates, 
data and significant academic study. We have  Therefore the overall temperature effect, in  we believe the overall effect is likely to be lower 
applied this model to scenarios for the United  isolation of other environmental changes,  improvements in mortality rates compared to 
Kingdom (UK) and the United States (US) that  is a balancing act between: our current best estimate assumptions for the 
are similar to those chosen for the assets.  US, but a slightly higher improvement in 
These scenarios were obtained from the Met  •  Reduced winter deaths from a higher  mortality rates for the UK.
Office in the UK and Lawrence Livermore  average temperature.
National Laboratory in the US.  •  Increased summer deaths caused by higher 
temperature and prolonged heatwaves; and 
The link between temperature  •  Increased deaths caused by more extreme 
and mortality winters as a result of higher temperature 
Extreme cold and extreme heat both increase  volatility.
mortality rates, particularly amongst the very 
frail. Currently, weather in the UK largely falls  The overall impact of these competing effects 
within a zone that is relatively simple to adapt to  is sensitive to the assumptions we make in our 
– we do not have many extreme weather events.  modelling. It is possible to produce different sets 
However, in the UK and internationally, more deaths  of plausible assumptions that lead to opposite 
are attributed to extreme cold than extreme heat.  conclusions in relation to the longevity impact. 
Therefore, in isolation, an increase in average  However, this modelling does not explicitly take 
temperatures of a couple of °C in the UK would  account of a wide range of other factors such as:
on balance be beneficial for mortality rates. 
•  Higher average temperatures impacting 
The same applies to the US, where the range of  air pollution levels.
experienced temperatures is wider and therefore  •  Higher average temperatures allowing vector 
we might also expect a level of adaptation that  borne diseases to thrive in a broader range 
limits any adverse impact on mortality. However,  of latitudes; and
both of our main climate change scenarios  •  Society adapting to the changing 
(a ‘strong mitigation’ outcome of around 2°C  environment with different levels of success 
warming by 2080–2100 as well as a more  depending on socio-economic class or age. 
pessimistic 4°C assumption) will lead to more  These adaptations may include improved 
changes than just an increase in the average  diet, more fitness and lower reliance on 
temperature. It is expected that the distribution  transport, hence mitigating the impact 
of temperatures, not just the average, will change. of air pollution and lowering mortality.
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 28
Risk management
Longevity risk 
continued
Uncertainty in our work As a result of these difficulties, we decided not  Future work
The relationship between climate and mortality  to proceed with treating air pollution as an  We began by building a pragmatic model 
is inherently difficult to model, as there are many  explicit factor in this version of the model.  that captures the key interaction between 
moving variables that interact with each other.  However, should the availability of air pollution  temperature and mortality rates for the UK 
It is not possible to accurately know how society  data and forecasts change in a way that makes  and the US. This is just one facet of how climate 
will respond to climate change: for example, it is  this viable in future modelling, we would see  change could affect mortality rates. The 
feasible that a rapid adoption of new technology  value in attempting to incorporate pollution as  relationship between climate change and 
could counteract the health impacts of  a second direct factor. longevity risk is one of competing factors, some 
prolonged heatwaves or deeper cold snaps in  that serve to increase life expectancy dampened 
the winter. Societal changes such as a reduction  Other territories by other factors that increase mortality rates. 
in the amount of meat consumed or an  We modelled the UK and the US separately. Our  These factors relate not just to the physical 
increase in zero emission cars could lead  work had previously focused on the UK, where  environment, but also relate to our response 
to health benefits.  our largest longevity liabilities are held. We have  and adaptability to that changing environment. 
since modelled the effect of climate change  For this reason, it is difficult to project the impact 
Whether the change is driven by government  on longevity for the US. We have also written  of climate change on our longevity risk.
action or by independent societal changes could  annuity business in Canada, Ireland and the 
affect whether our adaptation is even across  Netherlands. Despite the lower exposures,  The aim of future iterations of our climate-
society or whether, for example, longevity  we would expect our conclusions to be broadly  longevity modelling will be to capture additional 
differences by socio-economic class  similar across these territories, although the  impacts of climate change (over and above the 
become exaggerated.  balance of heat-related and cold-related deaths  direct temperature effects we have focused on 
would be likely to vary at different latitudes.  to date) whilst recognising the uncertainty in 
In addition to temperature, we considered air  how many of these elements will play out in 
pollution as an external factor in our model.  Other factors will also vary between territories,  different scenarios. Inevitably we will need to be 
However, we found a number of practical  such as the government and societal response,  pragmatic, but we will refine our approach based 
difficulties incorporating this, the most  driving the speed with which different groups in  on what we consider to be plausible scenarios.
significant of which include: society adapt to the changing environment. 
There are also environmental factors, such as 
•  There are many different pollutants in the  the prevalence of certain diseases that need 
atmosphere (including sulphur dioxide,  a specific set of climate-related conditions 
nitrogen dioxide, ozone and particulate  to thrive.
matter) occurring in different concentrations 
depending on place and time. In particular, 
the variation by geography (such as urban 
or rural landscapes) means that much more 
granular data would be required than for 
temperature alone. 
•  Climate forecasts do not include projections 
of air pollution. We would need to build a 
separate model to incorporate this, before 
estimating the combined future effect of both 
temperature and pollution on mortality; and
•  Studies have indicated that there is a high 
correlation between temperature and air 
pollution (especially in cities)¹, which makes 
it much harder to isolate the impact that 
pollution has in its own right. 
1.	 	Temperature	and	air	pollution	relationship	during	heatwaves	in	Birmingham,	UK	by	Kalisa	et	al:	https://eprints.lancs.ac.uk/id/eprint/127503/1/Pure_ID_244951877_
Temperature_and_air_pollution_relationship_during_heatwaves_in_Birmingham_UK.pdf	
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 29
Carbon metrics 
and targets 
The metrics and targets used to assess and manage 
relevant climate-related risks and opportunities.
To assess climate-related risks and  Methodology for calculating  To address this, our preferred metric is tonnes 
opportunities, we focus on the following  carbon footprint of CO2e/£1m investment, using Enterprise 
metrics, covering the investment and  Carbon dioxide is the most significant  Value¹,² as the individual stock divisor, which can 
operational pillars of our climate strategy:  contributor to anthropogenic global GHG  be applied to the company, sector or portfolio 
emissions (which also consist of methane,  level for comparative purposes. It attributes the 
•  Our Scope 3 investment portfolio carbon  nitrous oxide and fluorinated gases). To  carbon emissions of the issuer to the investor 
intensity. measure the equivalent warming impact  based on its ownership, normalised for the size 
•  Portfolio temperature alignment; and of GHG emissions, corporate GHG emissions  of the investment and the company market size. 
•  Operational carbon footprint. are measured as tonnes of carbon dioxide  We also include revenues as a divisor as a 
equivalent (CO2e). further point of comparison. 
We disclose our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The risks  In the analysis below we distinguish between  In summary, to measure our Scope 3 footprint we: 
associated with GHG emissions are discussed  Scope 1 and 2 emissions which relate to our 
in the Strategy and Risk management sections. own operational footprint, and the much larger  1. Normalise individual stock emission data. 
  estimated footprint of Scope 3 emissions,  We have chosen to show three sets of figures 
which includes the carbon emissions from  that reflect the different normalisation 
Scope 1: all direct GHG emissions
the companies that we invest in. We use the  approaches, with the following divisors:
Scope 2: indirect GHG emissions from 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions from companies in 
consumption of purchased electricity, 
our investment portfolio to calculate our total  •  End 2020 Enterprise Value.
heat or steam
Scope 3 portfolio emission intensity.  •  Start 2020 Enterprise Value.
Scope 3: other indirect emissions not 
•  End 2020 Revenues.
covered in Scope 2 that occur in the value 
Scope 3 Investment Portfolio 
chain of the reporting company, including 
carbon intensity: Methodology Note: for government bonds, which are 
both upstream and downstream emissions.
The simplest carbon measure is total carbon  included in each data set, we use GDP 
emissions (Scope 1 and 2) expressed in tonnes  as the divisor. 
Our targets support our commitment to align  of CO2e but this is an absolute figure and is 
with the Paris Agreement, as specified in the  not normalised for the size of the company  2. Weight the individual stock intensities by 
Commitments section. Further detail on the  or investor. It reflects the portfolio or company  the stock investment size in the relevant 
investment portfolio targets are below.  size rather than genuinely measuring carbon  portfolio to give a portfolio carbon emission 
intensity and it does not allow for comparisons  intensity footprint.
across companies, portfolios or against 
a benchmark.
Portfolio carbon intensity
Stock carbon emissions L&G stock investment size
Portfolio carbon 
emission intensity 
footprint (CO2e)
Stock divisor
Total portfolio size
(Enterprise	Value,	Revenue	or	GDP)
1.	 	Following	the	EU	Technical	Expert	Group	(TEG)	September	2019	guidance,	this	is	defined	as	‘the	sum	of	the	market	capitalisation	of	common	stock	at	fiscal	year	end,	the	market	
capitalisation	of	preferred	equity	at	fiscal	year-end,	and	the	book	values	of	total	debt	and	minorities’	interests	minus	the	cash	and	cash	equivalents	held	by	the	enterprise’	(p.41).	
2.	 	While	the	TEG	issued	further	guidance	in	December	2019	(see	p.11	in	link	below)	promoting	the	use	of	Enterprise	Value	Including	Cash	(EVIC),	the	EV	(excluding	cash)	approach	has	
been	maintained	for	the	2020	TCFD	Report,	to	support	consistency	with	the	2019	TCFD	Report,	with	a	review	of	approach	to	follow	in	2021.	See	www.ec.europa.eu/info/sites/info/files/
business_economy_euro/banking_and_finance/documents/192020-sustainable-finance-teg-benchmarks-handbook_en_0.pdf	
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 30
Carbon metrics and targets
Carbon metrics and targets  
continued
The key carbon data sources and methodology 
for different asset classes are explained below: 
We have applied the emission data equally 
to equity and bond assets as they are used  Equity,  Our key input is the TruCost carbon dataset that covers c.15,000 companies. 
by corporates to raise capital and fund the  corporate 
Where there is no TruCost coverage we have applied:
operations and assets of the business.  bonds & 
private credit 
To determine total portfolio emissions, 
1. A suitable stock proxy in the TruCost database
we multiply the preferred metric by the 
2. Manual research from company filings (large private credit holdings)
portfolio size (in £ million).
3. A TruCost sector average (smaller holdings).
In any one period, the metric is impacted by:
Real Assets The carbon analysis of our property portfolio is based on a number of sources. 
 
Where we are responsible for the utility procurement, operation and management 
•  Changes in reported emissions from 
of our properties, through our managing agents, we obtain energy and 
the companies we invest in. 
environmental data directly from site utility meters or from utility suppliers. 
•  Changes in the divisor; and 
•  Investment activity. 
Where we do not manage our properties, our occupiers provide utility data 
or we use benchmark data based upon property type and floor area. We use 
While changes in reported emissions and 
the following benchmark data sources:
investment activity are key to decarbonising 
portfolios, changes in the divisor can create 
1. Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmarking (GRESB) occupier data 
inadvertent volatility in the carbon intensity 
collection. As part of our occupier liaison processes, we currently receive 
metric. Showing a figure with the divisor fixed 
operational data from approximately 30% of our occupiers. This data is 
at the start of the year as well as a figure with 
an indication of the emissions within our property portfolio.
the end of year divisor, allows us to isolate 
2. Industry standard benchmarks: Chartered Institute of Building Services 
the impact of market volatility on our portfolio 
Engineers (CIBSE) and Better Buildings Partnership’s Real Estate Environmental 
carbon intensity metric through the year from 
Benchmarks (REEB). Energy (and carbon) benchmarks for various types of 
the other impacts. 
property have been published in the UK for over 20 years, originating from the 
government funded Energy Efficiency Best Practice programme (EEBPP). The 
Market volatility in 2020 was especially 
most recent update to these benchmarks was undertaken by CIBSE in 2008¹.
pronounced due to the impacts of Covid-19, with 
3. In addition, the Better Buildings Partnership, a voluntary group comprising 
the associated impacts shown on the next page. 
34 of the major commercial property owners in the UK, has established more 
recent benchmarks for particular types of commercial buildings, predominantly 
Changes in reported emissions will also be 
offices and shopping centres. REEB 2019 office benchmark was used for this 
affected by Covid-19 from the resultant impact 
analysis². 
on economic activity, although the related 
impacts will likely filter through reporting over 
By using a combination of these benchmarks, we establish an estimate of 
the next few years due to reported lags in the 
the carbon emissions associated with our direct property investments and 
underlying emission data. 
also identify which property sectors are on average most intensive in terms 
of carbon emissions.
For commercial property, our operational footprint (Scope 1 and 2) includes assets 
that are owned and managed in connection with our businesses. This includes all 
assets we occupy where we procure energy but also includes assets owned and 
managed by us, i.e. where we procure energy on behalf of external occupiers. 
The Group Scope 3 calculation additionally brings in the emissions associated 
with occupier energy use.
Lifetime  Conceptually our approach to LTM is based on an analysis of the lending by 
mortgages 
purpose and we then map each purpose to an asset category with a known carbon 
(LTM)
footprint. For example, we assume a portion of the lending is allocated to travel and 
within that, air travel. We therefore ascribe the carbon intensity connected to the air 
industry to that portion of outstanding loans.
Government  For government and quasi government bonds we apply the total outstanding debt 
bonds
we own to total country emissions intensity sourced from EDGAR – the Emissions 
Database for Global Atmospheric Research – European Commission. The intensity 
measure is based on country GDP.
Other assets
We have assumed that no emissions apply to the cash and derivative exposures.
1.	 CIBSE	Technical	Memorandum	46	(TM46):	Energy	Benchmarks	2008.
2.	 	http://www.betterbuildingspartnership.co.uk/node/129
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 31
Carbon metrics and targets
Carbon metrics and targets  
continued
Table 4. Portfolio carbon intensity metrics
Tonnes CO2e/£1m invested
Scope 3 Investment Portfolio  Tonnes CO2e/£m
carbon intensity: Results Dec ‘19  Dec ‘20 (using Dec ‘19  Dec ‘20 
Entity Measure (i) EV divisor) (ii) (iii) Dec ‘20 Target Dec ‘21 Target
Portfolio carbon intensity metrics Group CO2e/£m Enterprise Value 120 109 117 Paris Alignment -2%
Table 4 shows that on a like for like basis 
CO2e/£m revenues 280 n/a 286 Paris Alignment n/a
at December (Dec) 2020, the carbon emission 
intensity of the balance sheet was 117 tonnes  LGR CO2e/£m Enterprise Value 122 111 119 122¹ -2%
CO2e/£1m invested (down 2% from the 
previous year).
The impact of market volatility in 2020, due  Scope 3 Investment Portfolio 
When applied to the £93 billion of assets in  to the impacts of Covid-19, is shown in the  carbon intensity: Targets
this analysis², this gives a carbon footprint  difference between (ii) and (iii) and demonstrates  We have committed to alignment with the Paris 
of 11.0 million tonnes of CO2 emissions. This is  the impact that market movements can have  Agreement, including achieving carbon neutrality 
slightly higher than the 2019 equivalent number  on the emission intensity metric.  by 2050, in line with global efforts to limit 
(10.1 million tonnes¹), due to the expansion  warming to 1.5°C. 
of the Group’s portfolio over the year. Note, we have rebased the Dec’19 calculation 
from last year’s report for consistent year-on- To achieve this, we have set and updated our 
As in last year’s report, we have separately  year comparisons as a result of evolving  Group balance sheet carbon intensity targets 
identified our retirement business (LGR) in  methodology. In particular, this year we have  to monitor alignment, including reducing our 
the table as the largest single component  undertaken a more analytical approach in  portfolio carbon emission intensity by half by 
of the Group’s portfolio. calculating the carbon intensity of our private  2030, from a baseline start of 2020, in line with 
credit holdings. An observation from this market  the ‘IPCC Special Report on Global Warming 
The carbon intensity number can be volatile  is that the carbon emissions reported from  of 1.5 degrees’ (SR 15)3 proposal published 
over short periods, hence it is the medium-term  project financing and leasehold management  in October 2018.
annualised trend that is important. As discussed  entities have low Scope 1 and 2 emissions, with 
on the previous page, the metric is impacted  expected larger Scope 3 emissions not currently  In addition, our retirement business has used 
by multiple factors in any one year. reported. We expect this area to develop over  the longer-term decarbonisation requirement 
the next few years. implied by the Paris Agreement to derive a 
We have shown a step-through of results from  five-year target for its decarbonisation trajectory: 
(i) Dec’19 to (ii) Dec’20 (using Dec’19 EV divisor)  to reduce its portfolio’s carbon emission 
and finally to (iii) Dec’20 (using Dec’20 EV divisor).  intensity by 18.5% by 2025. This trajectory 
See Table 4. The difference between (i) and (ii)  is shown in Chart 12. The 2020 progression 
captures the impact of investment activity and  is also given in this chart. 
updates to pre-2020 reported carbon data and 
shows we have made positive steps in this regard. The 2% target reduction implied in 2021, as part 
of the five-year target, offers a realistic trajectory 
Chart 12. for decarbonisation and is reflective of our 
existing investment objectives in the portfolio. 
Carbon footprint (% 31 December 2019)
We believe that climate action objectives need 
to be fully integrated into our business projections 
100% for investment objectives to be effective.
We have widened the 2021 target 2% reduction 
90% (shown in Table 4 above) across our Group’s 
investment portfolio and each of our core 
businesses are in the process of determining 
80% emission reduction ambitions in alignment 
with the Science Based Target initiative.
70%
60%
50%
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030
Target Decarbonisation Pathway Model Period Progress
1.	 Re-stated	for	reference	to	the	Enterprise	Value	divisor	metric.	
2.	 	This	relates	to	the	investments	within	the	c.£95	billion	of	Group	proprietary	assets	qualifying	as	Scope	3	–	Investment	emissions.	The	emissions	for	the	additional	c.£2	billion	of	operating	
assets	(our	housing	businesses)	are	captured	in	the	operational	footprint	(on	page	34).
3.	 IPCC	Special	Report	on	Global	Warming	of	1.5	degrees.
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 32
Carbon metrics and targets
Carbon metrics and targets  
continued
Chart 13. For government bonds we use data provided 
by Climate Action Tracker to map government 
Portfolio temperature 
Portfolio temperature alignment policies to a warming outcome. We also show 
alignment °C 
Another way of looking at portfolio net zero  our calculation of the implied warming on the 
(c.£35bn of listed bonds and equity)
alignment is to compare the implied warming  chosen indices.
4.0 3.79 3.76 potential of our portfolio to well-known indices 
3.52 3.50
which serve as a proxy for ‘the world as it is’.  Chart 13 shows that the analysed portion of 
3.11
2.85 2.87 2.85 This gives us a sense of where we are compared  our listed equity and bond asset portfolios imply 
3.0
to both ‘Paris’ (1.5°C) objective and the world as  a warming below that derived for two standard 
it currently stands in terms of carbon intensity. benchmarks. A bond reference benchmark 
2.0 including government bonds is also included. 
1.5 We have analysed c.£35 billion of listed assets  This means that on this portion of our assets 
(including government bonds), out of our  we are more highly weighted in stocks 
1.0
c.£95 billion of Group proprietary assets¹, where  transitioning more quickly than the average 
we have the relevant carbon data. See Chart 13². in the relevant sector of the chosen indices. 
0.0
Total Total Total 
debt equity portfolio The lower the implied warming compared to  Our current portfolio temperature alignment 
the chosen benchmarks the better the fund is  is above the ‘Paris’ (1.5°C) target but at this point 
L&G
positioned with respect to transition risk. We  in the energy transition this is not surprising. 
Benchmark
have used Destination to calculate the required  The implied warming metric is data driven and 
Benchmark with sovereigns
reduction in carbon intensity for the higher risk  it does not take into account future emission 
Source: Destination@Risk and LGIM analysis
sectors to deliver ‘Paris’. This gives us a trajectory  reduction commitments; the results we see here 
against which we can assess the stocks we hold  are consistent with the global emissions gap. 
in those sectors.  ‘Paris’ is a desired future outcome whereas the 
current portfolio largely reflects the opportunity 
To the extent we own stocks where the expected  set connected to the world as is. 
emission intensity pathway (based on historic 
emission reduction data) is lower than the sector  That investment universe does not yet contain 
reference, the implied portfolio warming is lower  all the renewable assets and green technologies 
than the ‘Paris’ objective and vice versa. We have  required to deliver ‘Paris’ and not all companies 
used up to 10 years of reported carbon emissions  are evidencing a future strategy that is consistent 
for each stock as the key indicator of alignment  with ‘Paris’. We know that to mitigate transition 
(adjusted for where the stock sits with respect  risk our portfolio must align with the reduction 
to the average in the sector). in carbon emissions required to deliver the ‘Paris’ 
objective. The policies and procedures we have 
in place to drive that change are described in 
the Risk management section. 
1.	 	We	define	proprietary	assets	as	total	investments	to	which	shareholders	are	directly	exposed,	minus	
derivative	assets	and	cash,	cash	equivalents	and	loans.	
2.	 	Note,	portfolio	results	are	shown	weighted	by	stock	market	values.	An	alternative	approach,	weighting	the	
stocks	by	carbon	values,	is	also	in	development.	Weighting	by	carbon	values	results	in	higher	temperature	
alignment	metrics	than	shown	above	due	to	a	heavier	weighting	to	the	stocks	in	higher	emitting	sectors.
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 33
Carbon metrics and targets
Carbon metrics and targets  
continued
and building energy efficient homes and 
buildings, and seeking to better understand 
Real Assets: Net zero carbon roadmap Group operational footprint and targets and manage our need to travel for business.
We undertake extensive carbon analysis across  Table 5 provides details of the carbon associated 
our property portfolio annually, and have been  with the direct operations of our businesses.  Operational targets
actively working to manage and reduce our carbon  Whilst the total carbon from our operations  Whilst the impacts of Covid-19 on our 
emissions over the last 10 years. By 2018, we  has decreased from 2019, the 2020 operational  operational footprint have been significant 
had achieved the target set in 2010 to cut our  footprint is not truly representative of business  we continue to make progress on our core 
landlord operational carbon emissions by 20%.  as usual, as like all businesses our operations  operational targets. 
have been impacted by Covid-19. 
During 2019, we started working on our targets  For our operational footprint (occupied offices 
and strategy to 2030 and beyond, and our net  Whilst the vast majority of employees have  and business travel) to operate with net zero 
zero carbon roadmap was released in 2020.  worked from home, we have kept our core  carbon emissions from 2030:
The commitments outlined in our roadmap  offices open for those who needed to work 
are as follows: in the office to provide essential services for  •  We have introduced an electric car scheme 
our customers. To minimise risk of in-office  open to all employees.
Net zero carbon transmission we have been operating our airflow  •  We are reviewing our location strategy 
Our commitment is to achieve net zero carbon  systems for longer periods, and as a result we  to adapt to post-Covid work patterns.
across our whole real estate portfolio by 2050  have seen an increase in our operational office  •  We continue to increase the percentage 
or sooner. This commitment goes beyond our  footprint. We have also seen an increase in our  of renewable electricity we procure (avoiding 
landlord operations, covering whole building  footprint from our housing businesses which  over 19 tCO2e). 
emissions which include our occupiers. reflects our growth in this sector.
From 2030 we will create homes that can 
Science based targets In contrast, our business travel has significantly  be operated at net zero carbon emissions: 
Our science based targets will help support our  decreased, as has the carbon from the 
trajectory to net zero out to 2030. We will reduce  management of our Real Assets, many of  •  We have mapped the embodied carbon 
the operational carbon and energy intensity of  which were impacted by Covid-19 restrictions. of our homes.
our landlord-controlled areas (Scope 1 and 2  •  CALA Homes created their first development 
emissions) by 60%. We will establish science- To capture the impact of our employees working  which is fully A-rated and our modular homes 
based targets for our wider Scope 3 emissions  from home we introduced an assessment  development in Selby will also be A-rated.
during 2021. methodology based on a paper by leading carbon 
consultancy EcoAct. This equates to 1,733 tCO2e  Our focus for 2021 is to develop detailed and 
Best practice standards and is a new source of Scope 3 emissions. timebound plans in all of our business to achieve 
To achieve net zero, we are firmly committed to  our aim of net zero. These plans will be linked 
the principles defined by the UK Green Building  We will continue to manage and reduce the  to the development of science based targets 
Council framework. We will measure and reduce  carbon from our operational footprint through  and will provide milestones which we will report 
embodied carbon. We will use the energy  identifying efficiencies and improvements in  our progress against.
hierarchy to drive down the demand of our  technology, increasing the consumption of 
properties, to energy intensity levels which are  onsite and offsite renewable energy, designing 
‘Paris proof’. We will increase renewable energy 
supply and only consider verified offsetting as 
the final step.
Table 5. Group operational footprint
Remuneration Jan–Dec  Jan–Dec 
Our 2020 remuneration policy review included  Emissions source (tCO2e) 2020 2019
the commitment for environmental, social and  Total CO2e (Scope 1, 2, 3*) 40,344 46,164
governance targets to be included as a specific 
Scope 1 – fuel 15,163 15,226
performance measure from 2021. 
Scope 2 – location 20,319 23,716
Of which, Scope 2 – market 1,122 3,015
We have set climate-related targets in our 2021 
Executive remuneration scorecard. This includes  Scope 3 – business travel 3,045 7,223
a specific performance measure in the annual  Scope 3 – homeworking and serviced offices 1,817 n/a
variable pay (AVP) and setting the factors that 
*  Total CO2e Scope 3 includes business travel, serviced offices and homeworking
will also be considered when assessing the  We have used the GHG reporting protocol for calculating our GHG emissions and applied the emission factors from 
vesting outcome of the Performance Share  the UK Government’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting
Plan (PSP).
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 34
Carbon metrics and targets
Carbon metrics and targets  
continued
We note that investors (including LGIM), within  Next steps
the full suite of stakeholders, will benefit from  Addressing climate change is firmly embedded 
Setting Science Based Targets (SBTs) this increased reassurance and credibility.  as one of our six growth drivers. By committing 
We have supported the use of SBTs for a  Alignment to the SBTi is a notable metric  to SBTi, we have strengthened our risk policy 
number of years, ensuring that any net zero  reported within LGIM’s Climate Impact Pledge. statements to decarbonise the assets on our 
targets reflect the available science around  balance sheet to align with global efforts to 
climate change. We are joining at this stage to support the  limit warming to 1.5°C.
evolution of the guidance as the science develops.
In response to the release of SBTs guidance 
for the financial sector in October 2020, we have  The SBTi Call-to-Action Process:
now fully committed to align our net zero targets  Scope 1 and 2 operational emissions We will continue to invest in areas which support 
with the Science Based Target initiative (SBTi)  Our key commitments are called out in the  the transition to a low-carbon economy, and 
across our business. This is reflected in our  Policies and Commitments section above.  we seek to develop viable climate-friendly 
policy statements. Our suite of carbon reduction  business solution through our Climate Change 
targets cover at least our Scope 1 and 2  The LGIM Real Assets business will reduce  Virtual Accelerator.
operational emissions and Scope 3 investment  the operational carbon and energy intensity 
footprint and will further build out the medium- of our landlord-controlled areas (Scope 1 and 2 
term trajectory (5–15 years) required to deliver  emissions) by 60% by 2030 and will establish 
the 2050 net zero ambition. Science Based Targets (SBTs) for our wider  Through developments to our Destination@Risk 
Scope 3 emissions during 2021, as part of  framework, we will enhance our product offering 
We see the SBTi as a key benchmark for  our wider Real Assets Net Zero Roadmap. for our investment management clients. We will 
validating the strength of companies’ climate  use our influence as a large investor at the 
targets. SBTi certification already forms part  We intend to evolve these key commitments  COP26 climate conference to advocate for 
of our publicly available climate ratings for  as discussed above, with the integration of  market-wide policies to accelerate sustainable 
companies, under LGIM’s Climate Impact  embodied carbon emissions a top priority. finance and a green recovery.
Pledge, which leads to voting and investment 
action. This enables public scrutiny on corporate  Scope 3 investment footprint
commitments by providing reassurance and  Building on the current carbon footprint targets 
credibility to decarbonisation plans. set in relation to our investment portfolio, we  We continue to work to reduce our operational 
intend to integrate the portfolio temperature  footprint by developing detailed and timebound 
As a large institutional investor we already  alignment metric (above) into the target suite. plans in all of our business to achieve our aim 
use alignment to the SBTi as a metric to inform  of net zero. 
our assessment of a company’s commitments  In addition, we plan to build on our climate risk 
to supporting the transition and value the  understanding at the sector level, with further  Addressing climate change is the next step 
increased reassurance on the credibility  granular, sectoral targets mapping into the  in delivering our vision of inclusive capitalism; 
of a firm’s underlying plans to achieve  SBTs guidance.  whilst there is more to do, we believe our 
these objectives.  strengthened commitments will pave the 
way to carbon neutrality by 2050.
Legal & General Group Plc TCFD Report 2020 35