
SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT 2020
CONTENTS
2
FOREWORD
3
2020 SNAPSHOT
4
OUR APPROACH
6
SUSTAINABLE 
INVESTMENT
10
CORPORATE 
SUSTAINABILITY 
17
APPENDIX
Sustainability Report 2020 Foreword 2
Foreword
 
GAM placed sustainability at 
the heart of its corporate strategy 
in 2020.
Peter Sanderson, Group Chief Executive Officer
Even with the many challenges that 2020 brought, or perhaps  On the operational side, we aspire to be at the leading edge 
in part because of them, demand for sustainable investments  of best practice. In 2020, we engaged with employees to 
continued to grow at a rapid rate last year. So too did  make sure we meet their training and wider human capital 
expectations that companies such as GAM should do all they  needs, implemented a new charities policy and Community 
can to make a positive societal and environmental impact.  Volunteering Guidelines and continued to reduce our 
operational carbon footprint, achieving certification as a 
Today, asset managers who consider environmental, social  CarbonNeutral® company.
and governance (ESG) issues in a genuine and transparent 
way have a competitive advantage over others. Yet such is  I am pleased that clients are once again putting their trust 
the rate at which sustainable investment demand is growing,  in GAM after a challenging period. I am hopeful that this 
driven by regulators in the EU and beyond, that it will not be  momentum will continue during 2021.
long before the integration of ESG factors is considered an 
essential basic of mainstream investment management. Sustainability is integral to our strategy, both in the way we 
operate as a firm and in the investment strategies we provide 
That is one of the reasons why GAM placed sustainability at  for our clients. I hope this report gives an insight into that 
the heart of its corporate strategy in 2020. This has included  commitment and culture.
strengthening our governance as a firm, adding two new 
heads of distribution and a new global head of sustainable and 
impact investment to our team, and committing to publish this 
report: our first stand-alone Sustainability Report. 
As detailed in these pages, we are taking steps to respond 
to client demand by expanding our range of sustainability 
strategies and developing a proprietary ESG dashboard to  Peter Sanderson, 
further support integration and active stewardship. Chief Executive Officer
3 2020 Snapshot Sustainability Report 2020
2020 Snapshot
About this report
Sustainability is of growing importance to our clients and all 
our stakeholders and we are committed to achieving best in 
This is GAM’s first stand-alone Sustainability Report. It aims to  class standards for our sustainable investment and operational 
highlight the key sustainability challenges and opportunities  sustainability activities. We welcome feedback on this report 
for our business, how we are addressing them and some  from all stakeholders.
of our achievements in 2020. All data in this report relates 
to the period from 1 January to 31 December 2020 unless 
otherwise stated. 
2020 snapshot of highlights and expectations
   Achievements in 2020 include:   Aspirations for 2021 include: 
Governance   GAM ranked top-rated Swiss financial services    Become a supporter of the Task Force on Climate-related  
   firm for corporate governance by InRate, an    Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and report against TCFD  
   independent Swiss sustainability rating agency   recommendations in 2022 
Embedding ESG   Awarded an A+ ranking for our responsible    Roll out our proprietary ESG dashboard – providing  
   investment strategy and governance by the UN-   ESG data, trends and research – to all active managers  
   supported Principles for Responsible Investment   to support deeper integration and active stewardship 
Sustainable funds   Sustainable Swiss Equities team won    Launch a range of new sustainable strategies 
   “2020 Best Swiss Equities” award    
Corporate sustainability  GAM certified as a CarbonNeutral® company   Continue to explore becoming a certified B Corporation 
     Improve our corporate ESG ratings across key ratings providers –  
     targeting an A rating from MSCI by year end 
Sustainability Report 2020 Our approach 4
Our approach
GAM’s purpose is to attract and 
empower the brightest minds to 
provide the investment leadership, 
innovation and sustainable thinking 
needed to protect our clients’ 
financial future. Our vision is to 
build the most respected specialist 
active investment manager and 
trusted solutions and services 
platform in the world.
Peter Sanderson, Group Chief Executive Officer
In a world increasingly shaped by global sustainability issues  B Corporation, underlining our commitment to market-leading 
from climate to Covid-19, diversity to biodiversity, we recognise  transparency and to generating a positive impact for our 
that GAM must act responsibly to protect the environment and  clients, colleagues, the environment and wider society.
society while performing for our clients. 
In 2020, GAM made sustainability a priority, launching a 
As an asset manager, we want both our investment strategies  sustainability initiative and establishing a new governance 
and our corporate operations to reflect our aspiration for GAM to  structure to oversee and drive forward specific sustainability 
be at the leading edge of best practice on sustainability, and to  initiatives across our investments and our operations.
help us play our part in keeping global warming to 2 C or below.
We recognise that complying with the highest sustainability 
Sustainability is an active choice. Our integrated investment  standards is no longer an option; it’s becoming the new norm. 
approach evaluates strategic ESG factors alongside asset- In 2018, the global sustainable investment market stood at 
level and systemic financial, legal, regulatory, market and  USD 30.7 trillion, a 34% increase in just two years according 
operational factors, as we believe this is integral to sound  to the Global Sustainable Investment Alliance (GSIA), with 
investment decisions.  regulation such as the EU’s Sustainable Finance Disclosure 
Regulation driving further growth.
As investors, we also recognise our stewardship 
responsibilities and use our influence to encourage companies  We believe our active approach to sustainability, and 
to focus on long-term, sustainable value creation.   commitment to launch new GAM sustainable strategies to meet 
client needs, will be an important contribution to the growth 
On the operational side, we are strengthening our policies  pillar of our corporate strategy. 
and disclosure as we continue to explore becoming a certified 
5 Our approach Sustainability Report 2020
Governance of sustainability
(GRI) team, strengthening GAM’s range of sustainable 
investment strategies for clients and driving our efforts to be at 
We aim for the highest standards of governance and have  the leading edge of best practice.
taken steps to strengthen our governance and leadership in 
the area of sustainability.  We created a new Sustainability Committee, chaired by 
Stephanie Maier, which reports on our progress to the Group 
Ultimate responsibility for sustainability at our firm is held by  Management Board and the Board of Directors on a quarterly 
our Board, which is composed of seven Directors, all of which  basis. Non-executive director, Katia Coudray is responsible for 
are non-executive and considered fully independent. Full  championing sustainability at the Board level.
details of our Board, and Code of Conduct, can be found in 
the Appendix. Our commitment to improving transparency and disclosure 
means we are publishing our first stand-alone Sustainability 
In 2020, we created a new global role reporting directly to  Report in 2021 and are publicly committing to disclose our 
Group Chief Executive Officer Peter Sanderson. As Global  management of climate risk using the TCFD framework in 2022. 
Head of Sustainable and Impact Investment, Stephanie Maier 
is responsible for leading GAM’s sustainable investment  Further information about our Board and Board committees 
strategy, leading our Governance and Responsible Investment  can be found on pages 60–76 of our Annual Report.
Sustainability Report 2020 Sustainable investment 6
Sustainable investment
Our Swiss Equity team has 
been dedicated to sustainable 
investing for more than 20 years. 
In that time, we have discussed 
sustainability in hundreds 
of corporate meetings and 
developed a deep knowledge 
of Swiss companies and 
sustainable investing.
Thomas Funk, Investment Director Sustainable Swiss Equities
Our ESG framework
We see the inclusion of environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) factors, analysis and research in the investment 
process as integral to fundamental financial analysis. This  We focus on bottom-up, systematic integration of ESG factors 
helps us to identify incidents from gross misconduct to poor  but recognise that we also need to introduce increased flexibility 
risk management, and provides us with a more complete  into our investment processes to enable the construction of 
value creation picture for corporate business models  more robust portfolios, with improved compliance around our 
and management.  ESG principles and framework. By actively monitoring the ESG 
profiles of our portfolios as well as the companies, we aim to 
We have been signatories to the UN-supported Principles for  decrease exposure to ESG risks, while increasing the likelihood 
Responsible Investment (PRI) since 2014 and were delighted  of taking advantage of ESG opportunities. 
that last year we were awarded an A+ ranking for our 
responsible investment strategy and governance, and an A  GAM does not have a one-size-fits-all approach to how ESG 
for ESG integration in equities, by the PRI. factors can best be incorporated into individual strategies. We 
take an idiosyncratic approach with such decisions devolved to 
We are also members of industry groups including the UK  the individual investment team’s own assessment. For example, 
Sustainable Investment and Finance Association (UKSIF),  our Sustainable Swiss Equities team, which this year won “2020 
Swiss Sustainable Finance, the Institutional Investors Group  Best Swiss Equities” at the Swiss Sustainable Funds Awards, 
on Climate Change (IIGCC) and the International Corporate  uses its proprietary ‘bionic approach’ that assesses how well 
Governance Network (ICGN). It is important to us to collaborate  a company adapts to its environmental and social context and 
and work towards improved standards within the industry. uses that in its valuations and investment decisions. Another 
example is our recently launched GAM sustainable Local 
Emerging Bond Fund (LEBF), which builds on our original LEBF 
but managed against an established ESG benchmark. 
7 Sustainable investment Sustainability Report 2020
Our ESG integration methods include a quantitative  a responsible and sustainable manner, we actively vote 
assessment using multiple sources of third-party ESG  and engage with management to positively influence the 
data, our own materiality overlay and a qualitative review by  companies we are invested in. 
investment teams. Our investment teams work closely with 
our Governance and Responsible Investment (GRI) team on  Over our last reporting year, we have directly engaged with 
stewardship and ESG research. The GRI team also support  companies across multiple geographies and sectors, from 
the investment teams by monitoring ESG issues across our  technology to transport and energy to apparel, encouraging 
whole portfolio.  them to build robust and responsible operational processes 
and policies, and give due consideration to the ESG issues 
Our ESG integration is not only limited to equities, and we aim  which might specially have an effect on them. 
to develop ESG integration strategies across all asset classes. 
Our ESG risk monitoring services, for example, feed into our  We view engagement as key to fulfilling our duty to be a good 
fixed income portfolios.  steward for our clients’ assets. The engagement process gives 
us valuable insights that help improve our understanding of an 
Where we work with external managers we also encourage  organisation, business or country. Our portfolio managers and 
them to be members of the Principles for Responsible  analysts meet regularly with company management and, where 
Investment, and we make our ESG framework and GRI team  appropriate, the non-executive directors. Frequent topics of 
available to them as best fits their investment process. One  discussion include corporate strategy, business planning and 
example is our work with Atlanticomnium, who manage our  delivery of objectives, capital structure, mergers, acquisitions 
flagship GAM Star Credit Opportunities fund, and who leverage  and disposals, and the governance of environmental and social 
the experience and expertise of our GRI team to integrate ESG  factors. We engage in policy advocacy through trade bodies 
factors into the credit research process.  such as the UK’s Investment Association.   
There are no formulaic rules which set out how we engage. Our 
Looking forward
dominant strategy focuses on developing one-to-one dialogue 
with targeted investee companies and is conducted on an 
In the final quarter of 2020, the GRI team conducted an  ongoing basis. We will typically meet with or interact with an 
internal review of GAM’s strategies across all asset classes.  investee (or potential investee) company at least once a year 
The results will inform both how we drive ESG integration and  but often more frequently. Our aim is for pragmatic, positive 
how we implement the appropriate requirements under the EU  and productive dialogues around clear ESG-related objectives. 
Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation. 
In the event of an unsuccessful engagement we will consider 
In 2021, we plan to roll out our proprietary ESG dashboard –  divestment. In the case of one holding in a South-East Asian 
providing ESG data, trends and research – to all active  transport company, we engaged with the firm to discuss their 
managers to support deeper integration and active  treatment of workers during the Covid-19 pandemic. However, 
stewardship. We successfully piloted this dashboard in 2020  following reports of continued poor human capital standards 
and will work with each team to continue to evolve ESG  and limited response to our engagement, we sold our position. 
integration in a way that adds the most value for each strategy.
Where relevant, we also collaborate with like-minded investors 
to improve the overall standards of a particular market or 
Active ownership
sector, or to amplify our voice. In 2020, our collaborative 
engagements included those with the Access to Medicine 
Stewardship and the principles of good governance are  and Access to Nutrition initiatives, as well as the Church 
central to our approach to sustainable investment. To ensure  of England-led engagement on dam safety following the 
our clients’ investments deliver the returns they expect in  Brumadinho dam disaster in Brazil.
Sustainability Report 2020 Sustainable investment 8
Examples of active engagement
Engaging for animal welfare
In 2020, we met with the CEO of Canada Goose, a North American apparel investee that produces high-quality jackets and extreme 
weather outerwear. One of the discussion points we raised in the meeting was the growing demand from consumers and other 
stakeholders for responsible material sourcing. We encouraged the company to use external certifications for its material sourcing 
such as the Responsible Down Standard (RDS). 
In April, soon after the meeting, the company committed to the RDS, which will help ensure that down and feathers used in its jackets 
come from animals that have not been subjected to any unnecessary harm. The firm expects to be fully certified by 2021. 
Climate change – tackling the world’s largest emitters
Through our new global head of sustainable and impact investment we also sit on the Steering Committee of Climate Action 100+ 
(CA100+), the world’s largest investor engagement, to urge the world’s biggest corporate greenhouse gas emitters to take necessary 
action on climate change.
CA100+ consists of over 540 investors, managing over USD 50 trillion of assets. It engages with 167 of the world’s largest corporate 
greenhouse gas emitters asking them to set tough emissions targets and take the action climate science says is necessary to meet the 
Paris Agreement. The 167 companies it focuses on are responsible for over 80% of the world’s industry emissions. As of December 2020, 
half of the 167 focus companies of Climate Action 100+ have now established commitments to reach net-zero emissions by 2050 or 
sooner. CA100+ is in the foothills of a long climb but the results show positive progress in encouraging the world’s most carbon-intensive 
companies to transition to net zero by 2050.
Climate change – encouraging a French oil and gas major find a path to Paris
In 2020, our engagement with Total SA, French oil and gas major, saw us support a shareholder resolution to instruct the company 
to align its greenhouse gas emissions targets with a pathway to the Paris Agreement. 
Despite some welcome measures announced by Total ahead of the AGM, including an ‘ambition’ to be carbon neutral by 2050, we 
supported the resolution on the basis that these measures still fall short of the Paris Agreement objective. We want to encourage 
energy companies to adopt stronger and more ambitious targets that are aligned with a scenario that keeps global warming to 2 C 
or below. 
The resolution, against the recommendations from management, was supported by 17% of shareholders. That is a strong signal of 
support, and all the more significant because it was the first environmental shareholder resolution reported to be filed at a French company. 
9 Sustainable investment Sustainability Report 2020
 
Proxy voting Votes against management by 
category
Voting is a fundamental part of active asset management 
and at GAM we have four core proxy voting principles: 
Accountability, Stewardship, Independence and Transparency.  34.8%
Board-related
In 2020, GAM voted at 1,136 company meetings representing  35.9%
97.7% of meetings across all markets, up from 96.6% in 2019. 
21.0%
Capital management
In total, we voted on 13,551 resolutions.  14.9%
16.7%
In 2020, GAM supported 318 shareholder proposals. GAM  Remuneration
16.3%
supported 65% of proposals.
Routine items /  15.0%
miscellaneous 14.7%
Voting decisions are made by portfolio managers (PMs) 
in close collaboration with our GRI analysts. The relevant  Shareholder  9.6%
management company’s executive board retains the ultimate  resolution 14.3%
responsibility for the vote decision. The GRI team is tasked 
M&A /  2.4%
with rigorously applying the guidelines and making vote  reorganisations 1.7%
recommendations to PMs. This approach ensures that we vote 
0.5%
in the best interests of our clients and with appropriate levels of  Anti-takeover-related
1.1%
oversight and control. 
Preferred/bondholder  0.0%
meetings 1.1%
Shareholder meetings by geography
0% 10%  20%  30% 40%
2020 2019
 
28.5%
Continental Europe
26.2% Shareholder resolutions
23.4%
North America
32.2%
Social 42.1%
19.9%
Asia Pacific ex Japan
16.6%
Remuneration 35.7%
11.2%
United Kingdom 7.7% Political contributions and  94.4%
lobbying transparency
9.3%
Japan 10.3% Other governance matters 52.2%
Other emerging  7.7% Environment 60.0%
markets 7.1%
Board-related 73.1%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40%
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
2020 2019
  Against For
 
Sustainability Report 2020 Corporate sustainability  10
Corporate sustainability 
 
Our employees’ opinion matters 
to us, and in seeking their opinion 
we aim to increase a sense of 
ownership and responsibility while 
helping GAM to understand our 
employees’ motivation, attitude 
and satisfaction. Their feedback 
also helps us to further shape and 
enhance the way we work together. 
Debbie Dalzell, Global Head of Human Resources
Our people
Executive Officer, Peter Sanderson, as our senior sponsor for 
culture. We have a Flexible Working Group and a Culture Working 
Culture, talent and training Group who focus on continuously improving the inclusive culture 
We continuously invest in and develop our talent and promote  at GAM. We also launched a series of employee engagement 
an open culture based on mutual respect, regardless of  initiatives such as regular town halls, micro-seminars and the use 
function or rank. We monitor employee satisfaction and pursue  of the Idea Drop platform, which allows all employees to suggest 
a zero-tolerance culture for any conduct that could harm our  improvements, take part in various discussions and respond to 
clients, reputation, employees or other stakeholders. challenges throughout the company. These initiatives are key 
to fostering an open and transparent culture, where ideas and 
In 2020, Monika Machon, a member of the GAM Holding AG  diversity of thought are encouraged. 
Board took on the role of Culture Champion with our Chief 
11 Corporate sustainability  Sustainability Report 2020
Employee satisfaction survey
Personal development is encouraged through training, 
conducted either by GAM’s in-house learning and development 
department, ‘lunch and learn’ sessions for all staff or at 
80%
appropriate external courses and seminars.  Client centricity
72%
GAM has a group-wide learning management system  86%
Diversity & inclusion
72%
(GAM Learn) that provides a centralised repository for all 
learning and development needs, and this year, following  78%
Employee engagement
feedback from employees, we have also launched LinkedIn  68%
Learning, a new e-learning resource for all employees with 
63%
a digital library of more than 6,000 courses covering a wide  Excellence & innovation 48%
range of technical, business, software and creative topics. We 
78%
support professional qualifications and in 2020 a number of  Integrity & respect
60%
our investment teams enrolled in the new CFA UK Certificate in 
ESG Investing. We will continue to encourage uptake in 2021.  71%
My line manager
68%
Further initiatives planned for 2021 include the creation of a  86%
Our values
talent capital committee that will support career progression  63%
and personal development and a Global Mentoring scheme 
86%
in Q2 of 2021. The latter will be an open invitation to all  Psychological safety 72%
employees who would like to benefit from a guided mentoring 
72%
relationship for a period of six months. A new joiner ‘buddying’  Senior leadership
40%
scheme was piloted in 2020 and will be rolled out across GAM 
in 2021. 68%
Teamwork & collaboration
53%
Employee engagement  Well-being, personal  64%
Our employees’ opinion matters to us, and in seeking  development & growth 55%
their opinion we aim to increase a sense of ownership and 
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
responsibility while helping GAM to understand our employees’ 
motivation, attitude and satisfaction. Their feedback also helps 
2020 2019
 
us to further shape and enhance the way we work together. 
We conduct an annual employee engagement survey, and  Our 2020 employee survey suggested that we have made 
periodic pulse surveys, to help us understand employee  significant progress, with an overall improvement of 
experience and set areas of focus. One survey identified  15 percentage points in satisfaction levels compared to 
support for career progression and training as priorities, which  April 2019. It also showed significant jumps in satisfaction levels 
we will act on in 2021.  in areas such as ‘Our values’, ‘Senior leadership’ and ‘Integrity’. 
People indicators     
Permanent employee metrics   2020   2019 
Average tenure of employees   7.7 years   7.8 years 
Average age   41 years   41 years 
Average experience of investment professionals   13.4 Years   13.9 years 
Part-time employees   8%   8% 
Training   12.1 hours   8.4 hours 
Sustainability Report 2020 Corporate sustainability  12
 
Diversity, inclusion and equal opportunity GAM is committed to the principles of equal pay for work 
GAM offers equal employment and advancement opportunities  of equal value and supports the principle of equality of 
for all individuals regardless of age, race, ethnicity, gender,  opportunity for all staff. As a people business, it recognises the 
sexuality, disability, religion or other characteristics.  importance of, and is committed to, equal pay which is both 
reflective of our values and important for the success of our 
At GAM, diversity, inclusion and equal opportunity are  strategy. The firm extends the definition of pay in this regard 
critical to our success. By encouraging an environment that  to include access to, and level of benefits under, pension 
embraces diverse perspectives, we become better investors  arrangements, variable compensation and pay for leave of 
and improved problem solvers. Creativity and collaboration  absences as well as any other additional benefits.
are nurtured through embracing diversity. All employees are 
responsible for fostering an environment that creates a diverse  In 2020, GAM joined the #100blackinterns programme. The 
and inclusive workplace, where we all feel valued, listened  programme was established in response to a lack of black 
to, treated fairly and respected. We believe that diversity and  portfolio managers in the UK – where just 12 currently manage 
inclusion are values that attract, develop and retain exceptional  money. The objective of the initiative is to offer 100 internships 
colleagues and strengthen our talent. to black students across the UK to help kick-start their career in 
investment management and to tackle the poor representation 
We offer training for all employees on topics related to diversity  of black people in the industry.
and GAM has created an employee network called Equals, 
which is open to all employees and actively champions  Our facilities are designed to meet accessibility requirements 
equality, diversity and inclusion initiatives throughout our  for individuals with physical disabilities. We have programmes 
business. In 2020, Equals has driven initiatives that include  in place to provide mentorship, apprenticeships, and 
unconscious bias e-learning, holding Support & Share virtual  internships for individuals from underrepresented groups. We 
coffee sessions in multiple languages, promoting LGBT+ rights  also have voluntary employee resource or affinity groups.
and establishing an Ethnic Minority Network. 
Looking forward, we also plan to review all family-friendly and 
Outside our own operations, GAM is an active member  agile working policies group-wide and report diversity statistics 
of several industry-level diversity and inclusion initiatives  to the Group Management Board. 
including the 30% Club to increase gender diversity at board 
and senior management levels and The Diversity Project  Full details of our human capital management policies, 
to accelerate progress towards a more inclusive financial  including our commitments to protecting the health, safety and 
sector. GAM has also signed the Women in Finance Charter  well-being of our employees, can be found in the Appendix of 
with the goal of increasing the proportion of women in senior  this report and on our website. 
management positions within GAM globally to 25% by 2022. As 
of the end of 2020, we recorded that 31% of our line managers 
were female. 
13 Corporate sustainability  Sustainability Report 2020
 
Permanent employees – split  Board of Directors – split between 
between women and men women and men
34% 35% 35% 57% 57% 29%
71%
66% 65% 65%
43% 43%
2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Male Female Male Female
   
Diversity indicators                 
   2020   2019   % change   % change 
   Male (%)   Female (%)   Male (%)   Female (%)   Male   Female 
Gender split GAM overall   66   34   65   35   1.5%   (2.9)% 
Board of Directors split   43   57   43   57   -   - 
Line manager split   69   31   75   25   (8.0)%   24.0% 
New joiner split   58   42   64   36   (9.4)%   16.7% 
Leavers split   60   40   67   33   (10.4)%   21.2% 
Sustainability Report 2020 Corporate sustainability  14
 
Our communities
means going beyond being carbon neutral by removing more 
carbon from the environment than we emit. 
We want deep and innovative thinking on sustainability to be 
captured in GAM’s corporate culture. In practical terms this  Significant progress has been achieved in reducing our 
translates into a community strategy centred on education  corporate environmental impact in recent years. The 
and well-being, and drives our work to support communities  relocation of GAM’s London office to a building with excellent 
through educational programmes, recruitment and  environmental credentials in 2019, and switching our largest 
well-being programmes. global offices to renewable electricity, has significantly reduced 
our scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions.  
GAM runs a ‘Give-As-You-Earn-Scheme’ for employees and 
every year allocates a global budget to match staff donations  Our use of conventional (non-renewable) electricity has fallen 
to international charities for specific causes. In 2020, we  by 84% between 2017 and 2020.
established a charities policy to set out how we support 
organisations and causes that are aligned with our own  Investments in videoconferencing technology have further 
culture and values, in particular those that focus on diversity  reduced the need for business travel; a trend that has been 
and education.  accelerated by the Covid-19 pandemic. Given the increase 
in home working brought about by the pandemic, we also 
In 2020, we donated over CHF 77,000 (USD 86,000) to  introduced a scheme aligned to Big Energy Saving Week, 
charitable causes. All charities that receive donations are  which encourages employees to switch their domestic energy 
well regarded and have a proven track record of making a  supply to a provider using only renewable energy sources.
difference to individuals and communities. 
We have looked to carbon offsetting projects to compensate 
For example, the Swiss HR team, in collaboration with the  for those emissions we have been unable to avoid. We are 
Swiss Social Committee, chose to support Verein Incontro,  pleased that GAM has now been certified as a CarbonNeutral® 
which undertakes outreach work on Langstrasse in Zurich  company, through to the end of 2021, in accordance with The 
supporting people who are on the margins of our society. CarbonNeutral Protocol – the leading global framework for 
carbon neutrality. GAM has gone a step further by voluntarily 
committing to offset 200% of the emissions generated by 
Total charitable donations 
our business operations and travel by supporting projects 
across the developing world that build renewable energy 
Year   Amount (CHF) infrastructure, prevent deforestation and reduce, avoid or 
2019   26,819 remove greenhouse gas emissions (see ‘Supporting efficient 
2020   78,043 cooking stoves in Ghana’). 
In 2020, we re-evaluated and accelerated our environmental 
Last year we also introduced our new Community Volunteering  goals for renewable electricity usage and business travel, 
Guidelines. All employees are now provided with an annual  as these are our two largest sources of greenhouse gas 
allowance of two days a year to volunteer in the communities  emissions. 
where they live and work. 
Renewable electricity: In order to reduce our greenhouse 
gas emissions further, we have set the target for all our 
Our environment 
GAM-managed global offices to be using 100% renewable 
electricity resources by the end of 2022. Currently, 78% of 
To play our part in meeting the global climate challenge,  our staff are based in office buildings which source only 
GAM has a longstanding corporate commitment to lower the  renewable electricity.
environmental impact of our business operations.
Transport: Another key area where we are determined 
As a financial services firm, GAM’s main source of operational  to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions is through 
greenhouse gas emissions is from heating and powering our  reducing business travel. We are committed to challenging 
global offices, and business travel. Although the risks to our  the need to travel and to promoting alternatives such as 
corporate operations presented by climate change are not  videoconferencing. Our aim is to maintain our total distance 
material, we work hard to reduce our impact and have set a  travelled by air at a level at least 25% below our 2018 figures. 
commitment to become a climate positive organisation. This  We still consider this to be a stretching target given our 
growth plans.
15 Corporate sustainability  Sustainability Report 2020
Environmental indicators 
Energy   2020   2019 1   2018   Change in % 
Electricity consumption (MWh)   1,704   3,206   5,606   (69.6)% 
   of which renewable electricity   1,023   2,088   4,436   (76.9)% 
   of which non-renewable   681   1,118   1,170   (41.8)% 
Heating natural gas   564   1,148   972   (42.0)% 
Total energy consumption (MWh)   2,268   4,354   6,578   (65.5)% 
             
Business travel – flights (km)   845,190   5,177,042   8,040,372   (89.5)% 
             
Net carbon emissions (tCOe)   624   1,908       
2
   Scope 1 & 2   452   576       
   Scope 3   172   1,332       
Total activities (tCOe)   624   1,908   3,260   (80.9)% 
2
Total per FTE   0.87   2.28   3.43   (74.6)% 
Double carbon offsetting commitment (tCOe)   1,248   3,816       
2
1 2019 data has been updated using actual figures rather than estimates which were disclosed in the 2019 Annual Report. Similarly, the 2020 Annual Report includes some esti-
mated data and will be independently verified when actual data becomes available.
Supporting efficient cook stoves in Ghana 
Through our partnership with Natural Capital Partners, the leading experts on carbon neutrality and climate finance, we are 
supporting three impactful emission reduction projects, one example being in Ghana, where the aim is to replace polluting charcoal 
fuel stoves with modern energy efficient cookers that reduce fuel use by 50%, and help tackle indoor air pollution.
Many countries rely on biomass or charcoal for cooking, which is a root cause of poverty, poor health, gender inequality and 
environmental degradation. The project we support replaces traditional stoves in Ghana with more energy efficient ones that also 
realise significant financial benefits, leaving families more to spend on essential items like health and education. 
Investment in the project has established a local production facility based near Accra, with over 20 local technicians and artisans 
trained in stove manufacturing, and a distribution network generating income for more than 200 retailers.
In addition to delivering emissions reductions to help take urgent action to combat climate change (SDG 13), the project delivers a 
number of other sustainable development benefits that include reducing water-borne diseases and decreasing the need for fuel 
wood, therefore reducing indoor air pollution. 
The project has also helped create a network of sales agents. At least half of the sales agent workforce is female, as by reducing the 
time spent to collect fuel, women tend to have more time for other tasks and are embracing this new income-generating opportunity.
By providing clean cook stoves in Ghana, protecting the rainforest in Brazil, and distributing solar water heating in India, our 
selected projects are enhancing biodiversity and improving the health and livelihoods of local communities around the world. 
Sustainability Report 2020 Corporate sustainability  16
 
Our suppliers Modern slavery and child labour
GAM has a wide and diverse supply chain and is committed  GAM has in place a modern slavery statement which can be 
to ensuring its suppliers uphold fair working practices and  found on our website. It sets out our determined approach 
minimise their impact on the environment.  to the prevention of slavery, servitude, forced or compulsory 
labour (together, ‘Modern Slavery’) within the organisation and 
Wherever possible, GAM aims to work with and support  its supply chains.
local suppliers, helping to grow the local economy as well 
as reducing emissions released while transporting goods.  The risk of Modern Slavery and of child labour arising within 
In 2020, our total procurement spend with local vendors in  GAM’s business, or within the businesses of their suppliers, 
London and Cambridge was over 85%, while in Dublin and  is believed to be very limited and no incidents of child labour 
Zurich it was over 60%.  have been reported historically.
We ensure that all service providers operating at our  From an investing perspective, we are part of a collaborative 
London office pay the London Living Wage, and during the  engagement with CCLA to eradicate modern slavery. We 
pandemic we have made sure that the salary of any furloughed  also track exposure to child labour through our monitoring of 
contractors does not drop below the level set by the London  investee companies.  
Living Wage.
GAM also conducts due diligence in its procurement process 
to determine the extent of its exposure to the risk of negative 
environmental or social impacts. 
17 Appendix Sustainability Report 2020
Appendix
About us
Nature of ownership and legal form
GAM Investments Holding AG is a listed public company 
GAM Investments is an independent global asset management  owned by its shareholders. 
firm focused purely on active investment strategies. The 
company provides active investment solutions and products  Markets
for institutions, financial intermediaries and private investors.  GAM Holding AG is a global company. The investment 
For over 35 years GAM has employed an active investment  management business offers the management of funds and 
management approach based on original thought, freedom  mandates to clients in continental Europe, Switzerland and 
of action and true conviction investing. The core investment  the UK, Asia and the Americas. The ManCo service business 
business is complemented by private labelling services, which  includes management company and other support services 
include management company and other support services to  to GAM funds and to third-party institutions in Luxembourg, 
third-party institutions. Switzerland, Ireland, UK, Italy and other offshore regions. 
Headquarters Primary brands, products and services
GAM Investments is headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland. The  Our funds are primarily marketed under the GAM Investments 
company is listed at the SIX Exchange in Switzerland. brand. An overview of our main products can be found here: 
https://www.gam.com/en/funds.  
Location of operation
GAM employs over 700 people, including 128 investment  GAM is a global asset manager, distributing its products across 
professionals across 14 countries, with investment centres  various jurisdictions; however, not all investment products are 
in Zurich, Lugano, Milan, London, Cambridge, New York and  available in all locations as per the local rules and where we 
Hong Kong.  have registered our products. 
Scale of the organisation
The scale of the organisation is described in the following table: 
                  Quantity    
   Total          Thereof       of products    
   No. of    Net    Market   interest    Thereof    or services    
   FTEs   revenues   capitalisation   bearing debt   equity   provided 1   As at 
      in CHFm   in CHFm   in CHFm   in CHFm        
2020   701   229   346   -   474   2   31.12.2020  
2019   817   326   448   -   875   2   31.12.2019  
2018   925   500   616   -   839   2   31.12.2018  
1 GAM provides active asset management through its investment management business and management company services through its private labelling business
Sustainability Report 2020 Appendix 18
 
Relevant policies Additional disclosures
• AML and Financial Crime Standards Policy Freedom of association
• Charity Policy GAM commits to respecting employees’ rights to freedom 
• Code of Conduct of association and collective bargaining without interference 
• Conflicts of Interest Policy and free from discrimination. GAM respects and adheres to 
• Diversity & Inclusion Policy the universal principles and norms that protect human rights 
• Engagement Policy in employment and provides employees with confidential and 
• Group Compensation Policy independent channels for raising areas of concern.
• Health and Safety Policy
• Information Security Policy Health and safety
• Modern Slavery Statement Accidents and incidents are recorded through the security 
• Political Contributions Policy team and accident rates tracked via facilities. Accident/
• Privacy Policy incident rates are a perennial agenda item at Health and Safety 
• Responsible Investment Policy Committee meetings (held quarterly).  Where commonly 
• Tax Strategy occurring accidents are identified, remedial solutions are 
• Whistleblowing Policy discussed and the most viable solution implemented. 
In the past three years there has been one injury in Zurich, 
Full details of each policy can be found on our website  Switzerland, one in Dublin, Ireland, four in Cambridge, UK and 
www.gam.com/policies 17 in the London offices, UK.
Health and safety incidents    
Incidents by office   2020   2019 
Location       
London/UK   2   7 
Cambridge/UK   0   1 
Dublin/Ireland   1   0 
Zurich/Switzerland   1   0 
Total   4   8 
New hires and turnover  
   2020   2019 
New hires   52% male: 48% female   63% male: 37% female 
Rate of hires   13%   13% 
Voluntary turnover rate (resignations & retirement)   11%   13% 
Involuntary turnover rate   15%   11% 
Retention within 12 months of starting   93%   91% 
Note: The above table includes permanent, fixed term and  using company resources (including monetary and in-kind 
agency contractors services), even where permitted by law. No political donations 
or contributions were made or expenditure incurred by the 
Political donations Group or its subsidiaries during the year (2019: nil).
GAM has a global policy against making contributions to 
political parties, political action committees or candidates 

