
Sustainability Report 2020
Conscious of the mark we leave
A message from our CEO
Katherine Garrett-Cox, CEO GIB Asset Management
Our world is in crisis
We are living in a climate and ecological emergency. The 1.1°C increase 
we have already seen in global temperature has resulted in an increased 
frequency and magnitude of extreme weather events, such as droughts, 
flooding, hurricanes and wildfires. Increases beyond 1.5°C are likely to bring 
more devastating impacts, such as sea level rise affecting over 6 million 
people in vulnerable coastal areas, and decimation of insect habitats 
threatening food security.
Over a year after it began, billions of people across the world are still 
suffering from the direct and indirect impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
The Global Humanitarian Response Plan for COVID-19 totalled US$9.5bn 
in 2020 alone. The prospect of meeting the UN Sustainable Development 
Goals by 2030 looks increasingly challenging.
At GIB Asset Management, we believe that finance can be a force for good. 
We believe that the companies that help solve our biggest problems will be 
those that perform the most strongly from a financial perspective. Through 
our role as investors, we can help clients meet their financial targets, 
delivered through financing the transition to a more sustainable economic 
approach, tackling the twin crises we faced in 2020. 
We are delighted to share with you this Sustainability Report, where we 
explain the contribution we have made, working with our clients, to this 
important agenda. We believe that it is through partnering with others that 
we can have the most impact – given the hugely complex nature of the 
challenges, and the pressing need. We invite you to work with us as you 
continue your own sustainability journey.
A message from our CSO
Venetia Bell, Group Chief Sustainability Officer
Proud of our achievements
2020 was a year where GIB Asset Management accelerated its efforts to  
be a leading sustainable investment provider. This is our second 
sustainability report, and we demonstrate tangible progress in delivering 
our sustainability strategy – to scale and mobilise capital in support of 
sustainable development – across multiple aspects of our business.  
We are proud to say that the COVID-19 pandemic only strengthened  
our resolve, and we have worked hard to overcome the challenges it has 
created for our business, clients and community. 
We are proud of many achievements in 2020. We have significantly 
enhanced our ability to provide sustainable investment strategies to 
clients, with the recruitment of global and emerging market equity teams 
that put sustainability at the heart of their philosophy. We have invested 
in our sustainability risks toolkit, enabling us to analyse climate-related 
risks more thoroughly and manage them more systematically. We were 
a proud founding signatory to the Net Zero Asset Managers initiative. 
Whilst celebrating low carbon emissions from our own business during the 
pandemic, we have been working with clients to adapt our business model 
so we can retain some lower travel as restrictions ease. 
Our focus in the year ahead is to demonstrate to our clients that we can 
deliver on their investment goals through our sustainably-focused strategies, 
building strong track records and providing customised services. We will also 
continue to work with a wide set of stakeholders to help drive the transition 
to a more sustainable economic approach, including through education, 
partnerships and collective action.
1. Who we are
•  Our operations          
•  Our purpose and strategy 
•  Our behaviours 
•  Our products and services 
2. Our investments and services 
•  Our clients 
•  Our investments 
•  Active ownership
•  Treasury and Banking 
•  Sustainability advisory 
•  Our knowledge sharing approach 
3. Our governance 
•  Governance structure 
•  Governance systems, policies and processes 
•  Executive and employee remuneration
•  Stakeholder engagement 
•  Sustainability culture 
•  Transparency and disclosures 
4. Our operations and approach 
•  Our people 
•  Our suppliers and outsource providers
•  Our community 
•  Our new sustainable office 
•  Our environment 
•  Our partnership strategy 
•  Our memberships 
5. Our outlook 
•  Enhance our sustainable investment solutions 
•  Expansion of our sustainability advisory offering 
•  Charity of the year 
•  Conclusion 
Sustainability Report 2020 4
2020 in numbers
x
12.6bn.  176 4,231
in AUM Investee companies  votes cast
engaged 
74 44% 22%
Employees Female  Female board 
executives members
9.9 78% 9
Training hours   Employee  Diversity & 
per employee engagement score Inclusion initiatives
144.4 200 
Carbon neutral since
tCO2e emissions Trees planted to 
2019 
offset emissions
All figures are at 31.12.2020.
Sustainability Report 2020 5
1. Who we are
Sustainability Report 2020 6
Our operations
GIB Asset Management* (GIB AM) is a sustainable 
Asset Management business that was established  “Sustainability, 
in 1975. We operate from our offices in London 
and New York. responsible investment 
and responsible 
In addition to our Asset Management services,  
we provide Treasury and Banking services.  banking are core to 
how we do business at 
Our purpose and strategy
GIB AM.”
Since our establishment, we have adopted socially 
responsible investment (SRI), including through 
compliance with Shar’iah principles in some of our 
mandates. 
In 2018, we took our sustainability practices to 
the next level through launching a strategy that 
puts financing the transition to a more sustainable 
world at the core of our business. Our strategy  
is to build sustainability into everything that we  
do and is aligned with the principles and 
objectives of sustainable development. It covers 
both our asset management and our treasury  
and banking businesses. 
A number of client 
Shari’ah mandates  Client Sukuk  Launch of ESG Plus 
across the USA,  product
Europe, SE Asia and 
Japan
1990 2011 2019
2000 / 2002 2015 2020
Client mandate  Client mandate  Client mandate 
customised to  customised to  customised to 
exclude alcohol,  exclude tobacco  exclusions relating to 
gambling and adult  weapons
entertainment 
*GIB Asset Management is a trading name of Gulf International Bank (UK) Limited (“GIB”). 
GIB is authorised by the PRA and regulated by the FCA (“FRN 124772”)
Sustainability Report 2020 7
Responsible Investing
Asset Management
Within asset management we believe that 
investment success will be driven by investing in 
the companies whose products and services help 
solve our greatest challenges. We also assess 
company operations and behaviours and look 
Our purpose
to invest in the opportunities being created by 
We are a specialist asset management 
companies that are driving the transition to more 
provider, focused on delivering long-
sustainable economies. 
term returns for our clients. 
We believe good stewardship means safeguarding 
the needs of future generations and that our 
clients and stakeholders are best served by 
investing in, and collaborating with, companies  
to profitably drive change. To do this, we  Our aspiration 
are building an asset management business  Our vision is succeed through  
that provides solutions for clients’ long-term  scaling and mobilising significant  
investment objectives through building a more  capital in support of sustainable 
sustainable world.  investment strategies. 
Our objective is to offer our clients a set of 
capabilities that enable them to invest sustainably 
and with impact as we believe it can offer some of 
the best returns. This includes direct integration 
of environmental, social and governance (ESG) 
factors into our investment processes and 
engaging on ESG topics. 
Responsible banking
Treasury and Banking
We believe that banks should play a central role 
in stimulating a more sustainable way of doing 
business. They are centrally placed, through 
credit and investment decisions, to influence and 
fund the transition of industries to sustainable 
Our purpose
approaches. Banks should also reflect the needs 
To provide a set of treasury and related 
of society. Today’s society expects banks to be 
services, delivered with the utmost 
clear about how their products create value for 
reliability, responsibility, and tailored to 
their stakeholders.
the needs of our clients. 
Our aspiration 
Our vision is to be the preferred treasury 
services provider for GCC-based entities 
transacting internationally, and vice versa, 
within our target market. We also aim to 
provide our clients with payment services 
that excel above others.
Sustainability Report 2020 8
Our behaviours
Our behaviours act as the foundation for how we do our daily work. They also play a critical role in 
helping us deliver our business goals and serve our clients in the most effective way. Our behaviours 
and culture have proven to be strong, even during the pandemic and extended remote working.
Integrity Collaborative Perceptive Agile
We have strong  We work as a team,  We are insightful,  We are lean, nimble 
moral principles and  and help drive our  have a clear vision  and adaptive 
strive to meet every  collective and work attentively 
commitment we  towards achieving it 
make to our clients in an open  
minded way
Our product and services
Asset Management
Equities Fixed Income 
GIB AM Equity Index Strategy  GIB AM Fixed Income Index Strategy 
GIB AM Global ESG-Plus Equity Strategy  GIB AM Emerging Markets Credit Strategy 
Treasury and banking
•  Interest rate hedging and risk management  •  Interest rate swaps 
solutions, balance sheet management and  •  Repos and reverse repos 
investment solutions •  Money market instruments  
•  Foreign exchange (FX) (spot, forwards, swaps)  (conventional and Islamic)
•  FX and payments in exotic currencies 
Advisory
•  Sustainability advisory 
Sustainability Report 2020 9
2.  Our investments 
and services 
Sustainability Report 2020 10
Our clients
Our client base consists predominately of 
sophisticated international institutions, many  
of whom have stewardship over significant 
amounts of capital. We work closely with all of 
our clients, and strive to provide solutions that  
will meet their needs. 
Good stewardship practices 
We believe that adopting good stewardship 
practices act in the best interest of our clients. 
We also believe that being a good steward 
involves promoting responsible relationships with 
our clients. For example, we discuss the principles 
of sustainability, responsible investment and 
responsible banking and how implementing such 
principles may benefit all stakeholders. 
We have a duty of care towards our clients. As 
such, we are diligent in all our dealings with our 
clients in order to ensure that all our clients are 
treated fairly and responsibly. 
As part of this, our Customer Relationship and our 
Sales staff are provided with training on a variety 
of topics, including unconscious biases. We review 
our policies to ensure that responsible client best 
practices are incorporated. 
Long lasting relationships
We pride ourselves on the longevity of the 
relationships that we have been able to build with 
our clients. This is done by working hand in hand 
with our clients to solve their long term needs, 
developing new strategies and building trusted 
partnerships. 
These effective partnerships have resulted in 
some of our clients partnering with us for more 
than 40 years. 
Sustainability Report 2020 11
“Finance can be a force for good and we believe 
capital should be actively allocated to investments, 
sectors and businesses that have a positive impact 
on society and the environment.” 
Our investments
We are a sustainable and responsible investor. We believe that the  
greatest profits will accrue to those companies that can solve our  
greatest challenges, and we integrate a range of social, environmental  
and governance factors deep into our investment processes. 
We look for investments that can deliver the best returns for our clients 
through driving our transition to a sustainable world. Finance can be a  
force for good and we believe capital should be actively allocated to 
investments, sectors and businesses that have a positive impact on  
society and the environment. 
Our investment pillars 
Our pillars are used to structure and drive our investment analysis.  
They are also used to assess the impact of our investments and to  
organise our active ownership activities.
Equality,  Climate, 
diversity and  environmental  Health and  Governance and  Innovation and 
human capital  action and  Wellbeing accountability infrastructure
development water
Our investment approach  Investment awards
Alongside more traditional financial criteria, we  Our Global- Plus ESG strategy was a finalist of the 
integrate ESG factors directly into our investment  Best Newcomer category at the 2020 Investment 
processes. ESG factors represent an integral part  Week Sustainable and ESG Investment Awards.
of our investment analysis, helping to assess the 
long term sustainability of a company, mitigating 
risks and uncovering opportunities. Each asset 
class has its tailored approach to ESG integration. 
Please refer to our responsible investment policy 
for more detail. 
Sustainability Report 2020 12
Equity methodology*
We offer our clients both passive equity strategies and proprietary equity strategies. 
Passive strategies
 
Our passive equity strategies are discretionary in nature and are led by our clients’ mandates. 
Proprietary strategies 
We have developed a best in class investment model and metrics. 
Our proprietary methodology is built around data-driven ESG scoring that evaluates firms’ ESG 
exposures and opportunities. The output of this methodology is a robust, transparent and a financially 
material company level ESG score that is based on multiple angles. Our scoring methodology is 
dynamic and is analysed on a daily basis. All of this allows us to use ESG data as a potential leading 
indicator of company performance.
1 2 3
Average MSCI score for  Exposure to ESG  Weighted average 
the portfolio is AA  leaders is 32.8% higher  carbon intensity is 20% 
(vs A for index) than the index  lower than the index 
Fixed income methodology*
Our main focus is to identify investment risks and opportunities, while promoting responsible 
behaviours among debt issuers. ESG considerations are fully integrated at both a portfolio and  
security level within our investment process, as described within our Fixed Income ESG Framework. 
Key features of our portfolios:
56% BB 21%
of securities have an  ..is the portfolios’ MSCI  of issuers are 
ESG rating by MSCI average rating signatories of the UN 
of which.. Global Compact
8.3% 0%
of the portfolios  of the portfolios is 
consists of green bonds exposed to red ESG 
controversies flags  
*data as at 31.12.2020
Sustainability Report 2020 13
Our 2020 Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI) scores
Our strategy and approach to investing achieved high PRI scores in 2020. In all 
of our reported categories, we were awarded scores that were either higher than 
the median or in line with it:
•  We were awarded the top score (A+) for the strategy and governance module 
•  Our fixed income capability received an A for corporate non-financials 
(against a median of B), and B for sovereign debt (in line with the median)
Summary Scorecard Your Score Median Score
AUM Module Name Your Score
A
01. Strategy & Governance A+
Direct & Active Ownership Modules
>50% 10. Listed Equity – Incorporation E A
>50% 11. Listed Equity – Active Ownership E B
<10% 12. Fixed Income – SSA B B
B
<10% 14. Fixed Income – Corporate Non-Financial A
<10% 15. Fixed Income – Securitised E B
Note: modules marked with “E” score were not submitted by 
GIB AM, as we did not meet the reporting threshold in 2020.
Sustainability Report 2020 14
Active ownership
Engaging with our investee companies is a central part of our investment 
process. Through engaging with investees, we gain additional understanding 
of material topics, and where relevant and possible, drive change that would 
enhance shareholder values and the value of our assets over time. 
Our active ownership strategy involves direct engagement, collaborative 
engagement and proxy voting. 
Direct engagement  Direct engagement in numbers 
Our approach to direct engagement involves 
Equity engagement 
engaging with our investees on a number of 
priority topics for maximum impact. Such 
We launched our equity engagement  
topics are chosen using our proprietary scoring 
capability in 2020. 
methodology, which identifies which material 
areas our investees ought to focus on to improve 
As part of this, our equity engagement team 
their ESG credentials. However, engagements are 
engaged with:
tailored to the circumstances of each company. 
For 2020, the focus topics were: 171 60%
•  Business strategy alignment with the  
Paris Agreement 
equity investees,  of the portfolio
•  Governance including workforce diversity  
representing 
and executive remuneration 
approximately,
•  Other general sustainability topics including 
supply chain sustainability 
Equity engagement geography* Engagement topics
Equity engagement geography* Engagement topics 
3% 1% 1% 1.66%
10%
33.16%
29%
57%
50.26%
General sustainability topics including supply chain
Europe North America Asia Australia Oceania Africa Governance including executive remuneration and diversity
Business strategy alignment with the Paris Agreement
*For the purposes of multinationals, geography is determined by the location of the headquarters
Sustainability Report 2020 15
Case study: Engagement with a global pharmaceutical 
company on their carbon emissions 
Objective Our analysis showed that although the company’s 
carbon intensity had fallen over recent years, their 
absolute carbon emissions had risen. Our engagement 
objective was to understand why this had occurred, 
and, if possible, encourage reductions. 
Engagement  Issuer engaged: 
timeline
•  We raised our concerns with the company’s 
engagement relations team, highlighting our 
desire to understand the drivers and stressing our 
willingness to work together to reduce emissions. 
Issuer acknowledgment: 
•  The company acknowledged concerns and 
explained the reasons behind their absolute 
emission increase.
Evidence of progress: 
•  The company has outlined its plan to reduce 
emissions, including through having absolute 
reduction targets. The Engagement team plans 
to follow through with the company in 2021 to 
understand the progress that has taken place  
since the plan was communicated.  
Fixed Income Engagement
On the Fixed Income side, our team engaged with five Fixed Income investees. 
We view this successful for our Fixed Income team, especially given the 
difficult nature of engaging with emerging markets Fixed Income investees. 
Fixed Income engagement topics 
Fixed Income engagement topics
20%
80%
Governance including executive remuneration and diversity
Business strategy alignment with the Paris Agreement
Sustainability Report 2020 16
Collaborative engagement
 
In addition to directly engaging with our   We were one of the founding signatories to Net 
investees, we engage in collaboration with  Zero Asset Managers initiative, where we have 
others. We believe that collaborating with other  committed to support the global goal of net zero 
asset owners and asset managers improves the  greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 or sooner, in 
outcome and enhances the effectiveness of  line with the global efforts to limit global warming 
engagement activities.  to 1.5 C. We have also committed to support 
investing aligned with net zero emissions by 2050 
Our approach to collaborative engagement  or sooner. 
includes participating in initiatives whose 
intended objectives are aligned with our  As part of our IIGCC membership, we also, for 
engagement focus themes or more broadly   example, signed letters to both UK and EU  
with our pillars.  leaders, calling for a sustainable and green post 
COVID-19 recovery. 
We are members of a number of organisations 
including the Institutional Investors Group on 
Climate Change (IIGCC). Such membership allows 
us to corroboratively engage with governments, 
related organisations and investment companies.
Proxy voting 2020 voting statistics 
Our duty as a responsible investor stipulates that  238 meetings voted 
we actively exercise our voting rights, keeping the 
best interest of our clients in mind.
99.6% meetings voted 
In 2020, we employed an independent proxy 
voting provider, which provided us a number  3,480 proposed votes 
of services including company research and 
voting recommendations. Our engagement 
5.7% proposals voted  
team reviews all company research and voting 
against management 
recommendations prior to making a judgement  
on the executed vote. 
As responsible investors and good stewards, 
we believe that it is important for our investee 
companies to understand the rationale behind 
our voting decisions. As such, in the event 
of abstaining against management or voting 
against management proposals during company 
meetings, we notify the company about the 
rationale of such voting decision. In addition to 
this, we offer our investees the opportunity to 
talk to the Engagement team, should they require 
more information.
Our full voting records have been published separately.
Sustainability Report 2020 17
“We believe that our banking services 
play a critical role in facilitating a more 
sustainable economy.”
Treasury and Banking 
We are a responsible bank. We believe that our banking services play a critical role in facilitating a 
more sustainable economy. We are a proud signatory to the Principles for Responsible Banking.
Our treasury and banking approach  Scope
Alignment with sustainability The impact analysis focused on our core treasury 
and banking business areas, covering our money 
We conducted an impact analysis exercise to  markets and foreign exchange activities in the 
understand the areas our business that have the  Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) region and the 
most significant positive and negative impacts.  United Kingdom (see table).
The exercise was guided by the methodology 
provided by the Principles for Responsible 
Banking. In particular, we used the UNEP FI  Business Lines 
Portfolio Impact Analysis Tool for Banks,  
Money Markets Foreign Exchange Others*
which covers the requirements to conduct  
the impact analysis.  66%** 22%** 12%**
GCC: 78%
This considered: identification of the Bank’s core 
United Kingdom: 17%
business areas related to our economic activities 
Other: 5%
(scope); the scale of the bank’s activities with 
regards to specific industries, technologies and 
*Others include bonds, letters of credit and fiduciary. 
geographies; the scale and intensity of the social, 
** Share of revenue 
economic and environmental impacts identified; 
and the most relevant challenges and priorities 
Scale of exposure 
relating to sustainable development. 
Our treasury and banking activities are heavily 
focused on money markets and foreign exchange. 
Our analysis indicates that we provide finance to 
financial services activities. These include:
•  Central banking 
•  Payment services 
•  Other money intermediation 
Sustainability Report 2020 18
Context and relevance 
In deciding the ESG controversy score, the 
Our treasury and banking activities operate 
possible negative impacts of the target was 
mainly in the GCC context. With the use of the 
considered on other aspects of sustainable 
‘Country Needs’ resource in the Portfolio Impact 
development. The most obvious negative impact 
Tool we were able to identify the most relevant 
was that ceasing trading with a low-scored 
challenges and priorities in the Gulf Cooperation 
counterparty might lead to higher costs or lower 
Council. These include water availability, air 
quality of service for the clients. To the extent 
quality, resource efficiency and security and 
that the banking service required was supporting 
climate change. 
sustainable development, there could be a 
negative impact. Where applicable, any such 
Once we have identified these priorities and 
effects would be mitigated by transferring the 
challenges, we engaged with a number of 
business to another suitable counterparty. 
stakeholders including policy makers, other 
regional financial institutions and subject matter 
In addition, we set a target relating to the carbon 
experts to confirm our analysis. All stakeholders 
emissions of GIB AM (see below).  
agreed with our findings. 
Impact analysis conclusion Target implementation and monitoring
The conclusion of the impact analysis was that  To ensure that this target is achieved, we screen 
it was hard to identify and assess the main  our counterparties on a quarterly basis in relation 
environmental – and broader sustainability –  to their controversy score. Counterparties that fall 
impacts with any degree of certainty through  below our controversy threshold are flagged, and 
the provision of treasury and banking products /  our policy is that they have their FX and deposit 
services.  credit lines frozen until their rating has improved. 
We did not trade with any counterparty whose 
For example, in holding deposits for clients, there  controversy score was below our target in 2020. 
is no obvious impact on the environment. Instead, 
it was concluded that the main areas of focus  Performance against the target is tracked 
should be on ensuring that the treasury and  on at least a quarterly basis at the Executive 
banking business holds counterparties to high  Committee level, and any deviations are escalated 
ESG standards (drawing on the approach used  upon occurrence. 
for scoring of equities (see page 13). In addition, 
we still contribute to sustainability by embedding  Performance is tracked on at least an annual basis 
sustainability considerations in our treasury  by the Board.
operations. 
Setting targets 
Despite the outcome of the impact analysis 
exercise, we believe that having sustainability-
related targets are important to facilitate 
sustainable development. Consistent with 
our impact analysis, we set a target to cease 
trading with counterparties that fall below our 
controversy threshold. The controversy score is 
calculated using a wide range of ESG data, which 
includes data relating to consistency with the 
Paris Agreement and other relevant international, 
national or regional frameworks (See page 13). 
The baseline for the target is the minimum 
controversy threshold, and it has ongoing  
effect (unlike time-bound targets there is no 
target year). 
Sustainability Report 2020 19
Sustainability advisory 
Initiated in 2020, our sustainability advisory offering leverages GIB AM’s 
extensive sustainability experience and proprietary scoring methodology 
(see page 13) to help guide clients through their sustainability journey.  
The advisory offering aims to help clients kick-start their sustainability 
journey and make long term changes within their organisations.
Our knowledge sharing approach
We pride ourselves for being a sustainability advocate. Our advocacy 
programme consists of four main categories: speaking events; our webinar 
series; thought leadership and engaging with policy-makers. 
Speaking events
21
We attend and participate in events related to responsible investing. 
In 2020, we expanded the topics we spoke about to include:
•  Humanitarian and resilience investing 
•  Strengthening the sustainability of our oceans 
•  Climate change 
The number of speaking 
•  Culture and diversity 
events we participated in 
2020.
Launch of our webinar series
In 2020, we launched our webinar series under 
the title A New World. The motivation for 
launching the series was to meet client demand, 
particularly in the Gulf Corporation Council  
region where clients asked for events that 
enhance their knowledge on sustainability and 
responsible investing. We hosted two webinars 
which focused on:
•  Air quality and creating a sustainable new 
normal through investments
•  The impact of COVID-19 on financial decision 
making and asset allocation 
Client feedback indicates that the webinars were 
well received. We plan to continue our webinar 
series in 2021.
Sustainability Report 2020 20
Thought leadership
Our 2020 publications included:
Winners and losers: equity investing and the  A New World:
Premier League:
The paper explores the different ways that the
Drawing parallels between investing and football,  COVID-19 crisis has affected the investing world 
we explore how many ‘winners’ there are in the  while providing hypotheses for what investing 
world of investing  might look like going forward through the 
pandemic and into a post COVID-19 world 
Religion, Philanthropy and Risk: ESG and Islamic  The case for humanitarian and resilience 
Finance:  investing: 
 
We outline the similarities and differences  We outline the critical role investors can play 
between ESG and Islamic finance  in alleviating human suffering, improving the 
resilience of communities worldwide, and by  
doing so help in achieving the Sustainable 
Development Goals
Thought leadership awards
GIB AM is proud that it was selected as a runner-up in 2020  
for the ‘Best Bank for ESG Research’ Award by ESG Investing.
Engagement with policy makers 
We proactively engage with policy makers on sustainability related topics. 
The aim of such engagements is to advocate for sustainable regulations and frameworks. In 2020, we 
focused our efforts on engaging with policy makers in the GCC region on a number of topics including 
the importance of sustainability considerations for financial stability. 
As part of this, we delivered detailed workshops on sustainability topics. 
Sustainability Report 2020 21
3. Our governance 
Sustainability Report 2020 22
“We believe that a sound and 
effective governance approach 
acts as an enabler to achieving 
our sustainability vision.” 
GIB AM is a fully owned subsidiary of Gulf  Governance structure
International Bank B.S.C. (GIB B.S.C) which is 
based in Bahrain. GIB B.S.C is predominantly 
The Board of Directors 
owned by the Public Investment Fund of Saudi 
Roles and responsibilities 
Arabia. The remaining members of the Gulf 
Cooperation Council (consisting of Bahrain, 
The Board of Directors has ultimate authority for 
Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and the United Arab 
the management and control of GIB AM. 
Emirates) are minority shareholders.
Sustainability responsibilities 
We believe that an effective governance 
framework includes the following: 
The Board of Directors is responsible for our 
strategy, and given we embed sustainability 
•  Clearly defined roles and responsibilities 
considerations in our strategy, they are 
across the organisation 
responsible for our overall approach. The Board 
•  Executable and auditable decision  
and plays a critical role in providing clear direction, 
making processes 
and is regularly updated with regards to the 
•  Enforceable discipline 
progress of our sustainability strategy.
•  Committees taking collegial decisions based 
on information and effective change 
Further, the Board has responsibility for reviewing 
•  Culture, risk management and internal 
and approving GIB AM’s management plan to 
controls that support good governance
manage financial risks from climate change and 
overseeing their execution.  
The following principles underlie our approach  
to governance:
•  Responsibility
•  Accountability
•  Transparency
•  Fairness
Sustainability Report 2020 23
Board composition  Board committees 
The Board constitutes mainly non-executive  The Board has established three oversight 
directors. This ensures its independence of  committees chaired by non-executive
management, and hence to ensure independent  directors to support it. These are: 
judgment on issues brought before it by the 
executive management.  •  The Audit and Risk Oversight Committee 
•  Remuneration Committee 
As at December 2020, the Board comprised: •  Nomination Committee 
•  Mr. Abdulaziz Al-Helaissi  Board evaluation
(Chair of the Board) Non-Executive Director 
The effectiveness of the Board as a whole, and the 
•  Dr. Abdullah bin Hassan Alabdulgader 
performance of individual directors, is reviewed 
Non-Executive Director 
annually. All recommendations are considered 
•  Mr. Turki Almalik – Non-Executive Director
by the Board, actions are implemented and the 
•  Mr. Ralph Campbell – Chief Financial Officer
outcome is reviewed. 
•  Ms. Katherine Garrett-Cox 
Chief Executive Officer The Executive Committee 
•  Ms. Miriam Greenwood 
Non-Executive Director  The Board has delegated the authority for all 
day-to-day management to the CEO. The CEO is 
•  Mr. Osamah Mohammed Shaker 
supported by the Executive Committee.
Non-Executive Director
•  Mr. Gary Withers – Non-Executive Director 
The Executive Committee is responsible for the 
and Senior Independent Director
successful delivery of GIB AM’s sustainability 
•  Mr. John E. Xefos – Non-Executive Director strategy. This includes wider considerations such 
as the implementation of best practice principles 
including the Principles for Responsible Banking. 
Board diversity 
In particular, this comprises of overseeing the 
Principles for Responsible Banking impact analysis 
We believe that having a diverse Board plays 
exercise, making decisions on how to manage the 
a crucial role in improving the decision making 
identified areas of most significant positive and 
process. Our Board members provide a diverse set 
negative impacts (e.g. through setting targets), 
of skills, knowledge and backgrounds. 
overseeing the target setting measures put in 
place and determining the remedial actions where 
Further, we believe in the important benefits that 
the targets are not being achieved or unexpected 
gender diversity bring to the Board. This year, we 
negative impacts have been detected. 
supplemented our Board by adding an additional 
highly capable female non-executive director. 
For more information on our Board Diversity, 
please view our Board Diversity Policy Statement. 
22%
of our Board members are female.
Sustainability Report 2020 24
The sustainability team  Executive and employee remuneration
The sustainability team is responsible for  We have a comprehensive performance 
supporting the delivery of GIB AM’s sustainability  management approach. Our remuneration 
strategy as set out by the Executive Committee.  policy is designed to attract, retain and motivate 
This includes implementing sustainability  quality staff while at the same time encourage 
initiatives, conducting sustainability-related  sustainability considerations. Further, we reward 
analysis (for example the Principles for  our executives and employees in a way that 
Responsible Banking impact analysis) and  encourages them to act in the best interests of 
suggesting sustainability-related targets.  our clients. 
Group Sustainability Council Our remuneration policy does not discriminate 
on the basis of sex, gender reassignment being 
The Group Sustainability Council was established  married or in a civil partnership, being pregnant 
in 2020. The purpose of the Council is to work  or on maternity leave, race (including ethic or 
with the relevant departments within GIB Group  national origin nationality and colour), disability, 
to help the bank achieve its vision of becoming  sexual orientation, religion or belief, age or any 
a sustainable finance provider. The Council has  status that is protected as a matter of law.  
representation from all Group entities.  In addition, we have an Equal Pay for Equal  
Work Policy. 
Governance systems, policies  
Our executives and employee remuneration  
and processes is linked to sustainability. Executives and 
employees variable pay is linked to individual, 
Risk Management and internal controls  departmental and firm wide KPIs. These include 
sustainability elements.  
We have a comprehensive Risk Management 
Framework, which incorporates sustainability and  Stakeholder engagement 
climate related risks. 
We recognise that, for the Bank to be successful 
Consistent with that, climate related risks are 
over the long term, it is important to build and 
included in relevant risk policies and assessments, 
maintain successful relationships with a wide 
such as the Investment Risk Framework and Key 
range of stakeholders and to understand the 
and Emerging Risks registers. 
views of key stakeholders. GIB AM’s Board of 
Directors take the needs of stakeholders into 
Further, as part of our risk management approach, 
consideration as part of their decision-making 
we run stress tests on climate related risks. 
process, as rquired by Section 172 of the UK 
Depending on the results of the stress tests, 
Companies Act 2006. This section provides a 
additional capital for climate related risks may be 
summary of stakeholder considerations (see 
included in the ICAAP. 
Annual Report for more details). 
Our sustainability policies  
We have identified our main stakeholder groups, 
but acknowledge that there will be differentiation 
We believe that embedding sustainability 
within the identified groups, and that the 
considerations in our policies and procedures  
stakeholders are likely to change depending on 
is an important part of ensuring robust 
the nature of the issue under consideration and 
governance standards. 
over time. Some groups are likely to be more 
important than others for specific decisions, and 
Policies relating to sustainability include:
there are likely to be trade-offs between the 
•  Responsible Investment Policy 
needs and wants of different groups. We seek  
•  Stewardship Policy 
to engage with all stakeholders in a meaningful 
•  Environmental and Social Policy 
way, but taking into consideration their level 
•  Supplier and Third Party Code of Conduct 
of interest in the decision and the likely net 
•  Equal Pay for Equal Work Policy 
impact of them. We aim to track and measure 
•  Corporate Philanthropy Policy 
stakeholder engagement. 
Sustainability Report 2020 25
Sustainability culture 
We aim to build a business culture of sustainability, in which all of our 
colleagues understand their role in delivering GIB AM’s sustainability vision 
and integrate sustainability into their day to day work and decision making. 
We have put in place a number of tools to facilitate the development of  
this culture: 
•  Our Executive Committee actively and regularly communicate their full 
support of the sustainability strategy 
•  Our corporate sustainability work is led by the Head of Strategy, who is 
an Executive Committee member 
•  Engaged different business lines with the sustainability strategy 
by assigning them with sustainability responsibilities. In addition, 
sustainability initiatives are open to our colleagues across various 
business lines for them to champion  
•  Launched sustainability focused speaker series, where speakers from 
different organisations share their sustainability experiences and 
learnings with colleagues  
•  Introduced sustainability topics into our regular team meetings 
•  Introduced sustainability related training to all colleagues 
•  Included sustainability questions as part of the employee  
engagement surveys
•  Introduced sustainability KPIs (including sustainability targets linked to 
the Principles for Responsible Banking impact analysis exercise) to the 
balanced scorecard  
Transparency and disclosures 
We believe that comprehensive disclosures are paramount to enabling 
stakeholders to understand our activities, commitments and progress 
against such activities and commitments. This holds true to all of our 
sustainability and ESG matters. 
We have increased the breadth and depth of our disclosures this year 
to include, among other things, disclosures against the Principles for 
Responsible Banking. 
We aim to continue to improve our disclosures. Going forward, we will 
continue to implement the Principles for Responsible Banking into our 
business in general and in our reporting approach. 
Sustainability Report 2020 26
4.  Our operations  
and approach
Sustainability Report 2020 27
Our people 
Diversity and inclusion 
“We hold ourselves to 
We believe that workforce diversity brings a 
number of benefits to the organisation. Our aim is  the same high standard 
to have diversity of socio economic background, 
as the companies in 
gender, age and education. We want to ensure 
that we have a diverse set of experiences, 
which we invest.” 
opinions and perspectives. We also want GIB AM 
to be a place where all employees feel valued and 
have fair and equitable access to opportunities. 
As a matter of policy, GIB AM does not tolerate 
discriminatory practices on the basis of sex, 
GIB AM gender distribution by position
gender reassignment, marital status or civil  Gender distribution
partnerships, being pregnant or on maternity  120%
leave, race (including ethnicity, nationality and 
100%
colour), disability, sexual orientation, religion or  19%
belief, age, or any status that is protected as a  80% 44% 34%
matter of law.  60%
40% 81%
66%
56%
20%
Notes: Data as at 31 December 2020. Management is  
defined as the Executive Committee, Middle Management is  0%
defined as anyone with line management responsibilities. Management Middle Management Rest of the staff
Male Female
Colleague engagement
 
78%
2017 2018 2019 2020
Participation  75% 70% N/A 69%
percentage
As part of GIB AM’s commitment to strong 
colleague engagement, the colleague 
engagement survey forms part of the GIB  Employee engagement score 
AM balanced scorecard. The results of the  for 2020.
engagement survey are reviewed carefully,  
and plans for improving the workplace based  
on the results are agreed, implemented and 
progress is monitored.
Given the COVID-19 pandemic, we conducted 
two engagement surveys in 2020. The overall 
survey response rate remained high, at 69%  
on average. 
Note: Employee engagement survey was not conducted in 
2019
Sustainability Report 2020 28
Learning and development  Our suppliers and outsource providers
Honing our colleagues’ knowledge and skills is  We believe that sustainability extends beyond our 
key to achieving our vision and goals. Our learning  business and operations and into our suppliers 
and development programme thus equips our  and outsource providers. We work in collaboration 
colleagues with the tools needed to obtain their  with our suppliers and outsource providers to 
objectives and to operate in line with the relevant  ensure that our supply chain is sustainable.
standards and regulations. 
Outsourcing and Third Party Supply Code of 
Our learning and development programme 
Conduct and questionnaires 
consists of training sessions delivered through 
a range of channels. Given the pandemic, most 
Sustainability requirements are integrated into our 
training were delivered virtually. 
procurement processes. We ask our suppliers and 
outsource providers to complete our Outsourcing 
In 2020, we sponsored a number of learning and 
and Third Party Supply ESG questionnaires. The 
development courses including:
filled questionnaires are then assessed by GIB AM 
and are given a red, amber or green score. Such 
•  Formal qualifications such as CFA Level 1, 
scores are used alongside the different vendor 
the Islamic Finance Qualification, Certificate 
assessment criteria. 
in ESG Investing, Certified Investment Fund 
Director training, and the FT Board Director 
As a general rule, GIB AM would not onboard any 
Diploma
‘red’ suppliers and third parties. GIB AM would 
•  A number of compliance-related training, in 
also expect ‘amber’ suppliers and third parties to 
addition to mandatory training such as Health 
improve their sustainability practices. 
and Safety
•  Additional training programmes were provided 
The Outsourcing and Third Party Supply Code of 
to our colleagues based on their development 
Conduct and questionnaires cover areas that are 
needs as discussed between our colleagues 
directly related to our key investment pillars (see 
and their Line Managers 
page 12). 
Promoting positive mental health and wellbeing They address the following:
We take the wellbeing of our colleagues very  •  Equality, diversity and human capital 
seriously, including mental wellbeing. As part of  development 
this, we conducted a number of initiatives that  •  Climate, environmental action and water 
focused on protecting our colleagues’ mental  •  Innovation and infrastructure 
health, especially during the pandemic. These  •  Health and wellbeing 
included inviting mental health professionals  •  Governance and accountability 
to speak to our colleagues and offer guidance  •  Data protection and confidentiality 
on ‘DIY style’ ways to protect mental health, in  •  Exclusions 
addition to directing colleagues to formal mental 
health resources. We also trained a number of our 
colleagues to become mental health first aiders. 
Such training will continue into 2021 to ensure 
our colleagues are well looked after. 
We set up a support network of the GIB 
Communities of four communities: Wellbeing, 
Learning and Development, Entertainment 
and Social. We ran exercise classes, shared 
information about learning new skills, shared 
entertainment recommendations, and were able 
to socialise with colleagues on regular coffee 
calls and quizzes. This helped to keep our team 
connected, despite virtual working. 
Sustainability Report 2020 29
Our community 
Philanthropy
Our corporate philanthropy activities continued in 2020 despite the COVID-19 pandemic. We focused 
our philanthropic efforts on two of our key pillars; equality, diversity and human capital development 
and health and wellbeing. This was done through four channels; a donation to our partner charity, 
employee match funding, donations in response to COVID-19 and employee volunteering. 
Our partner charity 
In 2020, we partnered with the Lord Mayor’s Appeal. In addition to monetary
donations, we ran a number of joint initiatives.
Equality, 
diversity and  Health and 
human capital  Wellbeing
development
She can Be This is me
A group of 11 girls joined GIB AM for the   A representative from the Lord Mayor’s 
day. The girls met with GIB AM colleagues  Appeal gave a virtual presentation to  
from different departments and different  our colleagues, covering mental health  
levels of the organisation.  and wellbeing.
The girls also took part in a number  
of different activities that aimed to  
highlight the core skills that are needed  
in the workplace. 
Match Funding  Health and 
Wellbeing
We matched GBP 1,526 of our colleagues’ donations in 2020. 
Such donations went to a number of charities including:
Sustainability Report 2020 30
Donations in response to COVID-19
 
In addition to our match funding, we made a number of donations in response to the COVID-19 
pandemic:
•  We donated our office’s fruit boxes (which totalled four boxes a week) for 16 weeks to NHS 
hospitals in London 
•  We donated 50 Chrome Books and 20 laptops to two secondary schools in London.  
This helped underprivileged children from more deprived backgrounds to study at home  
while schools were closed
Volunteering 
Our volunteering activities did not stop during the COVID-19 pandemic. GIB AM gave colleagues who 
wished to volunteer up to 14 hours during their working hours to fulfil their volunteering. Some of our 
colleagues used this opportunity to volunteer for the NHS. 
Volunteering with  Volunteering with  Volunteering with the 
CityStep HandsOn London  Future Youth Zone
We volunteered with  We volunteered with  We volunteered with 
CityStep, a mentoring  HandsOn London, an  Barking and Dagenham 
initiative where  organisation that supports  Youth Zone, a facility 
professionals are   vulnerable people in the  for the borough’s young 
matched with students. community.  people aged 8-19. The 
Youth Zone provides a safe 
As part of this initiative,  As part of this volunteering  environment where young 
our colleagues provided  activity, GIB AM colleagues  people can come and enjoy 
advice and support to  helped produce care  themselves and will enable 
students on the skills  packages to the elderly. young people to raise their 
that are required in the  aspirations and confidence 
workplace, as well as  to create a happier and 
offering advice regarding  healthier generation.
CVs and interviews. 
We offered various 
activities to the young 
people, including interview 
practice sessions, job 
application advice, CV 
reviews, and even “Chill 
and Chat”. We also 
offered other fun sessions, 
including “a Day in the Life 
of a COO”, and a “Day in 
the Life of an FX Trader”.
Sustainability Report 2020 31
Our new sustainable office 
In early 2021 we moved into new London premises. 
The office has a number of sustainable features including:
•  Energy efficient heating, ventilation and air conditioning at the office 
to reduce energy use
•  Low energy lighting
•  Use of environmentally friendly material (such as A+ rated 
environmentally efficient flooring and low VOC Paints and finishes)
•  All waste material was appropriately recycled 
GIB AM’s sustainable office achieved Gold Ska rating 
We achieved a Gold rating for the refurbishment of 
our new office, which is the highest Ska accolade for 
sustainable fit-out. 
We were informed that we were one of only a handful of 
companies that have achieved Ska Gold certification. 
Sustainability Report 2020 32
Our environment
We agree with the United Nations premise that a healthy environment is imperative for the  
“full enjoyment of basic human rights, including the rights to life, health, food, water, sanitation,  
and the quality of life’. 
We are committed to reducing the impact of our operations on the environment. 
Our 2020 carbon emissions
In 2020, we emitted approximately tCO2e 144.4 of carbon, equating to tCO2e 1.95 per FTE.  
This is approximately 70% lower than what we are estimated to have emitted in 2019. 
TCO2e estimate
2019 2020 Change YoY %
Scope 1  N/A N/A
Scope 2
Electricity consumed in office and in  73.4 53.3 -27.4%
data recovery sites
Scope 3
Employee business travel (air,  409.9 60.9 -85.1%
commute, taxi, hotel)
Additional scope 3 estimated  12 30.2 151.7%**
disclosures*
Total  495.4 144.4 -70.8%
Total per FTE 5.97 1.95 -67.3% 
*Includes electricity consumed T&D to GIB offices, material use (including in new office) and waste disposal 
**Increase in emissions in 2020 is attributed to moving offices.
We recognise that 2020 was not a typical year, and that the drastic reduction in emissions is attributed 
to the restrictions imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. However, we are committed to reducing our 
emissions, even when the COVID-19 restrictions are lifted. 
We devised a number of initiatives that aim to reduce emissions, including:
•  Approving a plan to reduce business travel (where possible)
•  Ensuring that our new office has energy efficiency considerations (please see page 32)
•  Initiatives that aim to reduce the amount of waste generated (e.g. paper) 
•  Only when we have done all we can to reduce absolute emissions do we participate in robust 
carbon offset scheme*
*We do not see emissions offsetting schemes as an alternative to reducing emissions. In addition, we understand the concerns 
regarding governance in the emissions offset market and agree that this should be improved.
Sustainability Report 2020 33
Carbon targets 
In 2019, we set ambitious carbon reduction targets:
•  By 2030, reduce overall carbon emissions by 50%, using 2019 as a baseline, and 
•  By 2030, reduce carbon emissions by 50-55% per FTE, using 2019 as a baseline 
To prevent undoing the positive impact of the pandemic on our carbon footprint, we have set ourselves 
an interim target of reducing emissions by 10% in 2021, using 2019 as a baseline.
We committed to becoming carbon neutral from 2019 onwards. 
Target implementation and monitoring 
We monitor our carbon footprint on an annual basis, and the data are reported as part of the Balanced 
Scorecard. Any changes to targets are proposed to the Executive Committee, and discussed with 
the Board. In the event that the targets are not being achieved, an analysis will be conducted to 
understand why and recommendations made to get back on track. 
In 2019, we offset all of our emissions.
In 2020, we decided to take this commitment a step further, and offset a total of tCO2e 200 (an 
additional 38.5% relative to the estimates of carbon consumed by GIB AM). The extra offset margin is 
aimed at accounting for any estimation errors, and as a consideration for our suppliers’ emissions.
  
We planted 200 trees, equivalent to offsetting tCO2e 200. 
Case study: our DocuSign initiative resulted in 
significant environmental savings 
As part of our environmental impact reduction plan, we introduced DocuSign  
(an electronic signatory product). In 2020, this resulted in large environmental savings.
1,233 kg  525 kg  12,905 litres  85 kg 
of carbon of wood of water of waste
Sustainability Report 2020 34
“We recognise the need to 
partner with other organisations 
to drive meaningful change.”
Our partnership strategy 
We recognise the need to partner with other organisations to drive 
meaningful change. Our approach is to form partnerships with leading public 
and private organisations around the world to help drive sustainable change. 
Humanitarian and Resilience Investing initiative 
We are working alongside other leading global organisations and institutions 
on the Humanitarian and Resilience Investing (HRI) initiative. HRI refers to 
capital invested in ways that measurably benefit people and communities in 
contexts of Fragility, Conflict and Violence, while creating a financial return. 
The initiative aims to advance the HRI theme by addressing:
•  Critical data gaps
•  Investment landscape uncertainty 
•  Need for proof of concept  
As part of this, GIB AM published a White Paper in collaboration with the 
World Economic Forum ‘Unlocking Humanitarian and Resilience Investing 
through Better Data’ in January 2021. 
Other initiative co-chairs include the International Committee of the Red 
Cross, Credit Suisse, the World Bank Group and the Netherlands. 
Sustainability Report 2020 35
Our memberships
We understand that collective impact requires commitment, collaboration 
and action towards clearly defined goals. Hence, we have decided to partner 
with leading initiatives and organisations whose focus is on solving major 
sustainability challenges
Principles for Responsible Investment: Friends of Ocean Action:
A voluntary initiative that encourages   A coalition, convened by the WEF, which 
investors to embed environmental, social and  combines over 65 leaders looking to solve today’s 
governance (ESG) factors into their investment  most pressing ocean challenges
decision making
Principles for Responsible Banking: Humanitarian Investing Initiative:
A voluntary initiative that provides the banking  An initiative co-chaired by the WEF, International 
industry with a single framework that embeds  Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and the 
sustainability at the strategic, portfolio and  World Bank Group, which aims to empower the 
transactional levels and across all banking areas  Humanitarian Investing Community
Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change 
The Investment Association: 
(IIGCC): 
A forum that encourages European investor  A trade body that represents Investment 
collaboration on issues related to climate change Managers and Asset Management firms in the UK 
and encourages better practices
Task Force on Climate Related  
The World Economic Forum: 
Financial Disclosures:
A non-profit international organisation committed  A non-profit international organisation committed 
to improving the state of the world by engaging  to improving the state of the world by engaging 
leaders on pressing issues and urging them to  leaders on pressing issues and urging them to 
better shape their industries better shape their industries
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
UK Finance:
(SASB): 
An independent non-profit standards setter  A trade association that acts as the collective 
focused on industry-specific and financially  voice of over 250 firms across the UK banking 
material ESG factors and finance industry
The Valuable 500: 
An initiative that catalyses the influence of large, private  
corporations and challenges diversity that excludes disability
Sustainability Report 2020 36
5. Our outlook
Sustainability Report 2020 37
Enhance our sustainable investment 
solutions
We are materially expanding the range of active 
sustainable investment strategies that we 
can offer our clients. As part of this, we will be 
launching the following new active sustainable 
equities products:
•  GIB AM Sustainable World 
•  GIB AM Global Emerging Markets 
Expansion of our sustainability 
advisory offering 
We are enhancing our sustainability advisory 
offering in 2021. Our advisory offering helps our 
clients kick-start their sustainability journey, and 
supports them as they develop their approach. 
More information will be provided in due course.
Charity of the year 
We selected WellFound to be our Charity of the 
Year for 2021. WellFound works with some of the 
world’s poorest communities to support them 
with clean water and sanitation. It was this link to 
SDG 6: Clean Water and Sanitation that drove our 
selection of Wellfound as our partner. 
Sustainability Report 2020 38
Conclusion
Overall, 2020 was an extremely challenging year from a sustainability 
perspective. Not only did climate change continue to have devastating 
impacts on people and the planet, but the COVID-19 pandemic took a 
devastating toll on our health and economies.
At GIB Asset Management, we have sought to respond to the challenges 
facing us by continuing to drive a sustainability agenda, working in 
partnership with our clients and other stakeholders. Looking back over the 
part year, we have made demonstrable progress in our commitment to 
responsible investing and banking.
By being conscious of the mark we leave on the world, we have made better 
choices. 
Sustainability Report 2020 39
GIB Asset Management
First Floor,
One Curzon Street,
London, W1J 5HD
T: +44 (0) 20 7259 3149
E: info@gibam.com
www. gibam.com