
Global Core AR A4 cover.qxp  08/07/2021  09:32  Page FC1
JPMorgan Global Core Real Assets Limited 
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 28th February 2021 
Global Core AR A4 cover.qxp  08/07/2021  09:32  Page IFC2
KEY FEATURES
JPMorgan Global Core Real Assets Limited (the ‘Company’ or ‘JARA’) is a closed-ended investment company incorporated in accordance with the Companies 
(Guernsey) Law, 2008. The address of its registered office is at 1st Floor, Les Echelons Court, Les Echelons, South Esplanade, St Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 1AR. 
The principal activity of the Company is investing in securities as set out in the Company’s Investment Objective and Investment Policy. 
Investment Objective 
The Company seeks to provide shareholders with stable income and capital appreciation from exposure to a globally diversified portfolio of Core Real 
Assets. 
Investment Policy 
The Company pursues its investment objective through diversified investment in private funds or managed accounts managed or advised by entities 
within J.P. Morgan Asset Management (collectively referred to as ‘JPMAM’), the asset management business of JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
Please refer to pages 25 and 26 for full details of the Company’s investment policies. 
Dividend Policy 
The Company has a target annual dividend yield of 4 to 6%, based on the initial issue price of 100.0p per share.  
Capital Structure 
As at 28th February 2021, the Company’s share capital comprised 208,807,952 ordinary shares of nil par value. 
Management Company 
The Company employs JPMorgan Funds Limited (‘JPMF’ or the ‘Manager’) as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager. JPMF delegates the management 
of the Company’s portfolio to JPMorgan Asset Management (UK) Limited (‘JPMAM UK’) which further delegates the management to J.P. Morgan Asset 
Management, Inc., Security Capital Research & Management Inc. and J.P. Morgan Alternative Asset Management Inc. (collectively referred to as ‘JPMAM’ 
or the ‘Investment Manager’ or ‘Investment Managers’). All of these entities are wholly owned subsidiaries of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. 
Management Fees 
JPMF is entitled to receive from the Company a management fee in respect of that part of the Company’s net asset value which is invested in JPMAM 
products, calculated at the rate of 0.05% per annum. The Company’s investments in the JPMAM products also bear the management fee charged by the 
relevant manager at the level of the relevant JPMAM product (the ‘underlying management fees’). The total overall management fee payable to JPMAM 
is the aggregate of the management fee and the underlying management fees. No management fee is charged on uninvested assets held in cash or cash 
equivalents. 
The total overall management fee borne by the Company is currently 0.97% per annum, falling on a tiered basis to 0.84% per annum if the Company’s 
net asset value is £1 billion or more, based on the initial portfolio, as set out in the table below: 
Company’s Net Asset Value                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total Overall  
invested in JPMAM Products                                                                                                                                                                                        Management Fee 
£100m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.97% 
£300m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.95% 
£500m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.89% 
£1,000m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.84% 
Further details on the management fee and the underlying fees payable to the relevant managers of the JPMAM Products can be found on page 37. 
Administrator 
The Company employs J.P. Morgan Administration Services (Guernsey) Limited as its administrator. 
Gearing 
The Company may use gearing, in the form of a bank facility or revolving credit facility, for cash management, currency hedging purposes or other short 
term needs. Borrowings may be in Sterling or other currencies. The Company’s total borrowings will not exceed 20% of net asset value calculated at the 
time of drawdown. The Company does not currently have any borrowing facilities. 
Continuation Resolution 
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, the Directors are required to propose a resolution that the Company continue as 
a closed-ended investment company at the annual general meeting in 2024 and every fifth year thereafter. 
Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) regulation of ‘non-mainstream pooled investments’ and MiFID II 
‘complex instruments’ 
The Company currently conducts its affairs so that its shares can be recommended by Independent Financial Advisers to ordinary retail investors in 
accordance with the rules of the FCA in relation to non-mainstream investment products and intends to continue to do so for the foreseeable future. 
The shares are excluded from the FCA’s restrictions which apply to non-mainstream investment products because they are shares in an investment 
company. The Company’s shares are not classified as ‘complex instruments’ under the FCA’s revised ‘appropriateness’ criteria adopted in the 
implementation of MiFID II. 
Association of Investment Companies (‘AIC’) 
The Company is a member of the AIC. 
Website 
The Company’s website, which can be found at www.jpmrealassets.co.uk includes useful information on the Company, such as daily share prices, 
factsheets and will show current and historic half year and annual reports once available.
JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021  
Global Core AR p01-04.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 1
                                                                            KEY FEATURES
J.P. Morgan Asset Management’s Alternative Solutions Group 
The Global Alternatives Platform of J.P. Morgan Asset Management (‘JPMAM’) manages £116 billion in net assets, as of 31st December 
2020, across a range of alternatives strategies. It is this existing platform, and importantly, the real assets part of it (£52 billion in net 
assets) which JARA accesses to create a highly diversified, foundational allocation for investors’ portfolios. The primary responsibility of 
managing the Company’s portfolio goes to JPMAM’s Alternative Solutions Group (‘ASG’).  
The ASG division includes over 30 investment professionals, located primarily in London, New York, Hong Kong, and Singapore. The ASG 
division was formed to design, build, and implement diversified alternative investment solutions across more than 35 strategies spanning 
real assets and other alternatives categories offered by JPMAM. ASG takes a team approach to portfolio management with the 
Investment Committee constructing and managing the Company’s portfolio by receiving insights and analytics from the Alternative 
Investment Strategy and Solutions Team. The Investment Committee utilises the insight and analytics to periodically assess the portfolio 
allocations and the Company’s investments in different real asset strategies and JPMAM products. ASG can trace its heritage back over 
25 years from when JPMAM started managing hedge fund solutions for clients; collectively the team now manages in excess of $16 billion 
in assets under management (‘AUM’) across a range of alternatives solutions.  
Real Assets: Building Blocks of Productive Societies 
JPMAM deﬁnes real assets in part by what they are: large-scale, long-life, productive, tangible hard assets. They are also fundamental 
building blocks of productive societies. The investible universe of these real asset categories is dominated by the trio of real estate, 
infrastructure and transport.  
JPMAM deﬁnes real estate as properties where people live, work, shop and store goods. Infrastructure is deﬁned as essential facilities 
and services upon which a community’s economic productivity depends and that are vital to the movement and storage of goods, people, 
data, water and energy. Transport is deﬁned as ‘moving infrastructure’: maritime vessels, energy logistics, aircraft, rail and vehicles, and 
other surface and air transport segments. 
Collectively, real estate, infrastructure and transport represent more than 95% of the real asset market, making these three the most 
available and scalable real asset categories in a total market with a value that is estimated to be more than $20 trillion globally. 
   
These examples do not represent investments in J.P. Morgan’s real assets funds. Image source: Shutterstock.
WHY INVEST IN THE JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED
Global Core AR p01-04.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 2
KEY FEATURES  
Investment Philosophy 
The Company provides shareholders with a globally diversiﬁed portfolio of income producing core real assets, primarily in private 
markets, across global real estate assets, global transport assets and global infrastructure assets. The Company allocates to these 
markets using JPMAM strategies, many of which are already sizeable. By allocating to these existing strategies the Company gains 
exposure to a pool of over 800 individual underlying private real assets providing a signiﬁcantly greater level of diversiﬁcation – 
both by number of assets and by geography – than the Company would be able to achieve allocating directly.  
Since the end of the reporting period, the Company’s capital that was allocated for the Asia-Paciﬁc Real Estate Private Fund was called 
and invested, resulting in the Company now having invested 96% of the total capital raised from proceeds of both the IPO and all 
subsequent share issuance (based on the Company’s NAV as at 28th February 2021). The portfolio is constructed to provide a high level 
of diversiﬁcation across asset types and sectors – many of which are largely uncorrelated with each other – in an attempt to provide 
a greater level of stability and an uncorrelated source of return. The Manager evaluates new real asset strategies as well as strategic 
changes to the asset allocation from time to time whilst ensuring the portfolio remains consistent with the risk and return proﬁle of the 
Company. It is expected that, in line with the strategic allocations below, a portion of any new capital raised will be invested in U.S. Core 
Real Estate Mezzanine debt. This will further add to portfolio diversiﬁcation, increase the income level of the portfolio and capitalise on 
an attractive area of the market from a current risk return perspective. 
JPMorgan Global Core Real Assets: Portfolio Allocation 
Premium Risk-Adjusted Returns1
 
                   7 – 9%                                       4 – 6% 
          Target total return once fully invested,                Target dividend once fully invested, local  Liquid Real Assets GlobalG Rleoabl Easlt aRtee al Estate
                   local currency, net of fees                                           currency, net of fees (30-50%)
(10-30%) (30% - 50%)
U.S.Core RE
  U.S. All-tranche REITs
APAC Core RE
Listed Real Assets
U.S. Core RE Mezz
 
Global Diversification2
 
                    800+                                             4 
                             private assets                                                             strategies
 
Global
Transport
  (10-30%)
Global Core Transport
  Global Scale2 Global Infrastructure
(10-30%)
                  +$70bn                                      +1,000 
                           Gross Asset Value                                                           Investors Global Core Infrastructure
 
1  On the basis of the initial issue price, the Company targets an annual dividend yield on the ordinary shares of 4 to 6% (the ‘target dividend’). The target returns are net 
compound returns for illustrative purposes only and are subject to signiﬁcant limitations. The total return and income range are shown net of estimated Company 
management fees and operating expenses. An investor should not expect to achieve actual returns similar to the target returns shown above. Because of the inherent 
limitations of the target returns, potential investors should not rely on them when making a decision on whether or not to invest in the strategy. 
2  Based on underlying strategies as of 28th February 2021. 
While most real assets provide access to a source of returns from a single category of real assets, as detailed above, the Company 
provides access to a range of real asset strategies. The real asset strategies to which the Company has access would generally not be 
available to most investors, either because the underlying investments are held through private funds, which are not publicly offered, 
or because of the size of commitment needed to gain access to these strategies. Further to this, most real asset strategies available for 
investment in the UK market are domestically focused, whereas the Company will enable shareholders to gain exposure to global real 
assets. The Company’s underlying asset mix is therefore designed to sit at the centre of a shareholder’s alternative or real asset portfolio 
and provide complementary exposures to their existing allocations. Access to these types of assets is especially relevant in the current 
environment of compressed yields and increased market volatility – increasing the need for uncorrelated sources of returns. The 
Manager believes that the JPMAM platform is one of the few platforms globally that has the spread of real asset strategies to allow the 
diversiﬁcation of allocations that should help the Company produce the stability of returns intended from the portfolio.
2  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021   
Global Core AR p01-04.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 3
                                                                          KEY FEATURES
The Real Asset Spectrum 
The Company predominantly allocates towards a range of ‘core’ real asset strategies. JPMAM deﬁnes certain real assets as ‘core’ if their 
cash ﬂows are forecastable for long time periods with a low margin of error. This is in contrast to non-core or value-add and opportunistic 
assets that tend to have a higher risk/higher return proﬁle but generally require new construction or improvement and are more 
dependent on capital appreciation than on cash ﬂow for returns. 
Core real assets include prime properties with long unexpired lease periods in major developed markets; regulated utilities, and other 
infrastructure sectors with transparent, predictable cash ﬂows; and transport assets (maritime vessels, aircraft, rail cars, etc.) that 
feature long-term contracts with high-credit quality counterparties.  
Global core real assets can generate two or three times the income of ﬁnancial assets with less than half the volatility. There are also 
clear differences among the asset classes that fall under the deﬁnition of core alternatives, notably in what they are (a real estate 
property versus a port, for example), their purpose within a portfolio and the drivers of their returns. These varia tions are important as 
sources of additional diversiﬁcation, allowing the assets to complement one another when core alternatives are added to a portfolio. 
Asset class yields (%) 
12%
Equities
10% Fixed income
Alternatives
8%
6%
4%
 
2%
0%
–2%
Global TransportDirect LGelnodbianl gInfrastructure PreferrAePdsAC Real Estate Global ERuErIoTspe Real EstateU.S. High YielU.dS. Real IEsnttaetrenational Equity U.S. Equity U.S. 10-Eyuerao rGovt. (7-10yr.)
As at 28th February 2021. Source: J.P. Morgan Asset Management. For illustrative purposes only.  
Beyond their tangibility, which is a refreshing characteristic for investors, core real assets can play a vital role in portfolios, so long 
as they are actively managed by experienced investment professionals in this ﬁeld. They offer hybrid characteristics, providing the 
opportunity for a stable, volatility-reducing income stream along with the potential for some upside from price appreciation. Given 
current challenges facing investors whether acting as a diversiﬁer versus public equities or as a supplement to lower yielding ﬁxed 
income assets, core real assets may enhance the outcomes for investors’ portfolios. 
                                                                                                                              KEY FEATURES  |  3
Global Core AR p01-04.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 4
CONTENTS
  Strategic Report    Independent Auditor’s  
      6  Financial Highlights and Key Statistics      50  Report 
      8  Chairman’s Statement 
    11  Investment Manager’s Report 
  Financial Statements 
    17  Environmental Social and Governance 
(‘ESG’) Report       58  Statement of Comprehensive Income and 
    20  Portfolio Information  Statement of Changes in Equity 
    25  Company Purpose, Investment Objective,      59  Statement of Financial Position 
Policies and Guidelines       60  Statement of Cash Flows 
    28  Principal and Emerging Risks       61  Notes to the Financial Statements 
    32  Long Term Viability 
    33  Duty to Promote the Success of the 
  Regulatory Disclosures 
Company 
    81  Alternative Investment Fund Managers 
Directive (‘AIFMD’) Disclosures (unaudited) 
  Directors’ Report 
    82  Securities Financing Transactions 
    36  Board of Directors  Regulation (‘SFTR’) Disclosures (unaudited) 
    37  Directors’ Report 
    39  Corporate Governance Statement 
  Shareholder Information 
    43  Audit Committee Report 
    84  Notice of Annual General Meeting 
    87  Glossary of Terms and Alternative 
  Directors’ Remuneration   Performance Measures (‘APMs’) (unaudited) 
    45  Report      89  Where to buy J.P. Morgan Investment 
Companies 
    91  Information about the Company 
  Statement of Directors’  
    48  Responsibilities 
4  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 5
                                                                  Strategic Report
Image source: Shutterstock.
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 6
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS AND KEY STATISTICS
TOTAL RETURNS (INCLUDING DIVIDENDS REINVESTED) TO 28TH FEBRUARY
 
                                                                                                                                                           2021                        20201 
 
Return to shareholders2,APM 
–1.0% +2.2%
 
Return on net assets3,APM 
–5.9% –1.5%
 
Dividend per share 
3.25p 0.75p
 
1 The Company’s first day of trading was on 24th September 2019 and the opening share price was 100.0p per share. The Company was incorporated on 22nd February 
2019. 
2 Source: Morningstar.  
3  Source: Morningstar/J.P. Morgan. 
APM Alternative Performance Measure (‘APM’). 
A glossary of terms and APMs is provided on pages 87 and 88.
KEY STATISTICS 
Private Assets Balance Sheet
NUMBER OF PRIVATE INVESTMENTS/PRIVATE 235/831 AVERAGE DISCOUNT RATE 7.5%
ASSETS
AVERAGE LEASE DURATION 4.9 years LOOK THROUGH LOAN-TO-VALUE 42.0%
 
CONTRACTED INCOME RECEIVED Q4 2020 96% COST OF DEBT 2.4%
CONTRACTS EXPIRING IN 2021 7% FIXED/FLOATING DEBT 83%/17%
Data as of 28th February 2021. All data is focused on private asset exposure. Contracted income does not include private infrastructure exposure as these assets are less 
compatible with this metric. Due to JARA being in its ramp-up phase the above metrics are not indicative of the performance and income received by the Company. Note that 
this is based on the current portfolio and will change as the portfolio becomes further invested. Past performance is not a reliable indicator of current and future results.
6  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021  
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 7
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS AND KEY STATISTICS
SUMMARY OF RESULTS 
                                                                                                                           28th February     29th February 
                                                                                                                                            2021                    20201            % change 
Total returns (including dividends reinvested) 
Return to shareholders2,APM                                                                                                         –1.0%                       +2.2%                          n/a 
Return on net assets3,APM                                                                                                             –5.9%                       –1.5%                          n/a 
Dividend per share4                                                                                                                     3.25p                        0.75p                     +333.3 
Net asset value, share price, discount and market data  
Shareholders’ funds (£’000)                                                                                                    183,517                    194,415                        –5.6 
Net asset value per shareAPM                                                                                                        87.9p                       96.8p                         –9.2 
Share price                                                                                                                                  97.2p                      101.5p                        –4.2 
Share price premium to net asset value per shareAPM                                                              10.6%                        4.9% 
Exchange rate                                                                                                                       1  £  =  $  1.398        1  £  =  $  1.277                       +9.5% 
Shares in issue                                                                                                                 208,807,952            200,802,887                        +4.0 
Loss for the year/period  
Loss attributable to shareholders (£’000)                                                                             (12,730)                     (4,728)                     –169.2 
Loss per share                                                                                                                          (6.08)p                     (2.79)p                      –117.9 
Net cashAPM                                                                                                                               (10.9)%                    (65.1)% 
Ongoing charges5,APM                                                                                                                 0.69%                      0.37% 
1 The Company’s first day of trading was on 24th September 2019 and the opening share price was 100.0p per share. The Company was incorporated on 22nd February 
2019. 
2 Source: Morningstar. This is the total return (i.e. including dividends reinvested) on the Company’s share price. 
3 Source: Morningstar/J.P. Morgan. This is the total return (i.e. including dividends reinvested) on the Company’s net asset value per share. 
4 Under Guernsey company law, the Company is permitted to pay dividends despite losses provided solvency tests are performed and passed ahead of dividend declaration. 
5 The ongoing charges calculation excludes the underlying costs incurred in the year/period in the management of the Collective Investment Schemes (which comprise 
66.7% (2020: 16.7%) of shareholders’ funds) as the relevant information is not readily available in a form consistent with the ongoing charges calculation methodology 
produced by the Association of Investment Companies (‘AIC’). The year-on-year increase in ongoing charges is due to the increased level of funded commitments 
compared to last year. 
APM Alternative Performance Measure (‘APM’). 
A glossary of terms and APMs is provided on pages 87 and 88.
                                                                                                                        STRATEGIC REPORT  |  7
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 8
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
I am pleased to present the second Annual Report & Financial Statements for JPMorgan Global Core Real 
Assets Limited (the ‘Company’ or ‘JARA’) for the 12 months to 28th February 2021, this being the first annual 
report which covers a complete financial year.  
Year In Review 
Having obtained a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange on 24th September 2019 following 
a successful initial public offering (‘IPO’), your Company entered this financial year with 200,802,887 shares 
John Scott   in issue and £194.4 million in net assets. Over the course of the year, the Company grew its share capital by 
Chairman
4.0% through the issue of 8,005,065 new shares at a premium to their prevailing net asset value and, as at 
28th February 2021, the Company had 208,807,952 shares in issue and net assets of £183.5 million. Over the 
year 3.25p in dividends were declared and paid to shareholders.  
Objective and Features 
The Company’s objective is to provide shareholders with stable income and capital appreciation through 
exposure to a globally diversified portfolio of ‘core real assets’, by which we mean real assets that offer 
reliable, highly forecastable, long term cash flows. These are focused on unlisted assets held in private 
funds investing in the global infrastructure, real estate and transportation sectors, alongside a more liquid 
element of the portfolio investing directly in listed real assets.  
Through these private funds and accounts managed by J.P. Morgan Asset Management, the Company 
provides diversified access to what is currently over 200 private investments with exposure to over 
800 underlying private real assets.  
The Company aims to provide investors with a long-term NAV return of 7 to 9% per annum, inclusive of 
a dividend yield (based on the initial issue price of 100p per share) of 4 to 6% per annum, now that the 
Company is close to fully invested. 
Capital Deployment  
Although the COVID-19 pandemic slowed the Company’s capital deployment, particularly at the height of the 
uncertainty between February and August 2020, from September the pace of capital deployment picked up 
significantly, allowing the Company to meet initial deployment targets. Your Company has now invested 
100% of the proceeds arising from its IPO and has invested the major part of the capital raised from 
subsequent share issuance, which we were able to put to work at a much faster pace than the IPO proceeds. 
At year end, the Company had invested 90% of shareholder funds and since then further investments have 
increased to 96% invested. The Investment Manager’s report provides more detail on the timing of the 
deployments and the subsequent geographical and currency exposures of the Company.  
Investment and Share Price Performance 
The net asset value total return over the period, measured in pound sterling, was –5.9% inclusive of the 
3.25p per share dividends paid to shareholders, while share price total return was –1.0%. The Company’s 
share price was 97.2p per share at the financial year end and in the year under review the shares traded in 
a range of 112.5p to 73.5p per share, reflecting the heightened volatility in equity markets in the first half of 
2020 as the effect of the pandemic shook investor confidence. The low point was reached on 19th March 
2020 when world equity markets were in a pandemic-induced freefall and it was gratifying to see how fast 
the share price recovered once central banks intervened to inject liquidity and steady markets. 
Since the majority of JARA’s assets are US dollar denominated, reported returns have been adversely 
affected by sterling’s 9.5% appreciation against the US dollar over the year. While this exposure has been 
a negative contributor to date, one of JARA’s unique attributes is that it offers shareholders access to real 
assets globally and with this comes a global currency exposure. Whilst this currency impact has moved 
against the Company over the last year, one would expect that over the long term currency moves will 
represent a neutral impact for shareholder returns. It is pleasing to note that the three private strategies in 
8  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021   
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 9
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT   
which the Company was invested over the year (transportation and infrastructure assets only in the last few 
months) and the more liquid strategies all posted positive returns in their local currencies – a testament to 
the resilience of the underlying strategies in what has a truly testing year.  
The Investment Manager’s Report reviews the Company’s performance and gives a detailed commentary on 
the investment strategy and portfolio construction, and an outlook for the strategies. 
Revenue and Dividends  
The Company has weathered a number of headwinds over the last year regarding the portfolio income, with 
delays to deployment and sterling strength presenting significant hurdles, but the Board is pleased to note 
that this has not prevented JARA from achieving both its first year target dividend yield of 2 to 3p per share, 
and is now on track to hit its fully invested run rate of 4 to 6p per share, with both targets based on the 
initial issue price of 100p per share. Over the year the Board declared in respect of the Company’s year 
ending 28th February 2021 the following dividends: 
•     First quarterly interim dividend of 0.75p per share, which was paid on 28th May 2020  
•     Second quarterly interim dividend of 0.75p per share, which was paid on 31st August 2020  
•     Third quarterly interim dividend of 0.75p per share, which was paid on 30th November 2020 
•     Fourth quarterly interim dividend of 1.0p per share, which was paid on 25th February 2021 
Over the longer term, however, the ability to maintain and grow the dividend will depend on the rate at 
which the Company can invest and in the continuing success of the underlying strategies. The Directors 
intend to maintain the current level of dividend payments and review the level of dividend cover in the 
coming quarters and have declared a first dividend for the 2021/22 financial year of 1 penny per share, 
which was paid to shareholders on 27th May. Your Board is hopeful that over the longer term the success of 
the underlying businesses into which we invest will facilitate a steadily growing level of dividends.  
Placing Programme and Share Issuance 
Since IPO, the Company has taken advantage of the premium to NAV at which the shares have traded over 
the period to issue an additional 59,833,063 shares, and over the past financial year 8,005,065 new shares 
were issued pursuant to the placing programme, raising gross proceeds of £8.7 million. These proceeds are 
invested in line with the Company’s investment policies across the underlying investment strategies. Share 
issuance is always executed at a premium to the prevailing cum-income NAV per share and so is accretive 
to the returns of existing shareholders. If conditions are appropriate, the Company will continue to issue 
new shares which, as well as assisting with premium management, will also enhance liquidity and continue 
to underpin the Company as an attractive investment. 
C-Share Capital Raise  
The Company published a prospectus on 10th November 2020 looking to raise new capital. This prospectus 
remains active and the Company continues to explore a number of fund raising opportunities and when the 
market environment allows, this will be conducted either via a C-Share or placing. The Manager believes 
there are a number of opportunities across the JPMorgan real asset platform that are attractive and would 
offer accretive additions to the Company’s portfolio and return profile.  
Corporate Governance  
The Board is committed to maintaining and demonstrating high standards of corporate governance, which is 
essential to foster the long-term, strategic thinking that will create and protect value for all stakeholders. The 
Board has considered the principles and provisions of the 2019 Association of Investment Companies Code of 
Corporate Governance (the ‘AIC Code’). The AIC Code addresses all the principles and provisions set out in the 
UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles and provisions on issues that are 
of specific relevance to investment companies. The Board considers that reporting in accordance with the 
principles and provisions of the AIC Code provides relevant and comprehensive information to shareholders.  
                                                                                                                        STRATEGIC REPORT  |  9
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 10
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
I am pleased to report that throughout the year ended 28th February 2021, the Company complied with the 
recommendations of the AIC Code. 
The Board 
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Incorporation and corporate governance best practice, all 
Directors will be retiring and seeking re-election by shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meeting 
(‘AGM’). The Board’s knowledge and experience is detailed on page 36. 
Annual General Meeting 
The Company’s second AGM will be held on 3rd August 2021 at 12.30 p.m. at Les Echelons Court, 
Les Echelons, South Esplanade, St Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 1AR. At the time of writing, it is unclear whether 
social distancing measures will be in place at the time of the AGM. We therefore intend to hold the AGM as 
a formal meeting simply to conduct the business of the meeting and without presentations or refreshments.   
Currently Guernsey based shareholders are permitted to attend the AGM in person, shareholders from 
outside of the Bailiwick of Guernsey are strongly encouraged to appoint the chairman of the AGM as their 
proxy. Shareholders from outside of the Bailiwick of Guernsey are encouraged to raise any questions in 
advance of the meeting with the Company Secretary at the Company’s registered address, or via the ‘Ask Us 
a Question’ link which can be found in the ‘Contact Us’ section on the Company’s website, or by writing to 
the Company Secretary at the address on page 91 or via email to invtrusts.cosec@jpmorgan.com.  
Should circumstances change and restrictions be further eased or tightened prior to the date of the AGM, 
the Company will announce, via its website and, as appropriate, through an announcement on the London 
Stock Exchange, any change in the arrangements which it feels would be reasonable and practical to 
implement. 
Outlook 
The Company has developed significantly from when I wrote to shareholders in my last annual statement. 
It has hit its dividend targets and its assets have seen no material disruption or lasting impact from the 
COVID-19 pandemic. Given our extensive exposure to the international property and transportation sectors, 
our asset managers would appear to have weathered the storm with very little damage suffered. Our only 
real headwind has been the current strength of pound sterling relative to most foreign currencies, an issue 
which many regard as a ‘high quality problem’ and one which may well correct itself in the medium term. 
The world around us is likely to continue to change, both as a result of the pandemic but also from 
technological and societal forces. The Company’s portfolio diversity should be a strength during these times 
as its exposure to any one sector or asset type is well dispersed. This is typified by the movement seen in 
the property allocations over the last year as the strength in the allocations to logistics and suburban 
housing – sectors positively impacted by how people’s shopping and living preferences have changed as 
a result of the pandemic - served to offset any weakness in the small retail exposures. It is also exciting to 
see how the Company is exposed to a number of global trends throughout its portfolio including: the energy 
transition, e-commerce acceleration and changing living preferences. One of the criteria that define real 
assets as being ‘core’ is the extent to which the asset acts as a fundamental building block to a 
well-functioning society. Thus it makes sense that, as society evolves, so will the definition of what we 
consider to be core real assets. The Company’s diversification, and ability to adapt to find opportunities 
globally, should act as an exciting strength in this time. 
 
John Scott  
Chairman                                                                                                                                                                         7th July 2021
10  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021    
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 11
INVESTMENT MANAGER’S REPORT
The Investment Management Team 
The Company’s portfolio is managed by the Alternative Solutions Group (‘ASG’) of J.P. Morgan Asset 
Management (‘JPMAM’). This team manages over £50 billion of real assets – investments with predictable 
cash flows and stable capital values.  
With over 25 years of experience in managing real assets, the team is made up of over 30 investment 
professionals based primarily in London, New York, Hong Kong and Singapore. Senior members of the ASG 
team are responsible for implementing the Company’s investment policy via an Investment Committee 
which brings together the ASG’s experience, insights and analytics to manage JARA’s portfolio for the 
benefit of shareholders.  
Portfolio Review 
Over the year, the Company’s NAV total return measured in pounds sterling was –5.9%, whilst JARA’s return 
measured in source currency of the investments was +2.1%. The main driver of the Company’s negative NAV 
return was sterling’s appreciation versus most major currencies, particularly towards year end. Of 
particular note was sterling strengthening by 9.5% against the US dollar.  
As a reminder, the Company’s portfolio is unhedged and, therefore, when allocating to overseas assets 
denominated in currencies other than sterling, there is a foreign exchange risk which can act to the 
detriment as well as the benefit of shareholders. Non-sterling assets comprise the vast majority of the 
potential investment opportunities open to the Company, so this risk is inherent in the Company’s 
investment aims and policies. The ASG notes that some of this sterling strength has stabilised since 
year-end and that JARA’s currency mix is now more diversified than it was during 2020.  
Through the year, the Company invested US$131 million (£93 million) in private core real assets in line with 
its investment objective. The deployment of initial IPO proceeds was somewhat delayed as a result of 
COVID-19 pandemic uncertainties and constraints in the March to August 2020 period. In addition to 
creating valuation uncertainties, the pandemic placed constraints on travel which limited the extent to 
which the investment managers where able to carry out the due diligence necessary to complete 
underlying investments. However, from September, investment progress picked up substantially and JARA 
has now invested all IPO proceeds and a significant portion of subsequently raised capital. This involved 
new investments being made across infrastructure, transportation and Asia-Pacific real estate. 
At 28th February 2021 JARA’s portfolio allocation was as follows:  
 
As shown below, JARA is now well diversified across a range of different sectors throughout the Real Asset 
spectrum. This sectoral allocation evolved significantly over the last 12 months, with JARA’s initial private 
allocations being initiated to many sectors including: Utilities, Renewable Energy, Maritime and Energy 
Logistics. An important aspect of JARA’s focus is its diversification which aims to ensure no over-exposure to 
any one sector, asset or counterparty. Over the year JARA has gone a long way towards achieving this.  
                                                                                                                        STRATEGIC REPORT  |  11
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 12
INVESTMENT MANAGER’S REPORT 
Sector % Allocation 
Office                                                                                                                                                               14% 
Industrial/Logistics                                                                                                                                         12% 
Residential                                                                                                                                                        8% 
Retail                                                                                                                                                                6% 
Other Real Estate                                                                                                                                             6% 
Total Real Estate                                                                                                                                                  46% 
Utilities                                                                                                                                                            12% 
Renewable Energy                                                                                                                                            5% 
Liquid Bulk Storage                                                                                                                                          3% 
Fixed transportation Assets                                                                                                                             2% 
Conventional Energy                                                                                                                                        2% 
Total Infrastructure                                                                                                                                             24% 
Maritime                                                                                                                                                           9% 
Energy Logistics                                                                                                                                               4% 
Aviation                                                                                                                                                            4% 
Rolling Stock                                                                                                                                                     3% 
Total Transportation                                                                                                                                           20% 
Total Invested Portfolio                                                                                                                                      90% 
As of 28th February 2021. Note sector allocation includes both public and private assets.  
Having started its financial year with c. 65% in cash (predominantly held in US dollars) there has also been 
significant progress in diversifying the Company’s geographic exposure following further deployment of its 
assets. JARA’s currency exposure has also developed since the start of the year when US dollar exposure 
was 92%, compared with 66% at the year-end (see chart below). This US dollar bias in the Company’s asset 
allocation is expected to persist with a long term exposure of approximately 60%.  
5
 
As of 28th February 2021. 
12  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021    
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 13
INVESTMENT MANAGER’S REPORT
Private real estate allocations represented 33% of the portfolio at year end and, in local currency terms, 
contributed a marginally positive return to JARA’s portfolio over the year. The majority of this came from 
the US real estate exposure. Real estate markets started and finished the year well which offset the 
negative returns over the middle of the year coinciding with the height of the pandemic. The private real 
estate allocation focused in four primary sectors – Industrial, Office, and Residential and Retail. The top and 
bottom performing sectors were Industrial and Retail, respectively – sectors which are on either side of the 
e-commerce trend which has been accelerated by the pandemic. Performance in the Office and Residential 
markets was relatively flat but with some significant intra-sector dispersion. For example, suburban 
residential and specialised offices (e.g. life sciences) performed well, whilst luxury residential and offices 
serving the finance and legal professions were impacted to a greater extent by the pandemic.  
Following initial investments in October 2020, JARA’s private infrastructure and transportation allocation 
contributed to JARA’s performance only towards the end of its financial year. Both, however, contributed 
positively during this period to returns in local currency terms and look well positioned to continue this 
trend in the Company’s current financial year. Importantly, prior to JARA’s investment, both strategies 
exhibited resilience in the face of the pandemic with the contracted and regulated income streams 
remaining robust and delivering the majority of expected return. However, not all parts of the market were 
immune, with sectors like aviation (both aircraft and airports) and other demand-sensitive sectors in 
infrastructure, such as toll roads, suffering. Even if some of this pandemic-led disruption continues through 
the current financial year, these sectors are a relatively small part of JARA’s asset mix at 4% and this 
exposure is expected to reduce during 2021.  
At year end, the liquid real assets strategies collectively represented 22.6% of the portfolio. As a reminder, 
JARA’s listed real asset allocation is made up of two distinct strategies: U.S. all-tranche REITs and an allocation 
more broadly across a variety of other listed real assets. In source currency terms these allocations produced 
returns of +9.6% and +3.6% respectively. The allocation to the listed strategies was increased during the 
middle of the last financial year whilst public market prices were still deemed to be depressed. The continued 
market rally has meant that this allocation now represents a marginal overweight compared to the target 
allocation and, in addition to its ability to generate returns, this is expected to be a useful source of liquidity 
to re-cycle into private opportunities at some point during the current financial year.  
At the beginning of the period the listed allocation unsurprisingly witnessed some volatility; it did, however, 
fulfil its role in the portfolio as both a liquidity source and a diversifier to complement the private assets. In 
particular, the all-tranche REIT allocation has flexibility to invest in different parts of the REIT capital 
structure, allowing it to provide comparative capital value and income stream stability during volatile 
periods. The benefit of this was seen over the period where it was able to produce a similar performance to 
REIT equity, but with a lower level of volatility.  
Real Asset Market Outlook 
There are many aspects which help define what ‘core real assets’ are, but one is that they provide essential 
services which make up the key building blocks and networks of society. As society changes, so will the 
definition, use of and opportunities within the core real asset market. Societal change is afoot, accelerated 
by the COVID-19 pandemic and by the adoption of new technologies. The way we work, live and consume 
energy is changing and this impacts the investment landscape and presents new and exciting opportunities 
in the real asset market.  
Notwithstanding these changes, core real assets are as essential as ever to investors’ portfolios. With 
traditional fixed income yields still near all-time lows, core real assets can help investors seeking income 
and diversification. In addition, core real assets tend to be inflation sensitive assets with opportunity for 
upside participation, given the pass-through structure of many of the underlying contracts. Therefore, to 
the extent an economic recovery leads to levels of inflation closer to historical norms, it should be positive 
for asset class returns. 
Set out below is the outlook for each of the major real asset categories within JARA: Real Estate, 
Infrastructure and Transportation.  
                                                                                                                        STRATEGIC REPORT  |  13
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 14
INVESTMENT MANAGER’S REPORT 
Real Estate 
COVID-19 has accelerated a number of technologically driven mega-trends that were already underway in 
the real estate market. The Industrial and Logistics sector has been the greatest beneficiary of this but the 
sector’s relative success, and our positive outlook, is not limited to the benefits of e-commerce. Other 
forces include the need to update warehousing for modern supply chain management; rapid infrastructure 
advances, population growth/change and supportive government policies all provide opportunities for 
JARA, but present challenges for the unprepared. We take the view that opportunities vary by country and 
there are also opportunities in more targeted markets such as ‘last-mile’ logistics.  
Retail and Office are also highly impacted sectors. We expect the headwinds for Retail to continue, albeit 
the pace of the shift to e-commerce may soften this in the short-term. The outlook for the Office market 
is less clear. Collaboration is essential to productivity, especially in industries for which innovation is a 
competitive necessity and perhaps surprisingly even in those industries traditionally thought of as most 
susceptible to remote work, such as technology, which have been relatively strong proponents of returning 
to the office1. Therefore, whilst we believe that the Office market will evolve as a result of the pandemic, 
wholesale reduction in all office use is not our base case. We also emphasise a differentiation between 
different types of Office assets. For example, there are regional differences in the pace of the move to 
return to work, with some countries, regions and sectors reverting more quickly than others. Similarly, 
in some specialist Office categories such as life sciences, space is in high demand and cannot easily be 
replaced by remote working due to regulatory and safety limitations.  
Looking ahead, the case for global real estate remains consistent and simple. The addressable market is far 
larger and much more diverse than in the UK or European markets alone, allowing investors to benefit from 
different underlying return drivers. At the same time, the rapid growth of certain markets in Asia, such as 
China, is transforming the global core market and providing a multitude of attractive investment 
opportunities. We initiated a Chinese-based logistics allocation in 2020 and expect to see opportunities to 
expand such investments over time.  
Global Institutional Real Estate Market, Breakout by Country 
 
Source: J.P. Morgan Asset Management; MSCI; International Monetary Fund; Cushman & Wakefield. 
Infrastructure 
As shown below, private core infrastructure returns held up well in 2020, supported by robust income, 
reflecting the essential and long-term contracted/regulated nature of many core infrastructure assets. 
Nevertheless the asset class was not immune to the pandemic’s headwinds. The pre-COVID-19 environment 
had in part been characterised by an expansion of the definition of core infrastructure to include assets 
where the robustness of income streams had not been tested. When pandemic lockdowns hit, many (though 
not all) of these higher risk infrastructure assets, such as demand based toll roads (to which JARA has no 
1  Google Delays Return to Office and Eyes ‘Flexible Work Week’, The New York Times, 23rd March, 2021.
14  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021    
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 15
INVESTMENT MANAGER’S REPORT
exposure) struggled, highlighting the varied risk profiles of the asset types. The chart below shows the 
importance of contracted income in delivering long term total returns, especially in difficult economic 
conditions. 
Infrastructure Total Return Components (%) 
 
Source: MSCI, J.P. Morgan Asset Management. Infrastructure returns represented by the ‘low risk’ category of the MSCI 
Global Quarterly Infrastructure Asset Index. Data show rolling one-year returns from income and capital appreciation. 
The chart shows the full index history, beginning in the first quarter of 2009, and ending in 3Q20. Past performance is 
not indicative of future results. Alternative investments carry more risk than traditional investments and are 
recommended only for long-term investment. Some alternative investments may be highly leveraged and rely on 
speculative investments that can magnify the potential for loss or gain. Diversification does not guarantee investment 
returns or eliminate the risk of loss. Data is based on availability as of 28th February 2021. 
The challenges posed by the pandemic also underlined the importance of owning a controlling stake in 
assets. A majority owner can more often than not make needed changes – and move with the requisite 
speed to tackle issues that arise in a crisis. In the ‘batten down the hatches’ environment of Q2 2020, 
investors with control positions were able quickly to coordinate their actions with their companies’ 
management teams to address the environment they were facing. Similarly, the COVID-19 crisis also 
emphasised the importance of proactive stakeholder engagement. For example, in the early weeks of the 
pandemic shutdowns, regulated utilities agreed not to disconnect any customers for non-payment and 
provided employees with Personal Protective Equipment (‘PPE’) along with new operating procedures to 
keep them safe. These actions were not only the right thing to do, they were also exactly what regulators 
were looking for and foster a positive long term relationship. 
COVID-19 has also accelerated the energy transition. Several governments (and prospective governments), 
particularly across the EU, have pledged commitments to a ‘green recovery,’ promising environmentally 
friendly stimulus measures to mitigate the effects of the coronavirus recession and future concerns over 
global warming. We expect this to lead to an acceleration in the construction of solar and wind energy 
generation capacity and increased adoption of renewable sources by electric utilities. This transition will 
provide continued investment opportunities. We also expect that there will be necessary complementary 
investments to upgrade existing transmission grids and build storage capacity to complement growth in 
intermittent renewable sources. 
Transportation 
The maritime transportation industry has experienced a decade-long correction to what was, at the peak 
of the Global Financial Crisis (‘GFC‘), a severe supply order book overhang of 55% of the then on-the-water 
fleet. The current order book levels are at an attractive 7.6% of the global fleet, with this amount set for 
delivery over the next four years (see below). This level is not expected to be sufficient to support industry 
                                                                                                                        STRATEGIC REPORT  |  15
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 16
INVESTMENT MANAGER’S REPORT 
scrappage plans and growth requirements. This, coupled with strong post COVID-19 demand – e.g. cargo 
volume growth of 4.7% is expected in 2021, following a –3.8% decline in 2020 – provides strong 
fundamentals for transport owners.  
Global Order Book % Fleet 
 
This situation, combined with an increasing focus on new carbon reduction initiatives and the technologies 
needed to support these, is leading to a market populated by fewer, consolidated, more financially robust 
participants. It also paves the way for opportunities in new ESG-aligned transportation assets. Examples 
include technologies which allow for a wider variety of ‘fuels’ to be used, including LNG, battery powered 
propulsion and perhaps hydrogen. The companies driving this transformation are reliant on investors like 
JARA who are seen as long term, financially stable partners who can provide the capital to finance assets 
which are critical to their supply chain. 
Conclusion 
The Company has met its income and investment objectives despite disruptions caused by the COVID-19 
pandemic, with we believe, no material impact to the portfolio. An important aspect of the JARA’s focus is 
its diversification, which aims to ensure no over-exposure to any one sector, asset or counterparty. The 
Company has gone a long way towards achieving this, having fully invested both its IPO proceeds and the 
majority of capital raised post IPO, and the portfolio is now well positioned to deliver on its objective of 
providing shareholders with stable income and capital appreciation from exposure to its portfolio of core 
real assets. 
 
Investment Manager 7th July 2021 
J.P. Morgan Asset Management’s Alternative Solutions Group
16  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021    
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 17
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE (‘ESG’)   REPORT
Introduction  
ESG is an acronym which stands for Environmental, Social and Governance. It describes the broad field of sustainability in the financial 
markets and is widely used when assessing the environmental impact of investments, when considering how assets are best utilised in 
respect of their broad social responsibilities and when reviewing assets for their practices and standards used in governing behaviour. 
Awareness of these issues has increased significantly in recent years among investment practitioners and their clients, and indeed in 
society at large, and the practices at J.P. Morgan Asset Management have been at the forefront of these developments. In this report 
the Manager explains its approach and how it has been applied for the benefit of shareholders. 
The basics: what is ESG? 
E is for Environmental. This component considers a company’s or assets impact on the world we live in, relating to how they utilise 
and save resources as well as the functioning of the natural environment and natural systems they are based in. 
S is for Social. Social factors address the way that assets are utilised and positioned within the societies they serve; this includes the 
way that tenants, customers and employee interests are managed, and the broader impact an asset can have on society. 
G is for Governance. This component relates to how assets and companies are managed. It considers measuring and deploying the best 
practices of corporate governance, protecting investors as well as the way an asset meets regulatory and other external obligations. 
The table below provides illustrative examples of ESG issues in each of the E, S and G categories: 
Environmental                                                    Social                                                                   Governance  
Carbon pollution and emissions                       Health and safety                                              Board structures: effectiveness, diversity, 
independence 
Environmental regulations (and adherence)   Commitment to and engagement                    Financial reporting and accounting  
                                                                           with communities                                              standards 
Production and use of renewable energy        Diversity and inclusion                                      Shareholder rights  
Water and waste management                         Employee well-being                                         Measurement and reporting of ESG  
                                                                                                                                                      standards and practices   
What is the Manager’s approach? 
JPMAM is committed to advancing sustainable investing solutions and to helping institutions and individuals in taking a sustainable 
approach to pursuing their long-term investment goals. The firm’s Sustainable Investing global platform includes investment solutions 
and product innovation, sustainable research and data and dedicated investment stewardship. JPMAM has over 450 ESG integrated, 
actively managed investment strategies representing USD 2.1 trillion of its client assets under management as of 31st December 2020. 
It offers 18 dedicated sustainable products across different investment styles and asset classes, with more than USD 2.5 billion in client 
assets under management in sustainable funds as of 31st December 2020. The Global Sustainable Investing team currently includes 
15 dedicated specialists globally (as of December 31st 2020), led by Jennifer Wu, Global Head of Sustainable Investing. 
                                                                                                                        STRATEGIC REPORT  |  17
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 18
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE (‘ESG’)   REPORT
 
Recent examples of ESG in action in the Company’s portfolio 
The Manager seeks to act as a responsible and engaged investor across the real asset market on behalf of its clients. It considers and 
engages on ESG factors across all assets including specific policies and initiatives such as those detailed below.  
Environmental 
• Target to reduce energy and greenhouse gas emissions across our real estate portfolios over the next 10 years by 25% in alignment 
with the Paris Accord and Science Based Target Initiative, and water and waste by 15%.  
• Focused on the acquisition and operation of newer, more fuel efficient assets across the transportation markets. Also allows for 
a greater ability to meet evolving regulatory policies, which differ by geography. Includes assets designed with modern and efficient 
technology and tangible sustainability benefits, making them highly desirable to top quality counterparties focused on ESG. 
• Improve the performance of our assets over time by identifying enhancements, implementing strategic capital improvements, and 
continuing to assess how new technologies can help achieve emissions reduction targets. 
Social 
• Sustainability Events and community forums held for tenants and the customers we serve across the globe; topics included E-waste 
Recycling, Earth Day, etc. 
• ESG training provided annually to Asset Managers, Portfolio Managers, Property Teams, Client Relations and Regional Heads. 
• A focus on safety across assets – ensuring they are operated and continue to service customers whilst keeping employees safe 
during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
• 45% of the JPMAM’s Global Alternatives Operating Committee are either Women, People of Colour and those who identify as LGBT+. 
Governance 
• Participant in Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark Assessment (‘GRESB’) since its inception in 2012. GRESB measures both 
real estate and (more recently) infrastructure – consistently ranked above average compared to our representative peer set. 
• PRI Signatory since 2007 and participant in annual assessments – ‘A’ score for Direct Property and Infrastructure vs. peer averages 
of ‘B’ and ‘A’ respectively. 
18  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021    
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 19
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE (‘ESG’)   REPORT 
• Three of the Company’s underlying funds are compliant with Article 8 of the EU Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation and one 
fund is compliant with Article 6. 
Looking ahead 
ESG factors play an important role in the Manager’s decision making process. In investing the Company’s assets, the Manager considers 
assets with the ability to sustain and create value in a sustainable way and that will not change. 
 
J.P. Morgan Asset Management’s Alternative Solutions Group 
                                                                                                                        STRATEGIC REPORT  |  19
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 20
PORTFOLIO INFORMATION   
ASSET ALLOCATION 
 
Based on underlying funds as of 28th February 2021. Leverage is based on a weighted average, look through basis to the underlying 
strategies. There is no leverage at the Company level. 
GEOGRAPHIC EXPOSURE 
 
Based on underlying funds as of 28th February 2021. Leverage is based on a weighted average, look through basis to the underlying 
strategies. There is no leverage at the Company level. 
CURRENCY 
 
(cid:2)(cid:1)USD  66%
(cid:2)(cid:1)EUR  12%
(cid:2)(cid:1)AUD  7%
(cid:2)(cid:1)JPY  6%
(cid:2)(cid:1)RMB  3%
(cid:2)(cid:1)GBP  3%
(cid:2)(cid:1)CAD  2%
(cid:2)(cid:1)Other  2%
Please note that the target allocation presumes the current portfolio is fully invested as per the underlying fund strategies existing 
exposures. Between now and full investment these exposures are subject to change.
20  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021    
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 21
PORTFOLIO INFORMATION   
LIST OF INVESTMENTS  
AT 28TH FEBRUARY 2021
Valuation  Valuation  Valuation 
Company £’000  Company £’000  Company £’000 
EQUITIES  EQUITIES CONT.  EQUITIES CONT. 
United States  United States cont.  United States cont. 
Prologis  1,223  American Homes 4 Rent  Omega Healthcare Investors  100 
American Homes 4 Rent  860    Preference 6.35% 177  Avista  98 
Public Storage  760  Matson  164  Dominion Energy  98 
Simon Property  591  Alaska Air  161  Equity LifeStyle Properties  98 
Equinix  567  Forward Air  151  Public Service Enterprise  98 
Digital Realty  532  Ryder System  151  Evergy  97 
Apartment Income  495  Norfolk Southern  142  PPL  97 
Boston Properties  445  VEREIT Preference 6.70% 140  Saul Centers Preference 6.00% 95 
Healthpeak Properties  443  Tanger Factory Outlet Centers  137  NorthWestern  94 
AvalonBay Communities  420  Schneider National  134  Vornado Realty Preference 5.4% 92 
Welltower  393  CH Robinson Worldwide  132  Vornado Realty Preference 5.25% 93 
CubeSmart  383  Brandywine Realty  130  WEC Energy  92 
Alexandria Real Estate Equities  356  Iron Mountain  129  Consolidated Edison  91 
Douglas Emmett  345  Union Pacific  129  Pinnacle West Capital  91 
CoreSite Realty  344  Public Storage Preference 5.60% 128  American Electric Power  90 
Camden Property  338  United Parcel Service  127  Exelon  90 
Weingarten Realty Investors  333  Expeditors International of Washington  126  National Health Investors  90 
Ventas  330  Duke Energy  125  ALLETE  89 
Cousins Properties  328  Southern  124  Digital Realty Preference 5.2% 89 
Regency Centers  319  Southwest Airlines  122  VEREIT  88 
Life Storage  312  Clearway Energy  120  IDACORP  86 
Vornado Realty Preference 6.75% 290  FirstEnergy  117  Digital Realty Preference 6.63% 85 
Public Storage Preference 5.13% 287  SL Green Realty Preference 6.50% 117  Entergy  84 
Kimco Realty Preference 5.25% 286  National Fuel Gas  115  WP Carey  84 
Invitation Homes  285  Retail Properties of America  115  Americold Realty  82 
Equity Residential  274  Columbia Property  114  CoreCivic  82 
First Industrial Realty  274  SITE Centers  114  Edison International  82 
Digital Realty Preference 5.85% 255  American Finance  111  Portland General Electric  81 
Duke Realty  246  Global Net Lease  110  Rexford Industrial Realty 
Public Storage Preference 5.15% 234  Delta Air Lines  109    Preference 5.88% 81 
Highwoods Properties  216  Industrial Logistics Properties  109  OGE Energy  80 
Vornado Realty Preference 5.70% 209  Avangrid  108  Alexander’s  78 
DiamondRock Hospitality  Macquarie Infrastructure  108  Public Storage Preference 4.95% 78 
  Preference 8.25% 198  Urstadt Biddle Properties  Armada Hoffler Properties 
UDR  193    Preference 5.88% 107    Preference 6.75% 72 
Allegiant Travel  190  Hudson Pacific Properties  105  Monmouth Real Estate Investment 
Essex Property  189  Hawaiian Electric Industries  101    Preference 6.13% 72 
Host Hotels & Resorts  188  Ameren  100  Urstadt Biddle Properties 
Kilroy Realty  188  DTE Energy  100    Preference 6.25% 71 
Sunstone Hotel Investors  183  GEO  100 
                                                                                                                        STRATEGIC REPORT  |  21
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 22
PORTFOLIO INFORMATION    
LIST OF INVESTMENTS CONTINUED 
Valuation  Valuation  Valuation 
Company £’000  Company £’000  Company £’000 
EQUITIES CONT.  EQUITIES CONT.  EQUITIES CONT. 
United States cont.  United States cont.  Japan cont. 
Mid-America Apartment Communities  Public Storage Preference 4.70% 24  Mirai  80 
Preference 8.50% 69  Boston Properties  Okinawa Electric Power  64 
SITE Centers Preference 6.25% 68   Preference 5.25% 5.25% 19  One  63 
Mack-Cali Realty  65  Xcel Energy  19  SG  61 
Public Storage Preference 4.63% 63  Hersha Hospitality Preference 6.88% 17  Sakai Moving Service  39 
SBA Communications  61  Kimco Realty Preference 5.13%  16  Hamakyorex  38 
American Homes 4 Rent  Digital Realty Preference 5.25%  15  Star Asia Investment  36 
  Preference 5.88% 59  Rexford Industrial Realty  Samty Residential Investment  33 
Pebblebrook Hotel Preference 6.38% 58    Preference 5.63%  10  Shikoku Electric Power  25 
Gladstone Commercial  53  Hersha Hospitality Preference 6.50%  8  ANA  9 
National Storage Affiliates  Saul Centers Preference 6.13%  5  3,141 
  Preference 6.00% 51  Pebblebrook Hotel Preference 6.30%  4  Canada 
Macerich  50  EPR Properties Preference 5.75% 3  TFI International  183 
National Retail Properties  Apartment Investment and Management  1  TransAlta Renewables  156 
  Preference 5.20% 50  Public Storage Preference 4.90%  1  Canadian National Railway  136 
American Homes 4 Rent  23,574  Capital Power  133 
  Preference 6.50% 48  Japan  Superior Plus  131 
American Homes 4 Rent  Kyushu Railway  162  Northland Power  130 
  Preference 6.25% 43  Seibu  158  Algonquin Power & Utilities  130 
SITE Centers Preference 6.38% 43  Nippon Express  149  Innergex Renewable Energy  129 
Office Properties Income  Seino  146  RioCan Real Estate Investment  128 
  Preference 6.38% 40  Japan Airlines  130  Hydro One  126 
STAG Industrial Preference 6.88% 40  Electric Power Development  129  Emera  118 
Public Storage Preference 4.13% 38  Invincible Investment  128  Cominar Real Estate Investment  110 
Public Storage Preference 4.75% 41  Yamato  125  Canadian Utilities  109 
PS Business ParksPreference 5.20% 37  Kansai Electric Power  117  Fortis  102 
Sunstone Hotel Investors  Senko  114  AltaGas  94 
  Preference 6.95% 35  West Japan Railway  113  Exchange Income  93 
American Homes 4 Rent  Tohoku Electric Power  110  Mullen  82 
  Preference 5.88% 34  Kenedix Retail  108  H&R Real Estate Investment  70 
Pebblebrook Hotel  34  Hitachi Transport System  108  Atco  46 
Diversified Healthcare  33  Chubu Electric Power  106  Westshore Terminals Investment  42 
PS Business Parks Preference 5.2% 33  East Japan Railway  105  2,248 
Public Storage Preference 5.05% 32  Hoshino Resorts  104  Australia 
QTS Realty Preference 7.13% 32  Chugoku Electric Power  102  Spark Infrastructure  137 
PS Business Parks Preference 4.88% 31  Kintetsu  102  APA  129 
PS Business Parks Preference 5.25% 30  Sankyu  101  AusNet Services  127 
Public Storage Preference 4.88% 28  Sotetsu  101  Aurizon  125 
UMH Properties Preference 6.75% 28  Nagoya Railroad  94  Shopping Centres Australasia Property  112 
Unitil  26  Nikkon  81  Sydney Airport  108 
22  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021    
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 23
PORTFOLIO INFORMATION    
LIST OF INVESTMENTS CONTINUED 
Valuation  Valuation  Valuation 
Company £’000  Company £’000  Company £’000 
EQUITIES CONT.  EQUITIES CONT.  EQUITIES CONT. 
Australia cont.  Spain  Hong Kong 
Transurban  108  Naturgy Energy  145  MTR  148 
Charter Hall Retail  107  Cia de Distribucion Integral Logista  135  Power Assets  143 
AGL Energy  98  Iberdrola  129  CLP  143 
Cromwell Property  98  Endesa  122  HK Electric Investments 115 
National Storage  77  Enagas  117  Cathay Pacific Airways  69 
Abacus Property  41  Red Electrica  114  Yuexiu Real Estate Investment  43 
Charter Hall Long Wale 31  Aena SME  106  Champion  30 
Centuria Office  17  Merlin Properties Socimi  92  691 
Growthpoint Properties Australia  16  960  Germany 
1,331  Singapore  Deutsche Post  140 
United Kingdom  ComfortDelGro  118  Uniper  127 
Royal Mail  196  Mapletree Logistics  113  E.ON  109 
Drax  161  Mapletree Industrial  101  Hapag-Lloyd  63 
Atlantica Sustainable Infrastructure  138  Mapletree North Asia Commercial  96  439 
National Grid  133  Fortune Real Estate Investment  75  Bermuda 
Pennon  129  Singapore Airlines  69  CK Infrastructure  153 
SSE  129  Singapore Post  62  Pacific Basin Shipping  95 
United Utilities  120  Hutchison Port  62  Kerry Logistics Network  79 
Severn Trent  117  Keppel Infrastructure  57  Golden Ocean 56 
Civitas Social Housing  61  ESR  46  383 
Telecom Plus  50  CapitaLand Retail China  41  Denmark 
Redde Northgate  38  Manulife US Real Estate Investment  31  AP Moller - Maersk  140 
Clarkson  30  AIMS APAC  31  Dfds  113 
Supermarket Income Reit  16  902  D/S Norden  75 
1,318  France  328 
Italy  Suez  145  Finland 
A2A  148  Veolia Environnement  124  Fortum  125 
Enav  142  Mercialys  123  Finnair  117 
ERG  141  Covivio  117  Citycon  48 
Enel  129  ICADE  107  290 
Snam  126  Rubis  106  Belgium 
Italgas  124  ALD  40  Cofinimmo  122 
Terna Rete Elettrica Nazionale  123  762  bpost  122 
Iren  100  Befimmo  37 
ACEA  86  281
1,119 
                                                                                                                        STRATEGIC REPORT  |  23
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 24
PORTFOLIO INFORMATION   
LIST OF INVESTMENTS CONTINUED 
Valuation  Valuation  Valuation 
Company £’000  Company £’000  Company £’000 
EQUITIES CONT.  EQUITIES CONT.  BONDS CONT. 
New Zealand  Ireland  United States cont.  
Contact Energy  121  Irish Continental  28  Retail Opportunity Investments 
Meridian Energy  55  28    Partnership 62 
Infratil  52  Healthcare Trust of America  61 
TOTAL EQUITIES 38,841 
Air New Zealand  33  Duke Realty 59 
261  PRIVATE COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT  National Retail Properties 58 
SCHEMES  
Portugal  Kite Realty  58 
EDP - Energias de Portugal  139  Strategic Property Fund FIV5 (Lux)  Retail Properties of America 53 
REN - Redes Energeticas Nacionais  67    SCSP1 35,033  Weingarten Realty Investors 45 
206  IIF UK 1 LP2 35,005  Brandywine Operating Partnership 37 
Netherlands  Global Transport Income Fund  Welltower 34 
PostNL  173    Feeder Partnership SCSP3 27,121  Healthpeak Properties 32 
173  Strategic Property Fund Asia SCSP3 25,405  Life Storage 10 
Switzerland  TOTAL COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT   2,045 
Kuehne + Nagel International  147  SCHEMES 122,564  TOTAL BONDS 2,045 
BKW  4  TOTAL INVESTMENTS4 163,450 
BONDS  
151 
United States   1Invests into the Strategic Property Fund providing 
Austria  access into the US property market. 
VEREIT Operating Partnership 285  2Includes £7,189,000 of non-unitised called capital. 
Oesterreichische Post  118 
3Non-unitised called capital. 
Corporate Office Properties 243 
118  4All investments are listed on a stock exchange, except 
CubeSmart 234  the Private Collective Investment Schemes. 
Sweden 
Equinix 228 
Nobina  68 
Healthpeak Properties 156 
Dios Fastigheter  14 
Boston Properties 120 
82 
Equinix 115 
Norway 
Equinix 89 
Fjordkraft  55 
Essex Portfolio 66 
55
24  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021    
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 25
COMPANY PURPOSE, INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE, POLICIES AND GUIDELINES 
The aim of the Strategic Report is to provide shareholders with  to Guernsey, UK and European legislation and regulations (where 
the ability to assess how the Directors have performed their duty  Guernsey and the UK have voluntarily implemented legislation 
to promote the success of the Company during the period under  equivalent to that applicable in the EU) including Guernsey 
review. To assist shareholders with this assessment, the Strategic  company law, International Financial Reporting Standards, the 
Report sets out the structure and objective of the Company, its  UK Listing Rules, Prospectus, Disclosure Guidance and 
investment policies and risk management, investment restrictions  Transparency Rules, the Market Abuse Regulation, taxation law 
and guidelines, performance, total return, revenue and dividends,  and the Company’s own Articles of Incorporation. The Company’s 
key performance indicators, share capital, Board diversity,  underlying investments are also subject to some worldwide 
discount, employees, social, community and human rights issues,  regulations. 
principal and emerging risks and how the Company seeks to 
manage those risks and finally it’s long term viability.  Investment Policies and Risk Management 
The Company pursues its investment objective through diversiﬁed 
The Company’s Purpose, Values, Strategy and 
investment in private funds or managed accounts managed or 
Culture 
advised by JPMAM. These JPMAM products comprise ‘private 
The purpose of the Company is to provide a cost effective,  funds’, being private collective investment schemes, and 
sustainable investment vehicle for investors who seek a stable  ‘managed accounts’, which will typically take the form of a 
income and capital appreciation from exposure to a globally  custody account the assets in which are managed by a 
diversified portfolio of core real assets, taking account of wider  discretionary manager. For more information on the underlying 
issues including environmental, social and governance. To achieve  investments and the Company’s capital deployment status please 
this, the Board of Directors is responsible for employing and  refer to the Investment Manager’s Report on pages 11 to 16. 
overseeing an investment management company that has 
Core Real Assets 
appropriate investment expertise, resources and controls in place 
JPMAM deﬁnes real assets as ‘core’ if their cash ﬂows are stable 
to meet the Company’s investment objective. To ensure that it is 
and forecastable for long time periods of typically five years or 
aligned with the Company’s purpose, values and strategy, the 
more with a low margin of error. 
Board comprises Directors from a diverse background who have 
a breadth of relevant experience and contribute in an open  The Company currently seeks exposure to core real assets 
boardroom culture that both supports and challenges the  through the pursuit of the following strategies: 
investment management company and its other third party 
(1)  Global Real Estate Asset Strategy; 
suppliers. For more information, please refer to page 36. 
(2)  Global Transport Asset Strategy; 
Investment Objective  
(3)  Global Infrastructure Asset Strategy; and 
The Company seeks to provide shareholders with stable income  (4) Global Liquid Real Asset Strategy, (together, ‘real asset 
and capital appreciation from exposure to a globally diversified  strategies’). 
portfolio of core real assets. 
The real asset strategies allow the Company to be exposed to 
global real estate assets, global transport assets, global 
Structure of the Company 
infrastructure assets and global liquid real assets. Further 
JPMorgan Global Core Real Assets Limited is a non-cellular  information on these real asset strategies is set out on 
company limited by shares, incorporated under the Companies  pages 1 to 3.  
(Guernsey) Law, 2008, as amended and has been authorised by 
The Manager intends that the real asset strategies listed above 
the Guernsey Financial Services Commission as a registered 
will form the basis of the Company’s portfolio in the long term. 
closed ended investment scheme. 
The Manager may, however, also evaluate existing and any new 
In seeking to achieve its objective, the Company employs  real asset strategies launched by JPMAM in order to assess 
JPMorgan Funds Limited (‘JPMF’ or the ‘Manager’) as its  whether the real assets concerned are suitable for the Company’s 
Alternative Investment Fund Manager. JPMF delegates the  portfolio and consistent with the risk and return proﬁle of the 
management of the Company’s portfolio to JPMorgan Asset  Company from time to time. The Company may, dependent on the 
Management (UK) Limited (‘JPMAM’) which further delegates the  form of any real asset strategy, also invest in equity, equity-
management to J.P. Morgan Asset Management, Inc., Security  related instruments, debt, physical assets and/or other 
Capital Research & Management Inc. and J.P. Morgan Alternative  instruments with similar economic characteristics as such assets, 
Asset Management Inc. (collectively the ‘Investment Manager’ or  with the objective of providing exposure to core real assets. 
‘Investment Managers’), to manage the Company’s assets actively. 
The Manager intends to make long term, strategic asset allocation 
The Board has determined an investment policy and related 
decisions as between the various real asset strategies available on 
guidelines and limits, as described below. The Company is subject 
the JPMAM platform based on the perceived stability of the 
                                                                                                                        STRATEGIC REPORT  |  25
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 26
INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE, POLICIES AND GUIDELINES   
blended long term cash ﬂows potentially available from such real  restrictions apply at the time of investment or commitment, the 
asset strategies, coupled with adherence to an overall strategic  Company will not be required to rebalance its portfolio in 
outlook. The Manager maintains a diverse portfolio at the  accordance with such investment restrictions as a result of 
underlying investment level and the Company’s exposure is  a change in the value of any investment or of the Company as 
spread across primarily OECD Countries and certain emerging  a whole. 
markets that satisfy the risk proﬁle of the Company from time to 
time, in compliance with the investment restrictions set out below.  Performance 
The Manager seeks to grow the income and capital value of the 
In the year ended 28th February 2021, the Company produced 
Company using this long term approach. 
a total return to shareholders of –1.0% and a total return on net 
Where the Company invests in private funds it does so by  assets of –5.9%. At 28th February 2021, shareholder funds 
subscribing for shares in new or existing funds. Such investments  amounted to £183.5 million. The Investment Manager’s Report on 
may require the Company to make a capital commitment that is  pages 11 to 16 includes a review of developments during the year 
drawn down, or called, from time to time, at the absolute  as well as information on investment activity within the 
discretion of the manager of that private fund.  Company’s portfolio and the factors likely to affect the future 
performance of the Company. 
Investment restrictions 
The Company observes the following investment restrictions when 
Total Return, Revenue and Dividends 
its capital is fully deployed: 
As detailed on page 58, gross loss for the period amounted to 
                                                                                                         Range for Strategy 
Strategy                                                                             Allocation (% of Assets)*  £11.0 million and net loss after finance costs, administrative 
expenses and taxation, amounted to £12.7 million.  
Global Real Estate Assets                                                                          20 – 50% 
The Directors have declared quarterly interim dividends totalling 
Global Transport Assets                                                                             10 – 30% 
3.25p (2020: 0.75p) per ordinary share for the year which totalled 
Global Infrastructure Assets                                                                      10 – 30% 
£6.7 million (2020: £1.4 million). The year end retained earnings, 
Global Liquid Real Assets                                                                            0 – 30%  after allowing for these dividends, amount to £(25.6) million 
Cash/Cash Equivalent                                                                                   0 – 10%  (2020: £(6.2) million).  
*The NAV percentage allocation restriction for each real asset strategy does not take  Key Performance Indicators (‘KPIs’) 
into account indirect exposure to real asset strategies through the Company’s 
investment in global liquid real assets.  The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and assess 
•     The Company will not hold more than 30% of its assets in real  the performance of the Company. The principal KPIs are: 
asset strategies other than those listed above, which may 
• Performance against the Company’s peers 
include mezzanine investments or other assets that share 
The principal objective is to achieve stable income and capital 
similar characteristics to the allocation across real asset 
appreciation for shareholders. However, the Board also 
strategies from time to time. 
monitors performance relative to a broad range of 
•     The Company will not invest or commit more than 20% of its  appropriate competitor funds, both in the UK and the US. 
assets in the securities, or other interests, of any single 
• Share price relative to net asset value (‘NAV’) per share  
company or other entity.1 
The Board recognises that the possibility of a widening 
•     The Company will not invest or commit more than 10% of its  premium or discount can be a disadvantage of investment 
assets in other listed closed-ended investment companies,  companies that can discourage investors and influence the 
provided that this restriction does not apply to investments  liquidity of the Company’s shares. The Board therefore has 
in any such listed closed-ended investment companies  a share issuance and repurchase programme that seeks to 
which themselves have published investment policies to  address imbalances in supply of and demand for the 
invest no more than 15% of their total assets in other such  Company’s shares within the market and thereby reduce the 
closed-ended investment companies, in which case the limit  volatility and absolute level of the discount or premium to 
will be no more than 15% of assets.  NAV at which the Company’s shares trade. In the year ended 
28th February 2021, the shares traded between a premium of 
Each of the above restrictions will be calculated at the time of 
21.6% and a discount of 24.1% (daily figures calculated to 
investment or commitment (as appropriate) and, where 
include income).  
applicable, on a look-through basis. Since these investment 
1  The Company does not have the ability to control or inﬂuence investment decisions made at the JPMAM product-level but it will assess on an ongoing 
basis its exposure to underlying assets and it will rebalance its portfolio to ensure that its exposure in any securities, or other interests of any single 
company or entity, does not exceed 20% of its assets.
26  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021    
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 27
INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE, POLICIES AND GUIDELINES 
JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible 
• Ongoing charges ratio 
manner. Although our priority at all times is the best economic 
The ongoing charges ratio represents the Company’s 
interests of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, 
management fee and all other operating expenses, excluding 
non-financial issues such as social and environmental factors have 
finance costs expressed as a percentage of the average daily 
the potential to impact the share price, as well as the reputation of 
net assets during the year. The ongoing charges ratio for the 
companies. Specialists within JPMAM’s environmental, social and 
year ended 28th February 2021 was 0.69% (2020: 0.37%). 
governance (‘ESG’) team are tasked with assessing how companies 
deal with and report on social and environmental risks and issues 
Share Capital 
specific to their industry. JPMAM is also a signatory to the United 
As disclosed in the Company’s Prospectus dated 1st July 2020, the  Nations Principles of Responsible Investment, which commits 
Company has the authority to allot up to one billion ordinary  participants to six principles, with the aim of incorporating ESG 
shares and/or C shares on a non pre-emptive basis for five years  criteria into their processes when making stock selection decisions 
up to the date of the Company’s 2024 Annual General Meeting and,  and promoting ESG disclosure. 
therefore, no resolution authorising the allotment of ordinary 
The Manager has implemented a policy which seeks to restrict 
shares or C shares is being proposed at this year’s Annual General 
investments in securities issued by companies that have been 
Meeting (‘AGM’). Issuance is limited to 20% of issued share capital 
identified by an independent third party provider as being 
in a 12 month period, unless a further prospectus is issued by the 
involved in the manufacture, production or supply of cluster 
Company, which it did on 10th November 2020 in relation to 
munitions, depleted uranium ammunition and armour and/or 
a C-Share issue. Please refer to the Prospectus issued by the 
anti-personnel mines. Shareholders can obtain further details on 
Company on 10th November 2020 for full details. 
the policy by contacting the Manager. Further details of the 
During the year to 28th February 2021, the Company took  Manager’s approach to ESG is set out on pages 17 to 19. 
advantage of its premium rating and of investor demand to issue 
8,005,065 shares, raising £8.7 million of proceeds. This reflects 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
the Board’s assessment of the benefits that come from additional 
share issuance, along with the short term disadvantages, not the  The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas or 
least of which is the possible dilution of returns that can arise  diesel fuel. Consequently, the Company does not have a net 
pending full deployment of its portfolio.   measurable carbon footprint and therefore, the Company’s energy 
and carbon information is not disclosed in this report. JPMAM is 
The Company has the authority to repurchase shares in the 
a signatory to Carbon Disclosure Project. JPMorgan Chase is also 
market for cancellation (or to be held in Treasury). During the 
a signatory to the Equator Principles on managing social and 
year the Company did not repurchase any ordinary shares into 
environmental risk in project finance. The Company is categorised 
Treasury (2020: nil) or for cancellation. A resolution to renew the 
as a lower energy user under the HMRC Environmental Reporting 
authority to repurchase shares for cancellation or to be held in 
Guidelines March 2019 and is therefore not required to make the 
Treasury will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM. The 
detailed disclosures of energy and carbon information set out 
full text of this resolution is set out in the Notice of Meeting on 
within the guidelines. 
page 84. 
The Modern Slavery Act 2015 (the ‘MSA’) 
Board Diversity 
The MSA requires companies to prepare a slavery and human 
At 28th February 2021, there were three male Directors and one 
trafficking statement for each financial year of the organisation. 
female Director on the Board. The Directors bring a range of 
As the Company has no employees and does not supply goods and 
skills, knowledge and experience to the Board, thus bringing 
services, the MSA does not apply directly to it. The MSA 
a diversity of thought to the Board’s decision making processes. 
requirements more appropriately relate to JPMF and JPMAM. 
The Company has no employees. 
J.P. Morgan’s statement on the MSA can be found on the following 
link: 
Employees, Social, Community and Human Rights 
https://www.jpmorganchase.com/content/dam/jpmc/jpmorgan-
Issues   chase-and-co/documents/JPMC-Group-Statement-on-Modern-
Slavery-FY2019_Final-w-signature.pdf 
The Company has a management contract with JPMF. It has no 
employees and all of its Directors are non-executive. The day to 
Corporate Criminal Offence  
day activities are carried out by third parties. There are therefore 
no disclosures to be made in respect of employees. The Board  The Company maintains zero tolerance towards tax evasion. 
notes the JPMorgan Asset Management (‘JPMAM’) policy  Shares in the Company are purchased through intermediaries or 
statements in respect of Social, Community and Environmental  brokers, therefore no funds flow directly into the Company. 
and Human Rights issues, as highlighted in italics:  
                                                                                                                        STRATEGIC REPORT  |  27
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 28
PRINCIPAL AND EMERGING RISKS   
Principal and Emerging Risks 
The Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that 
would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. With the assistance of JPMF, the Audit Committee and 
Market Risk Committee, chaired by Helen Green and Simon Holden, respectively, have drawn up a risk matrix, which identifies the key 
risks to the Company. These are reviewed and noted by the Board. The principal and emerging risks identified and the broad categories 
in which they fall, and the ways in which they are managed or mitigated are summarised below. The AIC Code of Corporate Governance 
requires the Audit Committee to put in place procedures to identify emerging risks and also provide an explanation of how these are 
managed or mitigated.
Principal Risk                       Description                                                                              Mitigating Activities 
Investment Management  
and Performance 
Underperformance       Poor implementation of the investment strategy, for         The Board manages these risks by diversification of   
example as to thematic exposure, sector allocation, undue  investments and through its investment restrictions 
concentration of holdings, factor risk exposure or the  and guidelines, which are monitored and reported on 
degree of total portfolio risk, may lead to the Company  by the Manager. The Manager provides the Directors 
not achieving its investment objective of providing  with timely and accurate management information, 
a stable income and capital appreciation, and/or  including performance data, revenue estimates, 
underperformance against the Company’s peer  liquidity reports and shareholder analyses.
companies.  
 
Income Generation Risk      There is a risk that the Company fails to generate         The Board reviews quarterly detailed estimates of   
sufficient income from its investment portfolio to meet  revenue income and expenditure prepared by the 
the Company’s target annual dividend yield of 4 to 6%,  Manager and, if required, challenges the Manager as 
based on the initial issue price of 100.0p per share.  to the underlying assumptions made in earnings from 
the underlying strategies and the Company’s 
  expenditure. Under Guernsey company law, the 
Foreign Exchange Risk to      There is a risk that material sterling strength or volatility    Company is permitted to pay dividends despite losses 
Income will result in a diminution of the value of income received  provided solvency tests are performed and passed 
when converted into sterling. ahead of dividend declaration.
 
Investment Delay      Investment into underlying strategies could be delayed         The Manager monitors and reports to the Board on   
resulting in loss of expected income and capital growth  ‘queue’ length and the underlying pattern of 
opportunity.   deployment in the underlying strategies. Any slowing 
of deployment patterns is reported to Board and the 
income impact is modelled. 
 
Discount Control Risk     Investment company shares often trade at discounts to         The Board monitors the level of both the absolute   
their underlying NAVs, although they can also trade at  and sector relative premium/discount at which the 
a premium. Discounts and premiums can fluctuate  shares trade. The Board reviews both sales and 
considerably leading to volatile returns for shareholders.  marketing activity and sector relative performance, 
which it believes are the primary drivers of the 
relative premium/discount level. In addition, the 
Company has authority, when it deems appropriate, 
to buy back its existing shares to enhance the NAV 
per share for remaining shareholders and to reduce 
the absolute level of discount and discount volatility. 
 
28  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021  
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 29
PRINCIPAL AND EMERGING RISKS   
Principal Risk                       Description                                                                              Mitigating Activities 
Operational Risks  
Counterparty Risk      The nature of the contractual frameworks that underpin         The Board is able to seek information from the   
many of the real assets within the underlying strategies  Manager in relation to counterparty concentration 
necessitate close partnerships with a range of  and correlation of providers. As counterparty quality 
counterparties. In addition to the financial risks arising  is key to maintaining predictable income streams, the 
from exposure to customers, client and lenders, there are  Manager seeks regular contact with key 
a large number of operational counterparties including  counterparties throughout the supply chain and with 
construction and maintenance subcontractors. Such  revenue-providing counterparties, while also actively 
counterparties to which the Company is ultimately  monitoring the financial strength and stability of all 
exposed will increase as the Company’s assets continue to  these entities.
be deployed. Counterparty risk would primarily manifest 
itself as either counterparty failure or underperformance 
of contractors.
 
Valuation of Investments      The Company’s portfolio is mainly comprised of direct         The judgements on valuations for the underlying   
investments in unquoted, hard-to-value assets and, in  private funds are based upon the audited financial 
particular, investments in private funds on the JPMAM  statements and quarterly valuations from the 
platform holding unquoted assets. There is a risk of  underlying unquoted investments. These are adjusted 
variation between the Company’s estimated valuations  based on material changes in benchmarks and other 
and the realisable values of investments. Accordingly, the  industry data, FX movements and net income 
 
quarterly NAV figures issued by the Company should be  generation, to obtain an estimated valuation at the 
regarded as indicative only and investors should be aware  period end for the Company’s reporting 
that the realisable NAV per share may be materially  requirements. 
different from those figures.  
From the Company’s year ended 28th February 2021 
The Board is reliant upon the valuations of the underlying  going forward, the Company has engaged BDO LLP to 
investments through the publication of their audited  assist with the valuations for the Company’s holdings 
annual results. However, given that the underlying  in its private collective investment schemes. The 
strategies do not have contemporaneous reporting  valuations produced by the Manager and using input 
periods with that of the Company, there will be timing  from BDO LLP are ultimately approved by the Board. 
issues and judgements on pricing have to be undertaken 
by the Manager in the production of the Company’s 
Annual Report and ultimately by the Board. 
 
Outsourcing      Disruption to, or failure of, the Manager’s accounting,         Details of how the Board monitors the services   
dealing or payments systems or the Depositary or  provided by JPM and its associates and the key 
Custodian’s records may prevent accurate reporting and  elements designed to provide effective risk 
monitoring of the Company’s financial position or a  management and internal control are included within 
misappropriation of assets.  the Risk Management and Internal Controls section of 
the Corporate Governance Statement on 
pages 39 to 42. 
The Manager has a comprehensive business continuity 
plan which facilitates continued operation of the 
business in the event of a service disruption (including 
and disruption resulting from the COVID-19 pathogen). 
Since the introduction of the COVID-19 restrictions, 
Directors have received assurances that the Manager 
and its key third party service providers have all been 
able to maintain service levels.
 
                                                                                                                      STRATEGIC REPORT  |  29
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 30
PRINCIPAL AND EMERGING RISKS   
Principal Risk                       Description                                                                              Mitigating Activities 
Regulatory Risks 
Cyber Crime       The threat of cyber attack, in all guises, is regarded as at         The Company benefits directly and/or indirectly from  
least as important as more traditional physical threats to  all elements of JPMorgan’s Cyber Security 
business continuity and security.  programme. The information technology controls 
around physical security of JPMorgan’s data centres, 
In addition to threatening the Company’s operations, such 
security of its networks and security of its trading 
an attack is likely to raise reputational issues which may 
applications, are tested by independent auditors and 
damage the Company’s share price and reduce demand 
reported every six months against the AAF Standard.  
for its shares.  
 
Regulatory Change      Various legal and regulatory changes may adversely         The Manager and its advisers continually monitor any  
impact the Company and its underlying investments. This  potential or actual changes to regulations to ensure 
could take the form of legislation impacting the supply  its assets and service providers remain compliant. 
chain or contractual costs or obligations to which the  Most social and transportation infrastructure 
underlying strategies are exposed. Certain investments in  concessions provide a degree of protection, through 
the underlying strategies are subject to regulatory  their contractual structures, in relation to changes in 
oversight. Regular price control reviews by regulators  legislation which affect either the asset or the way 
determine levels of investment and service that the  the services are provided. Regulators seek to balance 
portfolio company must deliver and revenue that may be  protecting customer interests with making sure that 
generated. Particularly severe reviews may result in poor  investments have enough money to finance their 
financial performance of the affected investment.   functions.  
The Company invests in real assets via a series of private 
funds. The operation of these entities including their 
ability to be bought, held or sold by investors across a 
number of jurisdictions and the taxation suffered within 
the funds and by investors into the funds depend on a 
complex mix of regulatory and tax laws and regulations 
across a wide range of countries. These may be subject to 
change that may threaten the Company’s access to and 
returns earned from the private funds. 
Environmental Risks 
Climate Change      Climate change is one of the most critical emerging issues        In the Company’s and Manager’s view, investments   
confronting asset managers and their investors. Climate  that successfully manage climate change risks will 
change may have a disruptive effect on the business  perform better in the long-term. Consideration of 
models and profitability of individual investments, and  climate change risks and opportunities is an integral 
indeed, whole sectors. The Board is also considering the  part of the investment process. The Manager aims to 
threat posed by the direct impact of climate change on  influence the management of climate related risks 
the operations of the Manager and other major service  through engagement and voting with respect to the 
providers.  equity portion of the portfolio, and is a participant of 
Climate Action 100+ and a signatory of the United 
Although mitigated to some extent by contracted lease 
Nations Principles for Responsible Investment. 
commitments, the Company may be exposed to 
substantial risk of loss from environmental claims arising  Generally, the Manager (or, in the case of an 
in respect of its underlying real assets that have  investment made by a JPMAM product, the relevant 
environmental problems, and the loss may exceed the  manager) performs market practice environmental 
value of such underlying assets. Furthermore, changes in  due diligence of all of the investments to identify 
environmental laws and regulations or in the  potential sources of pollution, contamination or other 
environmental condition of investments may create  environmental hazard for which such investment may 
liabilities that did not exist at the time of acquisition of an  be responsible and to assess the status of 
underlying asset and that could not have been foreseen. It  environmental regulatory compliance.
is also possible that certain underlying assets to which the 
Company will be exposed could be subject to risks 
associated with natural disasters (including fire, storms, 
hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, hail storms, blizzards and 
floods) or non climate related manmade disasters 
(including terrorist activities, acts of war or incidents 
caused by human error). 
 
30  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021    
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 31
PRINCIPAL AND EMERGING RISKS   
Emerging Risk                      Description                                                                              Mitigating Activities 
Pandemic Risks 
Pandemics      The emergence of COVID-19 has highlighted the speed and        The Board receives reports on the business continuity  
extent of economic damage that can arise from a  plans of the Manager and other key service providers. 
pandemic. While current hopes that vaccination  The effectiveness of these measures have been 
programmes will control the virus appear well-placed,  assessed throughout the course of the COVID-19 
there is the risk that emergent strains may not respond to  pandemic and the Board will continue to monitor 
current vaccines and may be more lethal and that they  developments as they occur and seek to learn lessons 
may spread as global travel opens up again.  which may be of use in the event of future pandemics. 
 
Economic Responses to the     The response to the Pandemic by the UK and other         The Board seeks to manage these risks through:   
COVID-19 Pandemic  governments may potentially fail to mitigate the economic  a broadly diversified portfolio, appropriate asset 
damage created by the Pandemic and public health  allocation, reviewing key economic and political 
responses to it, or may create new risks in their own right.   events and regulatory changes, active management 
of risk and the application of relevant policies on 
• Failure of Mitigation 
gearing and liquidity. 
The emergence of a number of vaccines gives hope that the 
world will be able eventually to live with the COVID-19 
pandemic, but meeting the costs of recent support 
measures may see an increase in taxation which could be 
detrimental to investments, the appeal of savings and 
investment products (such as the Company) and to 
shareholders themselves. 
• Inflation/Deflation/Depression Risks 
Government support measures could also result in either 
significant levels of inflation in the medium term with a 
knock on effect on valuations and/or growth; or if they are 
not sufficient they could lead to continued depressed levels 
of demand and deflation.
Global Risks 
Technological and      The returns generated from the underlying investment         The Board manages these risks through maintaining   
Behavioural Change  strategies in which the Company is invested may be  a diversified portfolio of investments, ensuring the 
materially affected by new or emerging changes in  underlying investment team consider these threats in 
technology which change the behaviour of individuals or  portfolio construction and investment plans and are 
corporations, or may require substantial investment in  aware of the investment opportunities as well as the 
new or replacement technologies. Such changes may  threats presented by these shifts in the sectors in 
include the decline in demand for office space as remote  which they invest.  
working technologies become widespread, material 
changes in transport technologies and new technologies 
for the generation and transmission of energy. 
 
Geopolitical Risk      The Company’s investments are exposed to various         This risk is managed to some extent by diversification  
geopolitical and macro-economic risks incidental to  of investments and by regular communication with the 
investing. Political, economic, military and other events  Manager on matters of investment strategy and 
around the world (including trade disputes) may impact  portfolio construction which will directly or indirectly 
the economic conditions in which the Company operates,  include an assessment of these risks. The Board can, 
by, for example, causing exchange rate fluctuations,  with shareholder approval, look to amend the 
interest rate changes, heightened or lessened  investment policy and objectives of the Company to 
competition, tax advantages or disadvantages, inflation,  gain exposure to or mitigate the risks arising from 
reduced economic growth or recession, and so on. Such  geopolitical instability although this is limited if it is 
events are not in the control of the Company and may  truly global. 
impact the Company’s performance. 
 
                                                                                                                        STRATEGIC REPORT  |  31
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 32
LONG TERM VIABILITY
Long Term Viability 
The AIC Code of Corporate Governance requires the Directors to make a statement regarding the viability of the Company, the period 
for which they have made the assessment and why they consider that period to be appropriate.  
Taking account of the Company’s current position and strategy, the principal and emerging risks that it faces and their potential impact 
on its future development and prospects, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company, to the extent that they are able to 
do so, over the next three years.  
They have made that assessment by considering those principal and emerging risks, the Company’s investment objective and strategy, 
current cash levels, the current and projected level of income generated by the Company, a sustainable value proposition intrinsic to 
the assets that make up our diverse portfolio, the investment and operational capabilities of the Manager and the current outlook for 
relevant markets. This work has included a review of scenarios with extreme reductions in both the liquidity of the Company’s listed and 
fund investments and in income earned from these holdings. They have taken into account the robustness of performance to date and 
of the contracted future income, where, for example, the unexpired lease term on the properties held within the Company’s real estate 
investments is currently approximately five years. In addition, particular consideration has been paid to the impact of the COVID-19 
pandemic, where the Board has taken into account both the impact of the significant market turbulence and of the threats to the 
operational and investment systems. 
In determining the appropriate period of assessment, the Directors consider that, given the Company’s objective of providing 
shareholders with stable income and capital appreciation from exposure to a globally diversified portfolio of core real assets, 
shareholders should consider the Company as a long term investment proposition. The Company, in the majority, targets core assets 
whose cash flows are stable and forecastable for periods of typically three years or more with a low margin of error. Thus, the Directors 
consider three years to be an appropriate time horizon to assess the Company’s viability.  
The Directors confirm that, taking account of the Company’s risk profile set out in note 21 on pages 72 to 78, and other factors set out 
under this heading, they remain confident in the fundamentals of the markets in which the Company has invested and will invest, and 
have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the 
three-year period to February 2024. 
32  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021  
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 33
DUTY TO PROMOTE THE SUCCESS OF THE COMPANY    
Duty to Promote the Success of the Company 
The Company is not required to comply with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006, however, it is a requirement of the AIC Code of 
Corporate Governance to report upon Section 172 of this statute. Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 requires that a Director must act 
in the way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its members 
(i.e. shareholders) as a whole and in doing so, have regard (amongst other matters) to the likely consequences of any decision in the 
long term; the need to foster the Company’s business relationships with suppliers, customers and others; the impact of the Company’s 
operations on the community and the environment; the desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of 
business conduct; and the need to act fairly as between members of the Company. 
The Board is responsible for all decisions relating to the Company’s investment objective and policies, gearing, discount management, 
corporate governance and strategy, and for monitoring the performance of the Company’s third party service providers, including the 
Manager. The Board’s philosophy is that the Company should foster a culture where all the Company’s stakeholders are treated fairly and 
with respect and the Board recognises the importance of acting fairly between them, front of mind in its key decision making. As an 
externally managed investment company with no employees, the Board considers that the Company’s key stakeholders are its 
shareholders, its Manager, its underlying investments, and its other professional third party service providers (corporate broker, 
administrator, registrar, auditor, custodian and depositary) and wider society. The Board believes the best interests of the Company are 
aligned with those of these key stakeholders as all parties wish to see and ultimately benefit from the Company achieving its investment 
objectives whilst carrying on business in compliance with the highest possible regulatory, legal, ethical and commercial standards. 
The table below sets out details of the Company’s engagement with these stakeholders: 
Stakeholder Engagement 
Shareholders 
Continued shareholder engagement is critical to the continued existence of the Company and the successful delivery of its long term 
strategy. The Board is focused on fostering and maintaining good working relationships with shareholders and understanding the 
views of shareholders in order to incorporate them into the Board’s strategic thinking and objectives. Full details on how the Board 
ensures it is fully appraised of shareholder views and how it engages with all shareholder groups can be found on page 41.  
The Board also monitors the discount or premium to NAV at which the shares trade and secondary market liquidity in absolute terms 
and in comparison with peer group companies as these factors are an important contributor to current shareholders’ returns and to 
the appeal of the Company to future investors. 
Manager 
The principal service provider is the Manager, in particular the investment management team who are responsible for managing the 
Company’s assets in order to achieve its stated investment objective. The Board maintains a good working relationship with the Manager, 
who also provides administrative support and promotes the Company through its investment company sales and marketing teams. The 
Board monitors the Company’s investment performance at each Board Meeting in relation to its objective and also to its investment 
policy and strategy. The Board also maintains strong lines of communication with the Manager via its dedicated company secretary and 
client director whose interactions extend well beyond the formal business addressed at each Board and Committee meeting. This enables 
the Board to remain regularly informed of the views of the Manager and the Company’s shareholders (and vice versa).
 
Investee companies and funds 
The Board is committed to responsible investing and monitors the activities of its underlying investments through its delegation to the 
Manager. In order to achieve this, the Manager has discretionary powers to exercise voting rights on behalf of the Company on all 
resolutions proposed by the listed equity investments within the portfolio (full details can be found in the ESG report on pages 17 to 19). 
The Board monitors the investment activity undertaken by the Manager and within the underlying funds and strategies in which the 
Company invests. In-depth analysis and questioning of the investment teams is carried out regularly in the course of scheduled Board 
meetings and ahead of new material commitments into underlying funds. This questioning extends beyond pure investment strategy 
and addresses the operational and financial risk appetites and mitigation in place alongside key non-financial factors such as the 
approach to ESG, engagement with asset users, tenants or lessees and engagement with operating partners and service providers. 
Other key service providers 
The Board ensures that it promotes the success of the Company by engaging specialist third party suppliers, with appropriate capability, 
performance records, resources and controls in place to deliver the services that the Company requires for support in meeting relevant 
obligations and safeguarding the Company’s assets. For this reason, the Board consider the Company’s Administrator, Custodian, 
Depositary, Registrar, Auditor and Broker to be stakeholders. The Board maintains regular contact with its key external service 
providers, either directly, or via its dedicated company secretary or client director, and receives regular reporting from these providers 
at Board and Committee meetings. The Board meets annually to complete a formal review and appraisal of its key service providers.  
                                                                                                                      STRATEGIC REPORT  |  33
Global Core AR p05-34.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 34
DUTY TO PROMOTE THE SUCCESS OF THE COMPANY    
Wider society and the Environment 
Whilst strong long term investment performance is essential for an investment company, the Board recognises that to provide an 
investment vehicle that is sustainable over the long term, both it and the Manager must have regard to ethical and environmental issues 
that impact society. Hence environmental, social and governance (‘ESG’) considerations are integrated into the Manager’s investment 
process and will continue to evolve. Further details of the Manager’s integrated approach to ESG can be found on pages 17 to 19. 
The Directors confirm that they have considered their duty under Section 172 when making decisions during the financial year under 
review. Key decisions and actions during the year which have required the Directors to have regard to applicable section 172 factors include: 
Key Decisions and Actions 
Dividends Payable to Shareholders  
The Company intends to provide investors with stable income and capital appreciation through exposure to a globally diversified 
portfolio of core real assets in accordance with the Company's investment policy. 
Over the year the Board noted the robust income generation from the underlying portfolio, reflecting the muted impact, to date, of 
COVID-19 related disruptions to revenue receipts. It robustness speaks to the strength of the underlying teams’ investment 
approaches, the diversified overall portfolio construction and the defensive nature of the assets owned by the Company.  
The Board declared a fourth quarterly interim dividend of 1 penny per share in respect of the Company’s financial year ending 
28th February 2021. This declared dividend brought the forward yield on a constant basis to 4.0p per share and as the portfolio 
approaches full investment the Board expects the level of income to increase further and will assess the dividend levels which, in the 
absence of unforeseen circumstances, it expects to be within the target range of 4 to 6% yield on issue price as set out in the 
Company’s IPO prospectus. 
Share Issuance 
Ensuring both that liquidity is maintained for the Company’s shares and that an excessive premium to NAV does not develop in the Company’s 
share price rating are important to shareholders. The Company has issued approximately 8 million new shares during the year at a premium 
to NAV. This policy provides liquidity, is accretive to the NAV of existing Shareholders and also helps moderate share price volatility.  
C-Share Capital Raising 
Following discussions with both existing and prospective investors and having determined that broad demand existed for the 
Company to grow in size, the Board announced its intention to launch an issue of convertible C-Shares with a premium listing on the 
Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, by way of an initial placing, offer for subscription and intermediaries offer forming part of 
a new 12 month share issuance programme (the ‘Issue’). The raise, which will be conducted when the market environment allows, will 
help the Company achieve greater scale, liquidity and result in a reduction in overall fee levels; progressing the goal of making the 
Company one of the most cost effective access points to a unique private pool of income producing core real assets. Convertible 
C-Shares do not encumber existing shareholders with the dilution of income and investment returns that come from significant levels 
of share issuance. The Issue provides investors with the opportunity to subscribe for new shares whilst insulating existing 
shareholders from the dilutive effects of committing capital to private funds which may take several months to deploy. Please refer to 
the Prospectus issued by the Company on 10th November 2020 for full details. 
Addition of New Underlying Investment Fund 
In pursuing the Company’s investment objective the Board reviews the range of strategies and funds operated by the Manager and the 
extent to which they can support or enhance the ability of the Company to achieve these objectives. Over the course of the year the 
Board, following review by the Market Risk Committee, identified the Manager’s Mezzanine investment strategy as a suitable 
additional investment by the Company, offering attractive income, return and volatility characteristics. An initial investment into this 
strategy is likely to be completed in the current financial year.  
 
By order of the Board  
Alison Vincent, for and on behalf of 
JPMorgan Funds Limited,  
Secretary  
7th July 2021 
34  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021
Global Core AR p35-43.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 35
                                                                  Directors’ Report
Image source: Shutterstock.
Global Core AR p35-43.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 36
BOARD OF DIRECTORS         
   
John Scott (Chairman)  Simon Holden (Chair of the Market Risk Committee and Senior 
John Scott (Chairman)  Independent Director) 
A Director since 2019.  A Director since 2019. 
Last reappointed to the Board: 2020.  Last reappointed to the Board: 2020. 
Remuneration: £54,000. 
Remuneration: £60,000. 
Mr Holden, a Guernsey resident, brings board experience from both 
Mr Scott is a former investment banker who spent 20 years with Lazard 
private equity and portfolio company operations roles at Candover 
and is currently a director of several investment trusts and was, until 
Investments then Terra Firma Capital Partners. Since 2015, he has 
2017, Chairman of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC (the UK’s 
become an active independent director on listed alternative 
largest investment trust and a FTSE 100 company). He is also Chairman 
investment companies (HICL Infrastructure Plc, Hipgnosis Songs Fund 
of Alpha Insurance Analysts, Impax Environmental Markets plc and 
Limited, Trian Investors 1 Limited and Chrysalis Investments Limited), 
Jupiter Emerging & Frontier Income Trust plc. In addition to those stated 
private equity funds and trading company boards. In addition, he acts 
above, Mr Scott holds other public company directorships in Blueﬁeld 
as the pro-bono Business Advisor to Guernsey Ports; a States of 
Solar Income Fund Limited, and CC Japan Income & Growth Trust plc. 
Guernsey enterprise that operates all of the Bailiwick’s critical airport 
Former director of JPMorgan Claverhouse Investment Trust plc. 
and harbour infrastructure. 
Shared directorships with other Directors: None. 
He is a Chartered Director (CDir) accredited by the Institute of 
Shareholding in the Company: 150,000  Directors, graduated from the University of Cambridge with an 
MEng and MA (Cantab) in manufacturing engineering and is an active 
member of Guernsey’s GIFA, NED Forum and IP Commercial Group. 
Shared directorships with other Directors: None. 
Shareholding in the Company: 50,000 
 
Helen Green (Chair of the Audit Committee) 
A Director since 2019. 
Last reappointed to the Board: 2020. 
Remuneration: £50,000. 
 
Mrs Green, a Guernsey resident, is a chartered accountant and has 
Chris Russell (Chair of the Nomination Committee) 
been employed by Saffery Champness, a top 20 ﬁrm of chartered 
A Director since 2019. 
accountants, since 1984. She qualiﬁed as a chartered accountant in 
Last reappointed to the Board: 2020. 
1987 and became a partner in the London ofﬁce in 1998. Since 2000 
Remuneration: £42,000. 
she has been based in the Guernsey ofﬁce where she is Client Liaison 
Director, responsible for trust and company administration. She is  Mr Russell, a Guernsey resident, is non-executive chairman of Ruffer 
a director of CQS Natural Resources Growth and Income plc,  Investment Company Ltd and a non-executive director of Hanseatic 
Aberdeen Emerging Markets Investment Company Limited, Landore  Asset Management LBG and Les Cotils Charitable Company LBG. He 
Resources Limited and UK Mortgages Limited. She is a member of the  has recently retired as chairman from the boards of the London listed 
Guernsey Investment Funds Association (GIFA) NED Committee and  F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited, Macau Property 
Chairman of the Guernsey NED Forum.   Opportunities Fund Limited and from the board of HICL Infrastructure 
Company Limited. He was a former non-executive director of 
Shared directorships with other Directors: None. 
JPMorgan Fleming Japan Smaller Companies Investment Trust Plc and 
Shareholding in the Company: 10,000  director of Gartmore Investment Management Plc, where he was 
Head of Gartmore’s businesses in the US and Japan, after being 
a holding board director of the Jardine Fleming Group in Asia. He is 
a Fellow of the UK Society of Investment Professionals and a Fellow of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. 
Shared directorships with other Directors: None. 
Shareholding in the Company: 100,000 
36  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021   
Global Core AR p35-43.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 37
DIRECTORS’ REPORT            
The Directors present their Annual Report & Financial Statements  leverage, risk, liquidity, administration, management, fees, 
for the year ended 28th February 2021.   conflicts of interest and other shareholder information is available 
on the Company’s website at www.jpmrealassets.co.uk. There 
Management of the Company  have been no material changes (other than those reflected in 
these financial statements) to this information requiring 
The Manager and Company Secretary is JPMF, a company 
disclosure. Any information requiring immediate disclosure 
authorised and regulated by the FCA. JPMF is a wholly-owned 
pursuant to the AIFMD will be disclosed to the London Stock 
subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank which, through other 
Exchange through aprimary information provider. 
subsidiaries, also provides marketing, banking and dealing 
services to the Company. Custodian services are provided by  The Company’s leverage and JPMF’s remuneration disclosures are 
a JPMorgan Chase Bank subsidiary, via a contract with the  set out on pages 81 and 82. 
Company’s depositary. 
Dividends  
The Investment Management Agreement is subject to an initial 
period of ﬁve years and thereafter will continue until terminated  Details of the Company’s dividend policy and payments are shown 
at any time by either party giving to the other not less than  on pages 9 and 26 of this Report. 
six months’ written notice. The Company may also terminate the 
Investment Management Agreement with immediate effect on the  Management Fees  
occurrence of certain circumstances, including: if JPMF commits 
JPMF is entitled to receive from the Company a management fee 
a material breach which is not remedied within a 30 day grace 
in respect of that part of the Company’s net asset value which is 
period; certain insolvency events occurring; if required by an 
invested in JPMAM products, calculated at the rate of 0.05% per 
applicable regulatory authority; if JPMF ceases to be authorised 
annum. The Company’s investments in the JPMAM products also 
under FSMA; or if JPMF ceases to maintain its permission with the 
bear the management fee charged by the relevant manager at the 
FCA to act as an AIFM. 
level of the relevant JPMAM product (the ‘underlying management 
The Board has thoroughly reviewed the performance of JPMF in  fees’). The total overall management fee payable to JPMAM is the 
the course of the year. The review covered the performance of the  aggregate of the management fee and the underlying 
Manager, its management processes, investment style, resources  management fees. No management fee is charged on uninvested 
and risk controls and the quality of support that the Company  assets held in cash or cash equivalents. 
receives from JPMF and is satisfied on all fronts. The Board is of 
The total overall management fee borne by the Company, 
the opinion that the continuing appointment of the Manager is in 
including management fees incurred in the underlying funds, is 
the best interests of shareholders as a whole. Such a review is 
currently 0.97% per annum, falling on a tiered basis to 0.84% per 
carried out on an annual basis. 
annum if the Company’s net asset value is £1 billion or more, 
based on the initial portfolio, as set out in the table below: 
The Alternative Investment Fund Managers 
Directive (‘AIFMD’)  Company’s Net Asset  
Value invested  Total Overall  
JPMF is the Company’s alternative investment fund manager  in JPMAM Products Management Fee 
(‘AIFM’). JPMF has been approved as an AIFM by the FCA. For the  £100m 0.97% 
purposes of the AIFMD the Company is an alternative investment 
£300m 0.95% 
fund (‘AIF’). 
£500m 0.89% 
JPMF has delegated responsibility for the day to day management 
£1,000m 0.84% 
of the Company’s portfolio to JPMAM UK which further delegates 
the management to JPMorgan Asset Management, Inc., Security 
The element of the management fees payable by the Company to 
Capital Research & Management Inc. and J.P. Morgan Alternative 
JPMF is calculated and paid quarterly, in arrears, based on the 
Asset Management Inc. The Company has appointed Bank of New 
last published net asset value and based on the Company’s 
York Mellon (International) Limited (‘BNY’) as its depositary. BNY 
portfolio allocation as at the date on which the last published net 
has appointed JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as the Company’s 
asset value was calculated. 
custodian. BNY remains responsible for the oversight of the 
custody of the Company’s assets and for monitoring its cash flows. 
Directors  
The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available to 
The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the 
investors in AIFs before they invest and requires that material 
year are detailed on page 36. The Company’s Articles of 
changes to this information be disclosed in the annual report of 
Incorporation require that at each annual general meeting of the 
each AIF. An Investor Disclosure Document, which sets out 
Company all Directors will retire from office and each Director 
information on the Company’s investment strategy and policies, 
may offer himself for election or re-election by the shareholders. 
                                                                                                                      DIRECTORS’ REPORT  |  37
Global Core AR p35-43.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 38
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
All Directors will be standing for election at the Company’s  Notifiable Interests in the Company’s Voting Rights 
forthcoming AGM.   At the date of this report, the following had declared a notifiable 
interest in the Company’s voting rights: 
The terms and conditions of Directors’ appointments are set out 
in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are available for  Number of  
inspection on request at the Company’s registered office and at all  Shareholders voting rights % 
annual general meetings.  Quilter Plc 39,353,682 18.8 
Brewin Dolphin 10,998,786 5.3 
Director Indemnification and Insurance 
As permitted by the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, the  Miscellaneous Information 
Directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying 
The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of 
third party indemnity. The indemnity was in place during the 
Directors, amendment of the Articles of Incorporation and powers 
period and as at the date of this report. 
to issue or repurchase the Company’s shares are contained in the 
An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which  Articles of Incorporation of the Company and the Companies 
indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain  (Guernsey) Law, 2008. 
liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties. There is no cover 
There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in 
against fraudulent or dishonest actions. 
the Company; no special rights with regard to control attached to 
securities; no agreements between holders of securities regarding 
Disclosure of information to Auditor 
their transfer known to the Company; no agreements which the 
In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the  Company is party to that affect its control following a takeover 
Company at the time when this report was approved:  bid; and no agreements between the Company and its Directors 
concerning compensation for loss of office. 
(a) so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; 
Listing Rule 9.8.4R 
and 
Listing Rule 9.8.4R requires the Company to include certain 
(b) each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought to 
information in the identifiable section of the Annual Report & 
have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of 
Financial Statements or a cross reference table indicating where 
any relevant audit information (as defined) and to establish 
the information is set out. The Directors confirm that there are no 
that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information. 
disclosures to be made in this report. 
Independent Auditor 
Annual General Meeting 
PricewaterhouseCoopers CI LLP has expressed its willingness to 
continue in office as Auditor to the Company and a resolution  The notice covering the AGM of the Company to be held on 
proposing its reappointment and authorising the Directors to  Tuesday 3rd August 2021 is given on pages 84 to 86. The full 
determine its remuneration for the ensuing year will be put to  text of the Resolutions is set out in this notice.  
shareholders at the AGM.  Resolutions relating to the following items of special business will 
be proposed at the forthcoming AGM: 
Capital Structure and Voting Rights 
(i) Authority to repurchase the Company’s shares 
Capital Structure  (Resolution 9) 
The Company’s capital structure is summarised on the inside front 
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM that the Company be 
cover of this report. 
authorised to repurchase in the market up to 14.99% of the 
Voting Rights in the Company’s shares  Company’s issued share capital as at the date of the passing of the 
Details of the voting rights in the Company’s shares as at the date  resolution. 
of this report are given in note 16 to the Notice of AGM on 
If resolution 9 is passed at the AGM, shares repurchased might 
page 86. 
not be cancelled but rather held as treasury shares. The Company 
does not have authority to re-issue shares from treasury at a 
discount to NAV, therefore any reissue of shares from treasury 
would be at a premium to the prevailing NAV. 
38  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021   
Global Core AR p35-43.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 39
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT   
The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Meeting on  Role of the Board  
page 84. Repurchases will be made at the discretion of the Board 
A management agreement between the Company and JPMF sets 
and will only be made in the market at prices below the prevailing 
out the matters over which the Manager has delegated authority. 
NAV per share, thereby enhancing the NAV of the remaining 
This includes management of the Company’s assets within the 
shares as and when market conditions are appropriate. 
guidelines established by the Board from time to time and the 
(ii) Approval of dividend policy (resolution 10)  provision of accounting, company secretarial, administration and 
some marketing services. All other matters are reserved for the 
The Directors seek approval of the Company’s dividend policy to 
approval of the Board. A formal schedule of matters reserved to 
continue to pay four quarterly interim dividends during the year. 
the Board for decision has been approved. This includes 
determination and monitoring of the Company’s investment 
Recommendation 
objectives and policy and its future strategic direction, gearing 
The Board considers that resolutions 9 and 10 are likely to  policy, management of the capital structure, appointment and 
promote the success of the Company and are in the best interests  removal of third party service providers, review of key investment 
of the Company and its shareholders as a whole. The Directors  and financial data and the Company’s corporate governance and 
unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the  risk control arrangements.  
resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial 
The Board meets on at least five occasions each year and 
holdings which amount in aggregate to 310,000 shares, 
additional meetings are arranged as necessary. Full and timely 
representing approximately 0.15% of the existing issued share 
information is provided to the Board to enable it to function 
capital of the Company. 
effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their 
responsibilities. The Board intends to visit the Manager’s New 
Corporate Governance Statement 
York offices later in 2021 if and when travel restrictions are lifted. 
Further information on meetings and committees can be found 
Compliance 
below. 
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate 
The Board has procedures in place to deal with potential conflicts 
governance. It has considered the principles and provisions of the 
of interest and confirms that the procedures have operated 
AIC Code of Corporate Governance published in 2019 (the ‘AIC 
effectively during the period under review. 
Code’), which addresses the principles and provisions set out in 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘UK Code’) published in  There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent 
2018, as they apply to investment companies. It considers that  professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and at the 
reporting against the AIC Code, which has been endorsed by the  Company’s expense. This is in addition to the access that every 
UK Financial Reporting Council and the Guernsey Financial  Director has to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, 
Services Commission, provides appropriate information to the  JPMF, which is responsible to the Board for ensuring adherence to 
Company’s shareholders. The Board confirms that the Company  Board procedures and compliance with applicable rules and 
has complied with the principles and provisions of the AIC Code, in  regulations.  
so far as they apply to the Company’s business, throughout the 
year under review. As all of the Company’s day-to-day  Board Composition  
management and administrative functions are outsourced to third 
All of the Directors held office throughout the year under review 
parties, it has no executive directors, employees or internal 
and will stand for reappointment at the forthcoming AGM. 
operations and therefore has not reported in respect of the 
The skills and experience that each Director brings to the Board, 
following:  
and hence why their contributions are important to the long term 
•         the role of the executive directors and senior management;   success of the Company, are detailed on page 36. 
•         executive directors’ and senior management remuneration;  The Board, having considered their qualifications, performance 
and  and contribution to the Board and its committees, confirms that 
each Director proposed for reappointment continues to be 
•         the workforce. 
effective and demonstrates commitment to the role and the 
Copies of the UK Code and AIC Code may be found on the  Board recommends to shareholders that they be reappointed. 
respective organisations’ websites: www.frc.org.uk and 
www.theaic.co.uk  Tenure  
Directors are initially appointed until the following annual general 
meeting when, under the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, it is 
required that they be elected by shareholders. Thereafter, subject 
                                                                                                                      DIRECTORS’ REPORT  |  39
Global Core AR p35-43.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 40
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT   
to the performance evaluation carried out each year, the Board  and whether each Director has sufficient time available to 
will agree whether it is appropriate for each Director to seek  discharge their duties effectively. The Committee confirms that it 
re-election. In accordance with corporate governance best  believes that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and 
practice, Directors continuing in office seek annual re-election  experience, that all Directors should be considered as 
and no Director, including the Chairman, will seek re-election  independent in accordance with the provisions of the AIC Code of 
after having served for nine years on the Board other than in  Corporate Governance and that all Directors have the time 
exceptional circumstances for the benefit of the Company. The  available to discharge their duties effectively. 
Board keeps plans for its orderly succession and refreshment 
The Board’s policy on diversity, including gender, is to take 
under continual review.  
account of the benefits of this during the appointment process. 
A list of potential conflicts of interest for each Director is  The Board remains committed to appointing the most appropriate 
maintained by the Company. These are considered carefully,  candidate and seeks to ensure that it does not unwittingly exclude 
taking into account the circumstances surrounding them, and, if  any group. Therefore, no targets have been set against which to 
considered appropriate, are approved.  report. 
The Committee conducts an annual performance evaluation of the 
Induction and Training  
Board, its committees and individual Directors to ensure that all 
On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide all  Directors have devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately 
Directors with induction training. Thereafter, regular briefings are  to the work of the Board and its Committees. The evaluation of 
provided on changes in law and regulatory requirements that  the Board considers the balance of experience, skills, 
affect the Company and Directors. Directors are encouraged to  independence, corporate knowledge, its diversity, and how it 
attend industry and other seminars covering issues and  works together. The evaluation of individual Directors is led by the 
developments relevant to investment companies. Reviews of the  Chairman. The Senior Independent Director leads the evaluation 
Directors’ training needs will be carried out by the Board by  of the Chairman’s performance, which includes an appraisal of his 
means of the evaluation process described below.   Board leadership and effectiveness in the role. 
Market Risk Committee 
Meetings and Committees  
The Market Risk Committee, chaired by Simon Holden, consists of 
The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to  all the Directors and will meet at least twice a year. Additionally 
committees. Details of membership of committees are shown with  the Market Risk Committee meets ahead of initial capital 
the Directors’ profiles on page 36.  deployment into the underlying private strategies to complete 
The table below details the number of formal Board and  a risk assessment. The Committee has the responsibility for 
Committee meetings attended by each Director.  overseeing the market risk in relation to the Investment Policy. 
The Market Risk Committee is tasked with analysing and assessing 
                                                                           Audit   Market Risk Nomination 
the Company’s risk assessment policies with a view to updating 
                                                 Board    Committee    Committee Committee 
the policies where relevant and making sure they remain fit for 
John Scott                                  5                    3                    2 1  purpose in the current market. The Market Risk Committee also 
Helen Green                               5                    3                    2 1  assesses the performance of the Investment Manager in 
addressing the Company’s key risks. 
Simon Holden                            5                    3                    2 1 
Chris Russell                              5                    3                    2 1  Audit Committee  
As well as the formal meetings detailed above, the Board meets  The report of the Audit Committee is set out on page 43. 
on a quarterly basis to discuss and approve dividend payments 
and communicates frequently by email, videoconference or  Terms of Reference 
telephone to deal with day to day matters as they arise. 
The Nomination, Market Risk and Audit Committees have written 
terms of reference which define clearly their respective 
Board Committees  
responsibilities, and copies of which are available on the 
Nomination Committee  Company’s website and for inspection on request at the 
Company’s registered office.  
The Nomination Committee, chaired by Chris Russell, consists of 
all of the Directors and meets at least annually. The Nomination 
Committee reviews the composition, structure and diversity of the 
Board, succession planning, the independence of the Directors 
40  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021   
Global Core AR p35-43.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 41
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT   
Relations with Shareholders    its associates, the Company’s system of risk management and 
internal control mainly comprises monitoring the services 
The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the 
provided by the Manager and its associates, including the 
Company. It aims to provide shareholders with a full 
operating controls established by them, to ensure that they meet 
understanding of the Company’s activities and performance and 
the Company’s business objectives. There is an ongoing process 
will report formally to shareholders twice a year by way of the 
for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks 
Annual Report & Financial Statements and the Half Year Report. 
faced by the Company (see Principal and Emerging Risks on 
This is supplemented by the quarterly publication, through the 
pages 28 to 31). This process has been in place for the period 
London Stock Exchange and the Company’s factsheet, of the net 
under review and up to the date of the approval of the Annual 
asset value of the Company’s shares.  
Report & Financial Statements and it accords with the Financial 
In normal circumstances, shareholders have the opportunity, and  Reporting Council’s guidance. Given the foregoing, and in common 
are encouraged, to attend the Company’s annual general meeting,  with most investment trust companies, the Company does not 
at which the Directors and representatives of the Manager are  have an internal audit function of its own. The Manager’s internal 
available in person to meet shareholders and answer their  audit department conducts regular and rigorous reviews of the 
questions.  various functions within its asset management business. Any 
significant findings that are relevant to the Company and/or the 
During the period the Company’s Manager held regular 
Manager’s investment trust business are reported to the Board. 
discussions with larger shareholders and made the Board fully 
The key elements designed to provide effective internal control 
aware of their views. The Chairman and Directors made 
are as follows: 
themselves available as and when required to support these 
meetings and to address shareholder queries. The Directors may  Financial Reporting – Regular and comprehensive review by the 
be contacted through the Company Secretary whose details are  Board of key investment and financial data, including revenue 
shown on page 91.  projections, analysis of transactions and performance 
comparisons. 
The Company’s Annual Report & Financial Statements is published 
in time to give shareholders at least 20 working days’ notice of  Management Agreement – Evaluation and appointment of 
the annual general meeting. Shareholders who cannot attend the  a manager and custodian regulated by the FCA, whose 
meeting but wish to raise questions in advance of the meeting are  responsibilities are clearly defined in awritten agreement.  
encouraged to write to the Company Secretary at the address 
Management Systems – The Manager’s system of risk 
shown on page 91. 
management and internal control includes organisational 
Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be  agreements which clearly define the lines of responsibility, 
published on the Company’s website shortly after the AGM.  delegated authority, control procedures and systems. These are 
monitored by JPMorgan’s Compliance department which regularly 
Risk Management and Internal Control   monitors compliance with FCA rules and reports to the Board.  
The AIC Code requires the Directors, at least annually, to review  Investment Strategy – Authorisation and monitoring of the 
the effectiveness of the Company’s system of risk management  Company’s investment strategy and exposure limits by the Board.  
and internal control and to report to shareholders that they have 
The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of the Company’s 
done so. This encompasses a review of all controls, which the 
system of risk management and internal control by monitoring 
Board has identified to include business, financial, operational, 
the operation of the key operating controls of the Manager and its 
compliance and risk management.  
associates as follows:  
The Directors are responsible for the Company’s system of risk 
• the Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the terms of 
management and internal control which is designed to safeguard 
the investment management agreement and receives regular 
the Company’s assets, maintain proper accounting records and 
reports from JPMorgan’s Compliance department;  
ensure that financial information used within the business, or 
• the Board reviews a report, which is also independently 
published, is reliable. However, such a system can only be 
reviewed, on the internal controls and the operations of its 
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to 
custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank; 
achieve business objectives and therefore can only provide 
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material  • the Board reviews every six months a report from the 
misstatement or loss.   Company’s Depositary, Bank of New York Mellon 
(International) Limited, which summarises the activities 
Since investment management, custody of assets and all 
performed by the Depositary during the reporting period; and 
administrative services are provided to the Company by JPMF and 
                                                                                                                      DIRECTORS’ REPORT  |  41
Global Core AR p35-43.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 42
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT   
• the Board reviews every six months an independent report on  of the companies in which it invests, as well as the board balance, 
the internal controls and the operations of JPMF’s investment  oversight functions and remuneration policy. These analyses then 
trust department.   form the basis of JPMAM’s proxy voting and engagement activity. 
By means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms  Proxy Voting   
that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Company’s system of  JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it 
risk management and internal control for the year ended  would manage any other asset. It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in 
28th February 2021, and to the date of approval of the Annual  aprudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on reasonable 
Report & Financial Statements.   judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of clients. 
So far as is practicable, JPMAM will vote at all of the meetings called 
During the course of its review of the system of risk management 
by companies in which it is invested. 
and internal control, the Board has not identified nor been 
advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to  Stewardship/Engagement 
be significant. Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary 
JPMAM recognises its wider FRC stewardship responsibilities to its 
actions has not been considered appropriate.  
clients as a major asset owner. To this end, it supports the 
introduction of the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out the 
Going Concern  
responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of investee 
The Directors believe that having considered the Company’s  companies. Under the Code, managers should: 
investment objective (see page 25), risk management policies 
–          publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their 
(see pages 72 to 78), capital management policies and procedures 
stewardship responsibilities to their clients; 
(see pages 78 and 79), the nature of the portfolio and expenditure 
projections, the Company has adequate resources, an appropriate  –          disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest; 
financial structure and suitable management arrangements in  –          monitor their investee companies; 
place to continue in operational existence for a period of at least 
–          establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement; 
12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements. 
–          be willing to act collectively with other investors where 
They have not identified any material uncertainties to the 
appropriate;  
Company’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 
12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements.  –          have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting 
This conclusion follows a review of scenarios with extreme  record; and  
reductions in both the liquidity of the Company’s listed and fund 
–          report to clients. 
investments and in income earned from these holdings. The Board 
JPMAM endorses the FRC Stewardship Code for its UK investments 
has taken into account the robustness of performance to date and 
and supports the principles as best practice elsewhere. We believe 
of the contracted future income, where, for example, the 
that regular contact with the companies in which we invest is central 
unexpired lease term on the properties held within the Company’s 
to our investment process and we also recognise the importance of 
real estate investments is currently approximately five years. In 
addition, particular consideration has been paid to the impact of  being an ‘active’ owner on behalf of our clients. 
the COVID-19 pandemic, where the Board has taken into account  JPMAM’s Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are 
the impact both of the significant market turbulence and of the 
available on request from the Company Secretary or can be 
threats to the operational and investment systems. 
downloaded from JPMAM’s website: 
https://am.jpmorgan.com/uk/institutional/corporate-governance 
Corporate Governance and Voting Policy   
which also sets out its approach to the seven principles of the FRC 
The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM. The  Stewardship Code, its policy relating to conflicts of interest and its 
following information in italics is a summary of JPMAM’s policy  detailed voting record.  
statements on corporate governance, voting policy and 
 
stewardship/engagement issues, which has been reviewed and 
noted by the Board. Details on social and environmental issues  By order of the Board  
are included in the Strategic Report on page 27.  Alison Vincent, for and on behalf of  
JPMorgan Funds Limited,  
Corporate Governance   
Secretary  
JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to its 
7th July 2021
investment process. As part of its commitment to delivering 
superior investment performance to clients, it expects and 
encourages the companies in which it invests to demonstrate the 
highest standards of corporate governance and best business 
practice. JPMAM examines the share structure and voting structure 
42  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021   
Global Core AR p35-43.qxp  07/07/2021  15:15  Page 43
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT   
Audit Committee Report
The Audit Committee, chaired by Helen Green, consists of all  Significant issue         How the issue was addressed 
Directors, and meets at least twice each year. Given the size of the 
Calculation of  The management fees are calculated in accordance 
Board it has been determined that the Chair of the Board, John Scott,  management fees  with the Investment Management Agreement. The 
should be a member of the Audit Committee. The members of the  Board reviews controls reports, expense schedules 
Audit Committee consider that at least one member has recent and  and the management fee calculation. 
relevant financial experience and that the Committee as a whole has 
Recognition of  The recognition of investment income is undertaken 
competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates.  investment income  in accordance with accounting policy note 2.9 to the 
The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the  financial statements. Income recording is conducted 
by the Manager and the methodology is reported 
Manager in relation to the Half Year and Annual Report & Financial 
upon to the Board within a six monthly independent 
Statements and the Company’s compliance with the AIC Code. It 
report on the operations of the Manager. 
examines the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control 
systems, receives information from the Manager’s Compliance  Auditor Appointment and Tenure 
department and also reviews the scope and results of the external  Representatives of the Company’s Auditor, 
audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity  PricewaterhouseCoopers CI LLP, attended the Audit Committee 
of the external Auditor. The Audit Committee has reviewed the  meeting at which the draft Annual Report & Financial Statements 
independence and objectivity of the Auditor and is satisfied that  were considered and also engage with Directors as and when 
the Auditor is independent. The Audit Committee also has the  required. Having reviewed the performance of the external 
primary responsibility for making recommendations to the Board  Auditor, including assessing the quality of work, timing of 
on the reappointment and the removal of the external Auditor.  communications and work with the Manager, the Committee 
considered it appropriate to recommend its reappointment. The 
Financial Statements and Significant Accounting Matters  
Board supported this recommendation which will be put to 
During its review of the Company’s financial statements for the 
shareholders at the forthcoming AGM. The Board reviews and 
year ended 28th February 2021, the Audit Committee considered 
approves any non-audit services provided by the independent 
the following significant accounting matters, including those 
Auditor and assesses the impact of any non-audit work on the 
communicated by the Auditor during its reporting: 
ability of the Auditor to remain independent. Details of the 
Significant issue         How the issue was addressed  Auditor’s fees paid for audit are disclosed in note 7 on page 66. 
Valuation, existence  The valuation of investments is undertaken in  No non-audit services have been provided by the Auditor in the 
and ownership of  accordance with the accounting policies, disclosed  current year (2020: £110,000 for reporting accountant’s work 
investments in note 2 to the financial statements. In relation to  ahead of the Company’s IPO). 
unquoted investments, the Audit Committee relies 
The current tenure of the external Auditor dates from the 
upon the audited financial statements and quarterly 
inception of the Company, accordingly the Company’s current 
valuations from the underlying unquoted 
investments. Given that the underlying unquoted  engagement leader has been in the position since the period 
investments do not have contemporaneous  ended 29th February 2020. 
reporting periods with that of the Company, these 
are adjusted based on material changes in  Fair, Balanced and Understandable 
benchmarks and other industry data, FX movements  As a result of the work performed, the Committee has concluded 
and net income generation, to obtain an estimated  that the Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 
valuation at the period end for the Company’s  28th February 2021, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and 
reporting requirements.  
understandable and provide the information necessary for 
                                      From the Company’s year ended 28th February 2021  shareholders to assess the Company’s position and performance, 
going forward, the Company has engaged BDO LLP  business model and strategy, and has reported on these findings 
to assist with the valuation process for the  to the Board. The Board’s conclusions in this respect are set out in 
Company’s holdings in its private fund investments. 
the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on page 48. 
The valuations produced by the Manager and using 
input from BDO LLP are ultimately approved by the   
Board.   Helen Green 
                                      The Company has appointed Bank of New York  Audit Committee Chair 
Mellon (International) Limited (‘BNY’) as its 
7th July 2021
depositary. BNY has appointed JPMorgan Chase 
Bank, N.A., as the Company’s custodian. BNY remains 
responsible for the oversight of the custody of the 
Company’s assets. A representative from BNY reports 
directly to the Audit Committee on an annual basis.  
                                                                                                                      DIRECTORS’ REPORT  |  43
Global Core AR p44-46.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 44
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Image source: Shutterstock.  
Global Core AR p44-46.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 45
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 
The Board presents the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the  The Company’s Articles of Association provide that any increase in 
year ended 28th February 2021.  the maximum aggregate annual limit on Directors’ fees, currently 
£300,000, requires both Board and shareholder approval. 
As all of the Directors are non-executive, the Board has not 
established a Remuneration Committee. Instead remuneration of  The Company has not sought shareholder views on its 
the Directors is considered by the Board on an annual basis.  remuneration policy. The Board considers any comments received 
from shareholders on remuneration policy on an ongoing basis 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy  and takes account of those views. 
The Board has decided to seek annual approval of the Directors’  The terms and conditions of Directors’ appointments are set out 
Remuneration Policy from shareholders. An ordinary resolution to  in formal letters of appointment which are available for review at 
approve this report will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming  the Company’s AGM and the Company’s registered office. Details 
AGM. The policy subject to the vote, is set out in full below and is  of the Board’s policy on tenure are set out on page 39 and 40. 
currently in force. 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Implementation 
The Board’s policy for this period and subsequent years is that 
Directors’ fees should properly reflect the time spent by the  The Directors’ Remuneration Report, which includes details of the 
Directors on the Company’s business and should be at a level to  Directors’ remuneration policy and its implementation, is subject 
ensure that candidates of a high calibre are recruited to the Board  to an annual advisory vote and therefore an ordinary resolution 
and retained. The Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the  to approve this report will be put to shareholders at the 
Audit Committee, the Chairman of the Market Risk Committee and  forthcoming AGM. There are no changes currently proposed for 
the Senior Independent Director are paid higher fees, reflecting  the year ending 28th February 2022. 
the greater time commitment involved in fulfilling those roles. 
At the annual general meeting held on 31st July 2020, of votes 
Reviews are based on information provided by the Manager and  cast, 99.9% were in favour of (or granted discretion to the 
industry research carried out by third parties on the level of fees  Chairman who voted in favour of) both the remuneration policy 
paid to the directors of the Company’s peers and within the  and the remuneration report and 0.1% voted against. Votes 
investment trust industry generally. The involvement of  withheld were the equivalent of less than 0.05% of the votes cast. 
remuneration consultants has not been deemed necessary as part  Similar details for the 2021 AGM will be given in next year’s 
of this review. The Company has no Chief Executive Officer and no  Annual Report & Financial Statements. 
employees and therefore no consultation of employees is required 
Details of the implementation of the Company’s remuneration 
and there is no employee comparative data to provide in relation 
policy are given below: 
to the setting of the remuneration policy for Directors. 
Single total figure of remuneration 
All of the Directors are non-executive. There are no performance- 
related elements to their fees and the Company does not operate  The single total figure of remuneration for each Director is 
any type of incentive, share scheme, award or pension scheme  detailed below. 
and therefore no Directors receive bonus payments or pension 
contributions from the Company or hold options to acquire shares  Single total figure table1 
in the Company. Directors are not granted exit payments and are 
                                                                                                  2021             2020 
not provided with compensation for loss of office. No other 
                                                                                                 Total             Total 
payments are made to Directors, other than the reimbursement  Directors                                                                                       £                    £ 
of reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in attending the  John Scott                                                                      60,000          61,247  
Company’s business.  Helen Green                                                                    50,000          51,039  
The Directors’ current level of remuneration is £42,000 per  Simon Holden                                                                 54,000           55,122  
annum for each Director other than the Chairman, who receives  Chris Russell                                                                   42,000          42,873  
an additional £18,000 per annum and the chair of the Audit  TOTAL                                                                              206,000        210,281 
Committee and the chair of the Market Risk Committee, who 
1Other subject headings for the single figure table are not included because there is 
receive an additional £8,000 and £6,000 per annum, respectively.  nothing to disclose in relation thereto. 
The senior independent director receives a further £6,000 per 
annum. No additional fee is payable to the Chair of the 
Nomination Committee. No amendments have been made to fee 
levels since the Company's inception. 
                                                                                                DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT  |  45
Global Core AR p44-46.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 46
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 
Directors’ Shareholdings  Expenditure by the Company on remuneration and 
distributions to shareholders 
There are no requirements pursuant to the Company’s Articles of 
Incorporation for the Directors to own shares in the Company. The  Period ended Period ended 
Directors’ beneficial shareholdings are detailed below. All shares  28th February 29th February 
are held beneficially.  2021 2020 
Remuneration paid to 
28th February 29th February 
  all Directors  £206,000 £210,281 
Directors’ Name 2021 2020 
John Scott 150,000 125,000  Distribution to shareholders 
  — by way of dividend £6,730,000 £1,431,000 
Helen Green 10,000 10,000 
Simon Holden 50,000 50,000   
Chris Russell 100,000 75,000 
For and on behalf of the Board  
As at the latest practicable date before the publication of this  John Scott  
document, there have been no changes to the Directors’  Chairman 
shareholdings. 
7th July 2021
46  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021
Global Core AR p47-48.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 47
                          Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
Image source: Shutterstock.
Global Core AR p47-48.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 48
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report  The accounts are published on the www.jpmrealassets.co.uk 
& Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and  website, which is maintained by the Company’s Manager. The 
regulations.  maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by the 
Manager is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare the Financial 
of the Manager. The work carried out by the Auditor does not 
Statements for each financial year. Under that Law, the Directors 
involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this 
have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance 
website and, accordingly, the Auditor accepts no responsibility for 
with International Financial Reporting Standards to meet the 
any changes that have occurred to the accounts since they were 
requirements of applicable law and regulations. Under company 
initially presented on the website.1 The accounts are prepared in 
Law the Directors must not approve the Financial Statements 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. 
unless they are satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report 
& Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable,  Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also 
provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the  responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Strategic Report, 
Company’s position, performance, business model and strategy  Corporate Governance Statement and Directors’ Remuneration 
and that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the  Report that comply with that law and those regulations. 
Company and of the total return or loss of the Company for that 
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on 
period. In order to provide these confirmations, and in preparing 
page 36 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: 
these financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
• the financial statements, which have been prepared in 
•  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
consistently; 
and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are  liabilities, financial position and return or loss of the 
reasonable and prudent;  Company; and 
• state whether applicable International Financial Reporting  • the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development 
Standards have been followed, subject to any material  and performance of the business and the position of the 
departures disclosed and explained in the financial  Company, together with a description of the principal and 
statements; and  emerging risks and uncertainties that it faces. 
• prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis  The Board also confirms that it is satisfied that the Strategic 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will  Report and Directors’ Report include a fair review of the 
continue in business   development and performance of the business, and the position 
of the Company, together with a description of the principal and 
and the Directors confirm that they have done so. 
emerging risks and uncertainties that the Company faces. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time  For and on behalf of the Board  
the financial position of the Company and to enable them to  John Scott 
ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies  Chairman 
(Guernsey) Law, 2008. They are also responsible for safeguarding 
7th July 2021
the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps 
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
1 Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
48  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021
Global Core AR p49-56.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 49
                                           Independent Auditor’s Report
Image source: Shutterstock.
Global Core AR p49-56.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 50
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
To the members of JPMorgan Global Core Real Assets Limited 
Report on the audit of the financial statements 
Our opinion 
In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of JPMorgan Global Core Real Assets Limited 
(the ‘Company’) as at 28th February 2021, and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards and have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of The 
Companies (Guernsey) Law, 2008.  
What we have audited 
The Company’s financial statements comprise: 
• the statement of financial position as at 28th February 2021;  
• the statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;  
• the statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; 
• the statement of cash flows for the year then ended; and 
• the notes to the financial statements, which include significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. 
Basis for opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (‘ISAs’). Our responsibilities under those standards are 
further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.  
Independence 
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial 
statements of the Company, as required by the Crown Dependencies’ Audit Rules and Guidance. We have fulfilled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We are also independent in accordance with SEC Independence Rules.  
Our audit approach 
Overview 
Audit scope 
• The Company is a closed-ended registered collective investment scheme, incorporated in Guernsey, whose ordinary shares are 
admitted to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange. 
• The Company engages JPMorgan Funds Limited to manage its assets. JPMorgan Funds Limited delegates the management of the 
Company’s portfolio to JPMorgan Asset Management (UK) Limited, which further delegates the management to J.P. Morgan Asset 
Management, Inc., Security Capital Research & Management Inc. and J.P. Morgan Alternative Asset Management Inc.. JPMorgan 
Funds Limited and its delegates are collectively referred to as the ‘Investment Manager’.  
• We conducted our audit of the financial statements in Guernsey using information provided by J.P. Morgan Administration Services 
(Guernsey) Limited (the ‘Administrator’) and its related group entities to whom the Board of Directors has delegated the provision of 
certain functions. We also had significant interaction with representatives of the Investment Manager in completing aspects of our overall 
audit work.  
Key audit matters 
• Valuation of investments held at fair value through profit or loss.  
• Risk of fraud in revenue recognition. 
• Management and the Directors’ consideration of the impact of COVID-19. 
       Materiality 
• Overall materiality: £3.67 million (2020: £3.89 million) based on 2% of net assets. 
• Performance materiality: £2.75 million (2020: £2.92 million). 
50  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021   
Global Core AR p49-56.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 51
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
The scope of our audit  
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In 
particular, we considered where the Directors made subjective judgements; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates 
that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed 
the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters, consideration of whether there was evidence of 
bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
Key audit matters 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial 
statements of the current period. These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed 
in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters.  
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit. 
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter 
Valuation of investments held at fair value through  In auditing the fair value of the Company’s investments:  
profit or loss 
• We assessed the accounting policy for investments, as set out in note 
Refer to note 12 to the financial statements. 
2.3, for compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
The Company’s investments of £163.5 million currently  (‘IFRS’). 
consist of publicly listed securities (equities and debt 
• We understood and evaluated the process and internal controls in place 
instruments) held through managed accounts 
at the Investment Manager regarding the valuation of the private 
(c£40.9 million) and investments in private collective 
collective investment schemes and at the Administrator over the 
investment schemes (£122.6 million), all of which are 
valuation of publicly listed securities and the production of the 
managed or advised by entities within the JPMorgan 
Company’s net asset value. 
group.  
• We independently obtained confirmation from BNY Mellon 
The publicly listed securities are traded in active 
(International) Limited (the ‘Depositary’) of the existence of all 
markets and their fair values are based on quoted 
investments and checked that these agreed to or were appropriately 
market prices at the close of trading on the reporting 
reconciled to the Company’s financial records.  
date. 
        Publicly listed securities 
The investments in the private collective investment 
schemes are illiquid, valued using data that is not  • We re-priced 100% of the publicly listed securities’ per-share/unit prices 
necessarily observable in the market and may be  as at the statement of financial position date using independently 
subject to significant levels of estimation and judgment,  obtained pricing information. 
all of which could materially impact the outcome of the 
• We recalculated the fair value of the publicly listed securities using the 
valuation.  
per-share/unit prices independently obtained and the independently 
As investments are material by value, are subject to  reconciled holdings as at the period end.  
some level of estimation and judgement and are a key 
        Private collective investment schemes 
indicator that shareholders will consider in their 
assessment of the performance of the Company, we  • We obtained direct confirmation from the independent 
have considered the valuation of investments to be  administrators/investment managers of the private collective 
a key audit matter.  investment schemes as at year-end. We confirmed the commitment, 
number of units held and capital called as at 28th February 2021 and 
agreed these to the Company’s financial records. 
• We understood how the private collective investment schemes are 
structured and what drives their net asset values, which included 
obtaining from the Investment Manager evidence of the latest available 
net asset values of the ultimate investments into which the private 
collective investment schemes invest. This assisted in understanding 
how the net asset value, that represents the fair value of the Company’s 
investments in the private collective investment schemes, is constructed 
and to determine its compliance with IFRS 13 – Fair Value Measurement. 
                                                                                                    INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  |  51
Global Core AR p49-56.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 52
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter 
           • At year end, in determining the fair value of the private collective 
investment schemes using their respective net asset values per unit, the 
Company appointed BDO LLP as management’s expert to assist in 
determining an appropriate allocation of the reported returns for the 
private collective investment schemes between the reported net asset 
values for the quarters ending 31st December 2020 and 31st March 
2021, which are non-coterminous with that of the Company’s year-end.  
We obtained and considered the BDO LLP report and associated 
workings for each of the 4 private collective investment schemes and 
agreed the allocation of returns through to the fair value calculation 
prepared by the Investment Manager. We also assessed BDO LLP’s 
independence, qualifications and expertise and read their terms of 
engagement with the Company to determine whether there were any 
matters that might have affected their objectivity or may have imposed 
scope limitations upon their work.  
We found no evidence to suggest any scope limitation or that the 
objectivity of BDO LLP was compromised. Finally, we confirmed with 
both the Investment Manager and the Directors that they adopted the 
report prepared by BDO LLP as their own with respect to the relevant 
fair values and agreed with the outcome. 
• We assessed the appropriateness of the Investment Manager’s valuation 
methodology of calculating a pro-forma net asset value per unit as of 
28th February 2021 for each of the private collective investment 
schemes and applying this to the units held by the Company as at 
28th February 2021, and any respective estimates and judgements made 
in the valuation (being the estimate of the net asset value) and 
recalculated the net asset value calculation provided. 
• We obtained both the 31st December 2020 and 31st March 2021 regular 
quarterly net asset values of the private collective investment schemes 
and considered the valuation provided against these net asset values 
and the wider general and real asset economic market indicators over 
this period, challenging management where and as appropriate. 
• We performed back testing procedures on the valuation of the private 
collective investment schemes to evaluate the respective investment 
manager’s estimation reliability by obtaining the last audited financial 
statements available and comparing the coterminous fund net asset 
value provided by the Investment Manager/administrator in the 
quarterly net asset value/capital statements to the net asset value in the 
audited financial statements obtained. 
No significant issues or concerns were noted with regard to the valuation of 
financial assets at fair value through profit or loss which required reporting 
to those charged with corporate governance. 
52  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021   
Global Core AR p49-56.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 53
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter 
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition  • We understood and evaluated the control processes around the revenue 
Refer to note 5 to the financial statements.  transaction cycle. 
Revenue consists of dividend income from the equity  • On a sample basis, we substantively tested dividend and interest revenue 
investments, distributions received from the private  transactions by tracing through the recorded revenue transactions to 
collective investment schemes and interest income  underlying source documents and we recalculated the reasonableness of 
earned on debt instruments.   such revenue where appropriate.  
• For distributions received from the private collective investment schemes, 
The Company seeks to deliver a 4%-6% annual dividend 
we agreed the distribution income to the distribution notices from the 
yield to its investors based on the initial issue price of 
private collective investment scheme managers and also evaluated if the 
100p per share (with a target quarterly dividend 
classification of distributions was consistent with the nature of the cash 
declaration), which will be largely reliant on the receipt 
flows as per the distribution notices. 
of distributions, dividends and interest from its 
respective underlying investments, hence there is a risk   • We inspected any material manual journals posted to the respective 
that management may manipulate the reported  revenue accounts and agreed such journals to supporting source 
revenue in order to artificially overstate the returns on  documentation. 
the investments.  • We reviewed the revenue accounting and concluded the revenue in the 
financial statements is recognised, measured and presented in accordance 
Due to the nature of the revenue (both from a 
with IFRS. 
perspective of size and the multiple revenue streams 
that are present), there is a deemed inherent risk of  We did not identify any significant issues or concerns from our procedures 
fraud in revenue recognition that the audit needs to  which required reporting to those charged with governance. 
address.
 
Management and the Directors’ consideration of the  • We obtained management’s assessment that supports the Directors’ 
impact of COVID-19   conclusion with respect to the going concern statement. 
Management and the Directors have considered the  • We discussed with management the estimates and judgements applied in 
impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, on the current and  their assessment so we could understand and challenge the rationale 
future operations of the Company. In doing so,  underlying factors incorporated and the sensitivities applied to take 
management have made estimates and judgements that  COVID-19 into account. 
are critical to the outcomes of these considerations with 
• We inspected the assessment provided to evaluate consistency with our 
a particular focus on the Company’s ability to continue 
understanding of the operations of the Company, the investment portfolio 
as a going concern for a period of at least 12 months 
and with any market commentary already made by the Investment Manager.  
from the date of approval of these financial statements.   
• We reviewed management’s stress testing of the assessment provided to 
As a result of the impact of COVID-19 on the wider  evaluate whether a balanced range of outcomes were considered on the 
financial markets, we have determined management  impact of COVID-19 on the Company. 
and the Directors’ consideration of the impact of 
• We considered the appropriateness of the disclosures made by 
COVID-19 on the Company’s going concern to be a key 
management and the Directors in respect to the impact of COVID-19 on the 
audit matter. 
current and future operations of the Company. 
Refer to the Chairman’s Statement and Investment  • From our review of minutes of the Directors’ meetings, we noted that the 
Manager’s Report for management and the Directors’  Directors have sought assurances from the Investment Manager that it is 
consideration of COVID-19’s impact to the Company. satisfied with the business continuity plans of all key service providers as 
part of their COVID-19 operational resilience review.  
           • In discussing, challenging and evaluating the estimates and judgements 
made by management and the Directors in their assessment, the following 
factors were considered to be fundamental in their consideration of the 
impact of COVID-19 on the current and future operations of the Company 
and which support the going concern statement: 
            o The Company is not leveraged, and there are currently no plans to enter 
into borrowing facilities. 
            o As at 28th February 2021, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of 
£19.9 million, other payables of £0.6 million and uncalled commitments 
outstanding to private collective investment schemes of £18.6 million, 
which management expect to be called over the next 12-month period.  
                                                                                                    INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  |  53
Global Core AR p49-56.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 54
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter 
            o Whilst some sectors have had and will continue to have a higher degree 
of impact relative to other sectors, the investment portfolio is 
considered by management and the Directors to have sufficient 
diversification across industries. We note that management and the 
Directors remain confident in the fundamentals of the markets in which 
the Company’s assets are located over the medium to long term. 
            Based on our procedures, we have not identified any matters to report 
with respect to both management’s and the Directors’ consideration of 
the impact of COVID-19 on the current and future operations of the 
Company, albeit we also acknowledge that the situation continues to 
evolve. 
 
How we tailored the audit scope 
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements 
as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the 
Company operates. 
Materiality  
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together 
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on 
the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate 
on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 
Overall materiality £3.67 million (2020: £3.89 million). 
How we determined it 2% of net assets (2020: 2% of net assets). 
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe net assets to be the most appropriate basis for determining materiality 
since this is a key consideration for members of the Company when assessing financial 
performance. It is also a generally accepted measure used for companies in this 
industry. 
We use performance materiality to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and 
undetected misstatements exceeds overall materiality. Specifically, we use performance materiality in determining the scope of our 
audit and the nature and extent of our testing of account balances, classes of transactions and disclosures, for example in determining 
sample sizes. Our performance materiality was 75% of overall materiality, amounting to £2.75 million (2020: £2.92 million) for the 
Company’s financial statements. 
In determining the performance materiality, we considered a number of factors – the history of misstatements, risk assessment and 
aggregation risk and the effectiveness of controls - and concluded that an amount at the upper end of our normal range was 
appropriate. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £0.2 million (2020: 
£0.2 million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. 
Reporting on other information 
The Directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises all the information included in the Annual 
Report & Financial Statements (the ‘Annual Report’) but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon.  
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion 
thereon.  
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider 
whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or 
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material 
misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities. 
54  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021   
Global Core AR p49-56.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 55
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 
Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, the requirements of Guernsey 
law and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.  
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either 
intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. 
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high 
level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement 
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.  
Our audit testing might include testing complete populations of certain transactions and balances, possibly using data auditing 
techniques. However, it typically involves selecting a limited number of items for testing, rather than testing complete populations. We 
will often seek to target particular items for testing based on their size or risk characteristics. In other cases, we will use audit sampling 
to enable us to draw a conclusion about the population from which the sample is selected. 
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the 
audit. We also: 
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and 
perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, 
as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.  
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control. 
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by the Directors.  
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, 
whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements. If we conclude that a material 
uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our 
auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.  
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the 
financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. 
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and 
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.  
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. 
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in 
the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our 
auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we 
determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be 
expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. 
Use of this report  
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the members as a body in accordance with Section 262 of The 
Companies (Guernsey) Law, 2008 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by 
our prior consent in writing. 
                                                                                                    INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  |  55
Global Core AR p49-56.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 56
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements 
Company Law exception reporting 
Under The Companies (Guernsey) Law, 2008 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; 
• proper accounting records have not been kept; or 
• the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement 
The Listing Rules require us to review the Directors’ statements in relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of the 
corporate governance statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
specified for our review. Our additional responsibilities with respect to the corporate governance statement as other information are 
described in the Reporting on other information section of this report. 
The Company has reported compliance against the 2019 AIC Code of Corporate Governance (the ‘Code’) which has been endorsed by 
the UK Financial Reporting Council as being consistent with the UK Corporate Governance Code for the purposes of meeting the 
Company’s obligations, as an investment company, under the Listing Rules of the FCA. 
Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the following elements of the corporate governance 
statement, included within the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report is materially consistent with the financial statements and our 
knowledge obtained during the audit, and we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 
• The Directors’ confirmation that they have carried out a robust assessment of the emerging and principal risks; 
• The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those principal risks, what procedures are in place to identify emerging risks and 
an explanation of how these are being managed or mitigated; 
• The Directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis 
of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Company’s ability to continue to do so 
over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements; 
• The Directors’ explanation as to their assessment of the Company’s prospects, the period this assessment covers and why the 
period is appropriate; and 
• The Directors’ statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation 
and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of its assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any 
necessary qualifications or assumptions. 
Our review of the Directors’ statement regarding the longer-term viability of the Company was substantially less in scope than an audit 
and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors’ process supporting their statements; checking that the 
statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; and considering whether the statement is consistent with the 
financial statements and our knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit. 
In addition, based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the following elements of the corporate 
governance statement is materially consistent with the financial statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit: 
• The Directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides 
the information necessary for the members to assess the Company’s position, performance, business model and strategy; 
• The section of the Annual Report that describes the review of effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems; and 
• The section describing the work of the Audit Committee. 
We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when the Directors’ statement relating to the Company’s compliance 
with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified under the Listing Rules for review 
by the auditors. 
 
Roland Mills 
For and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers CI LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor 
Guernsey, Channel Islands 
7th July 2021
56  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021
Global Core AR p57-79.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 57
                                                            Financial Statements
Image source: Shutterstock.
Global Core AR p57-79.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 58
STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME AND  STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2021 
 
Year ended Period ended 
28th February 29th February 
2021 2020 
Notes £’000 £’000 
Losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss 4 (9,297) (2,341) 
Net foreign currency losses (5,290) (3,209) 
Investment income 5 3,049  608  
Interest receivable and similar income   5  565  894 
Total loss  (10,973) (4,048) 
Management fee 6 (703) (113) 
Other administrative expenses     7  (642) (497) 
Loss before finance costs and taxation (12,318) (4,658) 
Finance costs     8 —  (1) 
Loss before taxation (12,318) (4,659) 
Taxation   9  (412)  (69) 
Net loss for the year/period       (12,730) (4,728) 
Loss per share 10 (6.16)p (2.79)p 
The Company does not have any income or expense that is not included in the net loss for the year/period. Accordingly the ‘Net loss for 
the year/period, is also the ‘Total comprehensive loss’ for the year/period, as defined in IAS1 (revised). 
All Items in the above statement derive from continuing operations. No operations were acquired or discontinued in the year/period. 
The notes on pages 61 to 79 form an integral part of these financial statements. 
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2021 
                                                                                                                                                                                      Share   Retained  
                                                                                                                                                                                premium   earnings          Total 
                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000        £’000        £’000 
Period ended 29th February 2020 
At 22nd February 2019                                                                                                                                                     —                —                — 
Issue of ordinary shares at launch on 24th September 2019                                                                          148,899               —     148,899  
Issue of ordinary shares                                                                                                                                      53,388               —       53,388  
Share issue costs                                                                                                                                                   (1,713)              —         (1,713) 
Loss for the period                                                                                                                                                       —        (4,728)       (4,728) 
Dividends paid in the period (note 11)                                                                                                                        —         (1,431)        (1,431) 
At 29th February 2020                                                                                                                                        200,574        (6,159)    194,415  
Year ended 28th February 2021 
At 29th February 2020                                                                                                                                        200,574        (6,159)    194,415 
Issue of ordinary shares                                                                                                                                        8,679               —         8,679  
Share issue costs                                                                                                                                                      (117)              —            (117) 
Net loss                                                                                                                                                                         —      (12,730)     (12,730) 
Dividends paid in the year (note 11)                                                                                                                           —        (6,730)       (6,730) 
At 28th February 2021                                                                                                                                          209,136      (25,619)    183,517  
The notes on pages 61 to 79 form an integral part of these financial statements.
58  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021  
Global Core AR p57-79.qxp  08/07/2021  10:41  Page 59
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION   
AS AT 28TH FEBRUARY 2021 
 
2021 2020 
Notes £’000 £’000 
Assets 
Non current assets 
Investments held at fair value through profit or loss 12 163,450  67,857 
Current assets 
Other receivables 13  814  550 
Cash and cash equivalents 14  19,867   126,713  
   20,681  127,263 
Liabilities 
Current liabilities 
Other payables 15 (614) (705) 
Net current assets   20,067  126,558 
Total assets less current liabilities   183,517  194,415 
Net assets   183,517 194,415 
Amounts attributable to shareholders 
Share premium 209,136  200,574 
Retained earnings (25,619) (6,159) 
Total shareholders’ funds   183,517 194,415 
Net asset value per share  17 87.9p 96.8p 
The financial statements on pages 58 to 79 were approved and authorised for issue by the Directors on 7th July 2021 and signed on 
their behalf by: 
John Scott  
Chairman 
The notes on pages 61 to 79 form an integral part of these financial statements. 
 
Incorporated in Guernsey with the company registration number: 66082. 
 
                                                                                                                FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  |  59
Global Core AR p57-79.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 60
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2021 
 
Year ended  Period ended  
28th February  29th February 
2021 2020 
£’000 £’000 
Operating activities 
Loss before taxation                                                                                                               (12,318) (4,659) 
Deduct dividend income                                                                                                        (2,972) (577) 
Deduct investment income – interest                                                                                    (77)  (31) 
Deduct deposit and liquidity fund interest income                                                               (565) (894) 
Add interest expense                                                                                                             — 1  
Add losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss                                   9,297 2,341  
Increase in prepayments and accrued income                                                                     (16)  (19) 
(Decrease)/increase in other payables                                                                                 (93)  485  
Add exchange losses on cash and cash equivalents                                                             3,981 3,556  
Taxation                                                                                                                                  (414) (69) 
Net cash inflow from operating activities before interest and taxation                            (3,177) 134  
Interest paid                                                                                                                           — (1) 
Dividends received                                                                                                                 2,318 526 
Investment income – interest                                                                                                124 15 
Deposit and liquidity fund interest received                                                                         737 722 
Purchases of investments held at fair value through profit or loss                                     (128,334) (75,415) 
Sales of investments held at fair value through profit or loss                                             23,635 5,145 
Net cash outflow from operating activities                                                                            (104,697)  (68,805) 
Financing activities  
Issue of ordinary shares at launch on 25th September 2019                                              —  148,899  
Issue of ordinary shares                                                                                                        8,679  53,388  
Share issue costs                                                                                                                    (117) (1,713) 
Dividends paid                                                                                                                        (6,730) (1,431) 
Net cash inflow from financing activities                                                                                1,832 199,143 
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents                                                                 (102,865)  130,269  
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year/period1                                                              126,713 — 
Exchange movements                                                                                                            (3,981) (3,556) 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period1   19,867 126,713  
1 Cash and cash equivalents includes liquidity funds. 
The notes on pages 61 to 79 form an integral part of these financial statements.
60  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021  
Global Core AR p57-79.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 61
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28TH FEBRUARY 2021 
1.      General information 
The Company is a closed-ended investment company incorporated in accordance with the Companies (Guernsey) Law, 2008. 
The address of its registered office is at 1st Floor, Les Echelons Court, Les Echelons, South Esplanade, St Peter Port, Guernsey 
GY1 1AR. 
The principal activity of the Company is investing in securities as set out in the Company’s Objective and Investment Policies. 
The Company was incorporated on 22nd February 2019. The Company was admitted to the Main market of the London Stock 
Exchange and had its first day of trading was on 24th September 2019. 
           Investment objective 
The Company will seek to provide Shareholders with stable income and capital appreciation from exposure to a globally 
diversified portfolio of core real assets. 
           Investment policy 
The Company will pursue its investment objective through diversified investment in private funds or accounts managed or 
advised by entities within J.P. Morgan Asset Management (together referred to as ‘JPMAM’), the asset management business of 
JPMorgan Chase & Co. These JPMAM Products will comprise ‘Private Funds’, being private collective investment vehicles, and 
‘Managed Accounts’, which will typically take the form of a custody account the assets in which are managed by a discretionary 
manager. 
2.     Summary of significant accounting policies 
2.1      Basis of Preparation 
           (a)      Statement of compliance 
The Company’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRS’), which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’), 
the IFRS Interpretations Committee and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee 
(‘IASC’) that remain in effect and the Companies (Guernsey) Law, 2008. 
           (b)     Basis of accounting 
These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with IAS 1, applying the historical 
cost convention, except for the measurement of financial assets including derivative financial instruments designated as 
held at fair value through profit or loss (‘FVTPL’) that have been measured at fair value. 
All of the Company’s operations are of a continuing nature. 
           (c)      Standards and amendments to existing standards effective 1st March 2020 
There are no standards, amendments to standards or interpretations that are effective for annual periods beginning on 
1st March 2020 that have a material effect on the financial statements of the Company. 
           (d)     New standards, amendments and interpretations effective after 28th February 2021 that have not been early 
adopted 
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations that are effective for annual periods beginning 
after 28th February 2021, have not been early adopted in preparing these financial statements. None of these are 
expected to have a material effect on the financial statements of the Company upon adoption. 
           (e)      Going Concern 
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. 
                                                                                                                FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  |  61
Global Core AR p57-79.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 62
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
2.     Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
2.2     Foreign currency translation 
           (a)      Functional and presentation currency 
The Board of Directors considers pound sterling as the currency that most faithfully represents the economic effects of the 
underlying transactions, events and conditions. The financial statements are presented in pound sterling, which is the 
Company’s functional and presentation currency. 
           (b)     Transactions and balances 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates 
of the transactions. Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into the functional currency using the exchange 
rate prevailing at the statement of financial position date. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses arising from translation are included in the statement of comprehensive income. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses relating to cash and cash equivalents are presented in the statement of comprehensive 
income within ‘net foreign currency gains or losses’. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses relating to the financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value through profit or loss 
are presented in the statement of comprehensive income within ‘Gains/(Losses) on investments held at fair value through 
profit or loss’. 
2.3     Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 
           (a)      Classification 
(i) Assets 
The Company classifies its investments based on both the Company’s business model for managing those financial 
assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial assets. The portfolio of financial assets is 
managed and performance is evaluated on a fair value basis. The Company is primarily focused on fair value 
information and uses that information to assess the assets’ performance and to make decisions. The Company has 
not taken the option to irrevocably designate any equity securities as fair value through other comprehensive 
income. The contractual cash flows of the Company’s debt securities are solely principal and interest, however, these 
securities are neither held for the purpose of collecting contractual cash flows nor held both for collecting 
contractual cash flows and for sale. The collection of contractual cash flows is only incidental to achieving the 
Company’s business model’s objective. Consequently, all investments are measured at fair value through profit or 
loss. 
(ii) Liabilities 
Derivative contracts that have a negative fair value are presented as derivative financial liabilities at fair value 
through profit or loss. As such, the Company classifies all of its investment portfolio as financial assets or liabilities 
at fair value through profit or loss. The Company’s policy requires the Manager and the Board of Directors to 
evaluate the information about these financial assets and liabilities on a fair value basis together with other related 
financial information. 
           (b)     Recognition, derecognition and measurement 
Regular purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the trade date – the date on which the Company commits to 
purchase or sell the investment. Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are initially 
recognised at fair value. Transaction costs are expensed as incurred in the statement of comprehensive income. 
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or the Company 
has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, all financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are 
measured at fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the ‘financial assets or financial liabilities 
at fair value through profit or loss’ category are presented in the statement of comprehensive income within 
‘Gains/(Losses) on investments held at fair value through profit or loss’ in the period in which they arise. 
           
62  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021  
Global Core AR p57-79.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 63
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
           (c)      Fair value estimation 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value of financial assets and liabilities traded in active 
markets (such as publicly traded derivatives and trading securities) are based on quoted market prices at the close of 
trading on the reporting date. The Company utilises the last traded market price for both financial assets and financial 
liabilities where the last traded price falls within the bid-ask spread. In circumstances where the last traded price is not 
within the bid-ask spread, management will determine the point within the bid-ask spread that is most representative of 
fair value. 
If a significant movement in fair value occurs subsequent to the close of trading on the year end date, valuation techniques 
will be applied to determine the fair value. A significant event is any event that occurs after the last market price for a 
security, close of market or close of the foreign exchange, but before the Company’s valuation time that materially affects 
the integrity of the closing prices for any security, instrument, currency or securities affected by that event so that they 
cannot be considered ‘readily available’ market quotations. 
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities that are not traded in an active market (for example, over-the-counter 
derivatives) is determined using valuation techniques. The Company uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions 
that are based on market conditions existing at each reporting date. Valuation techniques used include the use of 
comparable recent ordinary transactions between market participants, reference to other instruments that are 
substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly 
used by market participants making the maximum use of market inputs and relying as little as possible on entity-specific 
inputs. Investments in private collective investment schemes not traded in active markets are valued based upon the last 
available NAV of the investment. This may be adjusted for expected income and capital returns to the year-end date where 
the available NAV is not the same as the Company’s year-end date. 
           (d)     Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy 
Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are deemed to have occurred at the end of the reporting period. 
2.4     Offsetting financial instruments 
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable 
right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously. The legally enforceable right must not be contingent on future events and must be enforceable in the normal 
course of business and in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the company or the counterparty. 
2.5     Due from and due to brokers 
Amounts due from and to brokers represent receivables for securities sold and payables for securities purchased that have been 
contracted for but not yet settled or delivered on the statement of financial position date respectively. The due from brokers 
balance is held for collection. 
These amounts are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. At each reporting date, the 
Company shall measure the loss allowance on amounts due from broker at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses 
if the credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition. If, at the reporting date, the credit risk has not increased 
significantly since initial recognition, the Company shall measure the loss allowance at an amount equal to 12-month expected 
credit losses. Significant financial difficulties of the broker, probability that the broker will enter bankruptcy or financial 
reorganisation, and default in payments are all considered indicators that a loss allowance may be required. If the credit risk 
increases to the point that it is considered to be credit impaired, interest income will be calculated based on the gross carrying 
amount adjusted for the loss allowance. A significant increase in credit risk is defined by management as any contractual 
payment which is more than 30 days past due. Any contractual payment which is more than 90 days past due is considered credit 
impaired. 
2.6     Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term investments in an active 
market with original maturities of three months or less, bank overdrafts and liquidity funds. Cash and cash equivalents are shown 
in current assets while bank overdrafts are shown in current liabilities in the statement of financial position. 
                                                                                                                FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  |  63
Global Core AR p57-79.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 64
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
2.     Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
2.7     Accrued expenses 
Accrued expenses are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method. 
2.8     Interest income and interest from financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
Interest is recognised on a time-proportionate basis using the effective interest method. Interest income includes interest from 
cash and cash equivalents. Interest from financial assets at fair value through profit or loss includes interest from debt securities. 
2.9     Dividend income 
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. Dividends are recorded gross of withholding 
taxes in the statement of comprehensive income.  
2.10   Transaction costs 
Transaction costs are costs incurred to acquire financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. They include fees 
and commissions paid to agents, advisers, brokers and dealers. Transaction costs, are immediately expensed as they are 
incurred. 
2.11    Taxation 
The Company has been granted exemption from Guernsey Income Tax under the Income Tax (Exempt Bodies) (Guernsey) 
Ordinance, 1989, and is charged an annual fee of £1,200. 
The Company incurs withholding taxes imposed by certain countries on investment income and capital gains. Such income or 
gains are recorded gross of withholding taxes in the statement of comprehensive income. Withholding taxes are shown as 
‘taxation’ in the statement of comprehensive income. 
2.12   Collateral 
Cash collateral provided by the Company is identified in the statement of financial position as margin cash and is not included as 
a component of cash and cash equivalents. For collateral other than cash, if the party to whom the collateral is provided has the 
right by contract or custom to sell or re-pledge the collateral, the Company classifies that asset in its statement of financial 
position separately from other assets and identifies the asset as pledged collateral. Where the party to whom the collateral is 
provided does not have the right to sell or re-pledge, a disclosure of the collateral provided is made in the notes to the financial 
statements. 
3.     Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
3.1      Critical accounting estimates and assumptions 
Management makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, 
seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material 
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are outlined below. 
           (a)      Fair value of derivative financial instruments 
The Company may, from time to time, hold financial instruments that are not quoted in active markets, such as over-the 
counter derivatives. Fair values of such instruments are determined by using valuation techniques. Where valuation 
techniques (for example, models) are used to determine fair values, they are validated and periodically reviewed by 
experienced personnel at JPMorgan Asset Management, independent of the party that created them. Models are calibrated 
by back-testing to actual transactions to ensure that outputs are reliable. 
64  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021  
Global Core AR p57-79.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 65
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
           (b)     Fair value of securities not quoted in an active market 
The fair value of such securities not quoted in an active market may be determined by the Company using reputable 
pricing sources (such as pricing agencies) or indicative prices from bond/debt market makers. Broker quotes as obtained 
from the pricing sources may be indicative and not executable or binding. The Company would exercise judgement and 
estimates on the quantity and quality of pricing sources used. Where no market data is available, the Company may value 
positions using its own models, which are usually based on valuation methods and techniques generally recognised as 
standard within the industry. The models used to determine fair values are validated and periodically reviewed by 
experienced personnel at JPMorgan Asset Management, independent of the party that created them. The models used for 
private collective investment schemes are based mainly on the net asset value per share of such underlying private 
investment funds. Non-coterminous private collective investment schemes not traded in active markets are valued based 
upon the last available NAV of the investment, adjusted for expected income and capital returns to the year-end date. The 
adjustment for income returns is based on the assumption the net income accrues evenly. The adjustment for capital 
returns is based upon a review of comparable index sources. 
Models use observable data, to the extent practicable. However, areas such as credit risk (both own and counterparty), 
volatilities and correlations require management to make estimates. Changes in assumptions about these factors could 
affect the reported fair value of financial instruments. The sensitivity to unobservable inputs is based on management’s 
expectation of reasonable possible shifts in these inputs, taking into consideration historical volatility and estimations of 
future market movements. 
The determination of what constitutes ‘observable’ requires significant judgement by the Company. The Company 
considers observable data to be market data that is readily available, regularly distributed or updated, reliable and 
verifiable, not proprietary, and provided by independent sources that are actively involved in the relevant market. 
3.2     Critical judgements 
Functional currency 
The Board of Directors considers pound sterling the currency that most faithfully represents the economic effect of the 
underlying transactions, events and conditions. Pound sterling is the currency in which the Company measures its performance 
and reports its results, as well as the currency in which the Company issues shares to its investors. 
4.     Losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss 
2021 2020 
£’000 £’000 
Net realised gains/(losses) on sales of investments 793 (193) 
Net change in unrealised gains and losses on investments  (10,069) (2,129) 
Other capital charges (21) (19) 
Total losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss  (9,297) (2,341) 
                                                                                                                FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  |  65
Global Core AR p57-79.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 66
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
5.     Income  
2021 2020 
£’000 £’000 
Investment income 
Overseas dividends 2,972  577 
Investment income – interest 77  31  
   3,049  608  
Interest receivable and similar income 
Deposit interest — 34  
Income from liquidity fund  565  860  
565  894 
Total income  3,614   1,502  
6.     Management fee 
2021 2020 
£’000 £’000 
Management fee  703 113 
Details of the management fee is given in the Directors’ Report on page 37. 
7.      Other administrative expenses 
2021 2020 
£’000 £’000 
Other administration expenses  307  202 
Directors’ fees1  206  210 
Auditor’s remuneration for audit services  100  75 
Depositary fees2 29  10 
  642  497 
1Full disclosure is given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 45 and 46. 
2Includes £5,000 (period ended 29th February 2020: £2,000) irrecoverable VAT. 
8.     Finance costs  
2021 2020 
£’000 £’000 
Interest on bank overdrafts — 1 
66  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021  
Global Core AR p57-79.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 67
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
9.     Taxation  
As a tax-exempt Guernsey investment company no tax is payable on capital gains and, as the Company principally invests in 
assets which do not result in a revenue tax, the only overseas tax arises on assets domiciled in countries with which Guernsey has 
no double-taxation treaty. 
The overseas tax charge consists of tax withheld by local governments on dividends that the Company has received. This 
overseas tax was suffered on dividends from Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Singapore, 
Spain, and the United States of America. This overseas tax charge is irrecoverable. 
10.   Loss per share 
2021 2020 
£’000 £’000 
Total loss (12,730) (4,728) 
Weighted average number of shares in issue during the period 206,541,068  169,914,631  
Total loss per share  (6.16)p (2.79)p 
11.    Dividends 
2021 2020 
£’000 £’000 
Dividends paid 
2019/2020 interim dividend of 0.75p per share — 1,431 
2020/2021 first interim dividend of 0.75p per share  1,510  — 
2020/2021 second interim dividend of 0.75p per share  1,566  — 
2020/2021 third interim dividend of 0.75p per share  1,566  — 
2020/2021 fourth interim dividend of 1.00p per share  2,088  — 
Total dividends paid in the period  6,730  1,431 
Dividend declared 
2021/2022 first interim dividend declared of 1.00p (2020: 0.75p) 2,088 1,506 
The first interim dividend proposed in respect of the period ended 29th February 2020 amounted to £1,506,000. However the 
amount paid amounted to £1,510,000 due to shares issued after the balance sheet date but prior to the share register record date. 
                                                                                                                FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  |  67
Global Core AR p57-79.qxp  07/07/2021  15:51  Page 68
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
12.    Investments held at fair value through profit or loss 
2021 2020 
£’000 £’000 
Investments listed on a recognised stock exchange 40,886 35,409  
Investments in Private Collective Investment Schemes 122,564  32,448 
  163,450   67,857 
2021 2020 
£’000 £’000 
Opening book cost 69,998  — 
Opening investment holding gains (2,141) — 
Opening valuation 67,857  — 
Movements in the year/period:  
Purchases at cost 128,353 75,635  
Sales proceeds (23,451) (5,441) 
Losses on investments (9,276) (2,322) 
EIR adjustment   (33) (15) 
Closing valuation  163,450  67,857  
Closing book cost 175,661  69,998   
Closing investment holding gains/(losses) (12,211)  (2,141) 
Closing valuation  163,450  67,857  
Transaction costs on purchases during the year/period amounted to £35,000 (period ended 29th February 2020: £23,000) and on 
sales during the year/period amounted to £6,000 (period ended 29th February 2020:£1,000). These costs comprise mainly 
brokerage commission. 
The Company received £23,451,000 (period ended 29th February 2020: £5,441,000) from investments sold in the year/period. 
The book cost of these investments when they were purchased was £22,689,000 (period ended 29th February 2020: £5,637,000). 
These investments have been revalued over time and until they were sold any unrealised gains/losses were included in the fair 
value of the investments. 
CURRENT ASSETS 
13.    Other receivables 
2021 2020 
£’000 £’000 
Securities sold awaiting settlement 72 277  
Dividends and interest receivable 688  51 
Bond interest receivable 17  203  
Overseas tax recoverable 2 — 
Prepayments and accrued income 35 19  
  814 550 
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of other receivables approximates to their fair value. 
68  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021  
Global Core AR p57-79.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 69
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
14.   Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprises bank balances, liquidity funds and short term bank deposits held by the Company. The 
carrying amount of these represents their fair value. 
2021 2020 
£’000 £’000 
JPM US Dollar Liquidity Fund 18,630  122,732  
JPM Sterling Liquidity Fund 261  3,411  
Cash at bank 976 570  
  19,867   126,713  
CURRENT LIABILITIES 
15.    Other payables 
2021 2020 
£’000 £’000 
Securities purchased awaiting settlement  222  220  
Other creditors and accruals 392 485 
  614 705 
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of other payables approximates to their fair value. 
16.   Share capital 
(a)      Authorised share capital 
Unlimited number of shares at no par value. 
(b)     Issued 
As at As at  
28th February 29th February 
2021 2020 
Number of shares at beginning of the year/period 200,802,887  — 
Shares issued during the year 8,005,065  200,802,887 
Number of shares at the end of the year/period 208,807,952  200,802,887 
           Share capital transactions 
The ordinary shares carry the right to receive all dividends declared by the Company, are entitled to all the surplus assets of the 
Company on a winding up and hold all rights to vote in the Annual General Meeting of shareholders. 
                                                                                                                FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  |  69
Global Core AR p57-79.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 70
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
17.    Net asset value per share 
 
2021 2020 
Shareholders funds (£’000) 183,517 194,415 
Number of shares in issue 208,807,952  200,802,887  
Net asset value per share 87.9p 96.8p 
18.   Contingent assets, contingent liabilities and capital commitments 
As at reporting date, the Company is committed to invest in units of private collective investment schemes as indicated below: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GBP 
Investment                                                                                                               Currency                        Commitment                          equivalent 
Infrastructure Investment Fund UK 1 LP                                                  USD                                    766,387                          548,163  
Global Transport Income Fund Feeder Partnership SCSP                      USD                                11,410,942                        8,161,750  
Strategic Property Fund Asia SCSP                                                          USD                                13,810,337                        9,877,932  
Total commitments                                                                                                                                                                      18,587,845  
The Company’s commitment into Strategic Property Fund FIV5 (Lux) SCSP was fully called during the year. There are no other 
contingent assets or contingent liabilities as at reporting date. 
19.   Transactions with the Manager and related parties 
Details of the management contract are set out in the Directors’ Report on page 37. The management fee payable to the 
Manager for the year was £703,000 (period ended 29th February 2020: £113,000) of which £203,000 (period ended 
29th February 2020: £107,000) was outstanding at the year end. 
The Company holds cash in JPMorgan Sterling Liquidity Fund, which is managed by JPMF. At the year end, this was valued at 
£0.3 million (period ended 29th February 2020: £3.4 million). Interest amounting to £6,000 (period ended 29th February 2020: 
£10,000) was receivable during the year of which £nil (period ended 29th February 2020: £2,000) was outstanding at the year end. 
The Company holds cash in JPMorgan US Dollar Liquidity Fund, which is managed by JPMF. At the year end, this was valued at 
£18.6 million (period ended 29th February 2020: £122.7 million). Interest amounting to £559,000 (period ended 29th February 
2020: £850,000) was receivable during the year of which £4,000 (period ended 29th February 2020: £172,000 was outstanding 
at the year end. 
Included in administrative expenses in note 7 on page 66 are safe custody fees amounting to £94,000 (period ended 
29th February 2020: £17,000) payable to JPMorgan Chase N.A. of which £1,000 (period ended 29th February 2020: £17,000) was 
outstanding at the year end. 
Handling charges on dealing transactions amounting to £21,000 (period ended 29th February 2020: £19,000) were payable to 
JPMorgan Chase N.A. during the year of which £2,000 (period ended 29th February 2020: £12,000) was outstanding at the year end. 
At the year end, a bank balance of £976,000 (period ended 29th February 2020: £570,000) was held with JPMorgan Chase N.A. 
A net amount of interest of £nil (period ended 29th February 2020: £34,000) was receivable by the Company during the year 
from JPMorgan Chase N.A. of which £nil (period ended 29th February 2020: £nil) was outstanding at the year end. 
Full details of Directors’ remuneration and shareholdings can be found on pages 45 and 46 and in note 7 on page 66. Directors 
received a dividend from their shares over the reporting period commensurate with their shareholdings. 
70  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021  
Global Core AR p57-79.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 71
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
20.   Disclosures regarding financial instruments measured at fair value 
The disclosures required by the IFRS 13: ‘Fair Value Measurement’ are given below. The Company’s financial instruments within 
the scope of IFRS 13 that are held at fair value comprise its investment portfolio and derivative contracts. 
The investments are categorised into a hierarchy consisting of the following three levels: 
Level 1 – valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities. 
Level 2 – valued by reference to valuation techniques using other observable inputs not included within Level 1. 
Level 3 – valued by reference to valuation techniques using unobservable inputs. 
Categorisation within the hierarchy has been determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair 
value measurement of the relevant asset. Details of the valuation techniques used by the Company are given in note 2 on 
pages 61 to 64. 
The following tables set out the fair value measurements using the IFRS 13 hierarchy at 28th February: 
2021 
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss  
As at 28th February 2021 
Equity investments 38,841 — — 38,841  
Debt securities —  2,045  — 2,045  
Private Collective Investment Schemes1  — —  122,564   122,564  
Liquidity funds2  18,891  — — 18,891  
Total  57,732   2,045   122,564   182,341  
2020 
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss  
As at 29th February 2020 
Equity investments 31,361 — — 31,361 
Debt securities — 4,048 — 4,048 
Private Collective Investment Scheme1  — — 32,448 32,448 
Liquidity funds2 126,143 — — 126,143 
Total 157,504 4,048 32,448 194,000 
1Consists of the Private Collective Investment Schemes Infrastructure Investments Fund UK 1 LP, Strategic Property Fund FIV5 (Lux) SCSP, Strategic Property Fund 
Asia SCSP and Global Transport Income Fund Feeder Partnership SCSP (2020: Strategic Property Fund FIV5 (Lux) SCSP only). 
2Presented under Cash and cash equivalents in Statement of Financial Position. 
There were no transfers between Level 1, 2 or 3 during the year (period ended 29th February 2020: same). 
                                                                                                                FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  |  71
Global Core AR p57-79.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 72
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
20.   Disclosures regarding financial instruments measured at fair value continued 
A reconciliation of the movement in level 3 financial instruments for the year ended 28th February 2021 is set out below: 
2021                   2020 
Total Total 
£’000 £’000 
Level 3 
At 29th February 2020 32,448  — 
Commitment drawndown in the period 100,550 33,142  
Dividend distributions1 (672) — 
Unrealised loss on investments (9,762) (694) 
As at 28th February 2021 122,564  32,448 
1In relation to Strategic Property Fund FIV5 (Lux) SCSP. 
The level 3 financial instruments consists of the Private Collective Investment Schemes: Infrastructure Investments Fund UK 1 LP, 
Strategic Property Fund FIV5 (Lux) SCSP, Strategic Property Fund Asia SCSP and Global Transport Income Fund Feeder 
Partnership SCSP. 
The valuation of the Private Collective Investment Schemes Strategic Property Fund FIV5 (Lux) SCSP and Infrastructure 
Investments Fund UK 1 LP was based upon the latest available valuation (31st December 2020) provided by the unlisted private 
fund’s manager and, because this valuation is non-coterminous with the Company’s year-end, adjusted for estimated income and 
capital returns, as per note 3.1(b). Both of these elements of the valuation are considered to be unobservable inputs of the level 3 
financial instrument valuation. 
The latest available valuation for Strategic Property Fund FIV5 (Lux) SCSP was $10.31 per unit (period ended 29th February 
2020: $10.20 per unit) and the estimated income and capital return was $0.14 per unit (period ended 29th February 2020: 
$0.11 per unit). 
The latest available valuation for Infrastructure Investments Fund was $0.96 per unit and the estimated income and capital 
return was $(0.02) per unit. 
As at the year-end date, the called-up capital for the Strategic Property Fund Asia SCSP and the Global Transport Income Fund 
Feeder Partnership SCSP was non-unitised. Therefore, the capital called approximates to the fair value as at the year-end date. 
If the price per unit varied by 1% (period ended 29th February 2020: 1%), this would result in a change of £1,226,000 (period 
ended 29th February 2020: £324,000) to the valuation of the level 3 financial instruments. 
21.    Financial instruments’ exposure to risk and risk management policies 
The Directors have delegated to the Manager the management of day-to-day investment activities, borrowings and hedging of 
the Company which are fully described in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report. 
As a closed ended investment company, the Company’s investments include, but are not restricted to, equities and equity linked 
securities, fixed interest securities, alternative assets and derivatives held for the long term so as to secure its investment 
objective stated on the ‘Features’ page. In pursuing this objective, the Company is exposed to a variety of financial risks that 
could result in a reduction in the Company’s net assets or a reduction in the profits available for dividends. 
These financial risks include market risk (comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk), liquidity risk and credit 
risk. The Company Secretary, in close cooperation with the Board and the Manager, coordinates the Company’s risk management 
policy. 
The objectives, policies and processes for managing the risks and the methods used to measure the risks are set out below. 
The Company’s classes of financial instruments are as follows: 
– investments in equity shares, fixed interest securities, private collective investment schemes and derivatives, which are 
held in accordance with the Company’s investment objective; 
– cash held within a liquidity fund; 
– short term debtors, creditors and cash arising directly from its operations; and 
72  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021  
Global Core AR p57-79.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 73
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
– short term forward foreign currency contracts, the purpose of which is to manage the currency risk arising from the 
Company’s investment activities. 
(a)      Market risk  
The fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument held by the Company may fluctuate because of changes in market prices. 
This market risk comprises three elements – currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk. Information to enable an evaluation 
of the nature and extent of these three elements of market risk is given in parts (i) to (iii) of this note, together with sensitivity 
analyses where appropriate. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing these risks. The Manager assesses the exposure to 
market risk when making each investment decision and monitors the overall level of market risk on the whole of the investment 
portfolio on an ongoing basis. 
(i)       Currency risk  
Certain of the Company’s assets, liabilities and income are denominated in currencies other than sterling which is the 
Company’s functional currency and the currency in which it reports. As a result, movements in exchange rates may affect 
the sterling value of those items. 
Management of currency risk  
The Manager monitors the Company’s exposure to foreign currencies on a daily basis and reports to the Board, which 
meets on at least four occasions each year. The Manager measures the risk to the Company of the foreign currency 
exposure by considering the effect on the Company’s net asset value and income of a movement in the rates of exchange 
to which the Company’s assets, liabilities, income and expenses are exposed. Income denominated in foreign currencies is 
converted to sterling on receipt. The Company may use short term forward foreign currency contracts to manage working 
capital requirements. 
Foreign currency exposure  
The fair value of the Company’s monetary items that have foreign currency exposure at 28th February 2021 are shown below. 
Where the Company’s equity investments (which are not monetary items) are priced in a foreign currency, they have been 
included separately in the analysis so as to show the overall level of exposure. 
2021 
                                                                                                                               US  
                                                                                                                               Dollar Others Total  
                                                                                                                               £’000 £’000 £’000 
Current assets                                                                                                   20,284   56  20,340  
Creditors                                                                                                             (237) —  (237) 
Foreign currency exposure on net monetary items                                       20,047   56  20,103  
Investments held at fair value through profit or loss                                     148,467  13,805   162,272  
Total net foreign currency exposure                                                                168,514  13,861   182,375  
2020 
                                                                                                                               US  
                                                                                                                               Dollar Others Total  
                                                                                                                               £’000 £’000 £’000 
Current assets                                                                                                    123,606  26   123,632  
Creditors                                                                                                             (219) —  (219) 
Foreign currency exposure on net monetary items                                        123,387  26   123,413  
Investments held at fair value through profit or loss                                      55,666  10,641   66,307 
Total net foreign currency exposure                                                                 179,053  10,667   189,720 
In the opinion of the Directors, the above year/period end amounts are broadly representative of the exposure to foreign 
currency risk. 
                                                                                                                FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  |  73
Global Core AR p57-79.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 74
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
21.    Financial instruments’ exposure to risk and risk management policies continued 
(a)      Market risk continued 
(i)       Currency risk continued 
Foreign currency sensitivity 
The following table illustrates the sensitivity of profit/loss after taxation for the year/period and net assets with regard to 
the Company’s monetary financial assets and financial liabilities and exchange rates. The sensitivity analysis is based on 
the Company’s monetary currency financial instruments held at each balance sheet date and the income receivable in 
foreign currency and assumes a 10% (period ended 29th February 2020: 10%) appreciation or depreciation in sterling 
against the currencies to which the Company is exposed, which is considered to be a reasonable illustration based on the 
volatility of exchange rates during the year/period. 
                                                                                                                                        2021                                               2020 
If sterling If sterling If sterling If sterling 
strengthens weakens strengthens weakens 
by 10% by 10% by 10% by 10% 
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
Statement of Comprehensive Income – return after taxation 
Total return after taxation for the period (2,294) 2,294  (12,481)  12,481  
Net assets (2,294) 2,294  (12,481)  12,481  
In the opinion of the Directors, the above sensitivity analysis is broadly representative of the current year/period. 
(ii)     Interest rate risk 
Interest rate risk represents the risk that the fair value or the future cash flows of a financial instrument could fluctuate 
because of changes in market interest rate levels. Interest rate risk comprises the fair value (present value) risk on fixed 
interest financial instruments as well as the risk associated with cash flows from variable interest (floating rate) financial 
instruments. It is related above all to long-term financial instruments. These longer terms can be material for financial 
assets, securities and financial liabilities. 
Interest rate movements may affect: 
– the fair value of the investments in fixed-interest rate securities; 
– the level of income receivable on cash deposits and floating rate investments; and 
– the interest payable on variable rate borrowings. 
Management of interest rate risk  
The possible effects on fair value and cash flows that could arise as a result of changes in interest rates are taken into 
account as part of the portfolio management and borrowings processes of the Manager. 
The Company may employ gearing up to a maximum of 20% of Net Asset Value at the time of borrowing. Gearing is 
expected to be used tactically to make investments consistent with the Company’s investment objective and policy and for 
working capital purposes. 
The Board reviews on a regular basis the investment portfolio and borrowings. This encompasses the valuation of fixed 
rate and floating rate securities and gearing levels. 
74  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021  
Global Core AR p57-79.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 75
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Interest rate exposure 
The following table shows the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk at the balance sheet date arising from its 
investments, monetary financial assets and liabilities. 
2021 
                                                                                                                               Within  More than  
                                                                                                                               one year  one year  Total  
                                                                                                                                £’000  £’000  £’000  
Exposure to floating interest rates:  
JPMorgan US Dollar Liquidity Fund                                                                 18,630  — 18,630  
JPMorgan Sterling Liquidity Fund                                                                     261  —  261  
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                976  —  976  
Exposure to fixed interest rates: 
Investments held at fair value through profit or loss                                     — 2,045  2,045  
Net exposure to interest rates                                                                           19,867  2,045  21,912  
2020 
                                                                                                                               Within  More than  
                                                                                                                               one year  one year  Total  
                                                                                                                                £’000  £’000  £’000  
Exposure to floating interest rates:  
JPMorgan US Dollar Liquidity Fund                                                                  122,732  —  122,732  
JPMorgan Sterling Liquidity Fund                                                                     3,411  —  3,411  
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                               570  — 570  
Exposure to fixed interest rates: 
Investments held at fair value through profit or loss                                     —  7,970   7,970  
Net exposure to interest rates                                                                            126,713   7,970   134,683  
Interest receivable on cash balances is at a margin below LIBOR. 
The target interest earned on the JPMorgan Sterling Liquidity Fund is the 7 day sterling London Interbank Bid Rate and The 
target interest earned on the JPMorgan US Dollar Liquidity Fund is the 7 day US Dollar London Interbank Bid Rate. 
Interest rate sensitivity 
The following table illustrates the sensitivity of loss after taxation for the year/period and net assets to a 1% (period ended 
29th February 2020: 1%) increase or decrease in interest rate in regards to monetary financial assets and investments. 
This level of change is considered to be a reasonable illustration based on observation of current market conditions. The 
sensitivity analysis is based on the monetary financial instruments held at the balance sheet date, with all other variables 
held constant. 
2021 2020 
1% Increase 1% Decrease 1% Increase 1% Decrease 
in rate in rate in rate in rate 
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
Statement of Comprehensive Income – return after taxation 
Total return after taxation for the period  199   (199)  1,267  (1,267) 
Net assets  199   (199)  1,267  (1,267) 
In the opinion of the Directors, the above sensitivity analysis is broadly representative of the whole year/period as the level 
of exposure to floating interest rates may fluctuate. 
                                                                                                                FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  |  75
Global Core AR p57-79.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 76
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
21.    Financial instruments’ exposure to risk and risk management policies continued 
(a)      Market risk continued 
(iii)    Other price risk 
Other price risk includes changes in market prices, other than those arising from interest rate risk or currency risk, which 
may affect the value of investments. Fair value impacts of changes in interest rates on fixed interest investments are also 
captured within other price risk. 
Management of other price risk  
The Board meets each quarter to consider the asset allocation of the portfolio and the risk associated with particular 
industry sectors. The investment management team has responsibility for monitoring the portfolio, which is selected in 
accordance with the investment objective and seeks to ensure that individual securities meet an acceptable risk/reward 
profile. 
Other price risk exposure  
The Company’s exposure to other changes in market prices at 28th February on its investments are as follows: 
2021 2020 
£’000 £’000 
Equity investments held at fair value through profit or loss 34,432  27,439  
Interest rate securities 2,045  4,048  
Convertible preference 4,409  3,922  
Private collective investment schemes 122,564  32,448 
  163,450  67,857 
Other price risk sensitivity  
The following table illustrates the sensitivity of loss after taxation for the year/period and net assets to an increase or 
decrease of 10% (period ended 29th February 2020: 10%) in the fair value of investments. This level of change is 
considered to be a reasonable illustration based on observation of current market conditions. The sensitivity analysis is 
based on investments and adjusting for change in the management fee, but with all other variables held constant. 
The other price sensitivity analysis is based on the valuation of investments directly held by the Company. For underlying 
investment funds this is based on the net assets of such underlying funds as included in the Company’s portfolio of 
investments at reporting date. 
The value of certain investments, in particular positions held in underlying funds may vary due to currency, interest rate 
and credit risks and such risks are not directly considered in the other price risk sensitivity analysis. 
Effect of a 10% increase in fair value: 
2021 2020 
10% increase 10% decrease 10% increase 10% decrease 
in fair value  in fair value in fair value  in fair value 
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
Statement of Comprehensive Income – return after  
  taxation 
Total return after taxation for the period 16,188   (16,188)  6,720 (6,720) 
Net assets 16,188   (16,188)  6,720 (6,720) 
76  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021  
Global Core AR p57-79.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 77
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(b)     Liquidity risk  
This is the risk that the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities that are 
settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. 
Management of the risk  
Liquidity risk is not currently significant as the Company’s assets comprise a significant portion of readily realisable securities, 
which can be sold to meet funding requirements if necessary. Short term flexibility is achieved through the use of overdraft 
facilities. 
Liquidity risk exposure  
Contractual maturities of the financial liabilities at the year/period end, based on the earliest date on which payment can be 
required by the lender are as follows: 
2021 
More than 
three months 
Three but not more More  
months than one than one 
or less year year Total 
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
Securities purchased awaiting settlement 222  — —  222  
Other creditors and accruals 392 — — 392 
Outstanding commitment to invest in units of private collective  
  investment schemes1 — 18,588  — 18,588  
  614 18,588  — 19,202 
1Outstanding commitments are estimated forecasted calls as at 28th February 2021. 
2020 
More than 
three months 
Three but not more More  
months than one than one 
or less year year Total 
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
Securities purchased for future settlement 220  — — 220  
Other creditors and accruals 485 — — 485 
Outstanding commitment to invest in units of collective  
  investment schemes1 — 120,098 — 120,098 
  705  120,098  — 120,803 
1Outstanding commitments are estimated forecasted calls as at 29th February 2020. 
The liabilities shown above represent future contractual payments and therefore may differ from the amounts shown in the 
Statement of Financial Position. 
                                                                                                                FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  |  77
Global Core AR p57-79.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 78
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
21.    Financial instruments’ exposure to risk and risk management policies continued 
(c)      Credit risk 
Credit risk is the risk that the counterparty to a transaction fails to discharge its obligations under that transaction which could 
result in a loss to the Company. 
Management of credit risk  
Portfolio dealing 
The Company primarily invests in markets that operate Delivery Versus Payment (‘DVP’). The process of DVP mitigates the risk of 
losing the principal of a trade during the settlement process. The Manager continuously monitors dealing activity to ensure best 
execution, a process that involves measuring various indicators including the quality of trade settlement and incidence of failed 
trades. Counterparty lists are maintained and adjusted accordingly. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Counterparties are subject to regular credit analysis by the Manager and deposits can only be placed with counterparties that 
have been approved by JPMAM’s Counterparty Risk Group. The Board regularly reviews the counterparties used by the Manager.  
Cash and cash equivalents comprise balances held at JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. The liquidity funds which the company invests 
in have credit ratings of AAA.  
Exposure to JPMorgan Chase  
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is the custodian of the Company’s assets. The Company’s assets are segregated from JPMorgan 
Chase’s own trading assets. Therefore these assets are designed to be protected from creditors in the event that JPMorgan Chase 
were to cease trading. 
The Depositary, Bank of New York Mellon (International) Limited, is responsible for the safekeeping of all custodial assets of the 
Company and for verifying and maintaining a record of all other assets of the Company. However, no absolute guarantee can be 
given on the protection of all the assets of the Company. 
Credit risk exposure  
The amounts shown in the Statement of Financial Position under investments, other receivables and cash and cash equivalents 
represent the maximum exposure to credit risk at the year/period end. 
(d)     Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities 
All financial assets and liabilities are either included in the statement of financial position at fair value, or the carrying amount in 
the Statement of Financial Position is a reasonable approximation of fair value. 
22.   Capital management policies and procedures 
The Company’s capital comprises the following: 
2021 2020 
£’000 £’000 
Equity: 
Share Premium and Reserves 183,517 194,415 
Total capital  183,517 194,415 
The Company’s capital management objectives are to ensure that it will continue as a going concern and to maximise the income 
and capital return to its shareholders through an appropriate level of gearing. 
The Board’s policy is that total borrowings will not exceed 20% of net asset value at the time of drawdown. 
78  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021  
Global Core AR p57-79.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 79
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
The Board, with the assistance of the Manager, monitors and reviews the broad structure of the Company’s capital on an ongoing 
basis. This review includes: 
– the planned level of gearing, which takes into account the Manager’s views of the market; 
– the need to buy back equity shares, either for cancellation or to hold in treasury, which takes into account the share price 
discount or premium; and 
– the opportunity for issues of new shares, including issues from treasury. 
23.   Subsequent events 
The Directors’ have evaluated the period since the year end and have not noted any subsequent events. 
                                                                                                                FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  |  79
Global Core AR p80-82.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 80
 Regulatory Disclosures
Image source: Shutterstock.  
Global Core AR p80-82.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 81
REGULATORY DISCLOSURES   
ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS DIRECTIVE (‘AIFMD’) DISCLOSURES (UNAUDITED) 
Leverage 
For the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (‘AIFMD’), leverage is any method which increases the 
Company’s exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the use of derivatives. It is expressed as a ratio between the Company’s 
exposure and its net asset value and is calculated on a gross and a commitment method in accordance with AIFMD. Under the gross 
method, exposure represents the sum of the Company’s positions without taking into account any hedging and netting arrangements. 
Under the commitment method, exposure is calculated after certain hedging and netting positions are offset against each other. 
The Company’s maximum and actual leverage levels at 28th February 2021 are shown below: 
Gross Method Commitment Method 
Leverage Exposure 
Maximum limit 400% 400% 
Actual 100% 100% 
JPMorgan Funds Limited (the ‘Management Company’) is the authorised manager of JPMorgan Global Core Real Assets Limited (the 
‘Company’) and is part of the J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. group of companies. In this section, the terms ‘J.P. Morgan’ or ‘Firm’ refer to that 
group, and each of the entities in that group globally, unless otherwise specified. 
This section of the annual report has been prepared in accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (the 
‘AIFMD’), the European Commission Delegated Regulation supplementing the AIFMD, and the ‘Guidelines on sound remuneration 
policies’ issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority under the AIFMD. The information in this section is in respect of the 
most recent complete remuneration period (‘Performance Year’) as at the reporting date. 
This section has also been prepared in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook 
(FUND 3.3.5). 
Remuneration Policy 
A summary of the Remuneration Policy currently applying to the Management Company (the ‘Remuneration Policy Statement’) can 
be found at https://am.jpmorgan.com/gb/en/asset-management/gim/per/legal/emea-remuneration-policy. This Remuneration Policy 
Statement includes details of how remuneration and benefits are calculated, including the financial and non-financial criteria used to 
evaluate performance, the responsibilities and composition of the Firm’s Compensation and Management Development Committee, and 
the measures adopted to avoid or manage conflicts of interest. A copy of this policy can be requested free of charge from the 
Management Company. 
The Remuneration Policy applies to all employees of the Management Company, including individuals whose professional activities may 
have a material impact on the risk profile of the Management Company or the Alternative Investment Funds it manages (‘AIFMD 
Identified Staff’). The AIFMD Identified Staff include members of the Board of the Management Company (the ‘Board’), senior 
management, the heads of relevant Control Functions, and holders of other key functions. Individuals are notified of their identification 
and the implications of this status on at least an annual basis. 
The Board reviews and adopts the Remuneration Policy on an annual basis, and oversees its implementation, including the classification 
of AIFMD Identified Staff. The Board last reviewed and adopted the Remuneration Policy that applied for the 2020 Performance Year in 
June 2020 with no material changes and was satisfied with its implementation. 
                                                                                                            REGULATORY DISCLOSURES  |  81
Global Core AR p80-82.qxp  07/07/2021  15:14  Page 82
REGULATORY DISCLOSURES   
Quantitative Disclosures 
The table below provides an overview of the aggregate total remuneration paid to staff of the Management Company in respect of 
the 2020 Performance Year and the number of beneficiaries. These figures include the remuneration of all staff of JPMorgan Asset 
Management (UK) Ltd (the relevant employing entity) and the number of beneficiaries, both apportioned to the Management Company 
on an Assets Under Management (‘AUM’) weighted basis. 
Due to the Firm’s operational structure, the information needed to provide a further breakdown of remuneration attributable to the 
Company is not readily available and would not be relevant or reliable. However, for context, the Management Company manages 
30 Alternative Investment Funds (with 5 sub-funds) and 2 UCITS (with 40 sub-funds) as at 31st December 2020, with a combined AUM as 
at that date of £21.4 billion and £22.5 billion respectively. 
                                                                                                                              Fixed                     Variable                           Total                 Number of 
                                                                                                               remuneration           remuneration           remuneration             beneficiaries 
All staff of the Management Company (US$’000s)                                       19,241                        11,862                        31,103                             139 
The aggregate 2020 total remuneration paid to AIFMD Identified Staff was USD $63,330,000, of which USD $5,620,000 relates to Senior 
Management and USD $57,710,000 relates to other Identified Staff.1 
1Since 2017, the AIFMD identified staff disclosures includes employees of the companies to which portfolio management has been formally delegated in line with 
the latest ESMA guidance. 
SECURITIES FINANCING TRANSACTIONS REGULATION (‘SFTR’) DISCLOSURES (UNAUDITED) 
The Company does not engage in Securities Financing Transactions – as defined in Article 3 of Regulation (EU ) 2015/2365 securities 
financing transactions include repurchase transactions, securities or commodities lending and securities or commodities borrowing, 
buy-selling back transactions or sell-buy back transactions and margin lending transactions – or Total Return Swaps. Accordingly, 
disclosures required by Article 13 of the Regulation are not applicable for the year ended 28th February 2021. 
82  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021
Global Core AR p83-90.qxp  07/07/2021  15:13  Page 83
                                                    Shareholder Information
Image source: Shutterstock.
Global Core AR p83-90.qxp  07/07/2021  15:13  Page 84
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING  
Notice is hereby given that the second Annual General Meeting of  (iv)     any purchase of ordinary shares will be made in the market 
JPMorgan Global Core Real Assets Limited will be held at the  for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per 
1st Floor, Les Echelons Court, Les Echelons, South Esplanade,  ordinary share (as determined by the Directors); 
St Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 1AR on Tuesday, 3rd August 2021 at 
(v)      the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 3rd February 
12.30 p.m. for the following purposes: 
2023 unless the authority is renewed at the Company’s 
1.        To receive the Directors’ Report & Accounts and the  annual general meeting in 2022 or at any other general 
Auditor’s Report for the year ended 28th February 2021.  meeting prior to such time; and 
2.       To approve the Company’s Remuneration Policy.  (vi)     the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary 
shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the 
3.       To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year 
expiry of such authority which contract will or may be 
ended 28th February 2021. 
executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority 
4.       To re-elect John Scott as a Director of the Company.  and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to 
any such contract. 
5.       To re-elect Helen Green as a Director of the Company. 
6.       To re-elect Simon Holden as a Director of the Company.  Approval of dividend policy – Ordinary Resolution 
10.     THAT the shareholders approve the Company’s dividend 
7.        To re-elect Chris Russell as a Director of the Company. 
policy to continue to pay four quarterly interim dividends 
8.       To re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers CI LLP as Auditor of  during the year. 
the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine 
 
their remuneration. 
By order of the Board 
Special Business  Alison Vincent, for and on behalf of  
JPMorgan Funds Limited,  
To consider the following resolutions: 
Company Secretary  
Authority to repurchase the Company’s shares – Ordinary 
7th July 2021 
Resolution 
9.       THAT the Company be generally and subject as herein after 
appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with the 
Companies (Guernsey) Law, 2008 as amended to make 
market purchases of its issued shares in the capital of the 
Company. 
PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT 
(i)       the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby 
authorised to be purchased shall be 31,300,312 or, if 
different, that number of ordinary shares which is equal to 
14.99% of the Company’s issued share capital (excluding 
Treasury shares) as at the date of the passing of this 
resolution; 
(ii)      the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary 
share shall be 1p; 
(iii)     the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary 
share shall be an amount equal to the highest of: (a) 105% 
of the average of the middle market quotations for an 
ordinary share taken from and calculated by reference to 
the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five 
business days immediately preceding the day on which the 
ordinary share is contracted to be purchased; or (b) the 
price of the last independent trade; or (c) the highest 
current independent bid; 
84  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021   
Global Core AR p83-90.qxp  07/07/2021  15:13  Page 85
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING  
Notes   of members as close of business two business days prior to the 
adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned 
These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse 
Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.  
of the proxy form.  
8. Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders, with guests 
1. Whilst COVID-19 restrictions within the Bailiwick of Guernsey have been 
admitted only by prior arrangement.  
eased, permitting gatherings to take place within the Bailiwick of 
Guernsey, shareholders from outside of the Bailiwick of Guernsey are  9. A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual(s) to 
strongly encouraged to appoint the chairman of the Annual General  act as its representative(s) and to vote in person at the Meeting 
Meeting as their proxy.  (see instructions given on the proxy form). In accordance with the 
provisions of the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, each such 
2. A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint 
representative(s) may exercise the same powers as the corporation 
another person(s) (who need not be a member of the Company) to 
could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, 
exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the 
provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares. It is 
Meeting. A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the 
therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated corporate 
Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights 
representative.  
attaching to different shares held by him. Proxy appointments should 
be submitted as early as possible and in any event no later than  Representatives should bring to the meeting evidence of their 
12.30 p.m. on Friday, 30th July 2021.  appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.  
3. A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must  10.Members that satisfy the thresholds in the Company’s Articles of 
attend the Meeting to represent you. Your proxy could be the  Incorporation can require the Company to publish a statement on its 
Chairman, another director of the Company or another person who  website setting out any matter relating to: (a) the audit of the 
has agreed to attend to represent you. Details of how to appoint the  company’s accounts (including the auditor’s report and the conduct of 
Chairman or another person(s) as your proxy or proxies using the  the audit) that are to be laid before the AGM; or (b) any circumstances 
proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form. If a voting box  connected with an auditor of the company ceasing to hold office since 
on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or proxies will exercise  the previous AGM; which the members propose to raise at the 
his/their discretion both as to how to vote and whether he/they  meeting. The Company cannot require the members requesting the 
abstain(s) from voting. Your proxy must attend the Meeting for your  publication to pay its expenses. Any statement placed on the website 
vote to count. Appointing a proxy or proxies does not preclude you  must also be sent to the Company’s Auditors no later than the time it 
from attending the Meeting and voting in person.  makes its statement available on the website.  
4. Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in  11. The Company must cause to be answered at the AGM any question 
accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.   relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by 
a member attending the meeting; no answer need be given if it is 
5. You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy 
undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the 
appointment. Where two or more valid separate appointments of 
meeting. 
proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same 
Meeting, the one which is last sent shall be treated as replacing and  12.Members meeting the threshold requirements in the Company’s 
revoking the other or others. In order to terminate a proxy  Articles of Incorporation have the right to require the Company: (i) to 
appointment you must serve notice of such termination on the  give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the 
Company before the deadline for receipt of proxy appointments.   Meeting, notice of a resolution which those members intend to move 
(and which may properly be moved) at the Meeting; and/or (ii) to 
6. To allow effective constitution of the meeting, if it is apparent to the 
include in the business to be dealt with at the Meeting any matter 
Chairman that no shareholders will be present in person or by proxy, 
(other than a proposed resolution) which may properly be included in 
other than by proxy in the Chairman’s favour, then the Chairman may 
the business at the Meeting. A resolution may properly be moved, or 
appoint a substitute to act in his stead for any shareholder, provided 
a matter properly included in the business unless: (a) (in the case of 
that such substitute proxy shall vote on the same basis as the 
a resolution only) it would, if passed, be ineffective (whether by reason 
Chairman. 
of any inconsistency with any enactment or the Company’s constitution 
7. To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting (and for the purpose  or otherwise); (b) it is defamatory of any person; or (c) it is frivolous or 
of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may  vexatious. A request made pursuant to this right may be in hard copy 
cast), members must be entered on the Company’s register of  or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be 
members as at close of business two business days prior to the  given or the matter to be included in the business, must be 
Meeting (the ‘specified time’). If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not  accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request, 
more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original  must be authenticated by the person(s) making it and must be 
Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the  received by the Company not later than the date that is six clear weeks 
entitlement of members to attend and vote (and for the purpose of  before the Meeting, and (in the case of a matter to be included in the 
determining the number of votes they may cast) at the adjourned  business only) must be accompanied by a statement setting out the 
Meeting. If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then,  grounds for the request.  
to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Company’s register 
                                                                                                          SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION  |  85
Global Core AR p83-90.qxp  07/07/2021  15:13  Page 86
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING  
13.In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, the 
contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of 
shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting 
rights at the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to 
exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, any members’ statements, 
members’ resolutions or members’ matters of business received by 
the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the 
Company’s website www.jpmrealassets.co.uk 
14.The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the 
share capital of the Company is available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office during usual business hours on any 
weekday (Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted). It will also 
be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.  
15.You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of 
Meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other 
than those expressly stated. 
16.As at 7th July 2021 (being the latest business day prior to the 
publication of this Notice), the Company’s issued share capital consists 
of 208,807,952 ordinary Shares (excluding nil shares held in Treasury) 
carrying one vote each. Therefore the total voting rights in the 
Company are 208,807,952. 
Electronic appointment – CREST members 
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the 
CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting 
and any adjournment(s) thereof by using the procedures described in the 
CREST Manual. See further instructions on the proxy form.
86  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021   
Global Core AR p83-90.qxp  07/07/2021  15:13  Page 87
GLOSSARY OF TERMS AND ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES (‘APMs’)  (UNAUDITED) 
An APM is a numerical measure of current, historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flow that is not defined 
in accounting standards or law. The following are considered APMs. For each APM a definition and calculation (where necessary) is 
outlined to provide further detail on each measure. 
Return to Shareholders (APM) 
Total return to the shareholder, on a last traded price to last traded price basis, assuming that all dividends received were reinvested, 
without transaction costs, into the shares of the Company at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.  
                                                                                                                                                           Year ended      Period ended 
                                                                                                                                                      28th February    29th February 
Total return calculation                                                                                               Page                     2021                     2020  
Opening share price (p)                                                                                                   7                    101.5                   100.0                    (a) 
Closing share price (p)                                                                                                     7                      97.2                    101.5                    (b) 
Total distribution adjustment factor1                                                                                               1.033673             1.007246                    (c) 
Adjusted closing share price (d = b x c)                                                                                                100.5                    102.2                    (d) 
Total return to shareholders (e = d / a – 1)                                                                                           –1.0%                     2.2%                     (e) 
1 The distribution adjustment factor is calculated on the assumption that the distributions paid out by the Company are reinvested into the shares of the Company at the last traded price 
quoted at the ex-dividend date.  
Return on Net Assets (APM) 
Total return on net asset value (‘NAV’) per share, on a bid value to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out by the Company 
were reinvested, without transaction costs, into the shares of the Company at the NAV per share at the time the shares were quoted 
ex-dividend. 
                                                                                                                                                           Year ended      Period ended 
                                                                                                                                                      28th February    29th February 
Total return calculation                                                                                               Page                     2021                     2020  
Opening cum-income NAV per share (p)                                                                        7                     96.8                     99.0                    (a) 
Closing cum-income NAV per share (p)                                                                          7                      87.9                     96.8                    (b) 
Total distribution adjustment factor1                                                                                               1.035778              1.007876                    (c) 
Adjusted closing cum-income NAV per share (d = b x c)                                                                        91.0                      97.4                    (d) 
Total return on net assets (e = d / a – 1)                                                                                               –5.9%                    –1.5%                     (e) 
1 The distribution adjustment factor is calculated on the assumption that dividends paid out by the Company are reinvested into the shares of the Company at the cum-income NAV at the 
ex-dividend date.  
Net asset value per share (APM) 
The value of the Company’s net assets (total assets less total liabilities) divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue. Please see 
note 18 on page 70 for detailed calculations. 
Gearing/(Net Cash) (APM) 
Gearing represents the excess amount above shareholders’ funds of total investments, expressed as a percentage of the shareholders’ 
funds. If the amount calculated is negative, this is shown as a ‘net cash’ position. 
                                                                                                                                                                      As at                     As at 
                                                                                                                                                      28th February    29th February 
Gearing calculation                                                                                                      Page                     2021                     2020  
Investments held at fair value through profit or loss                                                  59                163,450                  67,857                    (a) 
Net assets                                                                                                                       59                 183,517                194,415                    (b) 
Gearing/(net cash) (c = a / b – 1)                                                                                                         (10.9)%                (65.1)%                     (c) 
                                                                                                          SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION  |  87
Global Core AR p83-90.qxp  07/07/2021  15:13  Page 88
GLOSSARY OF TERMS AND ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES (‘APMs’) (UNAUDITED)  
Ongoing Charges (APM) 
The ongoing charges represent the Company’s management fee and all other operating expenses excluding finance costs payable, 
expressed as a percentage of the average of the daily cum-income net assets during the year and is calculated in accordance with 
guidance issued by the Association of Investment Companies.  
                                                                                                                                                           Year ended      Period ended 
                                                                                                                                                      28th February    29th February 
                                                                                                                                                                       2021                     2020 
Ongoing charges calculation                                                                                       Page                   £’000                   £’000 
Management fee                                                                                                            66                      703                       113                        
Other administrative expenses                                                                                     66                      642                      497                        
Total management fee and other administrative expenses                                                                 1,345                       610                    (a) 
Average daily cum-income net assets                                                                                              193,965                163,553                    (b)  
Ongoing charges (c = a / b)                                                                                                                    0.69%                  0.37%                     (c) 
Share Price Premium/(Discount) to Net Asset Value (‘NAV’) per Share (APM) 
If the share price of an investment trust is higher than the NAV per share, the shares are said to be trading at a premium. The premium 
is shown as a percentage of the NAV per share. The opposite of a premium is a discount.
88  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021   
Global Core AR p83-90.qxp  07/07/2021  15:13  Page 89
WHERE TO BUY J.P. MORGAN INVESTMENT COMPANIES 
You can invest in a J.P. Morgan investment trust through the  2.     Through a professional adviser 
following:  
Professional advisers are usually able to access the products of all 
the companies in the market and can help you find an investment 
1.      Via a third party provider 
that suits your individual circumstances. An adviser will let you 
Third party providers include:  know the fee for their service before you go ahead. You can find 
an adviser at unbiased.co.uk 
AJ Bell You Invest  Fidelity Personal Investing 
Barclays Smart Investor  Halifax Share Dealing  You may also buy investment trusts through stockbrokers, wealth 
Charles Stanley Direct  Hargreaves Lansdown  managers and banks. 
EQi  Interactive Investor 
 
To familiarise yourself with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Please note this list is not exhaustive and the availability of  adviser charging and commission rules, visit fca.org.uk   
individual trusts may vary depending on the provider. These 
websites are third party sites and J.P. Morgan Asset Management 
does not endorse or recommend any. Please observe each site’s 
privacy and cookie policies as well as their platform charges 
structure.  
The Board encourages all of its shareholders to exercise their 
rights and notes that many specialist platforms provide 
shareholders with the ability to receive company documentation, 
to vote their shares and to attend general meetings, at no cost. 
Please refer to your investment platform for more details, or visit 
the Association of Investment Companies’ (‘AIC’) website at 
www.theaic.co.uk/aic/shareholder-voting-consumer-platforms for 
information on which platforms support these services and how 
to utilise them. 
                                                                                                          SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION  |  89
Global Core AR p83-90.qxp  07/07/2021  15:13  Page 90
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Be ScamSmart Avoid investment fraud Report a Scam
1  Reject cold calls  If you suspect that you have been 
If you’ve received unsolicited contact about  approached by fraudsters please tell the 
an investment opportunity, chances are  FCA using the reporting form at  
Investment scams are  it’s a high risk investment or a scam. You  www.fca.org.uk/consumers/report-
designed to look like   should treat the call with extreme caution.  scam-unauthorised-firm. You can also call 
The safest thing to do is to hang up. the FCA Consumer Helpline on  
genuine investments 2  Check the FCA Warning List  0800 111 6768
Spot the warning signs The FCA Warning List is a list of firms and  If you have lost money to investment fraud, 
individuals we know are operating without  you should report it to Action Fraud on  
Have you been: our authorisation. 0300 123 2040 or online at  
• contacted out of the blue 3  Get impartial advice  www.actionfraud.police.uk
• promised tempting returns Think about getting impartial financial 
and told the investment is safe advice before you hand over any money.  Find out more at  
• called repeatedly, or Seek advice from someone unconnected to  www.fca.org.uk/scamsmart
• told the offer is only available the firm that has approached you.
for a limited time?
If so, you might have been 
contacted by fraudsters. Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, 
it probably is!
90  |  JPMORGAN GLOBAL CORE REAL ASSETS LIMITED. ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2021
Global Core AR A4 cover.qxp  08/07/2021  09:32  Page 91
INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY
FINANCIAL CALENDAR 
Financial year-end date 28th/29th February 
Distributions payable February, May, August and November  
Final results announced June/July 
Annual General Meeting July/August 
Half year end 31st August 
Half year results announced November
History  Company’s Registered Office 
JPMorgan Global Core Real Assets Limited is a Guernsey-incorporated  1st Floor 
investment company which was launched in September 2019.  Les Echelons Court 
Les Echelons 
Directors 
South Esplanade 
John Scott (Chairman)   St Peter Port 
Helen Green  Guernsey GY1 1AR. 
Simon Holden  For Company Secretarial and administrative matters, please contact 
Chris Russell  Alison Vincent at the above address. 
Company Numbers  Depositary 
Company Registration Number: 66082   The Bank of New York Mellon (International) Limited 
London Stock Exchange ISIN Code: GG00BJVKW831  1 Canada Square 
Bloomberg: JARA  London E14 5AL 
LEI: 549300D8JHZTH6GI8F97 
The Depositary has appointed JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as the 
SEDOL: BJVKW83 
Company’s custodian.  
Market Information 
Custodian 
The Company’s unaudited net asset value (‘NAV’) is published quarterly 
J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, National Association  
via the London Stock Exchange. 
25 Bank Street 
The Company’s shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange. The  Canary Wharf 
market price is shown daily in the Financial Times, and on the  London E14 5JP 
Company’s website at www.jpmrealassets.co.uk, where the share price 
is updated every 15 minutes during trading hours.  Registrars 
Link Asset Services (Guernsey) Limited 
Website 
Mont Crevelt House 
The Company’s website can be found at www.jpmrealassets.co.uk and  Bulwer Avenue 
includes useful information about the Company, such as daily prices,  St Sampson 
factsheets and will include current and historic half year and annual  Guernsey GY2 4LH 
reports once available.  Telephone number: 0371 664 0300 
Share Transactions  (Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras) 
The Company’s shares may be dealt in directly through a stockbroker or  Calls to this number cost 10p per minute plus your telephone 
professional adviser acting on an investor’s behalf.  company’s access charge. Lines open 8.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. Monday to 
Friday. The overseas helpline number is +44 (0)121 415 0224. 
Manager and Company Secretary 
Email: shareholder.services@capita.co.uk 
JPMorgan Funds Limited  Registered shareholders can obtain further details on their holdings on 
the internet by visiting www.capitashareportal.com. 
Administrator 
J.P. Morgan Administration Services (Guernsey) Limited  Independent Auditor 
PricewaterhouseCoopers CI LLP  
PO Box 321  
Royal Bank Place  
1 Glategny Esplanade  
St Peter Port  
Guernsey GY1 4ND  
Brokers 
Investec Bank plc 
30 Gresham Street 
London EC2V 7OP
A member of the AIC
                                                                                                          SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION  |  91
Global Core AR A4 cover.qxp  08/07/2021  09:32  Page BC2
CONTACT 
60 Victoria Embankment 
London  
EC4Y 0JP 
Tel +44 (0) 20 7742 4000 
Website www.jpmrealassets.co.uk
GB A GCRA | 07/21