
2020
ESG
Report
GLP J-REIT
Index
Message P. 2
2020 Highlights P. 3
ESG Policy P. 5
Environment P. 8
Social P. 13
Corporate Governance P. 22
ESG Finance P. 26
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 1
Message
A Message from Our Executives A Message from CSO
I was appointed CSO (Chief Sustainability Officer) on April 1, 2021. 
As more and more attention is paid to ESG, the GLP Group aims to be a responsible member of 
society, engaged in a variety of efforts regarding ESG.
Some examples of these initiatives are our working to reduce our environmental footprint by 
acquiring eco-friendly building certifications for the logistics facilities we develop and own, 
contributing to society through volunteer activities and allowing our logistics facilities to be used 
as evacuation sites, and reinforcing our corporate governance through the introduction of an 
investment unit ownership plan. GLP J-REIT also executes financing that utilizes these ESG 
Yoshiyuki Miura HisatakeMiki
initiatives. In terms of our ESG bond issuance balance, we are the top J-REIT in the industry.
Executive Director of GLP J-REIT and CSO of GLP Japan
President of GLP Japan Advisors Inc. Advisors Inc. For the employees of GLP, we are promoting work style reforms during the present coronavirus 
pandemic: we are developing an environment that facilitates working from home, andare 
enhancing programs meant to support employees’ health and safety. By engaging in these 
initiatives, we seek to create a staff that can embody the spirit of “well-being” that GLP stands for.
We have decided to begin publishing an “ESG Annual Report” in order to lay out these initiatives 
To begin, please let me express my best wishes for all ofour investor clients.
for our various stakeholders in a systematic and comprehensible manner.
I would also like to express my hopes that anyone who may have fallen ill during 
The GLP Group will continue to proactively promote sustainability, andwill continuously publish 
the ongoing coronavirus pandemic has a speedy recovery, and to express my 
information to promote a deeper understanding of GLP Japan Advisors’ business activities.
sincere respect and gratitude to all healthcare workers and others who are making 
efforts to resolve this crisis.
GLP J-REIT is Japan’s leading listed real estate investment corporation specializing 
in logistics facilities. We at GLP J-REIT, together with our asset management firm 
GLP Japan Advisors Inc., consider it to be our social mission to strive for a 
sustainable society through our business activities. To that end, we have enhanced  An Introduction to GLP J-REIT
our efforts toward sustainability. 
n Invests in advanced logistics facilities, and is one of the 
We believe that logistic facilities, as the infrastructure of society, has massive  largest logistics J-REITs in terms of assets
potential to contribute to resolving the societal issues. Through management of  n With the most properties of any logistics J-REIT, its 
investment in real estate, we aim not only to increase value for investors but to  investment area covers the entirety of Japan, centered in 
contribute to the resolution of global problems, such as responding to climate  the greater Tokyo area and the Kansai area known as 
Other
change and realizing sustainable cities and communities. excellent locations for logistics but with locations from 
13
Hokkaido in the north to Kyushu in the south %
We have decided to publish a summary of our basic philosophy and our efforts up 
Kansai area
to this point regarding sustainability in the present ESG Report. No. of properties 
owned Asset size 23% Kanto area
64
GLP J-REIT and our asset management firm will continue to maintain and enhance  %
83 7,411
our sustainability measures, and by disclosing ESG information we will deepen our 
communication with our various stakeholders from investors, tenants, and 
members of our supply chain to the wider regional community and employee. We  billion yen
hope to work together with our stakeholders to strive toward a sustainable society.
No. of tenant 
Operating ratio
companies
149 99.7
Data is accurate as of February 28, 2021 (cid:1267): A property owned by GLP J-REIT
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 2
2020 Highlights
Awarded 5 Stars and Green Star,  Issued “Sustainability bonds”, 
Named Global and Asia Sector Leaders from GRESB first-ever achievement in J-REIT market
n In September 2020, J-REITs issued the first sustainability bond and succeeded in cultivating demand from 
new investors growing interest in ESG.
GLP J-REIT has been awarded the prestigious “5 Stars” and “Green Star” 
n In December 2020, succeeded in issuing a second sustainability bond in the form of a target deal for ultra-
by the 2020 GRESB Real Estate Assessment.
long-term bonds targeting major domestic insurance companies that are highly interested in ESG.
n In March 2021, the third sustainability bond was issued, and the outstanding balance of ESG bonds (green 
GLP J-REIT received a "5 Star" GRESB Rating, which is based on GRESB 
bonds and sustainability bonds) was 31.6 billion yen, which is the top in the J-REIT market.
Overall Score and its quintile position relative to global participants, and 
was awarded the highest rating of “5 Star” and ranked fourth among 
global listed industrial sector out of 22 peers and fourth in Asia listed 
industrial sector. GLP Yokohama
Fundraising for projects that contribute to the 
Green bonds
environment
GLPJ-REIT was selected as both Global Sector Leader and Asia Sector 
Leader among Sector Leaders, titles given to the participant who 
achieved the highest GRESB Overall Score (and those who are within 1.0  Social bonds Fundraising for projects that contribute to 
point from the top performer) in the listed logistics real estate sector. resolving social issues
GLP Amagasaki
Fundraising for projects that contribute to
Sustainability
resolving both environmental and social issues
bonds
Expansion of CASBEE Certification
n Obtained CASBEE real estate evaluation certification at GLP Neyagawa in April and GLP Yokohama in August
n In March 2021, GLP / MFLP Ichikawa Yokohama received a "ZEB Ready" rating in addition to the 5-star rating, 
which is the highest rating of BELS.
n The number of properties that have acquired CASBEE certification has expanded to 31 properties, and the ratio of 
Overview of Sustainability Bond Issuance
environmental certification has increased to 61%.
n Aim to obtain 80% of environmental certification by 2024.
GLP J-REIT 15th unsecured  GLP J-REIT 16th unsecured  GLP J-REIT 17th unsecured 
bonds (Sustainability Bond) bonds (Sustainability Bond) bonds (Sustainability Bond)
5 star (cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(Rank S)  5 star (cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(Rank A) 
GLP Yokohama GLP Neyagawa
Date of Issuance Sep. 25, 2020 Dec. 23, 2020 Mar. 23, 2021
Amount/Period 5.0 bn yen /10 years 3.5 bn yen /15 years 5.0 bn yen /20 years
Interest Rate 0.51% per annum 0.75% per annum 0.97% per annum
Evaluation Agency 
Obtained SU1(F), the highest JCR Sustainability Finance Framework Evaluation from JCR
(JCR)
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 3
2020 Highlights
Responding to the COVID-19 Pandemic Establishing a GLP Group hold investment units
n The GLP Group recognizes that, faced with the global coronavirus pandemic, preventing the spread of the  n Further strengthen governance by establishing an investment unit for executives and employees of 
infection is our highest-priority. In order to protect the health and safety of customers, our employees, and  sponsors and asset management companies in May 2020
all other stakeholders, we have established guidelines and are focused on infection prevention measures. n Alignment effect between sponsors and management of asset management companies, employees and 
investors
n Aiming for continuous growth of the Investment Corporation and further raising awareness of improving 
unitholder value over the medium to long term
For Tenant Customers
Installed contact-free hand sanitizer Installed a panel layout
The managements and
employees of GLP Japan group
are member of ESOP
GLP J-REIT
(Sponsor)  Unitholders
GLP Japan
(Asset Management Company) 
GLP Japan Advisors
For Employees
GLP has put in place “work style guidelines” with the goal of having our employees maintain an efficient work 
environment while ensuring their safety. These guidelines are intended to provide resources and support to 
employees during the unprecedented coronavirus pandemic.
n Implementing pulse-checks for employees through the introduction of Wevox
n Providing remote work assistance and well-being assistance
n Changing our office layout in order to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus infection
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 4
ESG Policy
Purpose of the ESG Policy Framework
At GLP, we are committed to a broad range of environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) commitments  that elevate our business, create value for 
our shareholders and investors, support our employees and  customers, and 
show respect to the local communities in which we work. We believe ESG is 
our corporate  responsibility as business builders and investors as well as an 
opportunity to promote good business ethics and focus on a more sustainable 
and resilient future.
We focus on improving efficiency across our businesses through the  use and 
integration of data and technology. As a result, we are able  to reduce 
consumption, better manage assets and invest capital  more efficiently, which 
in turn generates better returns for our  shareholders and investors, reduces 
costs for our customers and  partners, and helps our global employees by 
increasing motivation  and productivity to enhance an individual’s livelihood.
We aim to be a global leader on integrated ESG commitments  because we 
believe that sustainability is an essential part of our  long-term success as 
global corporate citizens. To be a global leader  we are committed to 
continuously improving our ESG policy to meet  or exceed evolving standards 
and expectations of our shareholders,  investors, customers, employees and 
communities.
This ESG Policy Framework has been prepared to support us in  developing 
ESG commitments, integration into our overall business  and investment 
approach, responsibility of implementation and  monitoring and reporting 
framework.
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 5
ESG Policy
GLP’s Sustainability Principles
At GLP, we are committed to making sustainability a core component of our 
business in order to build a more sustainable and resilient future.  The intent of 
GLP’s sustainability commitment is to implement our unique ESG Sustainability 
Principles that support this ESG Policy Framework:
Build Businesses and  Improve Efficiency and  recognizes the importance of strong corporate  
governance and the maintenance of high standards of 
Invest Responsibly Enhance Value
accountability  to GLP’s shareholders and remains firmly 
committed to seeing that  those standards are satisfied 
At GLP, building businesses and investing responsibly  As a leading global investment manager and business 
through an evolving suite of governance  practices that 
means  embedding ESG into our investment and decision- builder, GLP’s  mission is to build sustainable businesses 
are woven into the fabric of the GLP’s business.
making processes.  This helps us to identify and avoid  and generate attractive  risk-adjusted returns to 
GLP continually reviews and refines its processes in light 
ESG risks and means that: shareholders and investors over the long  term, while 
of best practice, consistent with the needs and 
providing exceptional investment and operational  
circumstances of the group.
l we understand and identify how GLP’s activities can  services that enhance value. GLP’s asset management 
We maintain a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and 
impact  material ESG factors and how these can affect  teams are  responsible for enhancing the value of our 
corruption  and require all management and employees 
our reputation,  capital value and stakeholders; assets through effective  operations.
to comply with our Code  of Business Conduct at all times 
and provide annual certification.
l we focus on how we can best manage our workforce,  Additionally, GLP develops and invests in technologies 
whether it is our own employees or contractors and  and  innovations that enhance the efficiency of our assets 
suppliers; including data  analytics, robotics, automated clearance 
Promote Well-Being
systems, digital loading  docks, smart sorting, telematics, 
l we recognize how we can work with the communities  energy-efficient fleet management  systems, Internet of 
GLP aims to incorporate health and well-being 
where  we invest and operate businesses and how we  Things, resource conservation and our transition  to 
throughout its  organization and assets in support of its 
can enhance  our presence through economic  renewable energy.
employees, customers  and the communities in which we 
development, limiting our  environmental impact and 
work. By focusing on promoting  well-being we can 
seeking a community’s license to  operate. To provide our global customers with increased 
enhance an individual’s livelihood, increase motivation 
opportunities  to enhance their sustainability endeavours, 
and productivity as well as bring communities together.
GLP focuses on  sustainability initiatives that increase 
Develop and Manage Sustainable  resource conservation, leverage climate action, improve 
We focus on introducing well-being concepts such as 
health and well-being and support  local communities.
Assets
creating  spaces that encourage physical activity, 
integrating natural lighting,  improving access to nature 
For GLP, ESG also is considered after the development, 
and providing areas for healthy eating  and socializing.
Govern with High Ethics and 
acquisition  or investment decision. GLP teams across 
investment management,  asset management and  Transparency
corporate management are empowered to  prioritise, act, 
track and monitor the sustainability performance of  our  GLP is committed to maintaining the highest standards of 
assets and in certain instances collaborate with our  corporate  governance as a means of enhancing 
workforce,  partners and communities. corporate performance and  accountability. To 
demonstrate its commitment towards excellence in 
Consistent ESG performance across an asset’s lifestyle  corporate governance, GLP has established a series of 
helps us to  actively manage the sustainability of assets. well-defined  policies and processes to protect its 
stakeholders’ interests. GLP’s  leadership team 
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 6
ESG Policy
Efforts to achieve the SDGs Important issues and initiatives in each ESG area
ESG Committee Important issues GLP J-REIT’s Initiatives
The Sustainability Task Force, which was established in 2014, was newly 
Environment
organized as the ESG Committee in April 2021 with the aim of further  (cid:1644)Initiatives against climate change
promoting ESG. -Initiatives in renewable energy
-Initiatives in energy saving
(cid:1644)Initiatives in water resources
Reducing 
-Using rainwater and well water
the environmental load
Member Resolution -Updating toilet equipment and installing
(cid:1644)saving devicesInitiatives in recycling
-Promoting the reuse of logistics goods through business partnerships
• CSO • Basic policy for promoting ESG
-Separating trash in collaboration with tenants
• President • Annual plan for ESG promotion
• CIO • Initiatives for various ESG measures
• CFO • Selection of assets subject to 
Social
(Organized by General  sustainability finance, etc. Coexisting with local communities (cid:1644)Initiatives in local communities
Affairs Dept.) -Contributing as a local disaster prevention center
(cid:1644)Initiatives in BCP
-Seismic isolation structure
-Flood and snow damage control
Realizing a sustainable society
-Stockpiling disaster-relief supplies for disaster prevention
-Conducting daily COVID-19 countermeasures
(cid:1644)Initiatives for tenant employees
A work environment that  -Replete with amenities such as cafeterias and stores
encourages diverse work styles,  -Conducting customer satisfaction surveys
human resource development,  (cid:1644)Initiatives for employees
and gender equality -Promoting paid leave
-Promoting remote work and other diverse ways of working
-Implementing training programs and supporting certification exams
(cid:1644)CSR activities
Contributing to solving social 
-Providing work experience opportunities
issues
-Trash pickup campaign
Governance
・Reinforcing governance structure
-Governance by general meeting of unitholders, board of directors’ 
meetings, and auditors
-Disclosing decision-making processes
-Establishing a compliance structure to ensure legal compliance
Achieving healthy growth for all  -Eliminating anti-social forces
stakeholders -Pursuing fiduciary responsibility by implementing governance 
structure for related-party transactions
・Pursuing mutual interests with unitholders
-Operating an employee stock ownership plan targeting officers and 
employees of the sponsor and the asset management company
・Timely and appropriate disclosure of information
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 7
Environment
Basic Policy
The GLP Group's fundamental approach to facility design and operational processes is 
energy-saving. We strive to improve energy efficiency in both existing facilities and new 
facility developments. In accordance with the above policy, GLP J-REIT actively owns 
environmentally friendly buildings and introduces eco-friendly equipment, as well as 
develops rules for checking sustainability and environment protection items in the due 
diligence process when considering the purchase of a property. Thus, it takes utmost care in 
that its asset management operations pay consideration to the sustainability of society and 
environmental protection. At the facilities it operates, GLP J-REIT sets numerical targets 
and monitors the amount of energy and water used within the facility as well as the amount 
of waste. Furthermore, GLP J-REIT not only strives to save energy and reduce waste in 
common areas but also shares information on the amount of energy used and waste with 
tenant companies in an effort to reduce environmental load together with tenant 
companies by issuing an energy-saving guidebook according to energy use and 
recommending to stop idling engines within facility premises.
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 8
Environment Environment
Social
Governance
Initiatives against climate change
Initiatives in renewable energy Cooperation with tenants
At the facilities it operates, GLP J-REIT sets numerical targets and monitors the amount of energy used within 
the facility. Furthermore, it not only strives to save energy and reduce waste in the common areas but also 
makes efforts to reduce environmental load together with tenant companies through initiatives such as 
issuing an energy-saving guidebook according to the use of energy by the tenants.
Green lease
GLP J-REIT includes the following clauses in its standard lease contracts signed with its tenants to 
cooperate with them in reducing environmental load.
-Cooperation in improving environmental performance to obtain environmental certification 
(saving electricity and water, reducing waste)
-Sharing of data and targets on energy consumption
Solar power generation facilities
Include a green lease clause for all new contracts to be concluded in the future, 
Goal and include a green lease clause for all contracts including existing contracts 
by the end of 2023.
Number of Annual solar power Tenant management programs
solar facilities generation
In cooperation with tenants, GLP Group takes part in various initiatives that reduce environmental 
21 25,641 load. We proactively work to increase tenant awareness regarding how to reduce environmental 
load and cut water and electricity consumption. Specifically, we promote the visualization of 
MW
electricity consumption by sending meter data to our tenants, encouraging them to turn off their 
Wind power generation (cid:59054)2019(cid:59055) vehicles when stopped, and encouraging them to save water and electricity.
-Visualize electricity consumption in cooperation with tenants
-Provide tenants with information on energy, water, waste, and other consumption and emissions
-Tenant awareness and education activities, etc.
Initiatives in energy-saving
Trash separation Energy-saving guidebook
LED lighting Human-presence sensors
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 9
Environment Environment
Social
Governance
Initiatives in water resources Make environmental considerations through redevelopment
GLPJ-REITmakeseffortstosavewaterbyupdatingtoiletequipmentwhen n Rebuilt and redeveloped an existing facility (B building) at GLP UrayasuII by GLP Group
tenantsmoveinorleave,andbyusingrainwaterandwellwater. n Upon redevelopment, the building acquired Rank A certification from CASBEE for Real 
Estate as it was able to reduce electricity use by installing LED lighting throughout the 
entire newly developed building and through large ceiling fans in air-conditioned areas
Water-saving After installation
devices
Water-saving by updating toilet  Installation of water-saving devices.
equipment
GLP UrayasuII
In an effort to save water, well water and rainwater are used to drain toilets 
as well as to water the plants in the facility.
Initiatives in waste management Pollution prevention
Formed a business alliance with Hyperion, the operator of the second-hand logistics equipment purchase site  n When acquiring real-estate-related assets, etc., as a rule, experts conduct an 
"Matebank," and sold cheaply when moving in (purchase price 5-10% OFF) and expensive purchase when moving out  environmental contamination survey prior to the conclusion of a purchase agreement, 
(purchase price 5-10% UP). Realized. We support the cost reduction associated with the relocation and move-out of  and the survey results will be evaluated and considered based on the Asset Management 
residents. Guidelines.
n Moreover, as a rule, our investment targets will be properties that are appropriately 
treated for soil contamination, etc., in accordance with the Soil Contamination 
Countermeasures Act (Act No. 53, 2002), other related environmental laws, and 
Reuse Purchase Storing until Buyer appears Reuse Sales Rental municipal ordinances or guidance.
Purchasing back Selling 
with high-price with low-price
Unnecessary Logistic Second-hand Logistic
Equipment Equipment
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 10
Environment Environment
Social
Governance
Acquisition of environmental certification Obtaining CASBEE evaluation
n CASBEE(cid:59054)Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment CASBEE (Comprehensive Assessment 
BELS and ZEB certifications CASBEE certifications System for Built Environment Efficiency) is a comprehensive rating system provided by the Institute for Building 
Certification 
Environment and Energy Conservation (IBEC), a non-profit organization supervised by the Japanese government, 
application ratio
which assesses and evaluates buildings' environmental functions based on various factors including 
60 
11  31  environmentally friendly construction materials and workplace comfort/amenities, and how the building 
% 
(cid:741) properties properties complements the local community and environment.
n CASBEE Certifications are based on a five-scale system ("Rank S (excellent)," "Rank A (very good)," "Rank B+ 
(good)," "Rank B-(slightly inferior)" and "Rank C (inferior)") for buildings that have been completed for more than 
※Total floor area base
one year.
Goal (cid:59138) Aim to obtain 80% of environmental certification by 2024
Obtaining BELS evaluation
n BELS (Building Energy-efficiency Labeling System) is a public system that evaluates the energy-saving performance 
of non-residential buildings, which was set by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism in April 
2014. This is a system in which a third-party organization evaluates energy conservation performance based on 
primary energy consumption based on the Energy Conservation Law (Note) regardless of whether it is a new  GLP Tokyo(cid:59072)S Rank GLP Soja I(cid:59072)S Rank
building or an existing building. The evaluation is based on five levels of energy conservation performance labeling 
((cid:1282)(cid:1424)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)) is displayed. Property with CASBEE evaluation
n BELS is expected to play a role in promoting the provision of appropriate information on the energy-saving 
performance of buildings and the further improvement of the energy-saving performance of non-residential 
GLP Koshigaya II S Rank GLP Amagasaki S Rank GLP Kazo A Rank
buildings as Japan's first public evaluation index for energy-saving performance.
GLP Sodegaura S Rank GLPMisato III S Rank GLP Hamura A Rank
GLP UrayasuIII S Rank GLPKomaki S Rank GLP Tokyo A Rank
GLP Sugito S Rank GLP Soja I S Rank GLP Shinsuna A Rank
GLP-MFLP Ichikawa -
S Rank GLP Soja II S Rank GLP Sendai A Rank
GLP Atsugi II(cid:59072) GLP-MFLP Ichikawa-Yokohama(cid:59072) Yokohama
(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282) (cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)
GLP Yoshimi S Rank GLP Osaka S Rank GLP Funabashi II A Rank
GLP Kobe-Nishi (cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282) GLP Iwatsuki (cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282) GLP Komaki (cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282) GLP Kobe-Nishi S Rank GLP Koriyama III S Rank GLP Shiga A Rank
GLP Atsugi II (cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282) GLP Koriyama I (cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282) GLP Tokyo II (cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282) GLP TosuI S Rank GLP Atsugi II S Rank GLP Neyagawa A Rank
GLP UrayasuII-
GLP Yoshimi (cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282) GLP Misato II (cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282) GLP SugitoII S Rank GLP Noda-Yoshiharu S Rank A Rank
Building B
GLP(cid:1644)MFLP 
(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282) GLP Sugito (cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282) GLP MaihamaII S Rank GLP Yokohama S Rank GLP YachiyoII A Rank
Ichikawa-Yokohama
GLP TosuI (cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282)(cid:1282) GLP Tokyo II S Rank
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 11
Environment Environment
Social
Governance
Environmental Performance
Through various initiatives, the Investment Corporation is working with tenants to reduce the 
use of energy, water, and waste.
Goal (cid:59138) 100% data coverage for properties with management authority by 2021
Electricity usage Water usage
2018 2019 2018 2019
Electricity usage(cid:59072)MWh 130,216 147,615 Water usage(cid:59072)(cid:2350) 245,649 299,871
Coverage rate(cid:59072)% Coverage rate(cid:59072)%
86 99 80 88
% % % %
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Waste amount
2018 2019 2018 2019
Greenhouse gas 
(cid:59072)t-CO2 62,341 71,487 Waste amount(cid:59072)t 3,091 3,238
(GHG) emissions
Coverage rate(cid:59072)% Coverage rate(cid:59072)%
84 99 67 66
% % % %
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 12
Social
Basic Policy
The GLP Group will conduct business management by placing emphasis on ensuring the 
comfort and health of its employees and customers as well as local communities. In 
accordance with the above policy, GLP J-REIT actively engages in CSR activities in full 
coordination with the GLP Group. It also contributes to the BCP of tenant companies by 
ensuring the safety of tenants, facility users, and local communities as well as that of the 
stored cargo and employees of tenant companies. Furthermore, it conducts a customer 
satisfaction survey of tenant companies each year to provide buildings and services that 
offer comfort to tenants and facility users and makes improvements to its buildings and 
services on a continuous basis based on the feedback obtained from the survey. It also pays 
consideration to the surrounding environment through activities such as the planting of 
trees as well as volunteering and hosting events in an effort to contribute to building a safe 
and comfortable community. We also carry out various initiatives each year to offer job 
satisfaction to employees as well, such as conducting an employee satisfaction survey 
targeting the employees of GLP Japan Advisors.
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 13
Social Environment
Social
Governance
Information Disclosure and Dialogue with Stakeholders GLP Group's CSR Activities
The GLP Group is actively engaged in CSR activities, offering support in 
discovering and nurturing children's possibilities and talents.
Investors and lenders Tenants and business partners
Activities in Japan
n Briefings on financial results and briefings  n Efforts to save energy and to cut CO2 
for investors; emissions;
Sports events Work experience opportunities
n Disclosure through appropriate and timely  n Cooperation with tenants based on “green 
press releases and the like; lease” clauses;
n Use of the website to disseminate  n Implementation of tenant satisfaction 
information; surveys;
n Compliance with eco-friendly certification  n Switching to LED, introduction of solar 
systems and environmental ratings; etc... power generation; etc...
Cooperation in consideration 
Proactive disclosure
of sustainability
Delivering picture books to children 
in developing countries Picking up trash at the coast
Contributing to  Creation of a fair and 
the regional society fulfilling workplace
The local community Employees
Activities abroad
n Prioritizing the health and safety of 
n Initiatives toward volunteering and the 
employees;
like; Founded GLP Hope School and provided educational opportunities to around 10,000 students
n Promoting a variety of work styles;
n Provision of facilities in the event of a 
n Raising the level of human resources;
disaster;
n Implementation of employee awareness 
n Opening of shared space; etc...
surveys; etc...
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 14
Social Environment
Social
Governance
Disaster response Contribution to local communities as a disaster prevention base
The GLP Group has entered into agreements with many local governments to use its modern logistics facilities as a 
reconstruction support base or evacuation point at times of a natural disaster or emergency, building on its highly 
rated business continuity measures such as seismic isolation structures, backup power supply, and groundwater  14 properties available as emergency sites 
supply equipment. or disaster management bases
(Capacity of 8,577 people)
The GLP Group has also entered into agreements with local authorities for use of GLP J-REIT facilities as temporary 
reconstruction support centers and evacuation site in the event of a natural disaster or other emergency. GLP J-REIT 
multi-tenant properties are available for use as emergency shelters for local residents upon request from the local 
authority or residents of the afflicted area. Part of the premises can be used as a disaster management base (a 
temporary reconstruction support center and shelter for the local municipality in the event of a natural disaster or 
other emergency).
GLP Kawajima
GLP Tokyo II
Cooperation agreement on disaster management  A slope that people can climb at the same time 
GLP Komaki GLP SugitoII
with local governments during a disaster
GLP Amagasaki GLP Misato II
GLP Soja I GLP Narashino
GLP Soja II GLP UrayasuIII
GLP Tokyo
GLP Yokohama
GLP Osaka GLP Atsugi II
Open cafeterias, etc.,  Distributing and stockpiling of 
as temporary evacuation sites disaster-relief supplies
Installing in-elevator  GLP Yokohama (Emergency capacity: 922 people) GLP Kawajima
fire prevention cabinets
In September 2020, during the approach of Typhoon 
#12, the local government asked for the use of GLP 
Kawajimaas an emergency shelter based on the 
disaster agreement.
GLP Atsugi II
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 15
Social Environment
Social
Governance
Contribution to local communities Ensuring tenant safety
A logistics faculty is more than just a warehouse. When a logistics facility is created, not only does it create a logistics  The GLP Group makes efforts to provide buildings and services that pays consideration to the safety of tenant 
hub, but other things such as new jobs, people-to-people connections, and human flows are created. We also endeavor  companies and facility users. It also contributes to companies' BCPs by ensuring the safety of the stored cargo and the 
to create a space that brings out the best in the area. employees of tenant firms.
In consideration of co-existence with local communities and contributing to the development of communities that 
offer safety and comfort, the GLP Group carries out initiatives such as opening up convenience stores and cafeterias  Seismic isolation structure
to the neighborhood as shared spaces at some of our facilities, planting trees and installing photocatalytic pavement, 
as well as having our employees conduct beautification activities around our facilities. We developed and started using our own unique seismic isolation system, the GLP Pile Cap Seismic Isolation 
Construction Method (Patent No. 4934769), which functions properly even in major earthquakes. Furthermore, in 
2015, we developed a new seismic isolation analysis method known as GLP Simultaneous Analysis Method (Patent No. 
Introduction of reservation-based 
Opening convenience stores as shared space 5698402) that further reduced costs, and it was implemented at GLP Naruohama.
parking-matching services
At some of our facilities, 
we open up convenience stores and cafeterias 
Snow damage control Flood damage control
to the neighborhood as shared spaces
Employees conduct beautification activities 
Planting trees
around our facilities
We deploy light trucks with blade snowplows to  We have installed watertight doors that prevent 
remove snow after snowfall. flooding at key facilities.
Photocatalytic pavement
24-hour security AEDs
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 16
Social Environment
Social
Governance
Response to COVID-19
For Customers Employee support
Employee support aimed at improving physical 
COVID-19 GLP Facility Guideline and mental health and productivity / efficiency
Well-beingSupport
Upon notification of outbreak of COVID-19 within a facility, the PM  1
Supporting diverse work styles and physical and
informs the individuals involved, as well as those in the Disaster Control 
mental health
Collect Infection Data  Center. Information about the origins of the outbreak include each 
and Information employee’s test results, symptoms, and the names of others in close 
contact. An outbreak response HQ is also established within the facility for 
Remoteworksupport
fast and effective decision-making.
2
Supports various expenses such as utility costs and 
communication costs associated with remote work
Property manager inform all employees and companies within the facility of 
Contact Customers the outbreak via email. Notices with information about the infection are 
displayed throughout the facility
Ensuring employee health
Enhanced daily cleaning and disinfection measures are  implemented   Ensuring office safety
within the facility to prevent infection through touch. Extreme disinfection  1
Prevent Further Spread  Installation of partitions on the desk, layout design to 
efforts are concentrated on area where the infected individual worked 
of Outbreak maintain social distance
within the facility.  Those who were known to come into close contact with 
the infected employee are advised to quarantine at home.
Introduction of pulse check (Monthly)
2 Regularly check the physical and mental health due to 
Outbreak response HQ is disbanded, enhanced precautions are lifted,  changes in the working environment and provide 
Outbreak Contained customers are informed of the containment of the outbreak, and GLP  appropriate support.
employees previously advised to stay home can return to the facility
Department Manager / Group Leader & 
Regular Communication of Human 
3
Examples of infection prevention measures Resources
Extract title changes and problems in various work styles 
and make improvements
Establishment of consultation desk
4
Individual employees are confused about how to work ・
Suck up opinions and make improvements
Installation of non-contact type Promotion of social distance Partition installation
thermometer
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 17
Social Environment
Social
Governance
BCP measures Providing tenants with comfort
The GLP Group aims to provide buildings and services that offer comfort to tenant companies and facility users. It 
conducts a customer satisfaction survey of tenant companies each year to improve its buildings and services on a 
continuous basis based on the feedback obtained from the survey. We have also established GLP Concierge, a one-
stop consultation desk that cooperates with tenants and business partners to provide a wide range of consultation 
services for tenants’ problems and requests. By helping to solve our customers’ issues, we also contribute to solving 
Japan’s logistics issues, all the while strengthening relationships with our tenants who are key stakeholders.
Cafeteria Kitchen Resting space
Rental conference room Large ceiling fan Universal design toilets
BCP measures in use Convenience store Kiosk Nursery
n We have back-up power facilities to ensure security functions throughout all buildings in the event of a 
power outage by making lighting and electrical outlets available at security systems and some offices
n Groundwater and rainwater supply systems allow use of toilets in the event that water supply is cut off
n Fuel storage bases have been installed at the facilities, and there are plans to provide fuel to tenant 
companies and neighboring facilities in the event of a disaster
n Digital signage automatically displaying weather warnings and earthquake information has been 
installed at entrances and cafeterias to ensure access to the latest information in the event of a disaster
n Flood control measures have been implemented to protect power conversion facilities from water  Staffing office Commuter bus Shower room
damage caused by heavy rains or floods.
n Seismic isolation structures are used to ensure the safety of the building even in a major earthquake
n A4-sized disaster prevention emergency kits have been stockpiled
n Disaster-relief vending machines have been installed
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 18
Social Environment
Social
Governance
Conducting customer satisfaction surveys Solving logistics issues with cutting-edge technology
We conduct customer satisfaction surveys to obtain requests and opinions  With an aim to solve all logistics issues, GLP Group uses advanced 
from customers. We entrust an independent research agency with annual  Customer technologies to develop and implement various systems.
satisfaction surveys of our customers housed in multi-tenant logistics  Satisfaction
facilities. In fiscal 2019, we received a high rating of 97% in our survey titled 
97
“Intent to Continue Using GLP Japan.” Furthermore, the PM team of GLP  Shared consignee system Truck ledger
%
Japan Inc., the sponsor of GLP J-REIT, conducts satisfaction surveys of 
Streamlining overall cargo operations Streamlining incoming and outgoing trucks
customers housed in BTS logistics facilities as well.
Conducting tenant communication meetings
In an effort to better manage and operate our facilities and build relationships with our customers, GLP Group’s 
Property Management Department conducts tenant communication meetings with GLP J-REIT’s facility customers 
once every quarter.
GLP Tokyo II GLP Osaka
BusinesspartnershipwithPASCO CORPORATION
• Solved the problem of long waiting times for trucks
• Waiting time is clarified by registering trucks of 
• Reduced workload through application management
tenant companies on a tablet in the shared consignee 
• Further streamlining by collecting and analyzing 
room
data
HaishaPlus Appropriate placement of workers
Streamlining vehicle allocation and  Streamlining procurement management operations 
collection operations of short-term staff
Solving tenant issues (GLP Concierge)
GLP Group has established GLP 
The Strength of GLP’s Network
Concierge, a one-stop 
3,000 
consultation desk that cooperates  Number of Companies using facilities : companies per day
15,000 
with tenants and business  Number of companies with which GLP is in contract: companies
partners to provide a wide range 
of consultation services for  Business partnership with TRANCOM CO.,LTD. • Possible to request and confirm responses from 
tenants’ problems and requests By  Providing solutions to customers’ issues • Significantly reduced the workload of vehicle  many dispatch and placement agencies at the same 
helping to solve our customers’  allocation management time
Transportation and 
issues, we contribute to solving  Site optimization • Visualized and shared the status of vehicle allocation  • Avoiding congestion during registration by using 
delivery support
Japan’s logistics issues, all the  to streamline transportation tablets to take staff attendance
Procuring inexpensive
while strengthening relationships  Employment support • Responding to waves in logistics quantities through  • Reducing management risks by linking attendance 
Materials and equipment
with our tenants who are key  quick matching with daily reports by digitizing attendance 
Facility management support Progress in automation
stakeholders. information
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 19
Social Environment
Social
Governance
Initiatives for employees Improving sophistication of human resources
Since investment corporations cannot employ employees pursuant to the provisions of the Act on Investment  Introduction of Training System
Trusts and Investment Corporations, our assets are managed by the executives and staff of our asset 
management company, GLP Japan Advisors. GLP Japan Advisors carries out various initiatives for employees 
Based on the independent training program developed by each employee, we have introduced a system to 
under the policy that human resources are important management resources for sophisticated investment 
support growth opportunities through seminars, lectures, and courses that will contribute to their careers in 
management.
the medium to long run (100,000 yen per person per year)
Pursuing comfort and health of employees
Training overview
Support Content Outline Name of training Target level
All employees are required to undergo regular medical examinations or  Management and leadership training Managers
Health check /
human dock examinations once a year, and we are promoting the health of 
human dock assistance
employees by providing cost subsidies.
Support for certification exams
Mental health care training Harassment / mental health related webinars (twice) for department heads
The asset management company supports its employees in acquiring specialist certifications including as an 
Occupational physician
Prevent health risks with expert support Association for Real Estate Securitization (ARES) Certified Master (an educational program that 
interview system
systematically teaches practical expert know-how in the fields of real estate and finance) and as a real estate 
notary. The asset management company bears the costs for the training and exams in acquiring the various 
certificates as well as for maintaining the certificates and increasing and maintaining expertise through 
Promotion of diverse work styles
seminars, etc., and all employees and officers have access to funding.
The number of ARES Certified Masters and real estate notaries as of the end of December 2019 is as follows.
We have introduced the following employee support with the aim of creating diverse work styles that allow 
each employee to devise ways to maximize productivity and efficiency, including the institutionalization of 
Name of certification Number of certifications
remote work.
ARES Certified Master 7people
Support Content Outline
Real estate notary 6people
Well-beingsupport Supporting diverse work styles and physical and mental health
Supports various expenses such as utility costs and communication costs 
Remote work support
associated with remote work
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 20
Social Environment
Social
Governance
Creating a fair and rewarding workplace
Various benefits programs Fair evaluation and compensation
GLP’s personnel evaluation system is a reward-and-evaluate system which strongly encourages each 
Item
employee to contribute to achieving the mission and vision of the company. The personnel evaluation system 
is also designed with cross-departmental collaboration, one of GLP’s business characteristics, in mind, and 
Prenatal and postnatal leave Reemployment of elderly through the administration of the system, all departments, including the revenue and administration 
departments, are expected to work together to achieve corporate growth. In addition, the system encourages 
employees to take on new challenges and evaluates them appropriately. This personnel evaluation system has 
Child care leave Employee stock ownership plan
motivated each and every employee to create an organization that takes on challenges and innovates for the 
rapid growth of the company.
Sick/injured child care leave Defined contribution pension plan
Family care leave Company housing system Conducting employee satisfaction surveys
As part of our efforts to establish favorable mutual relations between the employees and the company, we 
Cafeteria plan Health support (EAP) program
regularly conduct employee satisfaction surveys through Wevoxto evaluate job satisfaction levels, work 
environment satisfaction levels, and other requests to the company (92% response rate). By visualizing 
Congratulatory or condolence money Group long-term disability (GLTD) income compensation organizational issues based on these survey results, we are able to realize the well-being of each of our 
employees and improve the working environment and the organization.
Health screening and physical exam 
Health insurance association
assistance
Human rights training (FY 2020)
Welfare pension Employment insurance
Labor insurance Special leave Human rights themes addressed Target participants Participants
Domestic and international business  Harassment prevention and mental health Management positions 15 people
Comprehensive welfare group term insurance
travel insurance
Institutionalization of remote work
Corporate rental car agreement Other allowances (remote work support allowances, well-
being support allowances)
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 21
Governance
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 22
Corporate Governance Environment
Social
Governance
Asset Management Company’s 
Since its listing, GLP J-REIT, together with GLP Japan Advisors, has pursued the maximization of unitholder 
interest by continuously enhancing governance systems to establish a strong relationship that aligns the  Executive Decision-Making Mechanism
interests of unitholders, GLP J-REIT and GLP Japan Advisors.
J-REIT Asset Manager
Adoption of performance-linked 
asset management fee to meet unitholder interest
ExecutiveDirectorCIO/CFO
Board of Directors
The asset management fee is a performance-linked fee where approximately two-thirds of asset management 
remuneration is linked to NOI and EPU. Compliance Officer
Executive
The bonus paid to the management of the asset management company is incentive remuneration linked to 
Director
EPU (Earnings per Unit) and the relative performance of the investment unit price (to the Tokyo Stock 
Compliance Committee
Exchange REIT Index).
Supervisory  Supervisory
Director Director
InvestmentCommittee OutsideExpert(s)
Introduction of a strict governance structure  （Note）
*Approvedbyuniholders
for related-party transactions BoardofDirectors OutsideExpert(s)
GLP J-REIT is not allowed to carry out related-party transactions without the approval of independent outside 
expert(s) of the asset management company’s Investment Committee and Compliance Committee.
The approval of the J-REIT board on the new appointment of an outside expert is required.
The selection of such outside expert(s) requires the approval of the J-REIT board.
1. Approval of the J-REIT board is necessary for transactions that require the consent of a J-REIT based on the resolution of the J-REIT board, and 
The GLP Group's holding of investment units 
reporting to the board is necessary for other cases.
Click here for more information on decision-making mechanisms:
(same boat investment)
(Report on the Management Structure and System of the Issuer of Real Estate Investment Trust Units and Related Parties)PDF
GLP J-REIT seeks to improve mutual interest by aligning the interests of GLP J-REIT's unitholders and the 
Outline of the Various Committees
interests of the GLP Group by having the GLP Group hold investment units.
Committee Item Details
Highly transparent and appropriate information disclosure 
To deliberate and decide upon matters concerning the management, etc. 
Purpose
in pursuit of fair disclosure of the assets of GLP J-REIT
Investment 
Constituent members President, Directors, CIO, CFO, Compliance Officer, one External Officer
Committee
GLP J-REIT was the first J-REIT to implement information disclosure to a wide range of unitholders by holding 
In principle, once every three months, 
a management call meeting for overseas investors in capital increase through public offering. Frequency of meetings
with emergency meetings called as the need arises
GLP J-REIT was the first J-REIT to introduce a telephone conference system for the purpose of information 
To ensure thorough compliance with laws and ordinances, 
Purpose
disclosure to a wide range of unitholders at the financial presentation meetings. rules and regulations, and other related matters
GLP J-REIT discloses Japanese and English press releases and disclosure material simultaneously. Compliance 
Constituent members President, Compliance Officer, one External Officer
Committee
In principle, once every three months, 
Frequency of meetings
with emergency meetings called as the need arises
Further enhancing governance through 
Purpose To deliberate and decide upon matters concerning the promotion of ESG, etc.
an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)
ESG
Constituent members President, CSO, CIO, CFO
Committee
Established ESOP targeting officers and employees of GLP Japan Inc. and the asset management company of 
Frequency of meetings Meetings held regularly, with emergency meetings called as the need arises
GLP J-REIT in May 2020, with a policy to further enhance the alignment of interests with our unitholders.
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 23
Corporate Governance Environment
Social
Governance
Thinking Regarding Compliance
GLP J-REIT (hereinafter referred to as the “Investment Corporation”) and GLP Japan Advisors Inc. (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Asset Management Company”) are fully cognizant of the significance of the fact that the asset 
management the Asset Management Company conducts for the assets of the Investment Corporation constitutes the 
management of the funds of the Investment Corporation’s investors, and the Asset Management Company has 
prepared internal compliance rules and other necessary rules and has established a Compliance Committee and a 
position of Compliance Officer as described below to ensure full compliance with applicable laws and regulations in 
order to ensure the development of an appropriate management structure.
Compliance Structure 
(structure for ensuring compliance with laws and regulations)
Compliance Committee Compliance Officer
In order to establish an appropriate management  meetings of the Compliance Committee under the role  The Asset Management Company, fully cognizant of the  The General Administration Department, established 
structure for the Asset Management Company to  of secretariat to the Compliance Committee to assist  significance of the fact that the asset management it  under the overall direction and control of the CFO 
conduct the asset management of the Investment  the Compliance Officer. In principle, the Compliance  conducts with the assets of the Investment Corporation  (Executive Officer) and being charged with overall 
Corporation, the Asset Management Company has  Committee meets once every three months as  constitutes the management of the funds of the  general administrative operations, will assist the work 
established a Compliance Committee charged with the  convened by the chairperson, and as otherwise  Investment Corporation’s investors, in order to ensure  of the Compliance Officer. In view of the importance of 
revision (excluding the correction of errata) of  necessary. Decisions of the Compliance Committee  the development of an appropriate management  the duties of the Compliance Officer, the Compliance 
compliance rules; the formulation and revision of a  require that a majority of all of the members with voting  structure, has established the position of Compliance  Officer at the Asset Management Company devotes 
Compliance Manual and Compliance Program  rights and all Outside Expert(s) on the Compliance  Officer as the key person responsible for compliance,  him/herself exclusively and on a full-time basis to 
(excluding the correction of errata); deciding on  Committee be present and a majority of those members  thereby ensuring the effectiveness of the function of  addressing compliance matters. Only a person having 
corrective measures regarding conduct which is, or is  and all Outside Expert(s) on the Compliance Committee  internal oversight of other units The selection or the  adequate investigative and supervisory capacity for 
suspected to be, inappropriate from a compliance  vote their approval. When the Compliance Committee  dismissal of the Compliance Officer requires the  ensuring compliance with all applicable laws, 
standpoint; and the review on whether there are issues  reviews as one of the matters it must decide on whether  approval of two-thirds or more of the directors in  regulations and rules may be appointed as the 
of compliance with respect to matters concerning  there are issues of compliance with respect to matters  attendance at meeting of the board of directors that is  Compliance Officer. The Compliance Officer is also in 
transactions with related parties and other matters  concerning transactions between related parties and  attended by a majority of all the directors with voting  charge of internal auditing of the Asset Management 
regarding that the Compliance Officer judges there to  the Investment Corporation, a committee member with  rights. The Compliance Officer, as the key person  Company (However, the internal auditing of the 
be questions in terms of compliance. The Compliance  voting rights who is a related party or a committee  responsible for compliance at the Asset Management  Compliance Officer is conducted by the President.) All 
Committee is composed of the Compliance Officer as  member with voting rights who currently holds the  Company, is charged with establishing and maintaining  internal organization and job classifications are subject 
chairperson, the President, and at least one outside  position of an officer or employee (including as a  the internal compliance structure of the company and  to internal audit; audit and other procedures to assess 
professional designated by the Board of Directors  concurrent position, but excluding cases when such  raising the level of standards awareness within the  whether the operations and management of all internal 
(hereinafter referred to as the “Outside Expert(s) on the  person has been seconded or transferred to the Asset  company in regard to compliance with all applicable  organizations comply with all applicable laws, 
Compliance Committee”). When designating the  Management Company) of a related party, which is a  laws, regulations and rules. To those ends, the  regulations and rules and are being conducted 
Outside Expert(s) on the Compliance Committee, the  corporation, may not participate in the decision.  Compliance Officer prepares a Compliance Manual and  appropriately and efficiently will be carried out on a 
approval of the board of directors of the Investment  Decisions of the Compliance Committee will be  Compliance Program through the Compliance  regular basis based on the Compliance Program and the 
Corporation will be required (but will not be required  reported regularly to the Board of Directors by the  Committee, continually monitors to ensure that all  Internal Audit Rules. When internal audits are 
for reappointment). As of the date of this report, an  Compliance Officer. When the Compliance Committee  operations conducted for the asset management of the  conducted all departments must submit and explain all 
outside attorney is the one Outside Expert on the  reviews and approves matters which the Investment  Investment Corporation by the Asset Management  documents, account books or other materials as 
Compliance Committee. Furthermore, the General  Committee must decide, the substance of the review  Company comply with all applicable laws, regulations,  requested by the Compliance Officer and cooperate 
Administration Department has been established under  (including any minority opinion presented during the  rules and the articles of incorporation of the Investment  fully to ensure the smooth implementation of the 
the order by the CFO (Executive Officer) and a member  course of the review) will be reported to the Investment  Corporation, and exercises supervision over the overall  internal auditing.
of the General Administration Department will attend  Committee by the Compliance Officer. internal compliance environment in daily operations. 
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 24
Corporate Governance Environment
Social
Governance
Risk Management
Definition of risks Basic stance on risk management
With regard to the management of our company’s inherent risks, we take the following basic stance in our 
work, with the goal of reinforcing our dual duties of loyalty and care as an asset management fiduciary.
Risks associated with assets  Risks of degradation of 
entrusted and managed reputation
1. Our company, as an asset management firm, is solely devoted to that business, and the 
Financial market risks greatest risk we face is the risk of degradation of our reputation due to a decline in the 
Operational risks value and confidence placed in us by the investment corporations and their investors 
(including potential investors in the securities market in general), who trust us with the 
Risks relating to the 
management of their assets.
marketability of real estate
2. It is essential that we carefully and rigorously manage all risks, including risks regarding 
Concentrated investment risks Legal and compliance risks
the handling and management of assets, operational risks, and legal and compliance 
risks, as risks such as these are a major potential cause of such declines in value and 
confidence.
Transaction liquidity risks
Other risks
Credit risks
With regard to the management of operational risks of investment corporation assets, we take the following 
Event risks
basic stance in our work, with the goal of reinforcing our investment management capability while striving to 
protect the assets under our management.
Outsourcing risks
1. The primary investment target being real estate, it should be noted that owning real 
estate or similar specific assets, as opposed to traditional financial assets, comes with its 
own set of risks, on top of the general risks associated with asset management, such as 
so-called “market risks.” It is necessary to execute sufficient analysis and 
countermeasures when handling these kinds of real estate risks.
2. In the management of these risks, we distinguish those risks that can lead to returns 
from risks that need to be eliminated or mitigated, and we act in a safe and reliable 
manner with regard to the latter category of risk.
3. We will not engage in any action that deviates from the basic stance set forth in the 
preceding paragraph or that neglects strict risk management and the appropriate 
acquisition of profits.
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 25
ESG Finance
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 26
ESG Finance
Finance
Sustainability Finance   
Overview of the Sustainability Framework
Use of Proceeds from Sustainability Finance Management of Proceeds
The net proceeds from sustainability finance will be used for the acquisition of assets in the Eligible  The upper limit of green finance (limit of the "Debts of Eligible Sustainability Projects") shall be the amount 
Green Projects as provided for in Eligible Sustainability Projects below, refinancing of loans required  calculated by multiplying the total acquisition cost of the Eligible Sustainability Projects by the ratio of actual 
for the acquisition of assets in the Eligible Sustainability Projects, and for the redemption of the  interest-bearing debt to total assets as of the end of the latest fiscal period that can be calculated on the 
investment corporation bonds that have already been issued (including sustainability bonds/green  payment date or loan date of each investment corporation bond, or as of the end of every February.
bonds) for the acquisition of assets in the Eligible Sustainability Projects.
Propertyacquisition cost
for GLP J-REIT
Eligible Sustainability Projects
SustainabilityBalance Sheet
Eligible Sustainability Projects are assets or projects that satisfy either of the Eligible Green Project 
741.1 billion yen
Criteria and the Eligible Social Project Criteria shown below.
Eligible Green Projects
83 properties
459.4 billion yen
33 properties
Eligible Green Project Criteria
Debts of Eligible Sustainability
44.4%
Green buildings
Eligible Sustainability Projects Eligible Sustainability Projects Project 119.9 billion yen
New, existing or renovated buildings that have obtained at least one of the following certifications;
270.4 billion yen 270.4 billion yen
12 properties 12 properties Interest-bearing debt ratio
DBJ Green Building Certification (Japan) : five, four or three stars as of the end of August 2020
(end of the 17th period)
CASBEE (Japan) : S, A or B+ （as of March 24, 2021 ）
※ Eligible Sustainability Projects that also fall under the definition of Eligible Green Projects under GLP J-REIT’s Green FinanceFramework are included 
both in the total value of Eligible Sustainability Projects and in that of Eligible Green Projects. Any amount of funding provided for those projects in the 
BELS (Japan) : five, four, or three
form of sustainability finance or green finance is included both in the outstanding balance of sustainability finance and in that of green finance. The 
amount included in the total value and the outstanding balance overlaps between the two forms of finance.
LEED (U.S.) : Platinum, Gold, Silver
Reporting on Social Benefits
Contribution to the sustainable growth of local communities
Item Number
New, existing, or refurbished buildings that contribute to either of items a through d shown below:
Output indicators Number of properties that are Eligible Green Projects 12
a. Safety of local residents in times of disaster
13 properties 
Emergency shelter for people affected by disaster
8,557 people
b. Development of the local living environment
Standby station for Disaster Relief Teams and Emergency 
13 properties
Fire Response Teams in the event of a disaster
c. Revitalization of the local community
Outcome indicators Backup power supply (72 hours) 8 properties
d. Provision of parenting support
Stockpile volume of fuel (72 hours) 8 properties
GLP Atsugi Ⅱ
Groundwater facility*
GGLP Soja Ⅰ
※ Some properties have groundwater facilities available for use during a water outage.
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 27
ESG Finance
Finance
Green Finance   
Overview of the Sustainability Framework
Use of Proceeds from Green Finance Management of Proceeds
The net proceeds from green finance will be used for the acquisition of assets in the Eligible Green  The upper limit of green finance (limit of the "Debts of Eligible Green Projects") shall be the amount calculated 
Projects as provided for in Eligible Green Projects below, refinancing of loans required for the  by multiplying the total acquisition cost of the Eligible Green Projects by the ratio of actual interest-bearing 
debt to total assets as of the end of the latest fiscal period that can be calculated on the payment date or loan 
acquisition of assets in the Eligible Green Projects, and for the redemption of the investment 
date of each investment corporation bond, or as of the end of every February.
corporation bonds that have already been issued (including green bonds) for the acquisition of assets 
in the Eligible Green Projects.
GLPJ-REIT acquisition price
Green balance sheet
Eligible Green Projects
607.9billion yen
Eligible Green Projects mean the projects involving assets that meet either of the following  75 properties Eligible Green Projects
459.4 billion yen
requirements.
33 properties
Debts of Eligible Green Projects
44.6%
a. Being a green building
173.6 billion yen
Eligible Green Projects Eligible Green Projects
389.1 billion yen 389.1 billion yen
A new, existing or refurbished building for which at least one of the following certifications has been 
obtained: 30 properties 30 properties Interest-bearing debt ratio 
as of the end of February 2020
(16the period)
DBJ Green Building Certification (in Japan) : five, four or three stars （as of February 29, 2020）
※ Eligible Sustainability Projects that also fall under the definition of Eligible Green Projects under GLP J-REIT’s Green FinanceFramework are included 
CASBEE (in Japan) : S, A or B+ both in the total value of Eligible Sustainability Projects and in that of Eligible Green Projects. Any amount of funding provided for those projects in the 
form of sustainability finance or green finance is included both in the outstanding balance of sustainability finance and in that of green finance. The 
amount included in the total value and the outstanding balance overlaps between the two forms of finance.
BELS (in Japan) : five, four, or three
LEED (in the United States) : Platinum, Gold, Silver
Investment corporation bonds
Total Amount
Name Interest Rate Term Issuance Date Maturity Date
(mm yen)
12th Unsecured Bonds
5,100 0.680% 10 2018/12/20 2028/12/20
(Green Bonds)
13th Unsecured Bonds
8,000 0.608% 10 2019/7/8 2029/7/6
(Green Bonds)
14th Unsecured Bonds
5,000 0.550% 10 2019/11/27 2029/11/27
(Green Bonds)
15th Unsecured Bonds 
5,000 0.510% 10 2020/9/25 2030/9/25
(Sustainability Bonds)
16th Unsecured Bonds 
3,500 0.750% 15 2020/12/23 2035/12/21
(Sustainability Bonds)
17th Unsecured Bonds 
5,000 0.970% 20 2021/3/23 2041/3/22
(Sustainability Bonds)
GLP J-REIT  2020 ESG REPORT 28