
Investment Stewardship
2020 Annual Report
2020 Annual Report
An introduction from our chairman and CEO   1
Resilience and growth in a turbulent year     2
Our four principles     4
Our program     5
Investment Stewardship at a glance     6
Regional roundup     10   
Engagement case studies
  Board composition     14
  Oversight of strategy and risk     18
    Proposals seek greater climate-change disclosure   22
    Attention on diversity as social issues gain the spotlight      26
  Executive compensation     30
  Shareholder rights     34
Key votes       36
Proxy voting history      44
Company engagements      52
b
An introduction from our 
chairman and CEO
Tim Buckley
Vanguard Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Investors come to Vanguard for many reasons. Some are drawn to our client-ownership structure. Others are attracted to our 
long-term, low-cost investment philosophy. And still others are looking for an investment firm with a strong track record of 
stability and outperformance. Regardless of your reason for selecting Vanguard, we deeply appreciate your trust and are 
committed to helping you achieve your financial goals.
One of the clearest expressions of how we advocate on your behalf is our engagement with the companies in which we
invest. Our Investment Stewardship team speaks with thousands of executives and board members each year to understand 
how they intend to deliver enduring value to investors. Our conversations delve into the strategic risks facing a portfolio 
company and how its leadership plans to manage those risks. Many of the issues we discuss are reflected in proxy ballot 
items, and Vanguard votes each fund’s shares in accordance with what will serve its investors best over a long time horizon.
Over the past year, the pandemic, economic uncertainty, and a historic social justice movement have brought environmental, 
social, and governance risks into sharp focus. As companies regain their bearings and plan for the future, the job of a director 
on the board of a public company has never been more challenging or more important.
We anticipate that corporate governance practices, investor expectations, and regulatory policies will evolve significantly in 
the coming years. We have asked Glenn Booraem, who has led our Investment Stewardship program the last two decades, 
to take on a new role helping Vanguard navigate this changing landscape. John Galloway, an experienced leader who joined 
the Investment Stewardship team earlier this year, now leads the program for Vanguard. I’d like to thank both leaders for 
their work in promoting and protecting long-term value for Vanguard investors.
I invite you to read this annual report, which summarizes the team’s work on your behalf. As the voice of 30 million investors 
worldwide, Vanguard takes our responsibility of investment stewardship seriously. We’ll continue to push portfolio 
companies to adopt principles of good governance and hold them accountable for following through.
Thank you for investing with Vanguard.
1
Resilience and growth  
in a turbulent year
Vanguard announced this year that Glenn 
Booraem, the longtime leader of Vanguard’s 
Investment Stewardship program, is taking on 
a new role. John Galloway, who joined 
Vanguard in 2017 with 25 years of leadership 
and policy experience in the private and public 
sectors, is now heading the program. In this 
Q&A, John and Glenn reflect on a historic 
proxy year and how the lessons of 2020 will 
have a lasting effect on corporate governance 
and investment stewardship.
2
The COVID-19 pandemic has affected  to push for progress—and our expectations will evolve to 
millions of people around the world. How  reflect a growing focus on the importance of diversity across 
has the pandemic affected corporate  boards, leadership teams, and the broader workforce. 
governance practices?
How does Vanguard approach the 
Glenn Booraem: Obviously, this was a year unlike any   increasingly complex landscape of 
other. In the short term, the pandemic upended the concept  governance and stewardship codes 
of business as usual and drove companies to make some 
worldwide?
very tough decisions. Longer term, some boards are 
re-evaluating strategic business models and re-examining   Glenn: The increasing focus on governance and stewardship 
the way they approach risk oversight. As boards and  globally is a good thing. Companies, industry organizations, 
management teams think through these important issues,  and governments are embracing better standards, and that’s 
Vanguard has asked them to keep the interests of long-term  good news for investors. Of course, there are disparities in 
investors at the forefront. governance norms based on region, industry, and even 
company size. As standards evolve and regulations change, 
How has the pandemic affected Vanguard’s  Vanguard will work to ensure that the best interests of 
Investment Stewardship program? investors are protected.
John Galloway: As with our colleagues across Vanguard,  Vanguard recently published several pieces 
our team was able to continue our work throughout the 
on climate risk. What’s the key message for 
crisis. The entire team began working remotely in March, and 
companies and for Vanguard shareholders? 
we engaged with public companies and voted proxies in a 
new virtual setting. I am proud of our team’s perseverance,  John: Climate change presents a profound risk to companies 
resilience, and commitment through a challenging period. and their long-term investors. Vanguard cares deeply about 
the impact of climate risk, and we expect company boards to 
Amid the chaos of a pandemic, there was  be aware of their role in the changing climate. Every 
great social unrest triggered by a history of  company, whether it’s a carbon producer or a carbon 
racial injustice in the U.S. that reached a  consumer, factors into the climate equation. At companies 
flash point with the death of George Floyd.  for which climate risk is material, we expect boards to 
What are your thoughts on these events? oversee that risk, demonstrate competency on climate 
issues, provide effective disclosure, and take appropriate 
John: George Floyd’s killing sparked a global movement that  steps to mitigate the risks for their business.
continues to shine a light on the depth of systemic racial 
inequality and social injustice in the United States and many  What are the key future priorities for 
other countries. We watched the video. We had candid  Vanguard’s Investment Stewardship 
conversations with our friends, neighbors, and colleagues— program?
and listened to voices ignored for far too long. Moments like 
these have the ability to drive significant action, including by  John: Vanguard’s program has evolved and improved every 
igniting a greater awareness and focus on progress in the  year in response to evolving market dynamics, investor 
business community. expectations, and regulatory requirements. That is a credit to 
the work that Glenn and the team have done over the last 
How do societal matters such as diversity,  two decades. 
equity, and inclusion play a role in corporate 
Looking ahead, we know the pace of change will accelerate, 
governance? and ours will accelerate too. We will build the breadth and 
depth of our expertise around the world, we will have the 
Glenn: Diversity, equity, and inclusion drive long-term  
right conversations with the right companies at the right 
value for our investors. We expect boards to understand  
times, and we will provide greater clarity to investors and 
the potential impacts of social issues in the near and long 
interested stakeholders regarding our investment 
term—how they affect employees, customers, and the 
stewardship activities. 
communities where they operate. Boards should understand 
the benefits of getting it right and the risks of getting it  During this period of global uncertainty, the importance of 
wrong. remaining focused on the long term has never been more 
clear, and good governance has never been more important. 
John: We see opportunities for continued improvement  We’ll continue to work with companies and hold them 
across our portfolio. For example, in 2019, we communicated  accountable, and to promote and protect long-term value for 
to companies that our expectations regarding diversity in the  Vanguard investors. 
boardroom go beyond gender and include racial and ethnic 
minority representation. While some companies have taken 
meaningful steps, too many others haven’t. We will continue 
3
Our four principles
Board composition Oversight of strategy and risk
We believe that the foundation of good governance  Boards are responsible for oversight of a company’s 
begins with a great board of directors.  long-term strategy and any material risks. 
Our primary focus is to ensure that the individuals   It is the job of the board to be highly engaged in the 
who represent the interests of all shareholders are  oversight of both strategy and risk, so we look for a 
independent, committed, capable, and appropriately  constant exchange of information between the board 
experienced. and company management. Vanguard expects directors 
to be fully knowledgeable about the risks and 
We also believe—and research shows—that diverse 
opportunities that stem from a company’s strategy, and 
boards can make better decisions, and that those,  
they can provide valuable counsel to company leaders 
in turn, can lead to better results. That’s why we look 
who are executing it.
for meaningful disclosure about a board’s mix of 
experience, tenure, skills, and personal characteristics  Investors benefit when the market has clear, decision-
and how that aligns with the company’s strategy. useful disclosure of material risks. We look for progress 
by the board in aligning strong risk oversight and 
Boards must also continuously evaluate themselves and 
disclosure with long-term shareholder value, as such 
evolve to align with the increasingly complex long-term 
reporting can provide a more accurate valuation of the 
needs of their business.
company
Executive compensation Shareholder rights
We believe that performance-linked compensation  We believe that shareholders should have the power 
(or remuneration) policies and practices are  to use their voice and vote to ensure the 
fundamental drivers of sustainable, long-term value.  accountability of a company’s board. 
Executive pay should reflect the level of shareholder  We expect companies to adopt governance structures 
value. When shareholders do well, so should  (such as accountability measures) to ensure that boards 
executives. When companies underperform, however,  and management serve in the best interest of the 
executives’ pay should move in the same direction. shareholders they represent. We view such governance 
structures as a safety net to protect and support 
We look for pay plans that incentivize outperformance 
foundational rights for shareholders.
versus industry peers over the long term and emphasize 
the importance of incorporating relative-performance 
metrics (particularly relative total shareholder return) into 
those plans.
4
Our program
 
 
Vanguard’s Investment Stewardship program is executed by a global team of experienced professionals, aligned by region or 
sector and by topical area of responsibility. This structure enables us to balance the need for global consistency with regional 
relevance by developing in-depth knowledge on pertinent issues across our funds’ portfolios and identifying industry, 
regional, and country-specific trends. Our senior leaders, who are responsible for broad-based regional and sector teams, 
oversee all engagement, company research, analysis, and voting for the companies in their areas, in partnership with their 
focused teams of analysts.
Our policy and research team drives our global perspectives on key topics, and it partners with regional teams to shape 
voting, engagement, and advocacy strategies. Our research and communications group articulates the views, policies, and 
thought leadership that demonstrate our focus on long-term value creation and protection for shareholders to the broader 
market. And our technology and operations group enables every aspect of our program’s research, analysis, and execution.
Our global team represents Vanguard fund shareholders’ interests through 
industry advocacy, company engagement, and proxy voting.
Advocacy: We are tireless advocates for the highest standards of corporate governance worldwide and the 
sustainable, long-term value of our shareholders’ investments. We promote a long-term view in both corporate 
governance and investment practices through public forums and published materials.
Engagement: We meet with portfolio company executives and directors to share our long-term orientation and 
principled approach and to learn about companies’ corporate governance practices. We characterize our approach 
as deliberate, constructive, and results-oriented.
Voting: Our team votes proxies at public company shareholder meetings on behalf of each of our global equity 
funds. Because of our advocacy and engagement efforts, by the time our funds’ votes are cast, companies should 
be aware of the priorities and governance principles we deem most important to the creation and protection of 
long-term shareholder value.
5
Investment Stewardship 
at a glance
6
During the 2020 proxy year, we engaged 
793
and voted on a range of governance matters. 
 companies engaged
The details below illustrate our advocacy, 
engagement, and voting on topics including  168,305 
board composition, executive compensation, 
proposals voted on
and sustainability risks.
$1.92T 
•  Discussed board composition  
equity assets under 
  in 70% of our engagements.
management engaged 
•  Met with independent directors  
in the last year*
  in 46% of our engagements.
27 
•  Discussed compensation  
  in 47% of our engagements. markets represented in 
our engagements†
•  Voted against 384 directors because  
  of executive compensation concerns. 
Australia Japan
Austria Netherlands
Belgium New Zealand
Brazil Portugal
•  Engaged with 258 companies in carbon- 
  intensive industries, or 33% of all   Canada South Africa
  companies engaged. China South Korea
•  These engagements represented $412 billion   Denmark Spain
  in equity assets under management. France Sweden
Germany Switzerland
Greece Taiwan
Hong Kong United Arab  
India Emirates
Ireland United Kingdom
Italy United States
* Dollar figure represents the market value of Vanguard fund equity investments in companies with which we engaged over the 12 months ended June 30, 2020. 
AUM calculated as of that date.
† Countries and territories of risk.
7
EEnnggaaggeemmeenntt  aanndd  vvoottiinngg  aatt  aa  ggllaannccee
Our global reach Our voting trends Evolution of our 
engagements
The Vanguard funds’ stock  In the 2020 proxy year, the 
ownership is reflected in our  Vanguard funds voted on  We engaged with 793 
global engagements. Although  168,305 proposals at 18,476  companies, down from 868 
the U.S. is our largest area of  company meetings across  in 2019. (The decrease was 
focus, we are engaging with  every major financial market.  largely due to annual meetings 
an increasing number of  These meetings took place at  delayed during the pandemic.) 
companies around the world  12,135 portfolio companies,  These engagements reflected 
as our clients invest more  representing every major  54% of our global equity 
of their assets overseas. corporate sector. assets under management.
Our global reach
Our engagement activity is proportional to the geographical distribution of our assets, and our engagement 
approach tends to focus on companies or situations that will have the most impact on Vanguard funds.
Total engaged equity / Vanguard’s total equity Percentage of regional  |  Companies
AUM by region AUM for region equity AUM engaged engaged
Each full cube represents by region
$5 billion
Europe
Asia
$146.3B / $312.3B
$39.3B / $338.3B
47% | 179
12% | 42
United States
$1.67T / $2.75T
61% | 517
How to read Middle East
this map: and Africa
Vanguard has $63.8 billion $3.1B / $27.3B
in equity AUM in the Americas  Australia and
Americas 11% | 3
ex-U.S. Although we engaged  New Zealand
ex-U.S.
with only 23 companies in $36.9B / $72.0B
$18.1B / $63.8B
that region, they accounted
51% | 29
for 28% of those assets, or  28% | 23
$18.1 billion.
Notes: Data pertain to the 2020 proxy year. Assets under management are calculated as of June 30, 2020. The percentage of AUM engaged by region is calculated by dividing 
the AUM represented by our engagements in each region by the AUM represented by our total global engagements. As of June 30, 2020, the AUM represented by our total 
global engagements was $1.92 trillion.
8
5
1440
180
720
Our voting trends
Proposals  2016
Voting is one of the fundamental ways we voice 
the views of the Vanguard funds.
152,966
Companies, meetings, and proposals voted since the 2016 proxy year
Companies  2016 12,116
2017 2018
2017 13,025
2018 12,724
2019 13,225 170,190 168,786
2020 12,135
2019 2020
Meetings 2016 16,384
2017 18,685
2018 19,357 169,746 168,305
2019 18,961
2020 18,476
Note: The proxy year is measured from July 1 through June 30. 
Evolution of our engagements
Our engaged AUM is a function of our strategic engagements  
with companies across the globe. 
$2,273B
$1,917B
59%
$1,620B 54%
Assets  47%
engaged $1,138B
$1,004B 868
$910B 39% 34% 793
$600B 41%
721
Percentage 680
29%
of total fund  631
equity AUM 
530
engaged
443
Number of 
companies 
engaged
Each whole dot =
2 companies
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Notes: Dollar figures represent the market value of Vanguard fund equity investments in companies with which we engaged in each proxy year shown. Percentages of 
equity assets under management reflect the AUM of the companies Vanguard engaged with relative to Vanguard funds’ total equity AUM.
9
Regional roundup
Topics and trends that shaped this year’s global governance landscape.
Companies around the world are  As companies reflect on how they approach diversity, equity, 
and inclusion in their own workforce, they will likely be held 
experiencing a complex moment  
to higher standards—and challenged by shareholders who 
in history. 
seek action and greater disclosure to demonstrate a 
commitment to progress.
COVID-19 has taken a devastating toll on human life, health, 
well-being, and economic activity. What began as crisis  As you will see on the following pages, this proxy year saw 
management for companies has evolved into a focus on the  no shortage of unique governance situations and shareholder 
health and safety of employees, customers, and communities  proposals that highlight the evolution of corporate 
as companies have shifted capitalization strategies to meet  governance around the world. As companies turn their 
immediate business needs and boards have considered the  attention toward emerging risks, our engagements have 
short- and long-term impacts of the pandemic on business  become more complex as we seek to understand how 
strategy. boards will address those risks and related opportunities for 
their companies to stay relevant in the long term.
The pandemic also affected how companies interacted with 
their shareholders. During the proxy year ended June 30,  Our expectations of global companies on key environmental, 
2020, many companies adopted the use of virtual  social, and governance (ESG) matters continue to evolve as 
shareholder meetings. According to Institutional Shareholder  well. As our global Investment Stewardship program matures 
Services, Inc., over 2,000 U.S. companies held virtual  each year, we will continue to enhance our policies and 
shareholder meetings in the first half of 2020, compared with  engagement priorities in each region to achieve the best 
just under 300 for all of calendar year 2019. possible outcomes for shareholders.
Amid the pandemic, tragic events have put a spotlight  
on the racial and social injustices that persist in the world and 
have reinforced the importance of companies addressing 
associated risks and opportunities.
The Americas
Our engagements with companies in the Americas this  impact. Companies were asked to disclose their strategies 
proxy year centered on understanding how boards identify  for managing and mitigating greenhouse gas emissions and 
and oversee material risks, including climate- and diversity- aligning with goals set forth in the Paris Agreement. We also 
related risks, and how they disclose those to the market.  saw more climate-related proposals outside carbon-intensive 
Following a number of governance failures, we closely  industries, such as at financial firms, as shareholders looked 
monitored how company governance programs adapted to  for disclosure of climate-related risks in lending activities 
effectively oversee and manage risk. We also evaluated  and, in some cases, asked those firms to stop financing 
hundreds of shareholder proposals that reflect both the  activities in the energy and utilities sectors.
increasing complexity and the importance of ESG issues.
Vanguard expects boards to effectively oversee climate risks 
In the United States and Canada, climate-related proposals  and become more transparent about their decision-making 
remained top of mind for shareholders. These proposals  process through clear and effective disclosure. We support 
varied widely, from aligning long-term strategy with climate  the use of investor-oriented frameworks such as those 
risks to seeking targets for reducing companies’ climate  developed by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
10
Disclosures (TCFD) to enable better disclosure. The Paris  others have room for improvement. As companies are held 
Agreement goals have become a widely accepted standard  to higher standards, our expectations of them will increase 
for countries and companies aiming to address climate  accordingly. We expect to see more board and workforce 
change. Where climate change is a material risk, Vanguard  diversity proposals in the next year as human capital 
encourages companies to set and disclose targets that align  management issues continue to increase in importance.
with these goals, and to both assess and communicate their 
progress. In addition to climate change and diversity, political spending 
and lobbying proposals appeared on the ballot across nearly 
Diversity was another key topic this proxy season. In the  every sector. Boards were asked how they oversee strategy 
past, proposals related to diversity sought enhanced  and disclose risk when it comes to political contributions and 
disclosure of practices and metrics at the board level and  policies. We anticipate that these types of proposals will be 
often focused only on gender. This year, we saw several  an ongoing trend, as shareholders demand transparency in 
proposals across industries focused on workforce diversity,  how companies align their lobbying activities with corporate 
with an expanded focus on racial and ethnic diversity. While  strategy.
some companies have made progress in this area, many 
Europe, the Middle East, and Africa
We continued to invest in our London-based team, recruiting  many European companies put their executive pay policies 
more team members to support the regionalization of  to a shareholder vote for the first time. Our voting-related 
Vanguard’s stewardship program in order to benefit from a  engagements focused on the details of these proposals 
diversity of talent and perspectives. Coverage of our Middle  along with related topics such as the impact of COVID-19 on 
East and Africa portfolio was transitioned to Europe, giving  remuneration plans and, where relevant, the integration of 
the team an EMEA focus. In the coming year, the team will  ESG metrics.
also take ownership of the Asia portfolio. Our policy 
framework is evolving to incorporate local-specific guidelines  Since the pandemic struck Europe in early 2020, many of 
within established global principles. our conversations have been linked to COVID-19. We’ve 
sought to understand how boards are considering strategy 
European regulatory changes were a significant driver of  and risk management during the pandemic and the 
investment stewardship and ESG-related topics this proxy  implications for stakeholders. It has been valuable to see 
year as we continue to implement the European Union’s  companies making clear statements on this. We’ve also 
Shareholder Rights Directive II (SRD II) and the UK  taken a pragmatic approach to capital allocation proposals 
Stewardship Code 2020. Both these regulations call for  given the unprecedented nature of the crisis.
more disclosure of our voting and engagement activities. 
Vanguard has committed to be among the initial signatories  Amid a heightened public awareness of environmental 
to the UK Stewardship Code, and we plan to publish our  issues, investor activism continued to rise in Europe, and we 
report in the first half of 2021. carefully assessed a small number of climate-related 
shareholder proposals. Interest in stewardship is growing as 
The regulatory environment also influenced agenda items at  the focus shifts further toward sustainable investing.
European companies’ annual meetings, especially regarding 
executive remuneration. Because of SRD II requirements, 
11
Asia
We continue to see companies throughout the region make  missteps and accept accountability, resulting in leadership 
progress on the governance front. Over the last several  changes when warranted.
years, the evolution of governance codes has influenced 
companies to engage with shareholders such as Vanguard.  Granted, not every company reacted similarly. But those 
In many cases, our discussions were conducted with key  companies that enacted change serve as positive examples 
directors and executives, which led to meaningful  for others in the region and reinforce that an independent, 
conversations about strategy, risk, and board composition  diverse, and capable board can drive long-term value for 
and about important environmental and social topics. shareholders. An important catalyst in the region has been 
Japan’s Government Pension Investment Fund. The large 
This proxy season, additional forces drove this trend. We  institutional investor supports the country’s governance 
saw influential voices using the proxy system to improve  code and has been advocating for companies to embrace 
governance. These voices included domestic and  governance best practices.
international activist investors and large institutional 
investors all looking to orchestrate change at the companies  In other areas such as Hong Kong and China, a lack of 
they invest in. A series of high-profile governance failures  emphasis on improved standards has led to inconsistencies 
also forced change at several of the region’s bellwether  in how companies approach governance. In South Korea, 
companies. we have seen select companies begin implementing more 
substantive governance changes. There is still room for 
In Japan, more companies aligned their practices with  improvement throughout the region, but we are optimistic 
Japan’s Corporate Governance Code. We saw a decline in  about the broader trends toward independent, diverse 
anti-takeover defense tactics, which can stifle shareholder  boards; shareholder-friendly policies; and better oversight, 
rights. We also saw companies appoint independent  and we look forward to more companies proactively moving 
directors and female board members. In some cases,  to adopt best-practice governance structures.
boards were more transparent, willing to acknowledge their
Australia and New Zealand
Public and regulatory attention to climate risk markedly  Within companies, we also saw several shareholder 
increased this proxy year in Australia and New Zealand,  proposals and controversies that touched on societal 
including from government agencies with oversight of  issues that affect employees, communities, and indigenous 
disclosure practices by companies generally, and prudential  peoples. These incidents exemplify a growing 
supervision specifically in the case of financial sector  concern around the world about human rights, employment 
institutions. practices, and community-related issues, and they promise 
to be a focus of our future engagements.
The 2019 Australian proxy season brought an uptick  
in both climate-related shareholder proposals and the   The 2019 proxy year also saw some further progression of 
number of energy companies whose climate-related  the governance failures we have witnessed in Australia’s 
disclosures align with the TFCD’s standards, which we  financial sector. In 2018, a landmark government 
support. More leading companies in the region now aspire  commission found breaches of legal obligations, policies and 
to address emissions targets, scenario analysis, and carbon- procedures, company culture, and management and board 
neutral goals as laid out in the Paris Agreement. oversight at some of the country’s largest financial 
institutions. Our engagements with these institutions over 
Although there is still room for improvement, we appreciate  the last few years have evolved from understanding what 
that these companies now recognize the directional  triggered company missteps to discussing ways of 
expectations of investors and are being proactive about their  preventing future failings. We continue to probe on 
governance policies at a time when the bushfires that  oversight topics when we engage with these financial 
ravaged Australia in 2019 and 2020 have put climate change  institutions.
at the center of a national conversation.
12
A note about the following 
engagement case studies
Good disclosure can help investors and 
companies make better decisions. Market 
norms and expectations continue to move 
toward greater levels of disclosure in 
investment stewardship reporting.
Starting with this report, we are including the 
names of companies in our engagement case 
studies. By highlighting examples of our 
discussions with companies on a wide range 
of topics, challenges, and successes, we aim 
to demonstrate the benefits of sound 
corporate governance and investment 
stewardship practices.
We intend for our reporting to be fair, factual, 
and respectful. Vanguard values the candid 
exchange of perspectives that we have with 
company leaders in our engagements. We 
reaffirm our commitment to those trusting 
and productive conversations and to our 
shared interest in long-term value creation for 
shareholders.
13
Board 
composition
Good governance starts with a company’s board of directors. Historically, 
directors’ responsibilities have included hiring CEOs and setting compensation. 
But as board members help lead increasingly complex global companies, higher 
expectations are being placed on them. The job of a director now requires new 
skills, expertise, and time commitments as boards are asked to be a key voice 
on strategy and identify and govern material risks—both known and unknown. 
An effective board should be independent and reflect both diversity of 
personal characteristics (such as gender, race, and ethnicity) and diversity of 
skill, experience, and opinion. We believe—and research shows—that diverse 
boards can make better decisions, which can set in motion a virtuous circle 
that enables a company to innovate, seek out new customers, and enter new 
markets. If a company’s board is capable, diverse, and experienced, good 
results are more likely to follow.
14
Board composition
Vale’s board evolution    Our dialogue turned to the evolution of the board, and 
signals positive changes company leaders explained developments including  
the addition of six new independent directors, 
proposed changes to the board’s committee structure, 
We have held several engagements with Vale, a 
and a focus on sustainability and cultural 
Brazilian metals and mining company, following the 
transformation. The leaders said the board had 
2019 Brumadinho dam collapse that resulted in 
undergone peer evaluations to identify areas of 
significant loss of life and environmental impacts. An 
improvement and develop action plans. In addition, a 
internal investigation later exposed gaps in Vale’s board 
sustainability team is leading the effort to close ESG 
oversight and effectiveness, as well as issues related 
gaps and transform company culture, notably 
to company culture.
incorporating sustainability metrics into Vale’s 
compensation plan.
Disasters like the dam collapse often signal failures of 
risk oversight at multiple levels of the company, and 
It was clear from our discussion that the independent 
we’ve engaged in continuous dialogue to understand 
director was deeply involved in the board’s 
how that disaster influenced cultural and structural 
transformation, board initiatives, and engagements 
changes at Vale. In light of the global COVID-19 
with both shareholders and employees. The director 
pandemic, we also sought to understand how Vale has 
was well-informed and responsive to our feedback and 
internalized and applied disaster response lessons. 
areas of focus. We were pleased to see these 
When a critical failure is identified at a company, it’s 
important positive governance changes. We will 
important that the response be thorough and systemic, 
continue to encourage and monitor the implementation 
designed to improve the company’s response to any 
of governance and risk oversight best practices at Vale.
future risk and not just be specific to one isolated 
event.
In our most recent engagement with Vale’s leaders 
and an independent director, the board described its 
response to the pandemic, including reducing the 
number of workers in field operations and halting 
operations at affected facilities. Vale also noted its 
collaboration with Brazil’s government to transport 
millions of COVID-19 test kits to the country. We will 
continue to assess the company’s response to the 
pandemic.
15
Board composition
Evaluating a proxy contest   
over leadership at Lagardère
French media company Lagardère faced a proxy contest  
at its 2020 annual meeting. After an unsuccessful campaign 
to elect two directors to the company’s 12-member 
supervisory board in 2018, an activist shareholder group 
nominated eight new directors and sought to remove seven 
existing ones. We held engagements with directors at 
Lagardère as well as with representatives of the activist 
group.
The activist cited concerns with Lagardère’s sustained 
underperformance, which it believed was caused by the 
supervisory board’s ineffectiveness, flawed decisions about 
capital allocation, and poor corporate governance relating to 
the company’s commandite (limited partnership) structure. 
According to the activist, the first step to improved 
performance at Lagardère was to refresh the supervisory 
board.
While acknowledging lagging performance, Lagardère 
explained that it was undertaking a company transformation 
and had achieved recent successes as a result. The 
directors also expressed the need for leadership stability as 
the company faced the challenging impacts of COVID-19, 
and they did not think the dissident candidates could offer 
superior board expertise. We felt that Lagardère did not 
offer a compelling rationale for maintaining its unique 
governance structure, and we did not think that structure 
best served shareholders’ interests.
We concluded that there were further opportunities for the 
supervisory board to challenge and oversee the company 
more effectively on behalf of shareholders and that a 
change in board composition was warranted. On that basis, 
the Vanguard funds supported four proposed directors from 
the dissident slate, who we believed would add valuable 
skill and insight to Lagardère’s supervisory board.
Although the dissident candidates did not win the election, 
they received considerable support. We expect the 
company to reflect on shareholder feedback and consider 
implementing changes. We will continue to engage with 
Lagardère and assess its progress.
16
At TEGNA, dissident challenges   dissident’s perspective raised reasonable questions, 
our engagement with TEGNA’s board and our own 
board on strategic vision
analysis led the funds to support the incumbent board. 
During our multiple engagements with TEGNA, which 
TEGNA, a U.S.-based digital media and marketing 
included the independent board chair and several 
services company, was the target of a proxy contest to 
independent directors, we found TEGNA’s directors to 
replace four directors over concerns about the board’s 
be engaged and knowledgeable about the company’s 
ability to drive strategic growth at the company. In our 
plans. Furthermore, the board comprised diverse, 
evaluation of proxy contests, we seek to understand 
experienced directors whose skills aligned well with 
the case for change at the target company, the caliber 
TEGNA’s strategy.
of company and dissident board nominees, and the 
quality of the company’s governance.
We will continue to engage with TEGNA and monitor 
how the company delivers on its strategy to provide 
We engaged with both the dissident’s board nominees 
value for shareholders.
and members of TEGNA’s board and management. 
The dissident raised a number of concerns regarding 
their perception of the current board’s lack of focus on 
shareholder outcomes and a perceived lack of 
operational expertise. Although we thought the 
17
V
Oversight of 
strategy and risk
When we discuss strategy and risk with portfolio companies, we work to 
assess how deeply the board of directors understands the company’s 
strategy and is involved in identifying and governing material risks. This dual 
responsibility is taking an increasing amount of directors’ time as these 
strategies and associated risks become more complex. 
We believe there should be a constant exchange of information between a 
company’s board and management. After all, we expect directors to bring a 
wealth of experience and diverse perspectives to the boardroom, and they 
can provide valuable counsel to company leaders. And company 
management should be well-positioned to help board members understand a 
company’s risks and opportunities. But board members shouldn’t rely solely 
on management for assessments of their companies; they should educate 
themselves on competitive dynamics and seek outside opinions.
Ultimately, boards should work to prevent risks from becoming governance 
failures. We’ve seen increasing evidence that nontraditional but material risks 
related to environmental and social topics can damage a company’s long-
term value. If a company’s practices, organizational culture, or products put 
employees’ or customers’ health, safety, or dignity at risk, they can pose a 
financial risk to investors too. Strong oversight practices enable a board to 
steer a company through unpredictable crises like the pandemic.
18
Oversight of strategy and risk
Coca-Cola Amatil takes  Failed land deal exposes 
a strong governance approach lax oversight at Sekisui House
We had a productive strategic engagement with Coca- We engaged with Sekisui House, one of Japan’s largest 
Cola Amatil, a large Australian distributor of soft drinks  home builders, as it was grappling with the fallout from a 
and nonalcoholic beverages. In strategic engagements,  failed land deal. The company was forced to record a loss 
our research focuses on assessing how a company’s  on the deal, and its chairman and CEO stepped down. That 
strategy and long-term objectiveVs align with its approach  former executive eventually launched a proxy contest 
to governance. seeking to replace the board with a new slate of directors.
In our inaugural meeting, we engaged with board  The failed deal exposed lapses in oversight by the board 
members and company leaders who discussed how they  and management, including by the new chairman, who was 
navigated the company through recent bushfires that  formerly the chief operating officer and had helped vet the 
ravaged Australia. They walked us through their crisis  deal. When situations such as this unfold, we look to the 
management process—developed in the wake of  board to be transparent with shareholders about what 
previous natural disasters—that focused on protecting  happened and to institute policies and procedures to 
employees, mitigating supply-chain disruptions, and  prevent a recurrence.
ensuring that their products still made it into customers’ 
hands. Company leaders also said their experience with  We met with company leaders as well as members of the 
handling such disasters was helping them operate  dissident’s proposed board as we evaluated who would be 
efficiently during the pandemic. We appreciated the  better suited to navigate the company beyond the scandal. 
thoroughness of their approach to risk mitigation and the  Our due-diligence process included investigating the 
company’s seeming agility at a time when many peers  dissident’s accusations, assessing the qualifications of each 
were struggling. slate of directors, and judging which slate could get the 
company back on track with minimal disruption.
We were also pleased that the board had embraced 
diversity. Almost 40% of the directors are women,  We came away with more confidence in the current board; 
including the executive director and the independent  its members pointed out the actions they had already taken 
chair. The board has a range of skills, experience, and  to improve oversight and accountability by increasing the 
regional expertise and seeks diverse pools of candidates,  board’s independence and reducing the length of director 
as evidenced by the recent appointment of another well- terms to allow for annual elections. The board had also 
qualified woman to be a director. taken steps to better align executive compensation with 
long-term performance.
We provided our perspectives on the company’s 
structure for executive remuneration and expressed our  However, we agreed with the dissident that the new 
views on aligning compensation with appropriate long- chairman should be held accountable for his role in the 
term goals. We plan to follow up on this topic when we  failed deal. The Vanguard funds supported the current 
meet again with the company in the near future. directors, except for the new chairman. We will continue to 
monitor the company’s corrective actions and will reinforce 
our expectations for improved governance and risk 
oversight.
 
. 
19
Oversight of strategy and risk
Johnson & Johnson addresses  leaders talk about meaningful changes. Leaders of Kansai 
Electric explained how they brought in new leadership and 
oversight of opioid-related risks
overhauled how information flows to the board, and they 
described improvements they made to audit, compliance, 
We met with the lead independent director and management 
and risk policies. Tokyo Electric’s management updated us 
at Johnson & Johnson, a U.S. health care company, and had 
on employee safety, the decommissioning of the defunct 
a constructive conversation about a shareholder proposal 
nuclear power plant, and how the board is overseeing the 
requesting that the company report on the board’s oversight 
recovery process. Both boards emphasized their 
of opioid-related risks.
commitment to regain shareholders’ trust.
Johnson & Johnson leaders felt the proposal was 
We also discussed with both companies the recurring set of 
unnecessary given the company’s existing public disclosure. 
similar shareholder proposals that each received. Among 
We shared that although Johnson & Johnson’s existing 
them were several that asked the companies to divest from 
disclosures about its corporate response to the opioid 
coal and nuclear businesses because of employee and 
epidemic were robust, a consolidated view of the board’s 
community safety issues and potential harm to the 
governance of financial and reputational risks related to the 
environment. Although we acknowledge the environmental 
epidemic, as suggested in the proposal, would benefit 
and safety concerns with coal and nuclear power, and share 
shareholders and enable the board to better communicate its 
an interest in understanding their materiality to each 
oversight of such risks.
company and its plans for mitigating associated risks, we 
view these specific proposals as too prescriptive because 
Our prior engagements gave us confidence that company 
they encroach on a company’s routine operations. The 
leaders and the board are focused on this topic and 
Vanguard funds didn’t support them.
appreciate the risk it poses. Support for the board’s approach 
was reflected in the Vanguard funds’ support for the 
In future engagements, we want to hear about the 
company’s directors at the annual meeting. We noted in our 
companies’ efforts to address material risks by diversifying 
discussions, however, that we believed that consolidated 
their power-generation assets.
disclosure of the board’s oversight of risks related to the 
opioid epidemic would be valuable. We encouraged Johnson 
& Johnson to view the funds’ support of the shareholder  Samsung Electronics improves 
proposal as encouragement to enhance its disclosures and 
oversight after a scandal
better describe the board’s role in oversight of opioid-related 
risks. We discussed with the company that such disclosure 
We met with the management of South Korea’s Samsung 
would be helpful for shareholders, and the proposal 
Electronics to discuss its improvements to board oversight 
ultimately received a majority of shareholders’ support.
after an embezzlement case involving one of the country’s 
top politicians engulfed the company.
We plan continued positive engagements with the company 
as its disclosure on this topic evolves.
Company management provided an update on the addition 
of directors with government, audit, and legal experience 
Two Japanese utilities look  and members who broadened the board’s gender and 
regional diversity. Of particular note was the appointment 
to move on from past crises
of the company’s first independent chairman. The company 
also shared details about a new enterprise-wide advisory 
We conducted engagements with two of Japan’s largest 
compliance committee that serves as a consultant to 
electric utilities to track their progress in the wake of 
directors on certain governance issues. Although we 
previous crises. Kansai Electric has been embroiled in a 
consider these appropriate measures to begin regaining 
bribery case, and Tokyo Electric is still reeling from the 2011 
shareholder trust, in our next discussion we hope to 
Fukushima nuclear accident.
engage with board members who can provide details on 
board operations. 
During our meetings, we pressed leaders from both 
companies about the lessons they had learned from the 
Given Samsung Electronics’ stature, it has an opportunity to 
crises and any steps they were taking to improve oversight. 
set an example for governance best practices in Asia. The 
In these instances, we expect boards to be transparent 
company has taken initial positive steps, but we will look to 
about governance lapses. We were pleased to hear company 
hear from board members in the future about additional 
measures they have taken to improve governance.
20
Oversight of strategy and risk
Santander Consumer is boards. The company’s representatives demonstrated a 
clear approach to risk oversight and shared with us details 
pressed on racial discrimination
of how they monitored legal and reputational risks.
Santander Consumer USA, the U.S. subsidiary of Spain’s 
We were encouraged that Bayer also sought our input on 
Banco Santander, received a shareholder proposal requesting 
the development of its sustainability strategy. We provided 
that the board prepare a report on the risks of racial 
feedback, shared our views on ESG matters, and 
discrimination in its vehicle-lending business and any steps 
highlighted the importance of focusing on material risks. 
the company has taken to prevent such discrimination.
We also explained that, within the context of the German 
market, we would expect both the management and 
In our engagement, an executive explained that the 
supervisory boards to maintain oversight of material ESG 
proposal sought information the company already made 
factors. Bayer was receptive to Vanguard’s feedback and 
public in its regulatory filings and on its website and that its 
has since published its 2030 sustainability strategy.
fair-lending policy enabled the company to effectively 
oversee and manage risks similar to what the proposal 
outlined. But our analysis found that the company’s  Teleperformance under scrutiny
reporting provided a bare minimum of detail and lagged 
regarding workforce conditions
peers’ disclosures. In addition, the complete fair-lending 
policy isn’t made available to investors. Furthermore, given 
Following media and trade union allegations that 
the company’s recent history of paying fines to settle 
Teleperformance, a French technology and customer 
charges of predatory lending, we view the proposal as 
service outsourcing company, was not providing appropriate 
addressing a material risk.
COVID-19 safeguards to employees, we engaged with its 
chief financial officer and lead independent director to 
Given those points, we deemed the proposal appropriate, 
explore this topic.
and we felt it gave the company an opportunity to publicly 
share important information about how the board carries 
We raised concerns about the work practices and health 
out its oversight duties.
and safety arrangements put in place for their workforce in 
response to the pandemic and employees’ ability to safely 
The funds supported the proposal—as did other 
escalate issues. The leaders expressed that the board had 
shareholders—but ultimately the proposal failed to gain 
been quick to react to the COVID-19 crisis and that safety 
sufficient support given that the parent company controls a 
guidelines had been issued for all employees. In addition, 
majority of the shares. We plan to revisit this topic in future 
they told us that all incidents of COVID-19 at 
engagements, delivering our views directly to board members.
Teleperformance had been disclosed and that clear 
guidelines were in place about working from home and 
Bayer seeks to restore investors’  international travel. Despite this, they noted there had been 
confidence in its boards some COVID-related casualties.
We highlighted the importance of companies addressing 
We engaged multiple times with Bayer in the second half 
health and safety concerns through effective management 
of 2019, meeting with the chair of the supervisory board 
and board oversight, and that failing to do so could 
and the CEO on separate occasions, as well as providing 
significantly hurt the business’s long-term success.  
email feedback on the company’s development of its 
At a time of crisis, we explained, transparency about a 
sustainability strategy. At the German health care firm’s 
company’s actions, including reacting to newly identified 
2019 annual meeting, the funds’ voting expressed a lack of 
cases, is key. 
confidence in the ability of the supervisory and 
management boards to oversee new relevant risks for their 
Overall, we felt that Teleperformance did not clearly 
evolving business, particularly in relation to product safety 
articulate the systems and processes in place to help 
concerns that came to light after Bayer acquired Monsanto 
ensure that risks, especially pandemic-related ones, were 
in 2018.
elevated to board level. We plan a further engagement with 
the company in the second half of 2020 to follow up on 
After the funds’ vote at the annual meeting, Bayer showed 
these issues.
transparency in its efforts to restore confidence in the 
21
Oversight of strategy and risk
Climate change
Proposals seek greater  
climate-change disclosure
Companies in many sectors received shareholder proposals that 
sought greater disclosure on climate-change impacts and strategy 
alignments with the Paris Agreement, among other requests. 
We encourage companies to align their reporting with the TCFD, 
an industry group that developed consistent frameworks that 
enable companies and shareholders to measure and respond to 
climate-change risks. We support the Paris Agreement, which 
seeks to limit the global temperature increase to below 2 degrees 
Celsius. And our due-diligence process also incorporates peer 
comparisons and guidelines from the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) that identify material risks for different 
market sectors. 
Vanguard approaches climate-related governance issues 
thoughtfully. We analyze each proposal case by case using a 
flexible process, and we continually advance our understanding of 
climate-governance best practices. We encourage companies to 
do the same. Here are a few examples we saw this proxy year.
22
Oversight of strategy and risk
Climate change
Rio Tinto is pressed  Two energy companies are asked 
on Scope 3 emissions to align with the Paris Agreement
We engaged with Rio Tinto, the Anglo-Australian  In separate engagements, we met with the leaders of  
metals and mining company, to discuss a climate- Santos Limited and Woodside Petroleum, two of Australia’s 
related shareholder proposal at its 2020 annual  largest producers and marketers of natural gas, about 
meeting. The proponent called on the firm to  similar shareholder proposals they received requesting that 
disclose short-, medium-, and long-term targets and  they embrace emission-reduction targets outlined in the 
performance for its Scope 1, 2, and 3 greenhouse  Paris Agreement.
gas (GHG) emissions.
Although both companies have room for improvement—a 
Rio Tinto had already announced several climate- point we raised in our engagements—each has made 
change targets, including a 30% reduction in its  progress and commitments on disclosure, primarily 
emissions intensity by 2030, a 15% reduction in  regarding Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Santos, for example, 
absolute emissions by 2030, and net-zero emissions  has embraced carbon capture technology and aligned its 
by 2050. The proponent, however, believed that the  reporting with the TCFD framework. Both companies have 
company’s stated approach was not aligned with the  also committed to being carbon-neutral by 2050. Disclosure 
Paris Agreement. The proponent also highlighted the  about Scope 3 emissions in the energy industry is more 
lack of Scope 3 emissions reduction targets. nascent and, we believe, needs more time to mature 
before being mandated as the shareholder proposals 
When we met with Rio Tinto, the chairman explained  outlined.
that the firm’s business mix made it challenging to 
set meaningful Scope 3 emissions targets. Rio Tinto  For these reasons, we did not support the proposal at 
does not produce or sell carbon, so it cannot easily  either company. But we are closely monitoring industry 
reduce its Scope 3 emissions by exiting a business  conversations about Scope 3 emissions and look forward to 
line. In fact, most of its Scope 3 emissions relate to  seeing Scope 3 disclosures evolve in the energy industry.
the use of the commodities it mines, which means a 
high exposure to the carbon-intensive activities 
associated with aluminum smelting and steelmaking. 
As a result, Rio Tinto has focused on developing 
partnerships to address the carbon intensity of steel 
and to evaluate the aluminum value chain.
Categories of greenhouse  
We recognize Rio Tinto’s business-specific  gas emissions
challenges but expressed the need for better 
disclosure about its partnerships, including explicit  Scope 1 emissions: Direct greenhouse 
information on how these partnerships help reduce  emissions from a firm’s activities or aspects 
the company’s Scope 3 emissions. The company  under its control.
acknowledged it could be clearer about its 
partnerships’ objectives. Scope 2 emissions: Indirect greenhouse 
gas emissions from electricity purchased 
At this time, Rio Tinto does not appear to be  
and used by a firm.
in a position to set meaningful targets to reduce 
Scope 3 emissions, so we decided it was too early  
Scope 3 emissions: All other indirect 
to support the binding shareholder proposal. We are 
emissions from a firm’s activities, occurring 
monitoring the company’s progress on this topic and 
from sources it doesn’t own or control.
will engage further to discuss this and other high-
profile issues, such as its destruction of an Aboriginal 
heritage site in Australia in May 2020.
23
Oversight of strategy and risk
Climate change
Exxon adds more duties  funds would carefully evaluate the proposal in 2021 with 
particular attention to evidence of independent oversight of 
to its lead director role
management. 
We engaged with leadership from Exxon to discuss director 
Over several years, Vanguard has raised concerns with 
elections, the board’s approach to industry expertise, and a 
Exxon’s independent oversight, including the board’s lack of 
number of shareholder proposals ahead of the company’s 
industry expertise. Effective oversight of corporate strategy 
annual meeting. Earlier in 2020, the energy firm took positive 
and material risks requires deep industry knowledge. Even 
steps to strengthen independent leadership on the board and 
with enhancements to the board’s independent leadership, 
expand shareholder rights, reflecting feedback that Vanguard 
Vanguard remains concerned that without the appropriate 
had provided in prior years.
level of industry expertise, directors will not be able to 
challenge management on important governance and risk 
Among those changes, the board renamed the position of 
management topics. We look forward to continued 
“presiding director” to “lead director” and added to that 
engagement with the company—particularly with 
role’s list of responsibilities—including overseeing shareholder 
independent board members—about these critical matters.
engagement, providing feedback to the chairman, and leading 
the annual performance evaluation of the CEO. Although 
we support these initial steps, Vanguard expects them to be  Advocating for improved 
followed by substantive action demonstrating this change to 
disclosure at Sanderson Farms
shareholders, including future engagement with independent 
directors without the CEO’s presence—a routine practice 
We met with leaders of Sanderson Farms, a U.S. poultry 
when engaging with a board about its approach to 
producer, to discuss a shareholder proposal asking that the 
independent oversight.
board provide a report on water resource risks in line with the 
In the past, shareholders have expressed concern that   reporting framework set out by the Sustainability Accounting 
the combined role of CEO and chair inhibits feedback   Standards Board (SASB). We recognize that such disclosures 
on important governance matters, such as oversight of  are a new area for companies and that some are just starting 
climate risk. For many years, shareholders brought forth   to think through the best approach to report on them. 
a proposal that the company require an independent   Although we were encouraged to hear the company’s verbal 
chairman; that proposal received more than 40% support   intent to incorporate SASB standards into its reporting, we 
in 2019 and came up for consideration again in 2020.  were concerned by its hesitance to commit to doing so 
Investors have expressed that strengthening independent  publicly.
leadership would help drive strategic changes on important 
Vanguard understands that companies are at different points 
oversight matters, including Exxon’s oversight, disclosure, 
in reporting on their sustainability practices, but we look for 
and approach to climate change.
improved disclosure as disclosure practices mature. We 
In our engagement, we sought to understand how the board  stressed with company leaders that absent a public 
determined who should be lead director and how shareholder  commitment to improve their disclosure, our funds were 
feedback weighed on the board’s decision-making  likely to support the shareholder proposal. After several 
process. Generally, the Vanguard funds will vote against  discussions with company leaders, Sanderson Farms agreed 
shareholder proposals to separate the roles of CEO and chair,  to publicly announce its intention to integrate SASB reporting 
absent significant concerns about board independence,  standards into its sustainability disclosures by the end of its 
responsiveness to shareholders, or governance failings,  fiscal year.
among other considerations. Exxon’s recent changes to the 
Given management’s commitment to align the company’s 
lead director role and a change allowing shareholders that 
reporting with the SASB framework, the funds did not 
own 15% of outstanding shares to call a special meeting 
support the shareholder proposal. We will continue to engage 
without the requirement for a court order are positive 
with the company and monitor its progress as it moves 
incremental steps to address structural governance 
forward on sustainability reporting.
issues that impede shareholder rights. In the recent proxy 
season, shareholders once again voted on the independent 
board chair proposal. With the likely recognition of the recent  iA Financial is asked to enhance 
enhancements made to strengthen the lead director role, the 
its climate-change reporting
2020 proposal received a reduced 32.7% support. Although 
the Vanguard funds voted against this proposal in 2020 given 
iA Financial, a Canadian insurance company, received three 
these changes, we communicated to the company that the 
shareholder proposals that asked the board to produce a 
24
Oversight of strategy and risk
Climate change
report that analyzes climate change’s impacts on the  They also shared how Dollar Tree has taken meaningful 
business, to adopt objectives that reduce the environmental  steps to improve its sustainability reporting and has publicly 
impacts, and to hire experts to help the company guide its  committed to disclosing its GHG emissions disclosures and 
sustainability efforts. long-term goals by next year’s annual meeting.
In our engagement, the board chairman and company  We agreed with the proposal’s intent and, given Dollar Tree’s 
executives explained that they consider climate change as  pledge to enhance reporting in line with the shareholder’s 
part of their risk oversight process and said that a separate  request, the Vanguard funds supported the proposal. The 
board committee focuses on ESG matters. But the chairman  funds’ vote reflected our view that meaningful disclosure can 
also acknowledged that the company had room for  provide greater visibility into the board’s risk oversight.
improvement and committed to enhancing its disclosures in 
the near future. We appreciated the leaders’ candid 
Shareholder proposal prompts 
assessment.
climate discussion at Barclays
Ultimately, the funds voted in favor of one of the proposals 
that asked for a climate report, because the company’s  At Barclays’ 2020 annual meeting, a shareholder proposal 
disclosures lagged those of peers and touched only on direct  asked the board of the U.K. financial services company to 
emissions targets. Based on our analysis of the myriad ways  report annually on targets to phase out financial activities in 
that climate change can affect insurers, we believe that  the energy and utilities sectors—including lending, project 
climate change puts certain insured assets at a greater risk of  financing, corporate finance, and underwriting—that are not 
loss. iA Financial derives a portion of its sales revenues from  aligned with the Paris Agreement.
property and casualty insurance, so we believe that investors 
will benefit from greater disclosure about this risk. Through several discussions, Barclays’ board chair and 
company leaders explained that the company thought the 
As for the other proposals, our engagement gave us  spirit of the shareholder request—to do more on climate—
confidence that iA Financial’s board was committed to  was reasonable. But they expressed concern about specific 
making directional improvements to its reporting. Because of  language and implementation aspects in the proposal. They 
that, we didn’t support a proposal requesting the board’s  also outlined Barclays’ engagement with the proponent and 
hiring of advisory experts, because we believe that the board  how the company planned to proceed.
has discretion on how to perform its oversight duties.
We were pleased to hear a candid assessment by the board 
The funds did not support the proposal that sought climate  chair of Barclays’ approach to climate change and how the 
impact-reduction objectives, because iA Financial already  company intended to improve upon—and even in some 
assesses its environmental impact targets internally and plans  cases go beyond—what peers were doing on this topic. Our 
to disclose its assessment in the near term. discussions made clear that the chair was well-informed and 
committed to meaningful progress on both addressing 
climate-related risks and disclosing how Barclays is meeting 
Dollar Tree takes positive steps 
targets that align with the Paris Agreement. To that end, the 
toward climate disclosures
company had decided to put forth its own climate-related 
proposal, which set ambitious goals to become net zero on 
Climate change extends beyond obvious sectors such as  all GHG emissions by 2050 in alignment with the Paris 
energy and transportation. When we engage with boards in  Agreement, to disclose targets and strategy, and to report 
consumer-related industries, we regularly discuss climate risk  annually on progress.
and related sustainability topics.
Although both the shareholder and management proposals 
We met with Dollar Tree, an operator of discount retail  focused on a similar topic, they required different approaches 
stores, to discuss a shareholder proposal asking for a report  to implementation. It was important to consider those 
that aligns the company’s long-term business strategy with  different approaches, as each proposal was binding if it drew 
the projected long-term constraints posed by climate change.  enough support. Ultimately, we voted against the 
We viewed the proposal as a reasonable request for greater  shareholder proposal and in favor of the management 
disclosure, allowing the company flexibility in reporting on its  proposal. In our view, the management proposal, while 
management of GHG emissions. During our engagement,  ambitious, presented a workable transition over a sensible 
Dollar Tree board members emphasized that they consider  time frame. We determined that management’s approach 
energy management an important issue for the company.  was in the best interest of long-term shareholders.
25
V
Oversight of strategy and risk
Diversity
Attention on diversity as social issues  
gain the spotlight
Vanguard has long advocated for diversity in the boardroom. As 
representatives acting on behalf of our funds, we have the 
responsibility of electing directors who oversee the companies in 
which our funds invest. Last year, we outlined our board diversity 
expectations for companies. We hope to see significant progress 
in the future, and our investment stewardship approach will evolve 
over time to reflect those higher standards. 
During the reporting period, we evaluated a number of shareholder 
proposals related to board composition and human capital topics 
such as workforce diversity. In the examples that follow, we 
provide insight into our case-by-case approach on these matters.
26
Our board diversity expectations of public companies
1. Publish your perspectives on board diversity. 3. Broaden your search for director candidates.
Here’s what we ask companies: Does your board share its  We encourage boards to look beyond traditional candidate 
policies or perspectives on diversity? How do you approach  pools—those with CEO-level experience—and purposely 
board evolution? What steps do you take to get the widest  consider candidates who bring diverse perspectives into the 
range of perspectives and avoid groupthink? Vanguard and  boardroom. 
other investors want to know.
4. Make progress on this front. 
2. Disclose your board diversity measures. 
Vanguard expects companies to make significant progress 
We want companies to disclose the diversity makeup of  on boardroom diversity across multiple dimensions and to 
their boards on dimensions such as gender, age, race,  prioritize adding diverse voices to their boards in the next 
ethnicity, and national origin, at least on an aggregate basis. few years.
27
Oversight of strategy and risk
Diversity
Proposal at Fortinet seeks  In our 2019 engagement, the company shared concerns 
that providing employees’ self-reported data without 
diversity data beyond the board
sufficient context would misrepresent its workforce. Given 
Fastenal’s resistance to disclosing the specific metrics the 
This proxy season, we saw more proposals asking for 
proponent requested, we strongly encouraged the company 
diversity disclosures that extend beyond the boardroom.
to disclose workforce diversity information using industry-
recognized frameworks, such as the SASB standards. In 
As these types of proposals have evolved, so has our 
response to the 2019 vote, the company added a webpage 
thinking on this topic. We have long believed in the 
dedicated to corporate social responsibility. The page 
importance of diversity in the boardroom. The effective 
shared one data point highlighting the growth in female and 
boards of today and tomorrow—and the workforces they 
minority representation in Fastenal’s workforce. We were 
oversee—should reflect all facets of diversity. We have 
disappointed in this limited disclosure that did not address 
encouraged boards to disclose their perspectives on this 
the spirit of shareholder feedback.
topic and have begun encouraging them to be more 
transparent about other workplace diversity metrics.
We engaged with company leaders again this year to try to 
understand how their perspective had evolved since the 
Fortinet, a U.S. cybersecurity firm, received a shareholder 
2019 vote. The company reiterated its view that diversity 
proposal requesting that the board publish an annual 
data could be misinterpreted. While we appreciate that 
report assessing its diversity and inclusion efforts and 
standardized data cannot capture all nuances related to a 
that it provide context on how the company is meeting 
company’s practices, we do not believe this is a reason to 
goals for recruiting and maintaining a diverse workforce.
withhold information altogether. We emphasized in our 
engagement that we wanted to see improved disclosure to 
Our due diligence found that the company’s disclosures 
the market, with both quantitative and qualitative 
on this topic lagged its peers. We also thought the 
information that is relevant and decision-useful for 
proposal was reasonable, as the information in the 
investors. The proposal would not limit the company’s 
requested report would help investors better assess  
ability to contextualize the data. 
the board’s oversight on this topic, and it avoided setting 
overly prescriptive diversity quotas.
To comply with federal regulations, the company already 
collects and reports the requested information on employee 
In our engagement, Fortinet executives acknowledged 
gender, race, and ethnicity in the EEO-1 Survey, a report 
that the company’s diversity disclosures could be more 
that employers must file with the U.S. Equal Employment 
robust and added that an internal committee had already 
Opportunity Commission. This survey is one way of 
begun work on improving them. They asked for more 
disclosing high-quality diversity statistics and is more 
time to conclude that work.
specific than our original feedback. Given the lack of 
responsiveness and a clear gap in robust quantitative 
We considered the concerns and their request, but 
disclosure of material risk, we felt our support of this 
ultimately the funds voted to support the proposal. We 
format was appropriate. 
believed the proposal would help guide the company 
toward disclosing decision-useful information. And since 
The Vanguard funds supported the shareholder proposal. 
the company had already begun the work, we were 
We did not think the company’s existing disclosure 
comfortable that our vote was in the best interests of 
sufficiently addressed workforce diversity, nor had our 
long-term shareholders.
engagement led to meaningful progress. In analyzing the 
proposal, we determined that the shareholder’s request 
Strong case for sharing metrics  was reasonable, as the company was already collecting 
on diversity at Fastenal EEO-1 data. The proposal passed, and our expectation is 
that the company will put shareholder feedback into action.
During the proxy year, we evaluated a shareholder 
proposal at Fastenal, a U.S. industrial supply distributor, 
that sought disclosure of the company’s workforce 
diversity metrics, including gender, race, and ethnicity. 
The same proposal at the 2019 annual meeting received 
41% support, demonstrating its importance to 
shareholders.
28
Oversight of strategy and risk
Diversity
Marriott engagement sheds light  frameworks were analyzed for the company’s corporate 
sustainability report, it established its own custom 
on hospitality firms’ reporting
framework.
Marriott International, a U.S. hospitality company, received a 
We provided candid feedback that Genuine Parts’ 
shareholder proposal to publish an employment diversity 
disclosure lagged that of peers, and we encouraged the 
report that included the gender and racial composition of its 
company to include more details about these programs in 
workforce.
its reporting. We also emphasized our support for using 
industry-recognized frameworks, such as SASB’s, to 
We met with company executives and the shareholder 
provide decision-useful, comparable information to 
proponent to inform our research. We were pleased to hear 
investors. We have found that custom frameworks can 
that Marriott’s board is devoted to employment diversity and 
omit details that are crucial to understanding boards’ 
regularly meets with company management on diversity 
oversight of certain topics.
matters. Marriott discussed its holistic approach to 
disclosure, and we learned that the board had previously 
The funds’ vote reflects our belief that Genuine Parts 
engaged with the proponent and committed to improve its 
should make greater progress on its disclosures, to help the 
reporting to be more consistent with data provided by peers. 
market understand its current practices and exposure to 
We acknowledged that the proponent’s assessment of 
material risk.
diversity data focused more on gender than on race or 
ethnicity, but we noted that they were primarily comparing 
Marriott’s disclosures with those of peers outside the  Restaurant Brands is asked for 
company’s sector where more diversity progress has been 
report on franchisee practices
made. Our own research found that Marriott’s diversity 
disclosure was comparable with that of hospitality peers.
In recent years, workforce management practices among 
franchisees of Restaurant Brands International—the parent 
Our analysis ultimately led the Vanguard funds to vote 
company of Burger King, Tim Hortons, and Popeyes—has 
against the proposal. Although the funds are likely to  
drawn public criticism. We met with company leaders to 
support shareholder proposals that seek reasonable and 
discuss a shareholder proposal, received for the second 
effective risk disclosure, we found the request in this case  
year in a row, asking for a report on the workforce practices 
to be misguided; Marriott publishes diversity disclosures that 
of its franchisee operations.
are in line with those of direct peers, and it has committed to 
improve that disclosure. Although the funds did not support 
Restaurant Brands identifies labor practices as a material 
this proposal, Vanguard expects companies in the hospitality 
risk to its business, which is in line with the SASB reporting 
industry to make progress on racial and ethnic diversity 
framework. We appreciated the company’s continued 
disclosures, and we will continue to engage with companies 
concern regarding the feasibility of producing a report that 
to drive progress on this important topic.
can address its multiple jurisdictions and individual 
franchisee agreements, and we recognized that franchisee 
At Genuine Parts, a vote employees do not necessarily fall under the company’s 
for diversity disclosures direct responsibility.
Ultimately, as a result of our analysis, the funds supported 
The Vanguard funds supported a shareholder proposal for 
the proposal. Given that consumers don’t view restaurant 
diversity-related risk disclosure at Genuine Parts Company, 
chains as individual entities, the company has active 
an American consumer discretionary firm.
reputational risks from failing to report on the management 
of workforce issues. From the time of our 2019 
Our research and engagement with the company led us to 
engagement, we have failed to see meaningful progress in 
conclude that the proposal was an appropriate request, that 
Restaurant Brands’ disclosures or a commitment by its 
it targeted material risks, and that a gap existed between 
board to address this topic. The proposal is broad enough 
the company’s disclosure on this topic and that of its peers. 
to allow the company flexibility to tailor a report to its 
Management team members highlighted several internal 
jurisdiction and franchisee limitations.
programs that they believed support a positive workplace. 
We found, however, that Genuine Parts did not disclose 
The funds’ support of the proposal reinforced our belief in 
quantitative data on its practices, that its metrics were not 
the importance of material disclosure, and we will continue 
publicly available, and that although third-party reporting 
to engage with Restaurant Brands to make positive 
changes in this area.
29
Executive 
compensation
Sound compensation (remuneration) policies and practices linked to 
performance that extend well beyond the next quarter or year are 
fundamental drivers of sustainable, long-term value. Compensation 
expectations and norms vary by industry sector, company size, and 
geographic location; therefore, we do not take a “one-size-fits-all” approach to 
executive compensation. 
In our engagements on this topic, we seek to understand the business 
environment in which pay-related decisions are made and how a board 
structures pay to incentivize outperformance over the long term versus peers. 
Companies should provide clear disclosure about their compensation practices 
and how they link to performance and to the company’s espoused strategy. 
This disclosure gives shareholders confidence that the board is looking out for 
their best interests.
30
Executive compensation
Shareholders at Uber voice   Oversized compensation package 
concerns over CEO’s pay at Alphabet draws scrutiny
Following Uber Technologies’ initial public offering in  We expressed compensation-related concerns over several 
2019, we engaged with the company to share  years to leaders of Alphabet, a multinational technology 
Vanguard’s approach to governance and discuss the  conglomerate and parent company of Google. That topic 
Uber board’s perspective on topics including board  remained prominent in our most recent engagement, when 
diversity, compensation, and oversight of strategy  we discussed Alphabet’s 2020 Say on Pay proposal. 
across multiple business lines.
This is the third straight year the Vanguard funds have 
voted against the company’s Say on Pay proposal. Alphabet 
In our most recent dialogue, we echoed other 
awarded a large compensation package to its new CEO, 
shareholders’ concerns that the CEO’s significant 
who took on the role in late 2019. In our discussion, 
retention award, with a one-year vesting period, was 
company executives shared that the board’s support of the 
excessive and misaligned with the long-term interests 
pay package signaled their confidence in the CEO as the 
of shareholders. The total compensation package 
best candidate to lead the company.
included a new-hire restricted stock unit grant of $55 
million, which was not aligned with performance 
We did not, however, gain any more comfort about the 
metrics. The company thought the grant was 
magnitude and structure of the equity plan awarded to the 
warranted to compensate the CEO for options the 
CEO. Vanguard believes that compensation policies that are 
executive left behind at a previous employer in order to 
long-term-focused and tied to a relative performance metric 
accept the job at Uber. The company attributed the 
can help to incentivize long-term shareholder value creation. 
award to the challenges of attracting and retaining top 
In evaluating the plan, we found a misalignment between 
talent in a highly competitive environment. When 
pay and performance. We also would have liked to see a 
evaluating executive compensation plans, we look to 
greater portion of compensation in the long-term plan tied 
see compensation aligned to relative total shareholder 
to company performance with links to a more rigorous 
return that incorporates rigorous targets with a long-
metric, such as relative total shareholder return.
term (at least a three-year) performance period.
As this was the third year the Vanguard funds voted against 
Ultimately, the Vanguard funds voted against the Say 
the proposal, they also withheld support from the chair of 
on Pay proposal this year. We expect the board to 
the compensation committee. Through our engagement 
implement appropriate incentives to better align with 
and voting activity, we will continue to voice our 
shareholders’ long-term interests. 
expectations that executive compensation be aligned  
to long-term shareholder value.
Although we expressed significant concerns about 
executive compensation, the company did take 
positive steps to improve its board. Two directors, who 
were considered “overboarded” by our director 
commitments policy, stepped down from their excess 
directorships. As Uber navigates its first year as a 
publicly listed company, we look forward to 
encouraging good governance practices through 
productive engagements in the future.
31
Executive compensation
Concerns raised about   policy and was terminated “without cause”—a classification 
that provided a larger severance payment than if the 
CEO payout at Ocado
termination had been “with cause.” We met with the 
Compensation Committee chairman and company 
In 2019, the CEO of Ocado, a British online supermarket, 
executives to better understand the board’s decision and to 
received a total pay packet of £58.7 million—a high amount 
properly evaluate whether the benefits to shareholders of a 
in the U.K. market, particularly given the current political 
“without cause” termination warranted the large payout.
sensitivity surrounding executive pay. Of the payout, £54 
million was attributed to the company’s Growth Incentive 
Company executives shared that the policy violation had 
Plan (GIP), which was put in place in 2014 as a one-off 
been brought quickly to the board’s attention and that they 
award atop its existing pay structures. Shareholders 
had taken a thoughtful approach in deciding on the CEO’s 
approved the GIP in 2014 despite opposition by 26% of the 
termination and severance. We agreed with McDonald’s that 
votes, including Vanguard’s. We had voted against the plan 
the board’s decisive actions allowed for a smooth transition 
given the lack of a compelling rationale and given our 
to the current CEO, and that they best minimized 
concerns about the total potential payout.
shareholder impact by avoiding prolonged litigation, excess 
costs, and continued reputational risks. When we asked 
This year, our concerns about the GIP came to fruition. 
about the three years of continued stock-option vesting that 
Although Ocado did exceptionally well over the 
was part of the payout, we learned that the former CEO was 
performance period, we did not feel we could support the 
subject to continued stock price and performance factors, as 
award given our concerns about its structure and the total 
vesting schedules are not accelerated for executives.
payout. Therefore, we voted against the remuneration 
report at the company’s annual meeting.
Although we communicated our reservations about the 
“without cause” determination, the Vanguard funds 
Nearly 30% of shareholders voted as we did, and we 
ultimately voted in support of the Say on Pay proposal. 
contacted Ocado to explain our votes. As this was a one-off 
Overall, McDonald’s has been responsive to our 
plan that was discontinued, it is unlikely to present ongoing 
engagements and feedback. Its compensation program is 
issues, and we already had taken steps to engage with the 
generally well-structured and has historically received high 
company on improving its remuneration structures ahead of 
support year after year. We recognize that the termination 
the 2020 annual meeting. In 2019, we engaged with Ocado 
was a difficult situation for the board, with no easy answers. 
twice regarding its remuneration policy, to encourage the 
After our engagement with the company and our extensive 
company to make improvements to address shareholder 
analysis, we felt the board had taken the cleanest path to 
concerns about pay outcomes. We will continue to monitor 
support long-term shareholder value for investors.
this and engage on the topic.
(After our reporting period concluded, McDonald’s filed a 
Say on Pay decision follows  lawsuit to recover the former CEO’s compensation and 
severance benefits, based on results from a second 
leadership change at McDonald’s
investigation. We recognize that a company’s CEO sets the 
tone for its culture. We will continue to monitor this matter 
Vanguard orients each vote and company engagement 
and other recent developments, such as discrimination 
around one question: How does this support the long-term 
allegations by some franchisees, as we encourage actions 
value for our investors?
that are in shareholders’ best long-term interests.)
McDonald’s Corporation, the U.S. fast-food company, had 
a Say on Pay vote at this year’s annual meeting that merited 
careful analysis. In 2019, the former CEO violated company 
32

Shareholder
rights
Shareholder rights should empower shareholders to use their voice and their 
vote to ensure the accountability of a company’s board. Shareholders should 
be able to hold directors accountable as needed through governance 
provisions such as annual elections that require securing a majority of votes. 
In instances where a board appears resistant to shareholder input, we support 
the right of an appropriate proportion of shareholders to call special meetings 
and to place director nominees on the company’s ballot. 
We also understand the value and weight each vote holds for shareholders, 
and we prefer the adoption of “one-share, one-vote” structures over time. 
We believe that companies need to have governance structures in place that 
serve as a safety net to protect and support foundational rights for 
shareholders.
34
Shareholder rights
Bloomin’ Brands receptive Voting for shareholders’ 
to shareholder rights policies  best interests at Lawson
We engaged with Bloomin’ Brands, the parent company of  We engaged with an executive from Lawson Products, a 
several casual-dining restaurant chains. The range of topics  U.S.-based industrial distribution company, to discuss 
we covered included a shareholder proposal to declassify  proposed changes to its governance structures. At this 
(annually elect) the board of directors. year’s annual meeting, management put forth several 
proposals to modernize the company’s corporate 
We shared with the company our intention to support the  governance provisions, including declassifying the board 
proposal. A declassified board can empower shareholders  and giving shareholders the right to call a special meeting. 
to use their voice and vote to hold directors accountable.  Other proposals recommended amendments to the 
We also noted our preference that the board adopt other  company’s bylaws and certificate of incorporation to 
shareholder-friendly governance provisions, such as proxy  eliminate supermajority vote requirements, among other 
access and the right to call a special meeting. Company  provisions. 
leaders indicated their support for proxy access and 
special-meeting policies and said they would look to  Vanguard typically views such votes on foundational 
transition to annual director elections within the next   governance principles as straightforward, but this set of 
few years. votes required deeper analysis because a single 
shareholder controls 48 percent of voting power. In 
Two other proposals—an advisory vote on executive  addition, the nonexecutive chairman of the board is a 
compensation and a shareholder request for disclosure of  principal of the near-controlling shareholder, an investment 
GHG emissions within the company’s supply chain—were  advisory firm.
discussed during our meeting. The Vanguard funds 
supported the advisory vote on executive compensation,  In our engagement, the company shared a desire to update 
but we suggested that the company include a relative  its legacy governance standards to modern-day best 
performance metric in its long-term incentive plan, as that  practices. The Vanguard funds will generally support 
better aligns pay with performance. proposals to eliminate supermajority vote requirements. In 
this case, reducing the vote requirement from 75 percent of 
The funds did not support the shareholder proposal about  shares outstanding to a majority of shares outstanding 
GHG emissions. We found the company’s current  would enable the near-controlling shareholder to implement 
standards and commitment to improving environmental  changes that may not be in the best interests of all 
disclosures in this area sufficient to address the proposal’s  shareholders. Although the company had no concerns 
requests; however, we will look for the company to make  about the near-controlling shareholder’s voting power, we 
progress in its reporting. believed that supporting management on these proposals 
could potentially harm shareholder rights. As a result, the 
In an industry that COVID-19 has severely affected, we  funds voted against a number of management ballot items, 
were encouraged by the board’s responsiveness and  including all three proposals to eliminate supermajority vote 
support of management in this challenging environment.  requirements.
We will look to future engagements with Bloomin’ Brands 
to provide our perspectives as it works toward adopting  The funds voted to support proposals to declassify the 
best-in-class corporate governance practices. board and establish the right to call special meetings. 
Companies should have governance structures that protect 
and support shareholder rights and ensure the board’s 
accountability. Although we supported the company’s goal 
of modernizing its corporate governance provisions, we had 
significant concerns about the near-controlling shareholder. 
This example highlights our case-by-case approach to voting 
and engagement.
35
Key votes
One of the most visible signs of Vanguard’s engaged ownership is our funds’ proxy  important governance topic elevated during the proxy season, or communicated our 
voting at company shareholder meetings. Our Investment Stewardship team votes on  view of positive progress—or lack of it—by a company and its board. In some instances, 
behalf of Vanguard’s internally managed equity holdings. Our votes are an important  more than one proposal that our analysts evaluated for a given company is included.
opportunity for the funds to protect the best interests of long-term investors.
A bullet (•) after a company name denotes that a case study is available in this report; a 
The following table lists select proxy votes by the funds for the 12 months ended June  diamond (◊) in the Item column denotes a management proposal. Highlighting these 
30, 2020. We highlight these because they involved a vote at a company in which  votes and their rationale is part of our growing effort to provide transparency into 
Vanguard holds a meaningful ownership position, conveyed our perspective on an  Vanguard’s investment stewardship voting activities.
Americas
Meeting  Vote 
Company name date Item Proposal description Instruction Vote rationale
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.  5/7/20 3 ◊ Approve compensation         For Pay-for-performance alignment; well-structured and 
includes relative performance metric
Alphabet, Inc. • 6/3/20 1.6 ◊ Elect director: Compensation committee chair       Against Director accountability: Recurring compensation 
concerns 
6/3/20 4 ◊ Approve compensation         Against Majority time-based pay with insufficient rationale; 
performance-based portion lacks rigorous metric
Amalgamated Bank  4/29/20 3 ◊ Amend articles: Explicitly consider all  For Current structure (B Corp) supports inclusion of 
stakeholders in business decisions   stakeholder considerations in business decisions
Amazon.com, Inc. 5/27/20 10 Report on gender pay gap      Against Misdirected: Sufficient practices and disclosures 
5/27/20 15 Report on human rights assessment      Against Misdirected: Sufficient disclosures and commitment to 
greater progress within reasonable time frame
American Tower Corp. 5/18/20 4 Report on political spending       Against Sufficient risk oversight, and political spending amount is 
minimal
Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. 5/12/20 4 Adopt board diversity policy       Against Sufficient policies and practices at board and 
management levels
Bank of America Corp. 4/22/20 7 Amend documents: Align with Statement on  Against Misdirected: Sufficient practices exist to enable 
the Purpose of a Corporation alignment with Business Roundtable commitments
Barnwell Industries, Inc.  4/3/20 1.1–1.5 Elect shareholder director nominees       For Proxy contest: Dissident provided compelling case for 
change and control
Berkshire Hathaway, Inc. 5/2/20 4 Adopt board diversity policy       Against Reasonable ask, but company has sufficient practices
Bloomin' Brands, Inc. • 5/29/20 5 Declassify the Board of Directors      For Governance provision that enables shareholders to hold 
directors accountable
36
Americas
Meeting  Vote 
Company name date Item Proposal description Instruction Vote rationale
Boeing Co.  4/27/20 1.07 ◊ Elect director         Against Director accountability: Oversight failure
4/27/20 6 Require independent board chairman    For Risk oversight concerns: Proposal will enhance board 
leadership and benefit shareholders
Capital One Financial Corp. 4/30/20 5 Require independent board chairman          Against We had no concerns with structure or risk oversight
Charles Schwab Corp. 5/12/20 6 Report on workforce diversity       Against Sufficient quantitative diversity data, but noted concerns 
with sufficiency of qualitative data
5/12/20 7 Report on lobbying payments and policy     Against Overly prescriptive: Company’s reporting on lobbying 
activities and expenses meets regulatory requirements; 
disclosures are in line with industry peers
Citigroup, Inc. 4/21/20 6 Amend documents: Align with Statement on  Against Misdirected: Sufficient practices exist to enable 
the Purpose of a Corporation alignment with Business Roundtable commitments
4/21/20 7 Report on lobbying payments and policy     Against Misdirected: Sufficient risk oversight and disclosures 
CVS Health Corp.  5/14/20 3 ◊ Approve compensation         Against Excessive CEO pay relative to peers and pay-for-
performance misalignment
Danaher Corp.  5/5/20 1.3–1.4,  Elect directors         For Board has adopted preventive measures and is 
1.9 ◊ committed to risk oversight regarding pledged stock
Dollar Tree, Inc. • 6/11/20 4 Report on emissions targets and goals     For Reasonable ask and material financial risk; company 
committed to enhanced reporting
Enbridge, Inc.  5/5/20 1.2 ◊ Elect director         For Overboarded director: Evidence of common control 
between multiple companies at which director serves
Energous Corp. 5/26/20 1.1–1.6 ◊ Elect directors         For Through engagement, learned all directors met 
attendance threshold
Enphase Energy, Inc. 5/20/20 4 Report on sustainability        For Reasonable ask and material financial risk; insufficient 
disclosures
Fastenal Co. • 4/25/20 4 Report on workforce diversity       For Reasonable ask and material financial risk; insufficient 
disclosures
First Community   4/28/20 1.1–1.3 ◊ Elect directors         Against Director accountability: Nonresponsiveness to 
Bancshares, Inc.  shareholder proposals
Fortinet, Inc. • 6/19/20 5 Report on workforce diversity       For Reasonable ask and material financial risk; insufficient 
disclosures
Genuine Parts Co. • 4/27/20 4 Report on workforce diversity       For Reasonable ask and material financial risk; insufficient 
disclosures
GEO Group, Inc. 5/19/20 4 Report on lobbying payments and policy     Against Sufficient risk oversight and disclosures; commitment to 
progress
37
Americas
Meeting  Vote 
Company name date Item Proposal description Instruction Vote rationale
Griffin Industrial Realty, Inc.  5/7/20 4 ◊ Approve securities transfer restrictions       For Concerns about the ownership threshold, but converting 
to a REIT benefits shareholders
5/7/20 5 ◊ Change state of incorporation: Delaware to  Against Concerns about increased limitations for shareholders
Maryland    
Home BancShares, Inc.  4/16/20 1.11 ◊ Elect director: Nominating committee chair       Against Director accountability: Reappointment of a director who 
failed to receive majority support
Home Depot, Inc. 5/21/20 5 Report on workforce diversity       Against Material financial risk, but company already provides 
sufficient disclosures 
iA Financial Corp., Inc. • 5/7/20 4 Report on climate change       For Reasonable ask and material financial risk; insufficient 
disclosures
5/7/20 5 Adopt emissions targets        Against Misdirected: Current impact measures and targets exist 
with commitment to disclosure externally
5/7/20 6 Adopt advisory experts for sustainability efforts      Against Board discretion on risk oversight
IPG Photonics Corp. 5/28/20 4 Report on workforce diversity       For Reasonable ask and insufficient disclosures
JB Hunt Transport Services,  4/23/20 5 Report on climate change       For Reasonable ask and material financial risk; insufficient 
Inc.  disclosures
Johnson & Johnson • 4/23/20 6 Report on opioid risk management      For Reasonable ask and material financial risk; enhanced 
disclosures will benefit shareholders
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  5/19/20 6 Report on climate change       Against Sufficient lending activity disclosures compared with 
industry peers
Lincoln National Corp. 6/11/20 5 Amend special meeting rights provision      Against Governance process implemented to reach current 
ownership percentage and holding-period thresholds 
Marriott International,   5/8/20 5 Report on workforce diversity       Against Misdirected: Sufficient disclosures already provided by 
Inc. MD • company and in line with direct industry peers
McDonald's Corp. • 5/21/20 2 ◊ Approve compensation         For Given the circumstances, payments to outgoing CEO 
were appropriate to preserve shareholder value
Netflix, Inc.  6/4/20 1a ◊ Elect director         Against Director accountability: Lack of responsiveness to 
shareholders and poor overall governance
6/4/20 1b ◊ Elect director         Against Director accountability: Reappointment of director who 
failed to receive majority support
6/4/20 1c ◊ Elect director         Against Director accountability: Recurring compensation 
concerns 
6/4/20 3 ◊ Approve compensation         Against Excessive pay and structure concerns
NextEra Energy Partners LP  5/21/20 3 ◊ Approve compensation         For Pay-for-performance alignment and strong disclosures
38
Americas
Meeting  Vote 
Company name date Item Proposal description Instruction Vote rationale
Old Republic International Corp.  5/22/20 1.1–1.5 ◊ Elect directors         For Adopted enhanced governance provision
O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. 5/14/20 6 Report on workforce diversity       For Reasonable ask and material financial risk; insufficient 
disclosures
5/14/20 7 Require independent board chairman       Against No structural, oversight, or independence concerns
Ovintiv, Inc.  4/29/20 4 Report on climate change       For Reasonable ask and material financial risk; insufficient 
disclosures
Restaurant Brands   6/10/20 4 Report on workforce diversity       For Reasonable ask and material financial risk; insufficient 
International, Inc. • disclosures on franchisees' operations
Santander Consumer USA  6/10/20 3 Report on fair lending: Racial discrimination risk     For Reasonable ask and insufficient disclosures compared 
Holdings, Inc. • with industry peers
TEGNA, Inc. • 4/30/20 1.1–1.12 ◊ Elect directors         For Proxy contest: No compelling case for change; existing 
directors competent, with diverse skill set
Timbercreek Financial Corp.  5/14/20 1.3 ◊ Elect director         Against Overboarded director: Is executive officer of a public 
company and serves on two outside boards
Truist Financial Corp. 4/28/20 4 Require independent board chairman     Against No structural or oversight concerns
Uber Technologies, Inc. • 5/11/20 2 ◊ Approve compensation         Against Excessive pay, short vesting period, and pay-for-
performance misalignment
Union Pacific Corp.  5/14/20 5 Report on climate change       Against Misdirected: Public commitment to adopt targets; 
disclosure of new targets will satisfy proposal's ask
United Parcel Service, Inc.  5/14/20 6 Report on climate change       For Reasonable ask and material financial risk; insufficient 
disclosures
Wells Fargo & Co. 4/28/20 5 Report on compensation        Against Misdirected: Strong risk oversight, positive corporate 
structure changes, and sufficient disclosures
4/28/20 6 Report on gender pay gap      Against Misdirected: Existing disclosures align with SASB 
framework; commitment to enhance diversity practices
39
Europe, the Middle East, and Africa
Meeting  Vote 
Company name date Item Proposal description Instruction Vote rationale
Assicurazioni Generali SPA 4/27/20 3a ◊ Approve remuneration policy        For Policy sufficiently structured
4/27/20 3b ◊ Approve remuneration report        For Pay-for-performance alignment and sufficient disclosure 
despite increased CEO base salary in past year
Atlantia SPA 5/29/20 6.2 ◊ Approve remuneration report        Against Excessive severance payments to outgoing CEO
Barclays Plc • 5/7/20 28 ◊ Approve climate change strategy       For Committed to ambitious climate risk mitigation strategy 
ahead of annual general meeting
5/7/20 30 Approve ShareAction climate change   Against Concerns with some proposals' requirements; company 
resolution announced own climate risk mitigation strategy
Lagardère SCA • 5/5/20 C, E, G Dismiss directors         For  Believed further diversification of Supervisory Board was 
in best long-term interests of investors 
5/5/20 H, K, L,  Elect shareholder director nominees       For  Proxy contest: Dissident provided compelling case for 
O change and strong candidates
Ocado Group Plc • 5/6/20 2 ◊ Approve remuneration report        Against Concerns about vested incentive plan payout and 
structure 
Rio Tinto Ltd. • 5/7/20 24 Approve emissions targets        Against Sufficient disclosures on targets and approach
40
Asia
Meeting  Vote 
Company name date Item Proposal description Instruction Vote rationale
Kansai Electric Power Co.,   6/25/20 16–17,  Amend articles: Phase out nuclear facilities      Against Overly prescriptive: Encroaches on company's routine 
Inc. • 19,  operations, and management has taken sufficient action
22–25, 
29
6/25/20 8 Amend articles: Phase out coal       Against Overly prescriptive: Encroaches on company's routine 
operations, and management has taken sufficient action
Mitsubishi Electric Corp. 6/26/20 1.1–1.2,  Elect directors         For Sufficient progress made on risk oversight
1.4 ◊
Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 6/25/20 5 Amend articles: Align with Paris Agreement  Against Company already provides sufficient disclosures 
goals and targets  
6/25/20 6 Amend articles: Meeting procedures        For Reasonable ask presented by proponent to enhance 
shareholder rights
6/25/20 7-9 Amend articles: Ordinary business       Against Board and management discretion on risk oversight is 
warranted
Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. • 3/18/20 2.1–2.2 ◊ Elect director         For Resulting board is majority independent
Sekisui House Ltd. • 4/23/20 3.1 ◊ Elect director         Against Director accountability: Oversight failure
4/23/20 8.1–8.11 Elect shareholder director nominees       Against Proxy contest: Dissident did not provide compelling case 
for change
Tencent Holdings Ltd.  5/13/20 3a ◊ Elect director         For Despite concerns about multiple board mandates, we 
supported director at home board.
Tokyo Electric Power Co.  6/25/20 2–3, 5–7 Amend articles: Phase out nuclear facilities      Against Overly prescriptive: Encroaches on company's routine 
Holdings, Inc. • operations, and management has taken sufficient action
6/25/20 4 Amend articles: Phase out coal       Against Overly prescriptive: Encroaches on company's routine 
operations, and management has taken sufficient action
41
Australia and New Zealand
Meeting  Vote 
Company name date Item Proposal description Instruction Vote rationale
Santos Ltd. • 4/3/20 5b Approve Paris Agreement goals and targets     Against Sufficient practices and disclosures; committed to 
greater progress within reasonable time frame
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. • 4/30/20 4b Approve Paris Agreement goals and targets     Against Sufficient practices and disclosures; committed to 
greater progress within reasonable time frame
• A case study is available in this report.
◊ Management proposal.
Please note that the key votes information is not intended to align with the Significant Votes criteria as defined by the Shareholder Rights Directive II (SRD II). Significant Votes 
information will be available in a future report.
42
43
Proxy voting history
Global summary of proxy votes cast by Vanguard funds  
(July 1, 2019–June 30, 2020)
• Vanguard funds cast over 168,000 individual votes in 2020, down slightly from our 2019 total of approximately 170,000
• Board member elections, compensation, and capitalization issues continued to account for the majority of ballot items
•  Total shareholder proposals in 2020 numbered 5,983, up 14% from 2019
• The number of proxy contests going to a vote was down this year, from 22 in 2019 to 17 in 2020
2019 2020
Alignment 
with our  Number of  Number of 
principles Proposal type proposals % for proposals % for
Board  Management proposals
composition
Elect directors 61,218 91% 60,040 93%
Other board-related 11,410 90% 11,343 91%
Shareholder proposals
Board-related 3,368 82% 3,935 85%
Oversight of Management proposals
strategy and
Approve auditors 10,439 98% 10,105 99%
risk
Shareholder proposals
Environmental/social 247 6% 267 6%
Executive Management proposals
compensation
Executive compensation 5,734 91% 6,432 91%
Other compensation-related 11,183 90% 10,327 91%
Shareholder proposals
Compensation-related 215 60% 126 51%
Shareholder Management proposals
rights
Governance-related 11,352 87% 10,501 87%
Shareholder proposals
Governance-related 337 50% 338 41%
Other   Management proposals
proposals
Capitalization 27,837 98% 27,629 98%
Mergers and acquisitions 7,696 97% 7,946 96%
Adjourn/other business 17,614 95% 17,999 96%
Shareholder proposals
Other 1,096 88% 1,317 87%
Total 169,746 93% 168,305 93%
44
Summary of proxy votes cast by the Vanguard funds 
for companies in the United States 
(July 1, 2019–June 30, 2020)
77% of equity AUM | 3,727 meetings
2019 2020
Alignment 
with our  Number of  Number of 
principles Proposal type proposals % for proposals % for
Board  Management proposals
composition
Elect directors 21,081 93% 20,727 94%
Other board-related 42 86% 26 81%
Shareholder proposals
Board-related 104 22% 143 27%
Oversight of Management proposals
strategy and
Approve auditors 3,415 100% 3,348 100%
risk
Shareholder proposals
Environmental/social 156 7% 159 9%
Executive Management proposals
compensation
Executive compensation 2,674 94% 2,765 94%
Other compensation-related 1,681 76% 1,557 76%
Shareholder proposals
Compensation-related 39 3% 28 4%
Shareholder Management proposals
rights
Governance-related 324 94% 405 89%
Shareholder proposals
Governance-related 177 42% 176 31%
Other   Management proposals
proposals
Capitalization 428 91% 448 92%
Mergers and acquisitions 243 98% 229 100%
Adjourn/other business 344 79% 331 78%
Shareholder proposals
Other 4 0% 2 50%
Total 30,712 92% 30,344 92%
45
Summary of proxy votes cast by the Vanguard funds 
for companies in Europe 
(July 1, 2019–June 30, 2020)
9% of equity AUM | 2,221 meetings   
2019 2020
Alignment 
with our  Number of  Number of 
principles Proposal type proposals % for proposals % for
Board  Management proposals
composition
Elect directors 9,825 88% 9,172 90%
Other board-related 4,039 96% 3,953 95%
Shareholder proposals
Board-related 295 59% 360 52%
Oversight of Management proposals
strategy and
Approve auditors 2,501 98% 2,274 99%
risk
Shareholder proposals
Environmental/social 21 10% 17 0%
Executive Management proposals
compensation
Executive compensation 2,229 89% 2,824 87%
Other compensation-related 2,080 93% 1,860 95%
Shareholder proposals
Compensation-related 26 31% 14 29%
Shareholder Management proposals
rights
Governance-related 1,021 95% 1,478 96%
Shareholder proposals
Governance-related 34 15% 52 8%
Other   Management proposals
proposals
Capitalization 6,408 98% 6,045 98%
Mergers and acquisitions 306 91% 285 93%
Adjourn/other business 4,095 96% 3,824 96%
Shareholder proposals
Other 50 16% 92 12%
Total 32,930 93% 32,250 93%
46
Summary of proxy votes cast by the Vanguard funds 
for companies in Australia and New Zealand 
(July 1, 2019–June 30, 2020)
2% of equity AUM | 370 meetings   
2019 2020
Alignment 
with our  Number of  Number of 
principles Proposal type proposals % for proposals % for
Board  Management proposals
composition
Elect directors 758 90% 747 92%
Other board-related 13 15% 24 21%
Shareholder proposals
Board-related 19 16% 3 0%
Oversight of Management proposals
strategy and
Approve auditors 53 100% 50 100%
risk
Shareholder proposals
Environmental/social 9 11% 23 0%
Executive Management proposals
compensation
Executive compensation 288 94% 279 94%
Other compensation-related 440 95% 445 98%
Shareholder proposals
Compensation-related 0 NA 0 NA
Shareholder Management proposals
rights
Governance-related 65 98% 108 100%
Shareholder proposals
Governance-related 7 0% 15 0%
Other   Management proposals
proposals
Capitalization 98 100% 138 100%
Mergers and acquisitions 46 100% 37 100%
Adjourn/other business 4 100% 4 100%
Shareholder proposals
Other 1 0% 2 0%
Total 1,801 91% 1,875 92%
47
Summary of proxy votes cast by the Vanguard funds 
for companies in Asia 
(July 1, 2019–June 30, 2020)
10% of equity AUM | 10,224 meetings
2019 2020
Alignment 
with our  Number of  Number of 
principles Proposal type proposals % for proposals % for
Board  Management proposals
composition
Elect directors 21,855 95% 22,296 95%
Other board-related 5,315 90% 5,425 92%
Shareholder proposals
Board-related 2,760 89% 3,356 92%
Oversight of Management proposals
strategy and
Approve auditors 3,019 99% 3,166 99%
risk
Shareholder proposals
Environmental/social 43 0% 49 0%
Executive Management proposals
compensation
Executive compensation 4 75% 8 88%
Other compensation-related 4,988 94% 4,703 94%
Shareholder proposals
Compensation-related 130 90% 74 78%
Shareholder Management proposals
rights
Governance-related 8,377 90% 6,989 89%
Shareholder proposals
Governance-related 108 78% 89 89%
Other   Management proposals
proposals
Capitalization 18,263 98% 18,640 98%
Mergers and acquisitions 6,131 98% 6,439 97%
Adjourn/other business 11,041 96% 11,969 97%
Shareholder proposals
Other 1,036 93% 1,218 93%
Total 83,070 95% 84,421 95%
48
Summary of proxy votes cast by the Vanguard funds 
for companies in the Americas (ex-U.S.) 
(July 1, 2019–June 30, 2020)
2% of equity AUM | 1,414 meetings
2019 2020
Alignment 
with our  Number of  Number of 
principles Proposal type proposals % for proposals % for
Board  Management proposals
composition
Elect directors 6,225 78% 5,589 83%
Other board-related 1,023 64% 913 69%
Shareholder proposals
Board-related 187 59% 70 67%
Oversight of Management proposals
strategy and
Approve auditors 1,013 96% 870 98%
risk
Shareholder proposals
Environmental/social 15 7% 16 13%
Executive Management proposals
compensation
Executive compensation 256 95% 250 96%
Other compensation-related 1,123 89% 925 91%
Shareholder proposals
Compensation-related 20 15% 10 10%
Shareholder Management proposals
rights
Governance-related 587 89% 546 88%
Shareholder proposals
Governance-related 11 27% 5 20%
Other   Management proposals
proposals
Capitalization 1,993 99% 1,765 99%
Mergers and acquisitions 450 96% 310 98%
Adjourn/other business 1,225 94% 1,107 95%
Shareholder proposals
Other 5 0% 3 0%
Total 14,133 84% 12,379 88%
49
Summary of proxy votes cast by the Vanguard funds 
for companies in the Middle East and Africa 
(July 1, 2019–June 30, 2020)
1% of equity AUM | 520 meetings
2019 2020
Alignment 
with our  Number of  Number of 
principles Proposal type proposals % for proposals % for
Board  Management proposals
composition
Elect directors 1,474 79% 1,509 72%
Other board-related 978 97% 1,002 96%
Shareholder proposals
Board-related 3 0% 3 0%
Oversight of Management proposals
strategy and
Approve auditors 438 87% 397 88%
risk
Shareholder proposals
Environmental/social 3 0% 3 33%
Executive Management proposals
compensation
Executive compensation 283 83% 306 89%
Other compensation-related 871 90% 837 93%
Shareholder proposals
Compensation-related 0 NA 0 NA
Shareholder Management proposals
rights
Governance-related 978 52% 975 55%
Shareholder proposals
Governance-related 0 NA 1 0%
Other   Management proposals
proposals
Capitalization 647 97% 593 97%
Mergers and acquisitions 520 96% 646 93%
Adjourn/other business 905 90% 764 94%
Shareholder proposals
Other 0 NA 0 NA
Total 7,100 84% 7,036 84%
50
5151
Company engagements
The following table lists the 793 companies that Vanguard’s Investment Stewardship team engaged with during the 12 
months ended June 30, 2020. A bullet (•) indicates a primary topic of the engagement. However, these are open 
dialogues and can cover a wide range of issues over multiple discussions. Secondary topics often arise.
For context, board composition discussions can cover topics such as board independence, tenure, and diversity. When 
we discuss oversight of strategy and risk, we want to know whether the board understands how the company will 
remain relevant over the long term in the context of all relevant risks. Our discussions on executive compensation look at 
remuneration in comparison with relevant peers and its linkage to long-term performance benchmarks. Our meetings 
about shareholder rights policies focus on companies’ provisions that support—or limit—shareholders’ ability to effect 
change over time through their voice or their vote.
Oversight of 
Board   strategy Executive  Shareholder
Company name composition and risk compensation rights
3M Co. • •
AA Plc •
ABB Ltd. • • •
Abbott Laboratories • • • •
AbbVie, Inc. • • •
ABIOMED, Inc. • • •
ABM Industries, Inc. •
Accenture Plc • •
ACS, Actividades de Construcción y Servicios SA • •
Acuity Brands, Inc. •
Adobe, Inc. • •
Adtalem Global Education, Inc. • •
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. •
AECOM • •
Aecon Group, Inc. •
Aena SME SA •
Affiliated Managers Group, Inc. •
AGCO Corp. •
Agilent Technologies, Inc. • • •
AGL Energy Ltd. • •
AIA Group Ltd. •
Air Liquide SA • •
Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. • •
Aircastle Ltd. •
Alaska Air Group, Inc. •
Albemarle Corp. • • •
Alcon, Inc. • • •
Alexander & Baldwin, Inc. • •
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. • • • •
Align Technology, Inc. • • • •
Alkermes Plc • •
52
Oversight of 
Board   strategy Executive  Shareholder
Company name composition and risk compensation rights
Alliant Energy Corp. • • •
Allianz SE • • •
Allison Transmission Holdings, Inc. •
Alphabet, Inc. • • •
Altria Group, Inc. • •
AMA Group Ltd. •
Amazon.com, Inc. • • • •
AMC Networks, Inc. • •
American Electric Power Co., Inc. • •
American Express Co. • •
American Outdoor Brands Corp. • • •
American Tower Corp. • •
American Water Works Co., Inc. • •
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. • • •
AMN Healthcare Services, Inc. • • •
AMP Ltd. • • •
Amphenol Corp. • •
Annaly Capital Management, Inc. • • •
Anthem, Inc. • • •
AO World Plc •
Apache Corp. • • •
Apple, Inc. • •
Applied Materials, Inc. • •
Aramark • • •
Arch Resources, Inc. •
Arcosa, Inc. • • •
Argo Group International Holdings Ltd. • • • •
Arkema SA • • •
Armstrong Flooring, Inc. •
Armstrong World Industries, Inc. • • •
Arthur J Gallagher & Co. • •
ASGN, Inc. •
Ashford, Inc. •
Ashland Global Holdings, Inc. •
Aspen Technology, Inc. •
Assicurazioni Generali SPA • • •
Associated Banc-Corp •
53
Oversight of 
Board   strategy Executive  Shareholder
Company name composition and risk compensation rights
Associated British Foods Plc •
Aston Martin Lagonda Global Holdings Plc • • •
AstraZeneca Plc • •
AstroNova, Inc. •
AT&T, Inc. • •
Atlantia SPA • •
Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings, Inc. • •
Atlas Copco AB •
Atmos Energy Corp. • •
Aurora Cannabis, Inc. • •
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. • • •
Automatic Data Processing, Inc. • •
AutoNation, Inc. •
Avanos Medical, Inc. • • •
Avantor, Inc. • • • •
Avast Plc • •
Aventus Group • •
Avery Dennison Corp. • • • •
Avis Budget Group, Inc. • • • •
Avnet, Inc. • •
Axis Bank Ltd. •
Axis Capital Holdings Ltd. • •
Axogen, Inc. • •
Baker Hughes Co. • • •
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA • •
Bank of America Corp. • •
Bank of Marin Bancorp • • •
Bank of Montreal •
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. • •
Bank of Nova Scotia • •
Barclays Plc • •
Barnwell Industries, Inc. • • •
Barrick Gold Corp. • • •
BASF SE • •
Baxter International, Inc. • •
Bayer AG • • •
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG •
54
Oversight of 
Board   strategy Executive  Shareholder
Company name composition and risk compensation rights
Baytex Energy Corp. • • •
BE Semiconductor Industries NV •
Bed Bath & Beyond, Inc. • • •
Berkeley Group Holdings Plc •
Best Buy Co., Inc. • • •
BHP Group Ltd. • •
BioCryst Pharmaceuticals, Inc. • • •
Biogen, Inc. • •
BJ's Wholesale Club Holdings, Inc. • • • •
Blackbaud, Inc. • •
Bloomin' Brands, Inc. • • •
Bluebird Bio, Inc. • •
Boeing Co. • • •
Booking Holdings, Inc. • •
Boston Beer Co., Inc. • • •
Boston Properties, Inc. • • • •
Boston Scientific Corp. • • •
Bouygues SA • •
BP Plc • • •
BrightView Holdings, Inc. •
Brinker International, Inc. • • •
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. • • •
Broadcom, Inc. • •
Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc. • •
BT Group Plc •
Bunge Ltd. • •
Burberry Group Plc • •
Cadence Design Systems, Inc. • • •
Callaway Golf Co. • • •
Callon Petroleum Co. • •
Calyxt, Inc. •
Camden Property Trust • •
Canadian National Railway Co. • •
Canfor Corp. •
Capital One Financial Corp. • •
Cardinal Health, Inc. • • •
Cardtronics Plc •
55
Oversight of 
Board   strategy Executive  Shareholder
Company name composition and risk compensation rights
Carnival Corp. • • •
Carrefour SA •
Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc. •
CatchMark Timber Trust, Inc. •
Caterpillar, Inc. • •
Cboe Global Markets, Inc. • •
Celanese Corp. • • •
Centrica Plc • •
Centrus Energy Corp. • • •
CenturyLink, Inc. • • •
CF Industries Holdings, Inc. • • •
CGG SA • • •
Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. • •
Charles Schwab Corp. •
Charter Communications, Inc. • • • •
Cheesecake Factory, Inc. • • •
Cheniere Energy, Inc. • •
Chevron Corp. • • •
Children's Place, Inc. •
China Gold International Resources Corp. Ltd. •
Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. • •
ChromaDex Corp. •
Chubb Ltd. • •
Church & Dwight Co., Inc. • • • •
Cie Financiere Richemont SA • • •
Cie Plastic Omnium SA •
Ciena Corp. • • •
Cigna Corp. •
Cincinnati Financial Corp. • •
Cisco Systems, Inc. • •
CIT Group, Inc. • • •
Citigroup, Inc. • •
Citizens Financial Group, Inc. • • •
Citizens, Inc. TX •
Citrix Systems, Inc. • • •
Clarkson Plc •
Clearway Energy, Inc. • •
56
Oversight of 
Board   strategy Executive  Shareholder
Company name composition and risk compensation rights
Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd. • • •
Coca-Cola Co. • •
Coca-Cola European Partners Plc • •
Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp. • • •
Coherus Biosciences, Inc. •
Coles Group Ltd. • • •
Colgate-Palmolive Co. • • •
Colliers International Group, Inc. •
Colony Capital, Inc. • • •
Columbia Banking System, Inc. • •
Commonwealth Bank of Australia • • •
CommScope Holding Co., Inc. •
Compass Minerals International, Inc. • •
CompuGroup Medical SE & Co. KgaA •
Computacenter Plc • •
Conduent, Inc. • •
Conn's, Inc. • •
ConocoPhillips • • •
Consolidated Edison, Inc. • •
Continental AG • • •
ConvaTec Group Plc • •
CoreCivic, Inc. • •
CoreSite Realty Corp. • •
Corning, Inc. • • •
Corteva, Inc. • • •
Costco Wholesale Corp. • • •
Cracker Barrel Old Country Store, Inc. • • •
Credit Agricole SA • •
Credit Suisse Group AG • • •
Cree, Inc. • •
CRH Plc • • •
CSL Ltd. • •
CSX Corp. • •
CubeSmart • • • •
Cubic Corp. • • •
Cummins, Inc. •
CVS Health Corp. • • • •
57
Oversight of 
Board   strategy Executive  Shareholder
Company name composition and risk compensation rights
Daimler AG • • •
Danaher Corp. • • • •
Danone SA • •
Danske Bank A/S • •
DaVita, Inc. • • •
De La Rue Plc • •
Deere & Co. • •
Delivery Hero SE •
Dell Technologies, Inc. • • • •
Delta Air Lines, Inc. • •
Dentsply Sirona, Inc. •
Deutsche Bank AG • •
Deutsche Boerse AG • • •
Deutsche Lufthansa AG •
Deutsche Telekom AG •
Deutz AG • • •
Diageo Plc • •
Diamondback Energy, Inc. •
Diebold Nixdorf, Inc. • • •
Direct Line Insurance Group Plc • • •
Dixons Carphone Plc •
Dollar Tree, Inc. •
Dominion Energy, Inc. • • •
Douglas Emmett, Inc. • • •
Dover Corp. • • •
Dow, Inc. • • •
DP World Plc • • •
Drax Group Plc • •
Duke Energy Corp. • • •
DuPont de Nemours, Inc. • •
DXC Technology Co. • • •
E.Sun Financial Holding Co. Ltd. • • •
Eagle Bancorp, Inc. • • •
Eagle Pharmaceuticals, Inc. DE •
easyJet Plc • •
eBay, Inc. • • • •
Ebix, Inc. • •
58
Oversight of 
Board   strategy Executive  Shareholder
Company name composition and risk compensation rights
Ecolab, Inc. • •
Edison International • •
Edwards Lifesciences Corp. • • •
Eisai Co. Ltd. • •
Element Solutions, Inc. • •
Elmos Semiconductor AG •
EMCOR Group, Inc. • • •
Emerson Electric Co. • •
Enbridge, Inc. • •
Enel SPA •
Energias de Portugal SA • •
Energous Corp. • • •
Eni SPA • • • •
Enphase Energy, Inc. •
Entertainment One Ltd. •
Envista Holdings Corp. •
Enzo Biochem, Inc. • •
EQT Corp. • •
Equifax, Inc. • • •
Equity Residential • •
Essential Utilities, Inc. • • •
Estee Lauder Cos., Inc. • • •
Etsy, Inc. • • •
Eurazeo SE • • •
Euronext NV • • •
Europcar Mobility Group •
Evergy, Inc. •
Exelixis, Inc. • • • •
Exelon Corp. • • •
Extended Stay America, Inc. • • • •
Exxon Mobil Corp. • • • •
Facebook, Inc. • •
Fastenal Co. • •
Federal Realty Investment Trust •
FedEx Corp. •
Ferguson Plc • •
Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. •
59
Oversight of 
Board   strategy Executive  Shareholder
Company name composition and risk compensation rights
First Hawaiian, Inc. • • • •
First United Corp. • •
FirstEnergy Corp. • •
Firstgroup Plc • •
Fiserv, Inc. • •
Fisher & Paykel Healthcare Corp. Ltd. • •
Fitbit, Inc. •
Flexion Therapeutics, Inc. • • •
Flowers Foods, Inc. • •
Fluor Corp. • • •
Flutter Entertainment Plc • • •
FNB Corp. PA • • • •
Ford Motor Co. • • •
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. •
Fortinet, Inc. • • •
Fox Corp. • •
Franklin Resources, Inc. •
FreightCar America, Inc. •
Fresenius Medical Care AG & Co. KGaA • • •
Front Yard Residential Corp. • •
FuelCell Energy, Inc. • • •
GameStop Corp. • •
Gaming and Leisure Properties, Inc. • • •
Gannett Co., Inc. • • •
Gaztransport Et Technigaz SA •
GCP Applied Technologies, Inc. • •
Genasys, Inc. •
General Dynamics Corp. • • •
General Electric Co. • • •
General Mills, Inc. • • •
General Motors Co. •
Genfit •
Genmab A/S • •
Genuine Parts Co. •
Genus Plc •
Genworth Financial, Inc. • •
GEO Group, Inc. •
60
Oversight of 
Board   strategy Executive  Shareholder
Company name composition and risk compensation rights
Georg Fischer AG •
Gilead Sciences, Inc. • • •
Glanbia Plc • •
GlaxoSmithKline Plc • • •
Glencore Plc • • •
GoDaddy, Inc. •
Gogo, Inc. • •
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. • • •
GrandVision NV •
Greencore Group Plc •
Greggs Plc • •
Groupe Bruxelles Lambert SA • • • •
Growthpoint Properties Ltd. •
Guidewire Software, Inc. • •
GVC Holdings Plc • •
Haemonetics Corp. • • • •
Haier Electronics Group Co. Ltd. • •
Hain Celestial Group, Inc. • •
Halliburton Co. • • •
Hammerson Plc •
Harley-Davidson, Inc. •
Hasbro, Inc. • • •
Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. • •
HB Fuller Co. •
HC2 Holdings, Inc. • • • •
Hecla Mining Co. • • •
Heineken NV • • •
Herbalife Nutrition Ltd. •
Hershey Co. •
Hess Corp. •
Hewlett Packard Enterprise Co. • •
Hexcel Corp. •
Hologic, Inc. • • •
Home Depot, Inc. •
HomeStreet, Inc. • • •
Honda Motor Co. Ltd. • •
Honeywell International, Inc. • •
61
Oversight of 
Board   strategy Executive  Shareholder
Company name composition and risk compensation rights
Horizon Therapeutics Plc • •
Hoshizaki Corp. • •
HP, Inc. •
HSBC Holdings Plc • • •
Humana, Inc. • • •
Huntington Bancshares, Inc. OH • •
Huntington Ingalls Industries, Inc. •
Huron Consulting Group, Inc. • • •
Hyundai Motor Co. • •
iA Financial Corp., Inc. •
Iberdrola SA •
IHI Corp. • • •
IHS Markit Ltd. • • • •
Iino Kaiun Kaisha Ltd. • • •
ImmunoGen, Inc. • •
Imperial Brands Plc • • •
Inchcape Plc •
Incyte Corp. • • •
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. • •
Inphi Corp. • • •
Insteel Industries, Inc. •
Instructure, Inc. • •
Intel Corp. • •
InterContinental Hotels Group Plc •
Interface, Inc. •
International Business Machines Corp. • •
Intevac, Inc. • •
Intuit, Inc. • •
Invacare Corp. •
Invesco Ltd. • • •
Investor AB •
Investors Bancorp, Inc. •
Invitation Homes, Inc. • •
Iovance Biotherapeutics, Inc. •
IPG Photonics Corp. • •
IQVIA Holdings, Inc. • • •
iStar, Inc. • • •
62
Oversight of 
Board   strategy Executive  Shareholder
Company name composition and risk compensation rights
Japan Tobacco, Inc. • • •
Jazz Pharmaceuticals Plc • • •
JB Hunt Transport Services, Inc. • •
Jefferies Financial Group, Inc. •
JFE Holdings, Inc. • •
JGC Holdings Corp. • •
Johnson & Johnson • • •
JPMorgan Chase & Co. • • •
K12, Inc. • •
Kaman Corp. • •
Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc. • • •
Karyopharm Therapeutics, Inc. •
KAZ Minerals Plc • •
KB Home •
Kellogg Co. • • •
Kering SA • • •
Kforce, Inc. •
Kimball Electronics, Inc. •
Kimberly-Clark Corp. • •
Kinder Morgan, Inc. • •
Kingfisher Plc • • •
Kingspan Group Plc • •
Kirin Holdings Co. Ltd. • •
KLA Corp. •
Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize NV •
Kraft Heinz Co. • •
Kroger Co. • •
Kyushu Railway Co. • •
Laboratory Corp. of America Holdings • •
LafargeHolcim Ltd. • • •
Lagardere SCA • • •
Lam Research Corp. • • •
Las Vegas Sands Corp. • • •
Laurentian Bank of Canada • • •
Lawson Products, Inc. DE • •
LCI Industries •
Legg Mason, Inc. • • • •
63
Oversight of 
Board   strategy Executive  Shareholder
Company name composition and risk compensation rights
Leidos Holdings, Inc. • • •
LendingClub Corp. • • •
Leonardo SPA • •
Leopalace21 Corp. • •
LG Chem Ltd. • •
Lincoln National Corp. • • • •
Linde Plc • • •
Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. • •
Liontrust Asset Management Plc •
Lloyds Banking Group Plc •
Lockheed Martin Corp. • •
LogMeIn, Inc. • •
L'Oreal SA • • •
Lululemon Athletica, Inc. • • •
Lundin Energy AB • •
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SE • • •
M&T Bank Corp. •
Mack-Cali Realty Corp. • •
Macquarie Group Ltd. • •
Madison Square Garden Sports Corp. • • •
ManpowerGroup, Inc. •
Marathon Petroleum Corp. • • • •
Marriott International, Inc. MD •
Masmovil Ibercom SA • •
MasterCraft Boat Holdings, Inc. • • • •
Matson, Inc. • •
Mattel, Inc. • • •
Maxar Technologies, Inc. •
MAXIMUS, Inc. • •
McDonald's Corp. • • • •
McKesson Corp. • • • •
MDC Holdings, Inc. • • •
MDU Resources Group, Inc. • •
Medical Properties Trust, Inc. • • •
Mediobanca Banca di Credito Finanziario SPA • •
Medtronic Plc • • •
Merck & Co., Inc. • •
64
Oversight of 
Board   strategy Executive  Shareholder
Company name composition and risk compensation rights
MetLife, Inc. •
Metro Bank Plc • •
MGM Resorts International •
Micro Focus International Plc •
Microchip Technology, Inc. •
Microsoft Corp. • • •
Miragen Therapeutics, Inc. •
Mitsui & Co. Ltd. • •
Mobile Mini, Inc. • • • •
Model N, Inc. • • •
Moncler SPA • •
Mondelez International, Inc. • •
Motorola Solutions, Inc. •
Movado Group, Inc. • •
Muenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG 
• • •
in Muenchen
MVB Financial Corp. • • • •
Mylan NV • • •
NanoString Technologies, Inc. • •
Naspers Ltd. • •
National Australia Bank Ltd. • •
Navistar International Corp. •
NCR Corp. • •
Nektar Therapeutics • • • •
Nestle SA • • •
Netflix, Inc. • • • •
Newell Brands, Inc. • • •
NextEra Energy, Inc. •
Nintendo Co. Ltd. • • •
NN Group NV •
Noble Corp. Plc •
Noble Energy, Inc. • •
Nomura Holdings, Inc. • •
Nordstrom, Inc. • •
Novagold Resources, Inc. •
Novartis AG • •
Novo Nordisk A/S • •
65
Oversight of 
Board   strategy Executive  Shareholder
Company name composition and risk compensation rights
NSK Ltd. •
Nuance Communications, Inc. • • • •
Nucor Corp. • • • •
Nutrien Ltd. • •
NuVasive, Inc. •
nVent Electric Plc •
Ocado Group Plc •
Occidental Petroleum Corp. • • • •
Oceaneering International, Inc. • •
Office Depot, Inc. • •
Oji Holdings Corp. •
Old National Bancorp IN •
Old Republic International Corp. • • •
OMV AG • • •
Ontex Group NV •
Opus Bank • • • •
Oracle Corp. • •
Orbital Energy Group, Inc. •
O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. •
Ormat Technologies, Inc. • • •
Orrstown Financial Services, Inc. • • •
Overstock.com, Inc. •
Ovintiv, Inc. • •
Owens & Minor, Inc. • •
Owens Corning • •
PACCAR, Inc. •
PacWest Bancorp • • •
Pagegroup Plc •
Palo Alto Networks, Inc. • • •
Paragon Banking Group Plc •
Pattern Energy Group, Inc. •
Paycom Software, Inc. •
PayPal Holdings, Inc. • •
PDC Energy, Inc. • • • •
PepsiCo, Inc. •
Petrofac Ltd. • •
Petroleo Brasileiro SA • •
66
Oversight of 
Board   strategy Executive  Shareholder
Company name composition and risk compensation rights
Peugeot SA • •
Pfizer, Inc. • •
Philip Morris International, Inc. • • •
Phillips 66 • • •
Photronics, Inc. •
Pinnacle West Capital Corp. •
Pioneer Natural Resources Co. • • • •
Piraeus Bank SA • •
Pitney Bowes, Inc. •
PJT Partners, Inc. • •
Plains GP Holdings LP •
Platinum Asset Management Ltd. •
Playtech Plc •
Polaris, Inc. • • •
Popular, Inc. •
Portland General Electric Co. • •
Postal Realty Trust, Inc. • • •
Poste Italiane SPA • •
PostNL NV • •
Power Financial Corp. • • •
PPL Corp. •
Premier Oil Plc •
Premier, Inc. • • •
Procter & Gamble Co. • •
Progenics Pharmaceuticals, Inc. • • •
PROS Holdings, Inc. • • • •
Prothena Corp. Plc • • •
Provident Financial Plc •
Public Storage • • •
QEP Resources, Inc. • • • •
QIAGEN NV • •
Qualcomm, Inc. •
Quotient Technology, Inc. • • •
Ralph Lauren Corp. •
Range Resources Corp. • • •
Raymond James Financial, Inc. •
Recruit Holdings Co. Ltd. • •
67
Oversight of 
Board   strategy Executive  Shareholder
Company name composition and risk compensation rights
Redde Northgate Plc • •
Redrow Plc •
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. • • •
REGENXBIO, Inc. •
Regions Financial Corp. • •
Regis Corp. • • •
Reinsurance Group of America, Inc. • •
Renault SA • • •
Repsol SA •
Republic Services, Inc. • •
Resideo Technologies, Inc. • • • •
Resolute Mining Ltd. •
Restaurant Brands International, Inc. • •
Restaurant Group Plc •
Retrophin, Inc. • •
Ricoh Co. Ltd. • •
RigNet, Inc. •
RingCentral, Inc. •
Rio Tinto Plc •
RioCan Real Estate Investment Trust • • •
RIT Capital Partners Plc •
RLJ Lodging Trust •
RMR Group, Inc. • •
Roche Holding AG • •
Rockwell Automation, Inc. • • •
Royal Bank of Canada • •
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc •
Royal Dutch Shell Plc • •
RR Donnelley & Sons Co. •
Rural Funds Group •
Ruth's Hospitality Group, Inc. • •
RWE AG • • •
Ryman Hospitality Properties, Inc. • •
Sabre Corp. • • • •
Saga Plc • • •
Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. • •
Sanderson Farms, Inc. •
68
Oversight of 
Board   strategy Executive  Shareholder
Company name composition and risk compensation rights
Sangamo Therapeutics, Inc. •
Sanmina Corp. •
Sanofi •
Santander Consumer USA Holdings, Inc. • •
Santos Ltd. • •
SAP SE •
Sapporo Holdings Ltd. • • • •
Saputo, Inc. •
Saracen Mineral Holdings Ltd. •
Sarepta Therapeutics, Inc. • • •
Savara, Inc. •
SBA Communications Corp. • •
Scentre Group • • •
Schlumberger Ltd. • •
Schneider Electric SE • •
Schroders Plc •
SCOR SE • • •
Scout24 AG • •
SEACOR Holdings, Inc. •
SEEK Ltd. • •
Segro Plc •
Sekisui House Ltd. • • •
Sempra Energy •
Seven & i Holdings Co. Ltd. • •
Severn Trent Plc • •
Shaftesbury Plc • • •
Shake Shack, Inc. •
Shibaura Machine Co. Ltd.  •
Shinhan Financial Group Co. Ltd. •
Shopify, Inc. • • •
SI-BONE, Inc. •
Siemens AG • • •
Signature Bank New York, NY • • •
Sika AG • • •
Simpson Manufacturing Co., Inc. • •
Sinopec Kantons Holdings Ltd. • •
Six Flags Entertainment Corp. • • •
69
Oversight of 
Board   strategy Executive  Shareholder
Company name composition and risk compensation rights
SkyCity Entertainment Group Ltd. • •
Societe Generale SA • •
Sonoco Products Co. • • •
Sony Corp. • •
Sorrento Therapeutics, Inc. • • • •
South Jersey Industries, Inc. • • •
Southern Co. • • •
Spark New Zealand Ltd. • •
Spectrum Brands Holdings, Inc. • • • •
Spirit Realty Capital, Inc. • •
Splunk, Inc. • • •
SPX Corp. • • •
SS&C Technologies Holdings, Inc. •
SSP Group Plc • •
St. Modwen Properties Plc •
Stagecoach Group Plc •
Standard Chartered Plc •
Standard Life Aberdeen Plc • • •
Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. •
Starbucks Corp. • •
State Street Corp. • • •
Stericycle, Inc. • • •
Stobart Group Ltd. •
Sumitomo Realty & Development Co. Ltd. •
Sunrise Communications Group AG •
Sunrun, Inc. •
SunTrust Banks, Inc. •
Swedbank AB • •
Swiss Re AG • • •
T Rowe Price Group, Inc. •
Tabcorp Holdings Ltd. • • •
Tailored Brands, Inc. • •
Taishin Financial Holding Co. Ltd. • •
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. • • •
Targa Resources Corp. • • • •
Taubman Centers, Inc. •
TC Energy Corp. • •
70
Oversight of 
Board   strategy Executive  Shareholder
Company name composition and risk compensation rights
TE Connectivity Ltd. •
Ted Baker Plc •
TEGNA, Inc. • •
Tele Columbus AG • •
Teleperformance •
Telstra Corp. Ltd. • •
Tempur Sealy International, Inc. •
Teradata Corp. •
Tesco Plc •
Textron, Inc. • •
thyssenkrupp AG • •
TJX Cos., Inc. •
Tokyo Electric Power Co. Holdings, Inc. • •
Toronto-Dominion Bank •
Total SA • • •
Toyota Motor Corp. • • •
TransDigm Group, Inc. • •
Transocean Ltd. • • •
Transurban Group • • •
Travelers Cos., Inc. • •
Tronox Holdings Plc • •
Trupanion, Inc. •
TUI AG •
Twitter, Inc. • • • •
Tyson Foods, Inc. • •
Uber Technologies, Inc. • • • •
UBS Group AG • • •
UGI Corp. • •
Ulta Beauty, Inc. •
Ultragenyx Pharmaceutical, Inc. • • •
Under Armour, Inc. • • •
Unibail-Rodamco-Westfield • •
UniCredit SPA •
Unilever NV • • •
Union Pacific Corp. • •
Unite Group Plc •
United Parcel Service, Inc. • • •
71
Oversight of 
Board   strategy Executive  Shareholder
Company name composition and risk compensation rights
United Technologies Corp. • • •
United Therapeutics Corp. • •
UnitedHealth Group, Inc. • •
Universal Health Realty Income Trust • •
Upwork, Inc. •
US Bancorp • • •
US Ecology, Inc. •
Vale SA • • •
Varonis Systems, Inc. • • •
Vector Group Ltd. • •
Veeva Systems, Inc. •
Veolia Environnement SA • • •
Verint Systems, Inc. • •
Veritiv Corp. •
Verizon Communications, Inc. • • •
Verso Corp. • • • •
Vesuvius Plc • • •
VICI Properties, Inc. • • •
Vinci SA • •
Visa, Inc. • •
Vista Outdoor, Inc. • •
Vivendi SA • • •
Vodafone Group Plc • • •
Vonage Holdings Corp. •
Vornado Realty Trust • • •
Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. • • • •
Walmart, Inc. • •
Walt Disney Co. • • •
Waste Management, Inc. •
Webuild SPA •
Wells Fargo & Co. • •
Welltower, Inc. • • •
Wesfarmers Ltd. • •
West BanCorp, Inc. • •
Western Union Co. •
Westpac Banking Corp. • • •
Weyerhaeuser Co. • • •
72
Oversight of 
Board   strategy Executive  Shareholder
Company name composition and risk compensation rights
Whitbread Plc •
Williams-Sonoma, Inc. • • •
Wingstop, Inc. • • •
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. • • • •
World Acceptance Corp. •
WPP Plc •
Xcel Energy, Inc. • •
Xenia Hotels & Resorts, Inc. • •
Xerox Holdings Corp. • • •
Xilinx, Inc. • • •
Xperi Corp. • • •
XPO Logistics, Inc. • •
Xylem, Inc. NY •
Yamaha Motor Co. Ltd. • •
Yum! Brands, Inc. • • •
Zalando SE • • •
Zebra Technologies Corp. • • •
Zimmer Biomet Holdings, Inc. • • •
Ziopharm Oncology, Inc. •
Zojirushi Corp. • •
Zovio, Inc. •
Zurich Insurance Group AG • • •
Zynga, Inc. •
73
Connect with Vanguard®  >  vanguard.com 
© 2020 The Vanguard Group, Inc. 
For more on Vanguard Investment Stewardship, visit  
All rights reserved.  
about.vanguard.com/investment-stewardship. ISSAR 082020