
Understanding Our Climate-Related Risks  
and Opportunities
May 2019
Contents
 
Message from Our Chairman & CEO  3
The Climate Challenge  4
About This Report  5
Our Company at a Glance  5
Governance  6
Strategy  8 
Risk Management  12
Metrics and Targets  14
Next Steps  16
Information about J.P. Morgan’s capabilities can be found at jpmorgan.com and about 
Chase’s capabilities at chase.com. Information about JPMorgan Chase & Co. is available 
at jpmorganchase.com.
“JPMorgan Chase,” “J.P. Morgan,” “Chase,” the Octagon symbol and other words or  
symbols in this report that identify JPMorgan Chase services are service marks of  
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Other words or symbols in this report that identify other parties’ 
goods or services may be trademarks or service marks of those other parties.
© 2019 JPMorgan Chase & Co. All rights reserved.
Message from Our Chairman & CEO 
 
Climate change is a global challenge that has presented — and will continue to present — risks for businesses 
and communities around the world. Research shows that climate impacts are occurring much sooner than 
anticipated and with increasing frequency. The private sector has the opportunity to play a role in creating 
solutions that grow the economy, thereby supporting governments in their efforts to minimize long-term 
impacts to the planet and enable a more sustainable future for all people.
The scale of the challenge is such that companies across all industries will need to participate in finding climate 
solutions. At JPMorgan Chase & Co., we are halfway to fulfilling a commitment made in 2017 to facilitate  
$200 billion in clean financing by 2025. We are strengthening our understanding of how climate change impacts 
our day-to-day business activities, risks and processes. And because we know we have more to do, in late 2018, 
I asked a group of senior executives from across the Firm to work together to develop strategies to expand our 
efforts with respect to low-carbon business opportunities, policy engagement and climate risk management.
We are pleased to release our first climate change report, which has been informed by the recommendations 
of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We have served as a member of the 
TCFD, and we believe that it provides a useful starting point for companies and the financial sector to 
engage around risks that may be driven by climate change and the business opportunities associated with 
advancing low-carbon solutions.
Although the private sector has a significant role to play, public-sector leadership is needed to drive substantial 
carbon emission reductions on a global scale. Governments will need to work together to foster new technology 
innovation, protect underserved communities and implement long-term policy solutions that are market based 
and flexible. Measures could include a carbon tax, as well as incentives and other programs to support public-
private partnerships, especially for research and development. Such policies would be sensible to safeguard our 
planet’s ability to support current and future generations.
I invite you to learn more about our efforts, described in this report. We welcome feedback from all of our 
stakeholders as we continue to engage, learn and strengthen our efforts over time.
 
Jamie Dimon, 
Chairman and CEO, JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
The Climate Challenge
Climate change has the potential to produce a range of impacts, which can be organized into two 
categories: physical impacts and transition impacts. Physical impacts include those stemming from 
extreme weather events such as hurricanes or typhoons, as well as those related to changes in 
precipitation patterns and rising sea levels. Transition impacts include those related to the enactment 
of policies or regulations to address greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, the emergence of new low- or 
zero-carbon solutions that compete with established technologies, and shifts in consumer behavior or 
preferences toward products and services with a lower carbon footprint.
To curb the most significant negative impacts of climate  This is no small challenge. Today, more than 80% of 
change, businesses, governments, civil society and  global energy demand is being met by fossil fuels 
consumers must work together to facilitate the transition  specifically, coal, oil and natural gas.2 While the use of 
to a lower-carbon economy. The latest research from the  renewable resources is growing rapidly, they generate 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the  only a small share of the world’s energy and remain 
leading international body of climate change scientists,  concentrated within the electric power sector. The 
found that climate change will have far more severe  majority of energy demand occurs in other sectors, 
consequences, especially for the world’s most poor and  specifically transportation (e.g., cars, trucks, shipping) 
vulnerable populations, if temperatures rise more than  and industry (e.g., plastics, cement, steel, fertilizers).3 
1.5˚C above preindustrial levels.¹ Efforts to reduce reliance on fossil fuels in these sectors 
have been slower, given the difficulties associated with 
Currently, the world is not on track to limit warming  generating scalable, cost-effective replacements for 
to a 1.5˚C target. Country pledges under the Paris  energy-intensive applications and for fossil fuel-based 
Agreement, a global agreement to reduce greenhouse  feedstocks that are used to create many of the materials 
gas emissions, are expected to limit warming to only  and products we use every day.
about 3˚C above preindustrial levels, and warming of 
1˚C has already occurred. While scientists believe the  As a global financial institution, we lend to, raise capital 
most severe impacts of climate change could still be  for and invest in companies operating in a diverse array 
avoided, this would require an unprecedented level of  of industries. These include clean energy and technology 
action by governments, businesses and consumers to  companies developing low-carbon products, companies 
drive significant reductions in GHG emissions such as  that produce fossil fuels and companies that rely heavily 
carbon dioxide and methane. Change on such a scale  on such fuels for energy or as inputs for other products. 
would require massive transformations in how the world  In all likelihood, the world will need to continue to use 
produces and consumes energy, and new investments to  fossil fuels for the foreseeable future — even as efforts 
create and deploy new technologies to store and remove  are made to increase market penetration of lower-
GHG emissions from the atmosphere — in a way that  carbon energy sources and to develop new technologies 
advances the livelihoods of the nearly 1 billion people  that can advance deep decarbonization. Our objective 
around the world without access to electricity. is to support companies that are thinking strategically 
about this transition and that are positioning themselves 
  to adapt to sustainably focused trends over time. We 
also aim to expand our financing for those companies 
focused on renewables and other low-carbon 
technologies and solutions.
1 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Special Report: Global Warming of 1.5˚ C, October 2018.
2 International Energy Agency, World Energy Outlook 2018.
3 Ibid.
4  2019 JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. Understanding Our Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities
About This Report
This report has been informed by the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD). We begin by describing what our company does and how risks and opportunities are 
addressed within our overall governance framework and across various teams within the Firm. We then 
look more closely at the programs that have been established as part of our sustainability strategy and 
how climate-related threats are identified and assessed within the Firm’s overall risk management and 
oversight framework. We then present our energy and GHG data from 2016 to 2018, including progress 
toward our commitments to source renewable energy for 100% of our global power needs by 2020 and to 
facilitate $200 billion in clean financing by 2025. We conclude with a discussion of some of the questions 
and challenges that we are working to better understand and address over time.
Our Company at a Glance
JPMorgan Chase & Co. is a leading global financial services company with assets of more than $2.6 trillion. 
With operations worldwide, the Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers 
and small businesses, commercial banking, financial transaction processing and asset management. For 
management reporting purposes, JPMorgan Chase’s activities are organized into four major reportable 
business segments as well as a Corporate segment. The business segments are referred to as lines of 
business. For further information on our business segments, refer to Business Segment Results on  
pages 60–78 of JPMorgan Chase’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Consumer & Community Banking (CCB) serves  Commercial Banking (CB) provides comprehensive 
consumers and businesses through bank branches, ATMs  financial solutions including lending, treasury services, 
and digital (including online and mobile) and telephone  investment banking and asset management products 
banking. CCB offers home and auto loans, deposit and  across three primary client segments: Middle Market 
investment products, cash management and payment  Banking, Corporate Client Banking and Commercial Real 
solutions, and it issues credit cards to consumers and  Estate Banking. 
small businesses.
Asset & Wealth Management (AWM) serves institutions 
The Corporate & Investment Bank (CIB) offers a  and individuals, including pension and sovereign wealth 
broad suite of investment banking, market-making,  funds, central banks, retail investors and many of the 
prime brokerage and treasury and securities products  world’s wealthiest individuals and families. AWM offers 
and services to a global client base of corporations,  investment management across most major asset classes, 
investors, financial institutions, and government and  as well as brokerage and banking services. The majority of 
municipal entities.  AWM’s client assets are in actively managed portfolios.
5  2019 JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. Understanding Our Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities
Governance
Under the oversight of our Board of Directors (Board) and the leadership of our senior management, 
we are committed to fostering an effective and efficient risk and control environment; this includes 
continued emphasis on our Business Principles and cultivation of a strong and cohesive culture across 
all levels of JPMorgan Chase. Matters related to climate change are an important component of our 
sustainability strategy, which includes comprehensive efforts that are led and managed by several 
parts of our Firm.
Board Oversight Senior Management 
The Board’s corporate governance principles and the  Our management structure is designed to enhance our 
charters of the Board’s five principal standing committees  ability to effectively lead the Firm as a whole — in a manner 
form the framework for the Firm’s governance. Each  that promotes a strong corporate culture and remains 
committee is chaired by an independent director that  consistent with our Business Principles. We have found 
oversees a range of environmental, social and governance  that the most effective approach is to manage on a line-of- 
(ESG) matters within the scope of each committee’s  business basis, coupled with strong corporate functions 
authority. In particular, the Public Responsibility  and appropriate governance of the company’s subsidiaries.
Committee (PRC) and the Directors’ Risk Policy Committee 
(DRPC) maintain oversight of a broad range of issues that  Operating Committee 
may be driven by climate change.
As JPMorgan Chase’s most senior management body, 
the Operating Committee is responsible for the overall 
The PRC provides oversight of the Firm’s positions and 
management of the Firm, including developing and 
practices on sustainability matters and other public 
implementing corporate strategy and managing 
policy issues that reflect JPMorgan Chase’s values and 
operations. The Operating Committee is composed 
character and that affect the Firm’s reputation with our 
of our CEO, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Financial Officer 
stakeholders. The PRC considers issues related to climate 
and other senior executives, including the Head of 
change, including the Firm’s approach to and progress on 
Corporate Responsibility.
sustainability initiatives and commitments, external policy 
developments related to energy and climate change, and 
Firmwide Functions with Climate-Related 
stakeholder views.
Responsibilities
The DRPC approves and periodically reviews the Firm’s  Several teams are tasked with managing the 
primary risk management policies, and oversees the  environmental impacts of our operations and our 
operations of the global risk management framework.  resilience to potential business disruptions, including 
The DRPC’s responsibilities include oversight of the  extreme weather or other events that could be caused  
governance frameworks for risk identification and  or exacerbated by climate change. 
risk appetite, reputational risk, conduct risk and other 
operational risks, as well as the Firm’s capital and 
liquidity planning and analysis. As part of its oversight of 
the Firm’s risks, the DRPC may consider issues influenced 
or driven by climate change.
6  2019 JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. Understanding Our Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities
•  Firmwide Business Resiliency (FBR) and Global  •  Global Real Estate (GRE) — GRE is responsible for 
Technology Resiliency Management (GTRM) — FBR  managing our buildings, branches and data centers 
and GTRM oversee our firmwide resiliency program  around the world. This includes managing the 
and coordinate with our operational, business and  environmental sustainability of our physical operations, 
technology teams to plan and prepare for business  including including leading our 100% renewable energy 
disruptions through resiliency planning. As part  commitment, implementing energy and water efficiency 
of their responsibility for the firmwide resiliency  programs, and overseeing recycling efforts and other 
program, FBR and GTRM conduct simulation exercises  green building management programs. GRE also 
and maintain a comprehensive program through  works in partnership with other corporate functions to 
which they test and evaluate physical resiliency and  identify ways to operate more efficiently, strengthen our 
notification systems. Given the breadth of operational  resilience and reduce costs. The Head of GRE reports to 
needs for each of the Firm’s businesses, each line of  our Chief Administrative Officer, who in turn reports to 
business is responsible for the design, implementation  the Chief Financial Officer.
and operation of its respective resiliency program. The 
Head of FBR reports to our Chief Administrative Officer,  In addition, other groups across the Firm have respon-
who in turn reports to the Chief Financial Officer. The  sibilities related to environmental and sustainability 
Head of GTRM reports to the Head of Cybersecurity &  matters, including climate change. 
Technology Controls, who in turn reports to the Chief 
Information Officer. •  Sustainable Finance — The Sustainable Finance team 
is responsible for working across the lines of business 
•  Global Crisis Management (GCM) — GCM provides  and corporate functions to advise on the Firm’s environ-
24 hours a day, seven days a week monitoring of  mental and social risk management efforts, support the 
incidents, including natural disasters, and coordinates  development of sustainability-focused business strategies 
with our Resiliency, Real Estate, Human Resources and  and financing opportunities, and coordinate stakeholder 
Technology groups, among others, to respond to events  engagement and reporting efforts on environmental and 
that may affect our employees, clients and customers.  social matters. The Sustainable Finance team sits within 
The Head of Global Crisis Management also manages  the Firm’s Corporate Responsibility group, with the Global 
our Global Security Operations Centers (GSOCs), which  Head of Sustainable Finance reporting to the Head of 
are located in New York, London and Singapore. These  Corporate Responsibility.
centers work to detect, analyze and report on incidents 
with actual or potential impact to the Firm’s employees,  •  Global Environmental and Social Risk Management 
facilities and business operations. Each GSOC monitors  (GESRM) — GESRM establishes and oversees various 
internal and external data feeds for its respective  internal standards for managing environmental and 
region and provides line of business and corporate  social risks the Firm may assume through its dealings 
function decision makers with relevant information  with various clients around the world. GESRM’s 
to prepare for or respond to an incident or event.  responsibilities include, but are not limited to, assessing 
The Head of Global Crisis Management reports to our  transition plans to a lower-carbon economy for clients 
Chief Security Officer, who in turn reports to the Chief  in higher-risk sectors, which are impacting and/or are 
Administrative Officer, who in turn reports to the Chief  impacted by climate change, and contributing to the 
Financial Officer. Firm’s internal credit risk decision-making process. The 
Head of GESRM reports to the Firmwide Risk Executive 
for Reputation Risk, who in turn reports to the Chief 
Risk Officer.
7  2019 JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. Understanding Our Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities
Strategy
JPMorgan Chase leverages its core expertise in the financial markets to promote sustainable business 
practices and help clients capitalize on opportunities that achieve positive environmental and social 
outcomes, including the transition to a lower-carbon economy. Our sustainability strategy, comprising 
the following areas of focus described in this section, guides our efforts to advance opportunities for our 
clients and within our own operations. This strategy also includes ways to better understand and manage 
business risks that may be driven by climate change.
We recognize that transitioning to a lower-carbon economy will take time and require greater market 
penetration of energy efficiency, renewable energy and other forms of lower-carbon energy, such as 
natural gas. The transition will also likely require continued use of many fossil fuels, which underscores 
the need to produce and use such fuels in an environmentally sensitive and efficient manner. In recent 
years, we have taken steps to restrict financing for some of the most carbon-intensive activities, such as 
coal mining and mountaintop mining. We also encourage our clients to utilize industry best practices for 
managing environmental and social impacts and to improve disclosure on their performance. 
Promoting Business Opportunity •  JPMorgan Chase is a leader in underwriting green 
bonds as well as bonds with a sustainable use of 
proceeds. Green bonds enable clients to raise — and 
Increasingly, many of our clients are establishing 
investors to allocate — capital for environmental 
sustainability goals and exploring ways to lower their 
initiatives, including those that help address climate 
carbon footprint and capitalize on the transition to a 
change. In 2018, JPMorgan Chase underwrote 
lower-carbon economy. We are committed to serving our 
$10.6 billion in green bonds and bonds with a 
clients and to providing them with the financing solutions 
sustainable use of proceeds. The proceeds from 
they need to achieve those goals.
these transactions are used to finance eligible green 
projects, such as development and construction of 
Corporate & Investment Bank and  
renewable energy generation plants.
Commercial Banking 
One of the ways we help our clients scale the impact  •  We provide financing solutions to support clients’ 
of their sustainability efforts is through our financing  renewable energy projects and to facilitate new energy, 
activities. In 2017, we committed to facilitate $200 technology, transportation, waste management and 
billion in clean financing by 2025 to further support our  water treatment innovations. For example, since 2003, 
clients in advancing their sustainability objectives in the  JPMorgan Chase has committed or arranged over 
sectors of renewable energy, clean technology, clean  $21 billion in tax equity financing for wind, solar and 
transportation, waste management and water treatment,  geothermal energy projects in the U.S., including $3.2 
among others. By the end of 2018, we had facilitated  billion in JPMorgan Chase investments in 2018.
over $100 billion toward our goal. This financing activity 
is principally led by our CIB and CB businesses, which  •  We advise clients on leading strategic transactions 
provide strategic advice, raise capital, extend loans and  and raising capital, including in the renewable energy 
offer risk management solutions for large- and medium-  sector. This can include helping renewable energy 
sized corporations, governments and other institutions,  companies raise capital through public or private 
including nonprofits. This includes the following: markets, or facilitating strategic acquisitions or sales.
8  2019 JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. Understanding Our Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities
Providing Relief to Our Customers and Communities Impacted by Disasters
As natural disasters and extreme weather events increase in frequency and severity, they have the 
potential to affect not only our operations but also the communities where our customers and employees 
live and work. While managing the risks to our operations, we also strive to support those affected. We do 
that by easing customers’ short-term financial stresses to allow them time to recover after disaster strikes. 
For example, through our CCB business, we waive and refund certain fees on checking accounts and loans, 
and offer payment relief on car loans, credit cards, mortgages and home equity loans. We also support 
nonprofit organizations on the ground through immediate relief in the wake of a disaster and through 
philanthropic collaborations to help communities better prepare for when disaster strikes.
•  We leverage our research capabilities to advance   Asset & Wealth Management
climate-focused and broader sustainability investment 
Our AWM business, which has $2 trillion in assets under 
strategies. In 2018, we launched the J.P. Morgan ESG 
management, helps individuals, advisers and institutions 
(JESG) fixed income index and data suite, offering 
around the world invest capital to achieve their financial
the first-ever emerging market bond indices that 
goals. These goals increasingly include a desire to align 
integrate ESG factors into a composite benchmark. 
investments with sustainability objectives.
These indexes embed climate investment strategies 
into their design; for example, thermal coal mining 
Our Asset Management business has a long-standing 
and power generating companies are excluded from 
commitment to incorporating ESG information into its 
the index, and green bonds are given an outsize 
investment practices. As an active investment manager, 
weight to encourage sustainable investments such as 
our investment teams in Asset Management conduct 
clean energy. For example, J.P. Morgan Perspectives, 
research to determine the materiality, relevance and 
a research series for clients, takes a look at big 
applicability of climate-related issues for portfolio 
ideas transforming investment markets; climate 
implementation across asset classes, strategy, regions 
change has been a recurring topic of focus, given its 
and sectors. For example, climate factors are a 
potential profound impacts. The “ESG Investing Goes 
consideration when investing in infrastructure companies, 
Mainstream” report in May 2018 looked across ESG 
where assets could be vulnerable to rising temperatures, 
topics, including the rise of electric vehicles, green 
rising sea levels and extreme weather events.
bonds and the low-carbon transformation confronting 
utilities; “Geopolitics and Markets: Risks on the Rise” 
In 2016, Asset Management established a Sustainable 
included analysis of the severe weather impacts of 
Investment Leadership Team (SILT), a cross-functional 
climate change; and “Made in China 2025: A New World 
group of senior experts that facilitates a coordinated 
Order?” in January 2019 considered the rise of China’s 
strategy for sustainable investing across asset classes 
clean energy development and green bonds leadership.
and investment offerings. Asset Management has also 
increased efforts to contribute to and advance clients’ 
understanding of ESG topics. In 2018, for example, our 
Asset Management business published a series of insights 
exploring climate change and resilience, renewable 
energy and battery storage, and ESG integration in real 
estate portfolios, among other topics.
9  2019 JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. Understanding Our Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities
In our updated Global Proxy Voting Procedures and  Furthermore, we have expanded our investment solutions 
Guidelines, Asset Management highlights the importance  platform to Wealth Management clients through Impax 
of understanding the potential risks and opportunities  Asset Management; this U.S. equity growth strategy invests 
that climate change and other environmental matters  in companies that offer products and services that address 
pose to portfolio companies. Our specialists engage with  environmental challenges in order to create positive 
issuers we deem significantly exposed to climate change  environmental impact, such as reducing carbon emissions, 
to discuss corporate strategy and the Board’s oversight  reducing and recovering waste and improving food quality.
of risks related to climate change. In evaluating how to 
vote on environmental proposals, understanding the 
Enhancing Operational 
fundamental difference between portfolio companies, 
their differentiated capital allocation strategies and their  Sustainability
business and asset mix is an important part of Asset 
Management’s approach. More information on the factors 
Our direct environmental impacts stem primarily from the 
that inform engagement efforts and subsequent voting 
operation of our more than 5,500 corporate buildings, 
decisions can be found in Asset Management’s Global 
retail bank branches and data centers around the world. 
Proxy Voting Procedures and Guidelines.
Our commitment to source renewable energy for 100% of 
the Firm’s global power needs by 2020 is a major step in 
Our Wealth Management business is also helping clients 
our long-standing efforts to reduce our carbon footprint.
express their preferences for sustainable investing. In 
2018, we hired a dedicated Head of Sustainable Investing 
By the end of 2018, we had sourced renewable energy for 
for Wealth Management who will expand our sustainable 
22% of our global power use. We are undertaking a range 
investment offerings, enhancing our ability to help clients 
of actions to drive progress, including the following:
who want to pursue sustainable and impact investing 
within their portfolios. We also continue to share insights 
with our clients on sustainability topics, including on the  •  Installing on-site renewable energy at retail branches 
environment and climate change. and commercial buildings globally;
•  Reducing energy consumption by implementing ener-
Currently, across equities, fixed income, alternatives and 
gy-efficient lighting and other technologies;
multi-asset portfolios, Wealth Management has 56
•  Executing Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) to 
investment strategies geared toward sustainable investing 
support the development of new renewable energy 
globally, with $4.2 billion in assets under management 
projects on grids from which we purchase energy; and
as of December 31, 2018. These strategies span multiple 
approaches, including ESG integration, exclusionary  •  Purchasing Renewable Energy Credits (REC) and 
screening, thematic investing and impact investing. We  Verified Emission Reduction (VER) credits to green 
continue to develop tools to help clients achieve their  our electricity supply and offset carbon emissions from 
sustainable investing goals. Specific to climate change,  employee travel, respectively.
we are incorporating analysis of climate-related risks and 
also offering strategies that capitalize on the transition to 
a lower-carbon economy. For example, we are integrating  Increasing Transparency 
an analysis of ESG factors into our manager due diligence 
Through Reporting
process for all solutions on our platform. We also offer 
strategies that have a lower carbon profile and/or remove 
fossil fuel exposure altogether. JPMorgan Chase is committed to reporting on our approach 
to and performance on a range of environmental and social 
issues. Our annual ESG Report is one of the principal 
channels through which we discuss how we are addressing 
ESG matters that we and our stakeholders view as among 
the most important to our business.  We also strive to  
support industry-led efforts related to ESG disclosure, 
such as through our participation on the TCFD. 
10  2019 JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. Understanding Our Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities
Engaging on Policy and   •  We are a founding sponsor of NatureVest, the impact 
investing unit of The Nature Conservancy. Launched 
Industry Best Practices 
in 2014, NatureVest seeks to create and execute 
investable deals in a wide variety of sectors that 
We engage and collaborate with other financial institutions,  deliver conservation results and financial returns for 
nonprofit organizations, multilateral organizations,  investors around the world. The conservation of natural 
clients and other stakeholders to encourage leadership  resources can play an important role in mitigating the 
on sustainability and to promote best practices across  impacts of a changing climate on agriculture, water and 
industries. The Firm also engages with policymakers and  our coastal communities. We continue to support and 
standard-setting bodies around the globe on a range of  provide strategic advice to NatureVest — and to explore 
issues, including efforts to address climate change. For  new ways that our philanthropic capital can bring 
example, in 2017, our Chairman and CEO joined a group  conservation-based opportunities to scale.
of other corporate CEOs to publicly express support 
for remaining in the Paris Agreement, underscoring its 
Exploring Climate-Related 
importance to U.S. trade, job creation and economic growth.
Risks and Impacts 
Through our philanthropic support to leading nonprofit 
organizations, think tanks and research institutions, we 
The extent to which climate-related factors will impact 
are working to advance industry-specific best practices 
our clients, customers and the Firm remains uncertain; 
and research that help companies better understand 
however, JPMorgan Chase has several initiatives 
climate change within the context of their businesses.
underway that focus on understanding risks that may 
 
be driven by climate change. In the following section 
For example:
we outline our approach to risk management and 
•  We are supporting Carnegie Mellon University’s  discuss some of the efforts we are undertaking to better 
Community Robotics, Education and Technology  understand climate-related impacts within our current 
Empowerment Lab to leverage data from leading  risk management framework.
governmental and research organizations to develop 
visual narratives related to the physical impacts of 
climate change that can be used by governments, 
Exploring Transition Impacts
businesses, civil society and other stakeholders to 
more effectively understand and communicate the 
Climate change has the potential to impact 
impacts of climate change on local communities.
many of the clients and customers we serve. 
In 2018, JPMorgan Chase participated in a 
•  We are continuing to support the Center for Climate 
pilot exercise to assess how various transition-
and Energy Solutions as it works to help companies 
related climate “shocks” could potentially 
understand and implement the scenario-analysis 
impact the credit quality of companies 
recommendation from the TCFD.
in certain industries. The purpose of this 
•  We are providing support to the Center for Strategic  exercise, which included a group of financial 
and International Studies to develop insights on ways  institutions and a third-party consultant, was 
in which the oil and gas industry can help advance the  to gain preliminary insight into the relationship 
transition to a lower-carbon energy economy. between climate impacts and financial factors. 
We also sought to identify future areas of 
research and data that would be needed to 
improve the robustness of climate-related 
scenario analysis and stress testing over time.
11  2019 JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. Understanding Our Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities
Risk Management
The Firm’s overall objective is to manage our businesses — and the associated risks — in a manner that 
balances serving the interests of our clients, customers and investors and that protects the Firm’s 
safety and soundness. We are deliberate in our client selection and recognize the importance of various 
industries to the global economy, even as we acknowledge that some of them are particularly sensitive 
from a sustainability and environmental perspective. From time to time, we have to make decisions 
about the transactions and activities of a client, and opinions about those transactions and activities 
could differ across clients, customers and stakeholders. Increasingly, we see that industries contributing 
to or being impacted by climate change present potential risks to the Firm through our relationships 
with clients and customers.
Climate change factors could manifest as a number of  We continue to refine our approach to assessing climate- 
risks, including the following: related factors, in part because of the expectation that 
climate impacts will continue to emerge and evolve over 
•  Credit and Investment — Acceleration in low-carbon  time. To date, our approach has focused primarily on the 
technologies and an evolving regulatory environment  areas described below.
could put pressure on the expense base of those 
companies that operate in carbon-intensive sectors and 
Understanding Climate-Related  
could lead to credit or investment losses for clients or 
the Firm. Impacts on Our Clients
•  Operational — Changes in the frequency and severity 
of extreme weather events could cause significant 
GESRM conducts due diligence on individual transactions 
property damage or business interruption for clients 
and on clients operating in specific higher-risk industries 
and customers in impacted areas.
to evaluate the following:
•  The industry/sector and location(s) where a client is 
JPMorgan Chase’s Independent Risk Management (IRM) 
operating; and the client’s commitment and capacity to 
function is organized generally to manage and categorize 
manage E&S issues
risks according to type, including strategic risk (which 
includes impacts to the Firm’s reputation), credit and  •  How clients propose using financing proceeds
investment risk, market risk and operational risk. It is 
•  Specific types of commercial activity that present 
the responsibility of each of the Firm’s lines of business 
heightened E&S risks
to operate within the parameters set by IRM and identify 
risks related to their respective business activities. The 
Evaluating these criteria, among others, helps the Firm 
appropriate consideration of environmental and social 
assess clients’ ability to manage the E&S impacts specific 
(E&S) issues is an important part of our process to assess 
to their business and industry. Our Environmental 
potential reputational impacts.
and Social Policy Framework outlines our approach to 
evaluating reputational and financial risks posed by 
The Global Environmental and Social Risk Management 
E&S matters; it includes our policies to reduce exposure 
(GESRM) team, which is part of IRM, establishes 
to and/or prohibit certain types of financing for some 
governance standards and restrictions for E&S industries 
carbon-intensive activities, such as coal mining and 
and sectors that we deem to be higher risk. GESRM
mountaintop mining.
also performs E&S due diligence on certain clients and 
transactions; this includes reviewing clients’ operating 
In the event a natural disaster impacts the Firm’s credit 
approaches to assess factors that could change a client’s 
exposure in a specific segment or location, we assess 
forward credit profile or impact the Firm’s reputation.
the financial impact by analyzing the probability of 
 
12  2019 JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. Understanding Our Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities
possible downgrades and then recommend increased  Because JPMorgan Chase has more than 256,000 
credit reserves, as necessary. We have also started to  employees in over 60 countries across more than 5,500 
analyze exposures across lines of business that could be  properties, covering nearly 75 million square feet of real 
vulnerable in the event of a natural disaster and identify  estate, extreme weather events have the potential to shut 
specific financial and operational risks. For example, CCB  down our branches and office buildings and impact our 
and CB are beginning to model the impacts of natural  data centers. Our firmwide business resiliency program 
disasters on real estate portfolios, deepening their  assesses, responds to and manages recovery from these 
understanding of the potential financial impacts that such  types of disruptions. It includes the development and 
events could have on the Firm. Our initial focus has been  maintenance of resiliency plans, ongoing testing to ensure 
on specific regional impacts; the Firm plans to expand  those resiliency plans work, education of our employees 
these types of analyses to other regions and businesses. about how they can support and enhance preparedness, 
and engagement with senior management on all aspects 
We also continue to monitor and evaluate other  of these efforts.
potential hazards, including the increased frequency and 
magnitude of wildfires in the western United States. To improve the resiliency of the Firm’s technology, 
we take several risk factors — including climate and 
environmental conditions — into consideration when 
selecting data center locations. The impact of natural 
Enhancing Firmwide  
disasters and the resulting costs and revenue losses 
Preparedness and Response from physical damage also feed into other operational 
risk management processes, including operational stress 
testing design. In the event that a business disruption 
The increased frequency and severity of climate-related 
does occur, we conduct after-action reviews to evaluate 
events, such as extreme weather events, and changes 
the efficiency and quality of the Firm’s response so that 
to natural cycles — e.g. rising sea levels, warmer and 
we can learn from the experience.
drier growing seasons and drought — could impact both 
the Firm’s physical assets as well as the physical assets, 
Although climate change has not had a material business 
business models and supply chains of our clients and 
or operational impact on the Firm to date — and we 
customers. Losses from these types of climate-related 
believe we are well positioned to mitigate and/or respond 
factors are captured through the Firm’s operational risk 
to climate-related risks in the future — we do recognize 
management processes. Our resiliency planning approach 
these risks are of increasing importance to our Firm, 
focuses on preparing for the impacts to locations, people, 
our clients and the communities we serve, and we will 
technology and vendors. 
continue to monitor them closely.
HayWired Resilient Business Challenge
In 2018, JPMorgan Chase participated in the San Francisco HayWired Resilient Business Challenge, which is 
designed to help businesses increase their own preparedness and mitigate the impact an earthquake or other 
natural disaster could have on their ability to resume business activities. Such initiatives help inform our 
operational resiliency in higher-risk regions, including those vulnerable to climate-related impacts, and allow us 
to exchange valuable insights with other stakeholders in these regions. 
13  2019 JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. Understanding Our Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities
Metrics and Targets
The TCFD recommends that companies identify metrics and targets to assess and manage relevant risks 
and opportunities driven by climate factors. In the table on page 15, we summarize the operational data on 
our energy use, GHG emissions and water consumption from 2016 through 2018.
We recognize that the TCFD also recommends financial institutions disclose information on credit 
exposure to various carbon-intensive industries, such as oil and gas, utilities, and mining and metals. 
Because measuring a company’s direct contribution to climate change based on GHGs emitted is relatively 
straightforward, credit exposure to industries that are large producers and consumers of fossil fuels is 
often viewed as a proxy for climate-related financial risk. However, climate change factors (e.g., policy and 
market trends, physical impacts) may impact industries — and even companies within the same industry 
— very differently. As a result, we plan to explore the development of measures that would provide more 
nuanced insight into both the risks and the resilience of our clients’ businesses to climate-related factors.
 
Progress toward Sustainability Targets
As of year-end 2018, we have made progress on our commitments to source renewable energy for 100% of our global 
power needs by 2020 and to facilitate $200 billion in clean financing by 2025. 
Cumulatively, between 2016 and 2018, we facilitated more than 
Facilitate $200 billion in clean  $100 billion in clean financing in the following categories:
financing by 2025
Green Buildings/ 
Cumulative progress  Clean Technology/
Energy Efficiency 5%
2016–2018 Sustainable  
Transportation 9%
$100.3 
billion
Source renewable energy for  
100% global power needs by 2020
Renewable 
Energy 62%
2018 progress Water Quality/ 
22% Waste Management 24%
14  2019 JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. Understanding Our Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities
JPMorgan Chase  
Sustainability Metrics and Progress toward Targets
    2018  2017  2016
Employee headcount    256,105  252,539  243,355
Square footage1    57,584,466   58,140,356   59,736,427
       
Greenhouse Gas Emissions2  Unit  2018  2017  2016
Scope 1 emissions3  MtCO e  83,101     78,229    79,556 
2
Scope 2 emissions — Location-based  MtCO e  739,458     770,704    906,093 
2
Scope 2 emissions — Market-based  MtCO e  572,067    596,843    780,710 
2
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 — Market-based  MtCO e  655,167     675,073    860,267 
2
Reduction over 2005 baseline4  %  53    52     38 
GHG emissions per sq. ft.  MtCO e/sq. ft.  0.01138     0.01161   0.01440 
2
Scope 3 emissions from employee air travel  MtCO e  176,356     187,020    130,430 
2
Verified Emission Reduction (VER) credits purchased  MtCO e  184,769     175,155   160,000 
2
       
Renewable Power  Unit  2018  2017  2016
Electricity production (on-site solar and fuel cells)  MWh  13,290     6,472    5,328 
Contractual instruments5  MWh  375,280     370,801    210,000 
Proportion of power use from renewable sources  
(production and instruments)  %  22     21    11
 
       
Energy Consumption  Unit  2018  2017  2016
Total  MWh  2,127,812    2,124,697     2,240,399 
Reduction over 2005 baseline (net)  %  33     31    28 
       
Water Consumption  Unit  2018  2017  2016
U.S. operations2  m3   5,731,976    5,611,797    5,127,749 
 
1  JPMorgan Chase utilizes an operational control approach to establish boundaries for our greenhouse gas inventory. This includes owned and leased facilities for which we 
control the energy usage and pay the energy/utility bills directly to the respective utility. 
2 Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions were verified for 2016, 201, and 2018. Water consumption in 2018 has been verified. 
3 Scope 1 emissions include emissions from corporate air travel. 
4 Emissions-reduction calculations over the 2005 baseline use the market-based method.
5 Contractual instruments include Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) from the Buckthorn wind farm PPA, Renewable Energy Guarantees of O rigin (REGOs) and a solar and wind tariff.
15  2019 JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. Understanding Our Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities
Next Steps 
Climate change is and will remain an important global issue. The latest reports from the IPCC and the U.S. 
Global Change Research Program highlight the scope and severity of risks the world could face as global 
average temperatures continue to rise. The reports also underscore that current efforts today — including 
government commitments — to tackle climate change will not be enough to avoid the worst impacts.
As a global financial institution, we lend to, provide risk  As we look to build on our efforts, we have identified 
management solutions and raise capital for a range of  other considerations and challenges that we, and many 
companies across a diverse set of industries. This means  other companies, will need to explore further:
that we deal with clients that are large producers and 
•  While climate change presents material risk to the 
consumers of fossil fuels, and those that are not. Our 
environment, and will almost certainly present material 
objective is to support companies that are thinking 
risks to the global economy, it is more challenging to 
strategically about the transition to a lower-carbon future 
estimate whether and how climate change could impact 
and positioning themselves to adapt to a wide range of 
any one individual company at a given point in time.
evolving policy, market and technology trends over time. 
•  Traditional capital stress testing assesses whether 
To meet this objective, it is critical that we have the right 
institutions have sufficient capital to absorb losses and 
qualitative and quantitative information to assess the 
support operations during adverse economic conditions. 
range and effectiveness of our clients’ transition plans. 
This stress testing assesses capital adequacy over a 
Although it is a significant challenge, we are focused on 
short time frame, such as nine quarters, while the most 
defining and obtaining the right data to allow for proper 
extreme impacts from climate change are expected to 
identification and evaluation of material climate-related 
emerge over longer time horizons.
risks originating from the clients we transact with — and 
risk exposure that we retain. •  Many companies are starting to explore stress testing 
to inform how their businesses may fare under a 
Even within the same industry, companies may have  range of future scenarios and shock events; however, 
different carbon footprints and face varying policy and  scenarios rely on a series of assumptions, which are 
market constraints and pressures. Because of these  inherently uncertain. This uncertainty increases further 
complexities, we will need to better understand the  when the scenarios start to look 10, 20, 30 or more 
factors that are more likely to indicate the presence of  years out.
financial risk stemming from climate-related drivers. We 
•  The relative materiality of climate factors, compared 
anticipate that our future disclosure of climate-related 
with other risk factors that companies face, is 
financial metrics will leverage credit exposure as a proxy 
important to consider when assessing risk, especially 
for climate-related financial risk, fine-tuned to reveal 
within shorter time horizons.
transition and physical impacts over time. 
The above considerations underscore the importance 
of developing a nuanced understanding of the unique 
issues facing companies and how companies are 
responding to climate-related factors and impacts. 
We are in the early stages of this journey, and we will 
continuously seek to understand trends, hear new and 
different perspectives, and adapt our approach over 
time. We look forward to collaborating with our peers, 
clients and other experts and stakeholders to expand 
our analytical capabilities and strengthen external 
reporting on our efforts and progress.
16  2019 JPMORGAN CHASE & CO. Understanding Our Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities