
2019
Sustainability 
Report
A team committed to  
our community,  
our employees, and  
our planet.
2  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019
Changing Times
A message from the Co-CEOs
T
he world is undeniably going through a time of major social, 
economic, and environmental change. However, there is a greater 
awareness today of the problems we are facing and, most importantly, 
a growing desire in both the public and private sectors to act. 
At Nikko Asset Management, we have 
a positive outlook on the future of 
our world. We believe that our actions 
have an impact, so we are invested in 
doing everything we can to ensure our 
employees, our clients, the communities 
where we work, and the environment all 
benefit and prosper over the long term. 
We are pleased to be bringing you 
Nikko AM’s first Sustainability Report. In 
it, you will read about our commitment 
to being a responsible investor; the envi-
ronmental, social, and corporate gover-
nance (ESG) considerations we are inte-
grating into our investment strategies; 
and our current activities aimed at help-
ing the people and the world around us. 
This report is also an opportunity 
to announce the three core areas 
of focus of our sustainability activi-
“...we can be more effective at making a  
ties going forward: diversity and 
inclusion (D&I), reducing inequali- meaningful difference in our workplaces and 
ties, and environment and climate. 
our world”
D&I is an area where we are already 
deeply involved. Among our many D&I 
initiatives, we are dedicated to pro-
moting women’s empowerment and  will lead to a more sustainable soci- more communities around the world 
advancement, and we have created  ety. We are looking forward to expand- have access to clean water. Through a 
the LGBT Working Group to better  ing our activities in this area and, ulti- ground-up initiative from staff, the firm 
engage with our LGBT clients and  mately, contributing to a fairer future.  has sent teams of volunteers to install 
establish a more supportive work- Environment and climate are now fun- water filters in rural villages in Cambodia.
place for all our employees. We are truly  damental considerations of our busi- By placing our focus on these three 
excited to see how a greater empha- ness, both within our company and  areas, we are confident we can be 
sis on D&I will shape and develop  within our community. We are very  more effective at making a meaning-
our business in the years to come.  proud to have been recognised as a  ful difference in our workplaces and 
Reducing inequalities can be  carbon-neutral organisation last year,  our world. And as we put our values 
approached in numerous ways, but one  and we are continuing our efforts to  into practice, we believe we are help-
way we are currently taking action in  reduce our carbon footprint. We are  ing to make the future brighter. 
this area is through events we hold to  also improving our climate impact in 
improve the financial literacy of chil- other ways, such as by removing plas- We look forward to continuing on 
dren. By making financial education  tic bottles from our offices and promot- this journey in the years to come.
fun, we are encouraging the next gen- ing the use of reusable bags among our 
eration, from a young age, to strive  staff. An area of particular importance  Junichi Sayato, Chairman and Co-CEO
for economic independence, which  to us is our commitment to seeing that  Hideo Abe, President and Co-CEO
3  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019
Nikko AM 
2019 Sustainability Report
2  Changing Times  
  A message from the Co-CEOs
Introduction
5  Our Commitment
6  Our Company at a Glance
8  Our Responsibility as a Company 
9  Pursuing Fiduciary Duties and ESG Principles 
  A message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors
ESG at Nikko AM
11  Our Commitment to ESG Principles 
  A message from the Chief Investment Officer
12  Our History 
13  Our Approach 
15  Japan Equity Team 
17  Global Equity Team
19  Asian Equity (Ex. Japan) Team 
21  Japan Fixed Income Team 
23  Global Fixed Income Team 
25  Asian Fixed Income (Ex. Japan) Team 
27  Portfolio Solutions Group
29  Good Governance: Proxy Voting
30  Our Engagement
31  Our Engagement: Case Studies
33  Climate-Related Financial Disclosure Update 
Our Sustainability Activities
35  A Passion for Sustainability  
  A message from the Head of Corporate Sustainability 
36  Our Approach
37  Diversity & Inclusion
39  Environment and Climate 
41  Reducing Inequalities 
Looking Ahead 
44  External Commitments
45  Contact Information
4 4  NNikikkok oA MAM S uSsutsatianianbaiblitilyit yR eRpeoprot r2t 0210919
Introduction
5  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Our Commitment
A
t Nikko Asset Management, we have 
always taken a long-term view. We 
are committed to running the firm 
responsibly for the benefit of all our stake- “...we believe  
holders, and we believe that environmen-
we are in a position  
tal, social, and governance (ESG) consider-
ations are key to creating future value for 
to effect real change”
our clients. 
Through the framework of the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
adopted by the United Nations, countries, 
industries, and markets around the world 
are increasingly striving to resolve social 
and environmental issues in order to realise 
a sustainable society. 
As an asset management company, we 
believe we are in a position to effect real 
change — not only by engaging with our 
clients and the companies we invest in, but 
also by fostering a corporate culture that 
embraces the tenets of the SDGs. 
Together with our stakeholders, we will 
continue to work towards a sustainable 
future, by promoting ESG through our 
investment activities and sustainability in 
our corporate activities.
Our responsibility as a company  Our responsibility as an investment  Our responsibility as a corporate 
As a company, we are committed  manager  citizen
to upholding a world-class level of  As an investment manager, we are  As a corporate citizen, we are committed 
corporate governance. We believe  committed to putting our clients’  to working towards a more inclusive 
this is fundamental to maintaining  interests first. Fiduciary and ESG  society and reducing our impact on 
the trust of clients, prospective clients,  principles guide all our corporate  the environment. Led by the Corporate 
the public, regulators, and other key  activities. We see ESG integration as  Sustainability Department, our 
stakeholders. Seven of our ten-member  inherent to long-term value creation and  sustainability activities have three focus 
board of directors are outside directors,  inseparable from good investing. Guided  areas: diversity & inclusion, reducing 
ensuring that top-level decisions are  by our ESG policy, our investment  inequalities, and environment and 
made by an independent board.  teams implement ESG in a manner best  climate. Also, at each Nikko AM office, 
suited to their investment strategy and  local working groups lead ground-up 
ecosystem. We also engage in active  activities that are pertinent to the 
dialogue with the companies we invest  communities they work in. 
in, and have a transparent, standardised 
approach to proxy voting. 
6  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Our Company at a Glance
Global Citizen with Asian DNA 
Extensive global resources
 
11
countries#
USD 
246
bn^
total AUM
• Japan
• Australia • Americas
30+ • Hong Kong • Singapore
• United Kingdom • New Zealand
nationalities* • Luxembourg • China
• Germany • Malaysia
Our Specialisations
Our Global Capabilities 
Qualitative insight through a broad range  
Equities
of global investment capabilities
Global, Asia–Pacific (ex. Japan),  
Japan, Australia, China,  
Total Assets Under Management (AUM): USD 246bn^
New Zealand
Fixed Income
Global Bonds, Green Bonds,  
 Total Equity  56.7%
Asian Local Currency, Asian Credit,  
 Total Fixed Income  15.0% Australia, New Zealand
 Cash Equivalent  13.6%
Multi-Asset
 Balanced  7.9%
Global, Emerging Markets
 Alternative/Others  6.8%
ETFs
Equities, Bonds, REITs
# As of Dec 2019. Including overseas subsidiaries, affiliates, and minority joint ventures.
* As of Dec 2019. 
^ Consolidated assets under management and advice of Nikko AM as of Dec 2019, including subsidiaries but excluding minority affiliates and minority joint ventures.
7  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Our People A History of our Sustainability 
Activities
 1999 
•
Launched Japan’s first socially responsible  
 
  investment fund
 2007 
•
Became a signatory of the UN PRI
 880 • 
Became the first Japanese asset manager to disclose  
 
  its proxy voting results on our corporate website
 2008 
Employees* •
Established the Nikko AM Fund Academy training
 
across the globe   centre to educate clients on our products
 2010 
•
Launched the world’s first fund developed with the  
 
  World Bank. Also, developed our own Corporate  
  Environment Policy
 2011 
•
Signed onto Japan’s Ministry of Environment-led  
 
  Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century
•
  Served as chair of PRI-Japan Network (April 2011 –    
2  06  
  March 2014)
 2013 
•
Developed Creating Shared Value (CSV) equity  
Investment    
Professionals*   investment strategy (Japan)
 2016 
•
with an average of  
Established the Stewardship and Voting Rights Policy  
21 years industry experience  
  Oversight Committee and the Global ESG Steering  
  Committee
 2017 
•
Enhanced governance with full disclosure of its  
 
  voting rights (Japan)
 2018 
•
Became the first Asian-headquartered asset manager  
 
1  07   to support all four areas under The Investor Agenda
•
Served as vice-chair of the Asian Investor Group on  
 
  Climate Change
•
Portfolio Managers* Adopted the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles
• 
with extensive, and    Established the Corporate Sustainability Department
locally-driven research   2019 
•
coverage
Published our inaugural TCFD Report 
• 
Certified as carbon neutral
 
* As of Dec 2019. 
8  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Our Responsibility 
as a Company
A
s a global asset manager, Nikko  director, and by appointing even more  future of Nikko AM and differentiating 
Asset Management is deeply  external directors to our board of direc- it from our competitors’ with a forward-
engaged in environmental,  tors than the number required of listed  looking perspective on the asset 
social, and governance (ESG)  firms. We also ensure strict independence  management industry as a whole.
initiatives and how they are implemented  in the governance of our voting rights  As of December 2019, Nikko AM’s Japan 
at investee companies. activities and funds by entrusting it to  board of directors has seven independent 
To enhance our commitment to sus- committees that are chaired by indepen- directors (including the chairman), six of 
tainability in our own business opera- dent members and have a majority of  whom have no capital relationships with 
tions, as well as our investment approach,  independent members. the company. This ensures a high level of 
we took the decision to establish the  independence and transparency in our 
Corporate Sustainability Department in  Management governance governance relative to our industry peers.
September 2018. Our focus on sustain- As befits a firm entrusted with managing 
ability is long-term and we are continu- the assets of clients, our business opera- Voting rights governance
ously working to serve the interests of all  tions are presided over by a senior man- We established the Stewardship and 
our stakeholders — clients, employees,  agement team that is well versed in asset  Voting Rights Policy Oversight 
shareholders, and the society in which  management. Our approach to securing  Committee in Japan in June 2016 to 
we operate. management talent is predicated on our  improve transparency in our stewardship 
strong belief that having such a team in  activities, such as engaging with firms 
Governance place gives Nikko AM the strongest possi- and exercising voting rights, as well as to 
As we seek improvements in the gover- ble foundations. strengthen our governance. Drawing the 
nance of the firms we invest in, we want  The appointment of Yoichiro Iwama  majority of its members from outside the 
to ensure that we have a rigorous and  as an outside director and Chairman  company, the committee is the first such 
robust governing structure in place. To  of the Tokyo Board of Directors in May  third-party body to be established at a 
this end, we have built three pillars of  2018 was to strengthen our governance  Japanese asset management company. It 
governance, namely management gov- with his independent perspective and  holds meetings once a quarter in 
ernance, voting rights governance, and  extensive knowledge. His participation  principle and provides a venue for 
fund governance. has further invigorated our Japan board  outside committee members to have 
Governance is our top priority. All of  of directors, enhanced the transparency  lively discussions on how Nikko AM 
our efforts — with regard to manage- of its decision-making process for  exercises its voting rights. The committee 
ment governance, voting rights gov- important business management  has held a total of 18 meetings so far.
ernance, and fund governance — are  matters, and generated lively discussions 
directly reported to our board of direc- on issues including how to enhance  Fund governance
tors in Tokyo. With our conviction that the  our asset management capabilities. By  We established the Fund Advisory Board, 
best governance can only be achieved  having debates and discussions based  whose members are also mostly external, 
with scrutiny from outside, we strive to  on the respective areas of experience  in September 2017. The Fund Advisory 
maintain independent oversight. We do  and knowledge of our directors and  Board met a total of three times in 2019 
this by ensuring that our Japan board of  outside directors, we constantly examine  and its outside members participate in 
directors is chaired by an independent  ways of refining our vision for the  debates at its meetings.
9  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Pursuing Fiduciary 
Duties and ESG 
Principles
A message from the Chairman of the Board of 
Directors, an outside director
In recent years, there has been grow- business. We need to continue enhanc-
ing discussion on how the invest- ing the way we manage our own busi-
ment industry can contribute to  ness if we are to demand better gover-
creating a sustainable society. Asset  nance from investee firms.
managers play an important role in  Nikko Asset Management’s global 
the proper functioning and continu- presence distinguishes it from other 
ous growth of capital markets, and they  Japanese asset managers, and it has 
can do their part by managing exces- developed into its present form with 
sive short-termism and helping to build  the acquisition of asset management 
a sustainable society. For example, if  firms in different regions. With its 
an asset manager has a mandate from  extensive global network, Nikko AM has 
a client focused on environmental,  successfully created an organisation 
social, and governance (ESG) consider- with a highly diverse workforce while 
ations, the manager’s duty is to enhance  retaining its Japanese roots. Given its 
the value of the investee company by  track record of creating innovative 
engaging with its management and pro- products and services, the firm’s 
moting corporate reform. Put simply,  influence is likely to grow ever stronger 
asset managers can act as agents for  in tomorrow’s global capital markets.
investors who entrust them to address  As an independent director and as the 
societal issues on their behalf.         chairman of the Japan board of directors, 
As Japan’s capital market recovers  I feel keenly responsible for Nikko 
from the doldrums of the so-called “lost  AM’s future development. The board 
decades”, the fiduciary duty of asset  supports the firm with oversight of how 
managers has come under the spotlight.  through far-sighted engagement is syn- its business is executed while making 
That is why Japan’s Stewardship Code,  onymous with value creation. As a result,  sure its fiduciary duty is clearly being 
released in 2014 and which I helped to  more asset managers are pursuing this  fulfilled. Our remit includes ensuring that 
develop, is vitally important. The Code  type of engagement in their relation- the company’s executives are evaluated 
aims to get institutional investors to fulfil  ships with investee companies, and also  properly and that there is a succession 
their fiduciary responsibilities. It also  as a basic element of their stock selec- plan in place. As we continue to steer 
emphasises engagement with stake- tion process.  the firm, I will continue to deepen my 
holders, which we believe is essential  knowledge in this industry by working 
to the strengthening of the investment  Improving governance to strengthen  closely with our executives and also by 
chain in the years ahead. Engagement  global capital markets learning from them.
in capital markets is moving in the right  An extremely important way of cre-
direction, although it still has room to  ating value in line with our fiduciary  Yoichiro Iwama
grow. Now, asset managers are aware  duty is through proper governance in  Outside Director and Chairman of the 
that putting ESG principles into practice  managing our funds, proxy voting, and  Board of Directors
101 0  NNikikkok oA MAM S uSsutsatianianbaiblitilyit yR eRpeoprot r2t 0210919
ESG at  
Nikko AM
11  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Our Commitment 
to ESG Principles
A message
from the  
Chief Investment 
Officer
A
t Nikko Asset Management, 
environment, social, and gov-
ernance (ESG) principles are a 
pillar of our corporate identity, 
and these principles have been integrated 
into our investment process. In 1999 we 
launched Japan’s first socially responsible 
investment (SRI) fund, and for the past two 
decades we have made a concerted effort 
to link ESG factors with excess returns. 
In our view, the approach that corpora-
tions are taking towards ESG has entered 
an entirely new stage that would have 
previously been unthinkable; we are at the 
start of an era when the creation of social 
value leads to the generation of economic 
value. Sustainable development goals and 
ESG principles now feature prominently 
as crucial business components for many  incorporating ESG factors into portfo-
firms. Companies use these factors as a  lio construction. Each investment team 
means to generate revenue and increase  possesses its own unique understand-
competitiveness, and it is becoming clear  “...we are at the start  ing of ESG, and each team conducts 
that including such considerations in  ESG-related investments from a variety of 
of an era when the 
investments creates outperformance.  perspectives.
We have consistently stayed a step  creation of social  While global interest towards 
ahead of our peers: in 2013 our analysts  sustainability is increasing at a rapid pace, 
value leads to 
began a comprehensive assessment of  there are myriad challenges in achieving 
corporate value through our Creating  the generation of  and maintaining it. Asset management 
Shared Value (CSV) evaluations, which  firms have a responsibility to help 
economic value”
include ESG factors, and we have been  overcome these challenges. Therefore, by 
incorporating this process in our Japanese  always acting in a spirit of fiduciary duty 
equity investments. A key feature of our  and fidelity to ESG principles — and by 
ESG approach is our evaluation method.  constantly improving through innovation 
Rather than just superficially taking a  strategies that employ our CSV evalua- — we will continue to do our utmost to 
quantitative approach where we anal- tions. These factors have all contributed  provide high-quality financial services that 
yse firms’ corporate social responsibility  to generating excess returns. meet our clients’ needs.
Our investment teams are based 
reports, we instead engage with them to 
assess to what extent ESG factors are gen- in locations throughout the world,  Hiroki Tsujimura 
erating financial value. We have built up  including the UK, the US, Singapore,  Executive Vice President,  
six years’ worth of this unique analysis, and  China, Australia, and New Zealand. As  Global Head of Investment, and
we have developed many ESG-specific  a result, there is no single approach to  Chief Investment Officer
12  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Our History
S
ince the establishment of Japan’s first socially responsible investment 
(SRI) fund in 1999, we have put a priority on being environmentally 
friendly in our asset management operations. One of our environmental 
policies is to increase green investments, and we implement environmentally 
friendly initiatives by providing SRI funds in Japan.
In October 2007, we signed the United  steering committee member of Japan’s  includes being a signatory/supporter 
Nations-supported Principles for  Ministry of the Environment’s Principles  of the Global Investor Statement to 
Responsible Investment (PRI) to express  of Financial Action for the Formation  Governments on Climate Change, 
our commitment to the conservation  of a Sustainable Society (part of its  Climate Action 100+, as well as to the 
of the global environment and the  Principles of Financial Action for the  Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
development of a sustainable society  21st Century). Disclosures (TCFD). We also serve as 
through asset management. We  In August 2018, we became the  the vice-chair of the Asian Investor 
served as a co-chair of the UN PRI  first Asian-headquartered asset  Group on Climate Change (AIGCC).
Japan Network from 2011 to 2014.  manager to support all four areas  Going forward, we will continue 
In addition, we have participated as  of The Investor Agenda, a platform  to further strengthen our ESG 
a drafting committee member since  aggregating investor initiatives  implementation through improved 
2011 and, since 2014, served as a  relating to climate change. This  training, analysis and engagement.
13  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Our Approach
F
iduciary and ESG principles are among Nikko Asset Management’s key 
guiding themes as an asset management company. To clarify our group-
wide commitment, we set out the Code of Conduct for Fiduciary & ESG 
Principles and established our ESG Global Steering Committee in 2016.
Nikko AM Tokyo Board of Directors
Oversight/  Oversight/ 
Report Report
Resolution Resolution
Stewardship and Voting   ESG Global Steering
Rights Policy Oversight Committee Committee
Oversight/  Oversight/ 
Report Report
Resolution Resolution
Stewardship and Proxy Voting Investment Departments
Committee (Global)
The ESG Global Steering Committee  the effectiveness of this implementation  regularly to its respective board.
oversees the fulfilment of ESG com- and improving our approach to ESG. It  At Nikko AM Japan, the ESG frame-
mitments and is chaired by the Global  also drives the implementation of the  work is supplemented by our com-
Head of Investment, who is also a  six principles of the United Nations- pany’s stewardship and voting rights 
member of the Global Executive  supported Principles for Responsible  governance structure, consisting of 
Committee (GEC). The steering com- Investment. the Stewardship and Proxy Voting 
mittee is mandated by the GEC and  ESG specialists support the invest- Committee (Voting Committee) and 
reports to the board of directors at  ment teams, primarily through inter- the Stewardship and Voting Rights 
least once every quarter. nal capacity building, with the  Policy Oversight Committee (Oversight 
The ESG Global Steering Committee  aim of having all investment pro- Committee). The Voting Committee 
comprises leaders from our investment  fessionals integrate ESG into their  is responsible for guidance related to 
teams worldwide, who are in charge of  investment processes to the full- Nikko AM Japan’s stewardship activities, 
ESG implementation in their individ- est extent. Furthermore, each  including formulating its stewardship 
ual investment processes. The steering  regional office is required to pres- policy, as well as amendments to the 
committee is responsible for evaluating  ent its ESG implementation activities  proxy voting policy.
14  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
“...we believe that thorough research, vigorous debate, and direct 
engagement with companies give us a first-hand appreciation of the issues. 
These are still the best ways to size up ESG factors and judge their impact  
on an investment outcome”
Comprised mainly of independent  may maintain specific ESG policies and  both improve ESG performance and sus-
directors of Nikko AM in Tokyo, the  procedures pertaining to their invest- tainability, as well as help an investor to 
Oversight Committee is an indepen- ment philosophy and process. more fully understand these efforts.
dent body with oversight authority. It  In 2019, we developed our Position  We use external ESG research reports 
monitors our Japanese operations to  Statement on Climate Change to rein- to augment our research. Ratings can 
ensure that our company engagement  force our commitment and outline  highlight companies deemed to be 
and how we exercise our voting rights  our approach to combatting climate  high-risk. These companies would 
are in line with our policies and truly  change. This statement addresses all  then undergo more in-depth analy-
meet investor interests. The Oversight  areas of impact under The Investor  sis and debate within the team, as well 
Committee is also fully integrated into  Agenda. as through our ESG Global Steering 
Nikko AM’s governance structure as it is  We have a strong emphasis on inter- Committee. 
required to report on its activities and  nal training, and mandate that each  That said, we do not believe an organ-
decisions to the board of directors. investment professional undertakes  isation’s commitment to do the right 
Our firm-wide ESG policy sets out  ESG training. thing can be so easily captured by a 
how we manage and govern ourselves   Through our proxy voting process  rating alone. Ultimately, we believe that 
sustainably, and our code of ethics  and engagement with the companies  thorough research, vigorous debate, 
describes our core values, corporate  we have invested in, we are an active  and direct engagement with compa-
social responsibility, and global citizen- owner. And, as a long-term investor,  nies give us a first-hand appreciation of 
ship. Where appropriate to the asset  we believe that an active dialogue  the issues. These are still the best ways 
class, investment strategy, and client  and engagement with the manage- to size up ESG factors and judge their 
requirements, certain investment teams  ment team, where appropriate, can  impact on an investment outcome.
15  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Japan Equity Team
Our approach to ESG
Our Philosophy The Japan Equity team believes  University. The score assesses how com-
that a superior ESG invest- panies balance their engagement of 
ment process should: ESG issues with the pursuit of profit-
To generate new growth, com- •  pursue alpha through a combi- ability and competitiveness, in order to 
panies today must have a strong  nation of financial and non-finan- create value for both society and share-
approach to ESG. By investing in the  cial information, including ESG holders. Our analyst research has incor-
stocks of such companies, we believe  •  focus on ESG factors that  porated CSV evaluations since 2013.
that excess returns can be achieved  lead to future earnings and 
over the medium to long term. strengthen competitiveness
The Japan Equity team aims to gen- •  involve consistent engagement with  Approach to firms with governance 
erate alpha by picking companies with  corporate management teams risk: Negative screening
superior ESG practices through a stock  Firms that have been involved in crimi-
selection process that combines both  nal conduct, fraud, and/or account-
negative and positive screening, and  CSV evaluations of individual stocks:  ing fraud, or that have caused environ-
an optimisation process that incorpo- Positive screening mental or social problems, are classified 
rates thorough management of risks. All active Japan equity investment strat- as having governance risk. The Japan 
egies incorporate Creating Shared Value  Equity team excludes firms with percep-
(CSV) evaluations, which take ESG fac- tible corporate governance risk from its 
ESG  tors into consideration. It is a compre- investment universe, while also seek-
hensive score that was developed by  ing to promote better governance by 
Implementation applying the CSV theory proposed by  engaging with the firms it invests in.
Professor Michael Porter of Harvard 
When we conduct a historical com-
parison between leading ESG indi- SPOTLIGHT
ces and the TOPIX, it is apparent that 
ESG indices do not always outperform 
the market. This implies that investing 
The CSV Score
in companies with superior ESG rat-
ings on its own is insufficient for out- Hiroki Wakita, Equity Analyst
performance. Instead, a well-conceived  Incorporating the Creating Shared Value (CSV) evaluation score allows us to 
approach is necessary when implement- assess and capture momentum change of corporate value, not only of the 
ing ESG considerations. As with any  company’s ESG but also of its financial and market competitiveness. This is 
investment, appropriate stock selec- because the score is updated by our in-house analysts regularly through 
tion and portfolio management are  engagement with companies. Analysts apply positive scores for those that are 
crucial to improve performance and  proactive on synergistic ESG initiatives, which can likely become a catalyst of 
control risk within an ESG strategy. corporate value enhancement. The degree to which ESG information, such as CSV 
scores, is incorporated varies based on each portfolio strategy.
16  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
“To generate new growth, companies today must have a  
strong approach to ESG”
Operational flow for handling firms with governance risk
• Analysts estimate impact on  • Initial ABC assessment* of firm  • Firm to be continuously 
corporate results, summarise  with governance risk   evaluated based on how 
related news, and convey this to  engagement develops
portfolio managers   • Client-facing departments 
informed where necessary Monitoring of firms 
with corporate 
• Governance specialists analyse 
governance risk
from govemance perspective
Meetings by Engagement
portfolio  with firms, 
Follow-up  Upward 
Emergence of  managers,  Initial  actions 
research by  revision of 
governance risk analysts and  assessment taken with 
analysts evaluation
governance  individual
specialists firms
• Monitoring to continue 
• If situation is serious from an  • Engagement with firm, mainly  until measures are 
enterprise value perspective,  undertaken by govemance  implemented to 
investment team to discuss  specialists; analysts also  prevent reoccurrence, 
necessity of selling out of stock attend if necessary and a decision is made 
that govemance risk 
has diminished
*ABC assessment (scoring of firms on governance risk) 
A:  Not deemed a governance risk firm (don’t oppose director appointment proposals) 
B:  Deemed a governance risk firm (oppose director appointment proposals)
C: Deemed a governance risk firm and holding of stock not recommended from corporate ethics perspective
17  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Global Equity Team
Our approach to ESG
ESG 
Our Philosophy we believe it also needs to be done 
profitably. We believe companies that 
Implementation can do this will be the winning busi-
Our investment philosophy focuses  nesses of the future. Companies that 
on purpose-led Future Quality busi- are purpose-led, creating value for all 
nesses, which can attain and sustain the  Profits to companies are as red blood  of their stakeholders, are more likely 
best returns on capital in the market. It  cells are to humans. We need red blood  to attain and sustain high returns and 
is our view that businesses with solu- cells to survive and thrive but our pur- become Future Quality investments. 
tions to environmental and social prob- pose in life is far more than just their  Our search for Future Quality focuses 
lems, which provide value across all their  production. The same is true in busi- on researching and investing in some of 
stakeholder groups, will position them- ness. Profits are essential for compa- the most profitable companies. Given 
selves to be among the high-return  nies, but the purpose of a business is  the scale of the challenges faced across 
companies of the future.   about far more than simply the gen- the world today, we are finding an ever-
Society cannot solve the problems  eration of profit. The best businesses  increasing number of companies that 
that it faces without the private sector  understand this as they consistently  can form part of the solution rather than 
making a significant contribution. As a  provide value to all their stakeholders. be part of the problem, which is criti-
result, we believe the market will increas- Investors need to integrate a consis- cal for both future financial returns and 
ingly allocate capital to companies that  tent methodology to monitor corpo- the wellbeing of future generations.
solve these problems while also behav- rate behaviour and governance while  ESG data provides a limited and often 
ing in a way that provides suitable  engaging with firms to effect change.  imperfect snapshot of how companies 
value to all their stakeholder groups. However, to be a long-term inves- are dealing with and thinking about 
tor, one needs to focus on companies 
ESG issues. A focused portfolio of pur-
that can not only act responsibly but 
pose-led Future Quality companies, 
are also actively working to address 
with solutions to the critical environ-
the social and economic problems we 
mental and social difficulties we face 
face — problems that have never been 
today, should be the defining charac-
greater. For this to be done sustainably, 
teristic of a truly sustainable approach.
Purpose-led Future Quality
Purpose-led  Multi-stakeholder  Strong financial 
Future Quality model performance
Growth
Consumers Customer
LONG TERM 
VALUE
Cashflow
Employees Planet
Return on 
Society Shareholders capital
18  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
“Undoubtedly, the older demographic will add to the existing strains on 
society, but it will also offer increasing opportunities for  
solution providers“
SPOTLIGHT
Opportunity in an Ageing World
Johnny Russell, Portfolio Manager
The world is getting older, and fast. Populations, both in  Undoubtedly, the older demographic will add to the 
developed and emerging countries, are ageing, driven  existing strains on society, but it will also offer increasing 
by both increased life expectancy and reduced fertility  opportunities for solution providers. 
rates. The rising share of older people globally requires the  Our portfolio of Future Quality companies has a 
development of a range of policies, products, and services  significant exposure to companies helping to solve this 
aimed to minimise the economic impact and maintain  issue. In doing so, they are also addressing a number of the 
living standards.  United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals.
Delayed retirement, multiple career paths, good health 
and wellbeing, and cheaper healthcare costs may all be 
required. 
19  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Asian Equity 
(Ex. Japan) 
Team
Our approach to ESG
toolkit is the integration of ESG 
Our Philosophy indicators, quality of management, and 
materiality assessments. This helps us to 
valuation. However, where negative ESG 
build the case for the sustainability of 
issues are identified in the investment 
We believe that Asian markets are ineffi- process, with little or no evidence that  earnings and risk mitigation, and it allows 
cient and individual stocks are prone to  corrective measures are being taken, the  us to identify industries or companies 
periodic mispricing. Our investment pro- company is excluded from investment  undergoing positive fundamental 
cess is driven by the belief that active  consideration regardless of its strength  change. ESG is not the only determining 
management, based on thorough fun- in other areas. factor of our investments but it can 
damental research of companies, can  be an important consideration. ESG 
take advantage of this inefficiency to  The Asian Equity (ex. Japan) team  assessment — corporate governance 
deliver strong returns over the longer  incorporates ESG across various  factors, in particular — has been an 
term — if this process is consistently exe- stages of the investment process integral part of our investment process 
cuted in a team-based environment. All  since its inception over 10 years ago.
stocks in each portfolio reflect our con- Idea generation: Screening flags,  We actively research and score com-
viction in the need to find sustainability  third-party data support panies based on ESG factors relative 
of returns and/or positive fundamental  We assess ESG risks of companies during  to their peer group. We believe that 
change, and we consider environmen- the stock selection process. All known  a company’s corporate governance 
tal, social, and governance (ESG) factors  companies with negative ESG issues are  framework must promote timely, accu-
to be an important part of this evalua- flagged in the research database and  rate, and transparent disclosure of 
tion process. are considered ineligible for investment  important information, giving a com-
plete picture of the company’s perfor-
unless the company has shown tangi-
mance and prospects. An assessment 
ESG  ble efforts to improve. Analysts contin-
of the beneficial ownership track record 
ually evaluate companies, and these 
here is key across all investments. 
Implementation firms’ behaviour towards ESG issues are 
updated in the database as appropriate. 
Portfolio construction and risk man-
We also use third party data providers’ 
agement: Sell discipline
Acceptable ESG is a prerequisite for  scoring and analytics tools.
The rating of a company can be down-
investment in a company but it is not 
graded to SELL1 or SELL2 for negative 
the sole determinant. Other consid- Fundamental analysis: Integrated 
ESG developments, depending on the 
erations include the sustainability of  research process and relative scoring 
severity of the issue. Our independent 
a company’s returns/profitability, fun- on ESG factors
risk team also performs checks on low 
damental positive changes, financial  A key part of our fundamental analysis 
ESG ranked and downgraded stocks.
Robust, tried-and-tested investment process
5. Ongoing  
1. Opportunity  2. Idea   3. Detailed funda- 4. Portfolio 
risk monitoring 
set definition generation mental research construction
and management
Screening universe  Mispriced Sustainability Ranking-based  Independent
by liquidity and stock screening of returns weight guidelines risk monitoring
market capitalisation  
Positive fundamental Portfolio manager  Testing of stated 
Analysts’  change discretion process
generation of
ideas Internal stock Sell discipline
ranking
20  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
“...the best way to carry out thorough ESG analysis is with a  
strong on-the-ground analyst team, fundamental research, and  
active engagement“
SPOTLIGHT
Incorporating A-Shares
Peter Monson, Portfolio Manager
One of the biggest developments in our markets over  in China). We have consistently found that the best way to 
the last two years has been the opening of the A-share  carry out thorough ESG analysis is with a strong on-the-
market to foreign investors. Adapting an ESG assessment  ground analyst team, fundamental research, and active 
framework for this market has been an interesting  engagement. This could not be more relevant to the 
experience given ownership characteristics, the lack of  A-share market and is something we look to achieve with 
relevant data and disclosures, and cultural nuances (for  our dedicated China team and local joint venture partner 
instance, the paying of dividends is perceived negatively  Rongtong Fund Management.
21  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Japan Fixed  
Income Team
Our approach to ESG
Our Philosophy and three items each related to  the issuer before investing and 
society and governance) in analysing  determined that the green bond 
ESG factors. Credit analysts are  issuance could have a positive 
In order to pursue excellent performance  required to evaluate these ESG  synergistic effect on the issuer’s 
in domestic bond management, it is  factors alongside fundamentals in  fundamentals, such as proactive 
critical to evaluate creditworthiness  the issuer report. In addition, we  efforts for green-eligible assets and 
by analysing both quantitative risks,  share ESG views within our team at  the introduction of green leases. 
such as debt repayment ability, and  monthly meetings attended by fund  We will continue to contribute 
qualitative risks that cannot be captured  managers and credit analysts. We  to the expansion of the green 
by financial analysis. The environmental,  believe that frequent conversations  bond market by suggesting 
social, and governance (ESG) viewpoint  on ESG support a process that allows  green bonds to potential issuers 
is positioned as an important factor in  us to promptly reflect a change in  based on their business structure 
qualitative risk analysis. circumstances that negatively affects  or asset characteristics.
In our team, credit analysts who ana-  creditworthiness, including ESG events. A recent observation we have 
lyse creditworthiness perform both fun- For green bonds, our team considers  made in the Japan credit market is 
damental analysis and ESG factor analysis  performance contributions to be  the increase of SDG bonds that can 
of individual issuers. ESG is incorporated  the primary investment criteria and  address not only environmental 
into the investment process by compre- will conduct the same robust level  but also social issues. While the 
hensively evaluating both the funda- of research on creditworthiness of  number of issuances, especially 
mentals and ESG of the industry/issuer  the issuer as we would for a regular  those by corporates, is currently low, 
and reflecting it in investment decisions. bond. Regarding security selection,  we decided to purchase one that 
we prefer investing in securities  was issued by a Japanese shipping 
ESG  that have been certified by third- company. Through our regular 
party organisations and that are  communication with the company, 
Implementation expected to yield higher returns. we strongly believe that we have 
For example, we invested in a green  deepened our understanding of its 
bond issued in 2018 by Japan’s first  social and environmental initiatives 
We have set out eight items (two  real estate investment corporation  and that these will have positive 
items related to the environment,  (REIT). We arranged a meeting with  synergy with its fundamentals.
A framework that catches momentum change
Catch signs of fundamental changes in early stages
Contact with issuers
Continued company visits Access to unlisted issuers
Fixed point observation of Fixed point observation of
fundamentals ESG factors
Share findings 
with the team Evaluate creditworthiness News flow
Fund managers
Proactive investment decisions
*This chart is for illustrative purposes only
22  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
“The announcement last year that one of the credit rating agencies decided  
to disclose ESG factor analysis illustrated huge progress amid the  
steady steps taken”
SPOTLIGHT
Dialogue with Japanese Credit Rating Agencies
Akihiko Yoshino, Group Manager of Credit Research
Japanese credit rating agencies signing the UN PRI’s  by UN PRI. At the seminar, we candidly discussed the 
Statement on ESG in Credit Risk and Ratings in 2017 was a  current situation and challenges that lie in the industry 
significant catalyst that accelerated momentum to reflect  with Japanese credit rating agencies to encourage them 
ESG factors in creditworthiness evaluation in the Japan  towards better ESG integration. We are pleased that our 
market.  credit risk case study was selected for inclusion as one of 
As soon as we signed on to the statement at its launch in  UN PRI’s case studies.
2016, our team started to initiate dialogue on ESG factors  The announcement last year that one of the credit rating 
with both Japanese and global credit rating agencies.  agencies decided to disclose ESG factor analysis illustrated 
We are an active participant in industry conversations.  huge progress amid the steady steps taken. We believe our 
For example, we hosted and served as a panellist in the  dialogue with them contributed to this breakthrough and 
seminar “ESG Issues in Credit Risk and Rating” organised  highlights our role as an investor.
23  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Global Fixed 
Income Team
Our approach to ESG
Our Philosophy ESG  in credit investing, it is often more diffi-
cult to form an opinion on the environ-
Implementation mental and social aspects of a business. 
We believe in employing a consistent  Corporate governance assesses mostly 
investment process that incorporates  general management quality, which has 
quantitative and qualitative inputs to  ESG is considered across all of our prod- a direct impact on a company’s perfor-
generate ideas and construct high- ucts. In the investment process, ESG is  mance, while environmental and social 
conviction portfolios, where we get  applied at the screening and research  assessments tend to capture risk and 
suitably rewarded for the risk we  stage, and the portfolio construc- opportunities linked to a specific indus-
undertake. Bond investors have a  tion stage. The scale and manner that  try or region. The impact on performance 
unique opportunity to identify risks,  ESG is integrated depends on product  might be marginal, indirect, and long-
engage issuers, and build relationships  expectations. term for environmental and social factors. 
that can influence change. At Nikko  For example, our flagship green  However, the investment team ensures 
Asset Management, we see ourselves  bond strategy strictly invests in green  that the investments correspond with the 
as capital allocators and we intend to  bonds issued by global AAA-rated  ethical and social values of an increasing 
continue our efforts to provide the  sovereigns, supranationals, and agencies  number of institutional clients. European 
capital needed to meet the United  (SSAs) with the strongest sustainability  asset owners, in particular, require that 
Nations Sustainable Development  credentials, such as the World Bank,  these values are reflected in their portfo-
Goals. We believe it is our responsibility  European Investment Bank, and Asian  lios, alongside companies’ performance 
to create innovative products and  Development Bank. goals. We believe a team of skilled and 
strategic partnerships across the capital  Another example is how our Global  experienced credit analysts is still the key 
market structure that will establish  Credit team implements ESG within their  to success for ESG to be integrated in the 
pathways for meaningful flows into  investment process. While most expe- analysis. Our analysis is also supported by 
sustainable investments. rienced analysts work with a best-prac- third-party ESG research, which we use 
tice list for corporate governance, built  to develop a screen to identify possible 
on the back of many years of experience  issues that may warrant further research.
Four steps of our ESG implementation framework
ESG considerations
Top down Alpha opportunities
1.  2. 3. 4.
Market assessment Investment themes Screening and research Portfolio construction
Bottom up
Risk management
24  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
“Building on our history of creating products that can directly and credibly 
channel capital to projects supporting the environment, we continue to 
maintain a close relationship with the World Bank”
SPOTLIGHT
Long-standing Relationship with the World Bank
Andre Severino, Global Head of Fixed Income
We are proud of our strong and long-standing relationship  bond fund in partnership with the World Bank. The strategy 
with the World Bank, which has partnered with Nikko AM’s  — the first of its kind — strives to invest 100% in green 
Global Fixed Income team in 2007. The partnership enabled  bonds from some of the most transparent green issuers 
Nikko AM to launch its first fund comprised principally  within the market. All bonds purchased in the strategy fall 
of World Bank bonds in a variety of emerging market  into Cicero’s “dark green” scale of the market.
currencies, thus offering the opportunity to participate in  Building on our history of creating products that can 
a diversified emerging market investment portfolio that  directly and credibly channel capital to projects supporting 
supports the mission of the World Bank.  the environment, we continue to maintain a close 
In 2010, we launched the world’s first dedicated green  relationship with the World Bank.
25  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Asian Fixed Income 
 Team
(Ex. Japan)
Our approach to ESG
Our Philosophy
ESG  ability to fulfil its debt obligations. 
At Nikko AM, we view ESG factors as 
Implementation important aspects of our credit analy-
Our investment philosophy is premised 
sis and an integrated part of our invest-
on capital preservation, investing for 
ment process. The investment team 
the long-term, and value discipline. 
Our proprietary Fundamental, Valuation,  researches and scores companies, taking 
Our Asian Fixed Income team believes 
and Technical (FVT) Framework, which  into account both qualitative and quan-
that markets are dynamic, often 
is applied to our top-down and bottom- titative factors. These ESG factors include 
prone to economic “noise” and not 
up research, is the foundation on which  environmental issues, such as climate 
always perfectly efficient. Therefore, 
we construct high-conviction portfolios  change and carbon emissions, defor-
outperformance can be achieved by 
that seek to deliver returns through mul- estation, and air and water pollution, 
applying a systematic approach to top-
tiple sources of alpha. With regard to our  amongst others; and social issues, which 
down macro and bottom-up credit 
robust credit research, the most impor- include human rights, consumer protec-
research. We are convinced that all 
tant output from our team of dedicated  tion, potential changes to the market 
three ESG factors — environmental, 
credit analysts is the Internal Credit  via government regulation, as well as 
social, and governance — are inherent 
Rating (ICR) model. changing consumer and public opinion. 
to long-term value creation, essential 
The ICR process is the first pillar of our  Corporate governance also matters and 
to sustainable investment, and should 
bottom-up credit research and enables  it involves looking at the quality of the 
be considered in investment decisions. 
the credit research team to assess quan- company’s management and sharehold-
We apply this investment philosophy 
titative and qualitative aspects of each  ers particularly on key-man risk, integrity, 
consistently across client portfolios.
issuer, independently of external credit  and reputation history. ESG violations 
rating agencies. ESG risks and oppor- will result in a penalty score that will 
tunities are assessed and scored as  lower the overall credit score of the com-
part of the ICR qualitative assessment.  pany, and hence a lower credit rating. 
Taking into consideration the impact  This means we would demand a higher 
of ESG factors is important as it can  risk premium to justify the investment. 
identify downside risks to a borrower’s 
Proprietary FVT Framework
Top-down macro research
• Yield curve positioning
• Duration positioning
• Government vs corporate bonds
Fundamental, valuation, technical
• Country and sector allocation
Risk identification
Macro reviews
Risk evaluation and mitigation
Portfolio construction
Risk monitoring
Credit reviews
Escalation procedure
• ESG constitutes part of the 
internal credit rating process
Fundamental, valuation, technical
• Qualitative factors in the 
Internal Credit Rating
• Credit outlook
Bottom-up credit research • Credit recommendation
26  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
“Environmental risks often affect the long-term profitability of a company,  
so the team has to factor in the sustainability of its business model”
SPOTLIGHT
Assessing ESG Factors in Our Credit Research
Liang Choon Koh, Head of Asian Fixed Income
ESG factors are important aspects of the team’s credit  oil industry has an impact on the environment through 
analysis and are an integrated part of our investment  deforestation and forest-burning practices, which have 
process. The sustainability of a company’s business is  occasionally led to hazardous air quality in the region. We 
analysed and any ESG issues are scored within the ICR  have negatively scored a company in the industry due 
model. Environmental risks often affect the long-term  to inadequate environmental protection and difficulty 
profitability of a company, so the team has to factor in the  in meeting industry standards, all of which have led to 
sustainability of its business model. For example, the palm  business losses and the deterioration of its financial profile.
27  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Portfolio Solutions 
Group
Our approach to ESG
Our Philosophy Each assessment category is individually  process integrating ESG factors, as 
important but not sufficient in helping  well as the degree of integration
us to understand the manager’s idiosyn-
The Portfolio Solutions Group (PSG) eval- crasies, strengths, and weaknesses. By  An ESG score, aggregated across the 
uates, selects, and monitors external  skilfully amalgamating all four of these  four ESG evaluation pillars, is given to 
managers at Nikko Asset Management.  categories, we use a holistic approach to  the investment manager or strategy 
We believe that considering ESG factors  better assess the investment manager in  with additional assessment insights 
when investing is tied to long-term cor- a complete manner and better manage  written whenever appropriate.
porate value creation and sustainable  the associated risk partnering with the 
economic growth. We embrace ESG as  manager, therefore delivering desirable  Alignment with industry standards 
a means to managing investment risk  investment outcomes to our clients. and best practices
more effectively, delivering better qual- At the initial due diligence stage, we  Our ESG assessment framework 
ity long-term investment returns, doing  send the manager our dedicated ESG  was developed by our global team, 
good for our communities, and being  questionnaire. We review their answers  in consultation with Nikko AM’s in-
good stewards of our environment. We  along with relevant policies, documen- house ESG specialists. We also incor-
uphold a high standard in integrating  tation, and past practices to assess  porate best practices from top-
ESG considerations into our investment  their ESG integration across both their  tier industry peers, such as:
process. investment and operational processes. •  fully incorporating ESG data-gath-
The PSG uses an internal ESG  We supplement this questionnaire- ering and analysis into our invest-
evaluation policy when we evaluate  based information-gathering process  ment and operational due diligence
managers’ ESG approaches to achieve  with face-to-face discussions with the  •  making use of dedicated ESG spe-
consistency and rigour across asset  investment managers. We also conduct  cialist resources within the firm
classes and strategies. We are constantly  additional checks whenever necessary. •  proprietary ESG scoring across key 
updating our ESG framework as industry  categories
best practices continue to mature. We evaluate and score investment  •  using ESG assessment as a tool 
managers according to four ESG  for risk control/risk mitigation
ESG  pillars: •  allowing ESG assessment results 
•  Company: overall ESG philoso- to fall within a spectrum, not 
Implementation phy and policy, as well as level of  a binary pass/fail outcome
commitment to ESG integration •  giving standardised ESG rat-
•  People: the ability and stability of the  ings to managers that provide 
In the PSG’s investment manager due  investment professionals in charge of  more nuanced information than 
diligence framework, we evaluate  ESG within the investment manager those that just check boxes
investment managers across four dif- •  Research: the ESG research abil- •  ensuring our ESG approach and rat-
ferent categories: ity, quality, and unique value-add  ings system is constantly evolving as 
•  Investment considerations of the investment manager the industry continues to mature
•  Operational considerations •  Investment process: the consis-
•  Level of transparency tency and repeatability of the 
•  ESG factors investment manager’s investment 
How PSG evaluates and scores managers on ESG
Company People Research Investment process
• Company-wide ESG philosophy   • Dedicated ESG team/   • Robustness of ESG data sources  • Level and consistency of 
and process  specialist resources  integration into investment 
• Value-add of ESG-related research processes 
• Level of commitment of  • Skill set of ESG professionals
the manager to ESG • ESG risk management and controls 
28  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
“This marks the culmination of our year-long initiative to articulate,  
structure, and formalise our collective ESG awareness across the global team 
and bring it to the forefront of our investment process“
SPOTLIGHT
Integrating ESG Best Practices across Four Global Offices
Naoyuki Murota, Portfolio Manager
Although ESG considerations have been inherent in our  forefront of our investment process. ESG has also been the 
investment DNA for a long time, in 2019, we announced  focus of many dialogues with our existing and prospective 
the formation of the PSG’s ESG Working Group, comprising  investment managers globally.
members across four global offices (Tokyo, Singapore, New  The ESG Working Group will continue to drive our 
York, and Sydney).  ESG capability development through industry research 
This marks the culmination of our year-long initiative  and benchmarking, continuous refinement of ESG 
to articulate, structure, and formalise our collective ESG  implementation in our investment process, and proactive 
awareness across the global team and bring it to the  communication with internal and external stakeholders.
29  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Good Governance: 
Proxy Voting
T
he Nikko Asset Management  investment management subsidiaries.  and conflicts of interest. Additionally, 
Group Proxy Voting Policy  It is also intended to make it clear that  investment management locations in 
establishes our company-wide  proxy voting by each of the investment  the group may also disclose their own 
approach to proxy voting deci- management teams in the group is  respective proxy voting guidelines that 
sions. One objective of this policy is to  based on the same common approach. stipulate detailed proxy voting criteria 
underscore the group’s focus on ESG in  The policy expresses our basic  along with proxy voting results.
proxy voting decisions that are under- approach to proxy voting decisions, as 
taken by Nikko AM and all of its overseas  well as matters such as engagement 
Global voting results 2019
Number of meetings: 7,099
Number of resolutions: 73,984
Percentage of votes with management: 88%
Percentage of votes against management/abstentions: 12%
From Jan 2019 to Dec 2019
Votes with   Votes against 
Number of   Number of  
Region management  management 
meetings resolutions
(%) (%)
APAC (ex. Japan) 2,303  19,872  90% 10%
EMEA 1,117  16,219  90% 10%
Japan 2,338  24,469  84% 16%
Latin America 257  2,211  88% 12%
North America 1,084  11,213  91% 9%
TOTAL 7,099  73,984  88% 12%
Reasons for voting against management, 2019
Management proposal / vote against management
Routine/Business 581
Reorg. and mergers 618
Non-salary comp. 1080
Director related 5306
Capitalisation 793
Anti-takeover related 100
0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000
30  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Our Engagement
O
ur fund  including their management policies,  expand the number of companies we 
business strategies, shareholder returns,  engage with from about 950 (those in 
managers 
and ESG issues.  the active management investment 
and analysts  Our fund managers and analysts  universe) to approximately 2,200 com-
engage with a diverse group of people  panies (by adding investee companies 
endeavour to enhance  ranging from the top management  that are managed passively). The Active 
of firms to employees responsible for  Ownership Group in the Tokyo office 
corporate value 
finance, corporate planning, and other  engages with companies in an order 
through interaction  business managers. They also work to  of preference based on considerations 
enhance the impact of their engage- including their earnings, capital effi-
with management  ment by proposing meetings with the  ciency, and shareholder returns. 
top management of firms that are par- Based on the policy, we have worked 
and investor relations 
ticularly slow in providing information.  to achieve closer engagement with 
representatives of  The results of these activities are shared  investee companies in order to share 
where appropriate between fund man- an accurate understanding of their 
investee companies  agers and analysts, and can be useful in  circumstances and help them to 
assessing corporate value when making  generate medium- and long-term 
with respect to 
investment decisions. corporate value. In FY2019, Nikko AM 
public information. In March 2017, we also established  engaged with 1,443 companies on 3,990 
a business unit within the Equity  matters.
Fund Management Department of  We continuously implement 
Their engagement involves exchang-
our Tokyo office called the Active  education and training to prevent the 
ing opinions with investee companies 
Ownership Group, which currently  acquisition of undisclosed material 
and taking a long-term perspective, 
includes three analysts and facilitates  facts. In the unlikely event that 
in a manner that matches the growth 
engagement in passive fund manage- undisclosed material facts are acquired, 
phase of each company. These discus-
ment. We believe that this helps us to  countermeasures are immediately 
sions do not merely cover the firms’ cor-
meet the requirements in principle 4 of  implemented to prevent insider trading 
porate earnings and financial strategies 
Japan’s Stewardship Code. The estab- from occurring in accordance with Nikko 
but also other matters mentioned in the 
lishment of this group enabled us to  AM’s internal rules for the management 
non-financial information they disclose, 
of insider trading.
SPOTLIGHT
Engagement Starts with Us as Investors
Kozue Saito, Equity Analyst
We believe that engagement starts with us, the investors, by  The need for businesses to consider the interests 
developing a deeper understanding of how the goals each  of various stakeholders — not only investors but 
company sets impact stakeholders and how the company  also customers, employees, business partners, local 
sets out to achieve them. Therefore, we value constructive  communities, and other stakeholders — has become 
discussions — discussions that start by identifying a vision  greater than ever. We believe that strengthening such 
for the future then continue by considering current business  initiatives for a company will not only prevent reputational 
conditions and what needs to be done by the companies.  risk but also improve its value and competitiveness.
31  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Our Engagement: 
Case Studies
CASE 1 CASE 2 CASE 3
Food producer  Kitchen equipment  Electronics manufac-
listed in Japan manufacturer  turer listed in Japan
listed in Japan
ESG issue ESG issue
Climate change Corporate behaviour: Capital effi-
ESG issue
ciency, independence of the board 
Corporate behaviour: Response to 
Our Analysis of directors, and diversity
scandals
The food industry is recognised as a  Our Analysis
Our Analysis
sector that is highly exposed to climate 
change, and the meat industry is also  The company’s ROE has continued 
a significant contributor. As this com- The company’s stock price fell sharply  to be lower than the industry aver-
pany is involved with meat, marine,  after it was revealed that inappropriate  age against the backdrop of abundant 
and dairy products, we believe it is sus- transactions had been made at several  financial assets (including policy-hold-
ceptible to both physical and transi- subsidiaries. The general narrative was  ing shares), and accumulated capital. 
tion risks. Through our engagement, we  that the scandal was due to the group’s  In addition, there are issues concern-
exchanged opinions on the recognition  governance systems. At the same time,  ing the independence and diversity of 
of climate change risks and the efforts to  we were aware of the complexity of the  the directors, and the executive remu-
convert these risks into business oppor- company’s situation since its growth was  neration system has room for improve-
tunities. Lastly, we emphasised our expec- generated through acquisitions. We fur- ment in terms of linking to medium- 
tations of proactive disclosure. ther requested an explanation on the  to long-term shareholder value.
company’s action plans regarding organ-
isational structures, such as personnel 
Outcome
increase in management and supervisory 
Outcome
departments, as well as audit systems at 
Our view is that the company is working 
overseas subsidiaries. 
towards including deeper discussion on  Through our consistent engage-
climate change at the board of directors  ment, we finally saw positive changes 
Outcome
and management levels. The firm is  in attitude that reflect management 
currently developing a long-term vision  change: the firm announced share 
to be unveiled at its 100th anniversary.  The company’s response to our requests  buybacks, raising the dividend payout 
The company is also in the process of  was positive and promptly delivered. We  target and ROE target in public. It 
replacing an outside director with one  confirmed that all of the points that we  has also improved transparency of 
who has a deeper understanding of  mentioned were taken into account by  its board of directors by stopping 
business management, consumer insight,  the top management and that some had  the acceptance of outside directors 
and investors. We were informed that  already been implemented. It was unfor- from other companies, and it has also 
there will be greater disclosure in the next  tunate that a series of scandals occurred,  appointed female outside directors.
integrated report. yet we expect this event will be a turning 
point to change the company’s gover-
nance structure. We will continue to track 
its improvements.
32  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
CASE 4 CASE 5 CASE 6
Airline listed  Agribusiness listed  Household goods 
in the UK in Singapore retailer listed 
in Australia
ESG issue ESG issues
Labour rights Climate change
Biodiversity  ESG issue
Our Analysis Human and labour rights Capital management
Europe’s leading budget airline offers  Our Analysis Our Analysis
cheap travel to the masses. It is known 
for a relentless focus on cost manage- We have engaged on ESG issues regu- The company is controlled by the 
ment and it offers the cheapest flights in  larly in our meetings with the execu- founder and majority shareholder. 
the industry. However, its outspoken  tive management, on an individual  He chooses to reinvest cash flow into 
treatment of pilots and cabin crew went  basis. This year, we participated in the  low returning property investments 
too far, leading to strikes, defections to  PRI Palm Oil Investor Working Group  rather than paying higher dividends. 
the competition, and a deterioration in  (IWG) to explore where we can sup- Consequently, the company trades 
trade.  port and collaborate with other inves- below its fair value as the returns are 
tors concerned about the issues, espe- low. We engaged with the chairman and 
Outcome cially with our presence in the region. founder to encourage the sale of proper-
ties to unlock the unrecognised value.
We engaged with the management  Outcome
Outcome
and asked for a more sustainable and 
long-term approach to wealth creation.  While the company is recognised to 
However, a dominant CEO backed by  adopt best-in-class approaches, we will  The founder did not agree with our view 
poor governance meant change was not  monitor developments as controver- and made it clear that he would not 
forthcoming. Without change, returns  sies may continue to arise, especially  change the capital management of the 
would eventually suffer and hence we  given the magnitude of its operations.  company. As a result, we reduced our 
booked profits and sold our shares.  We seek to elevate the collabora- valuation and sold most of our holding 
tive engagement undertaken by the  when the price recovered. We would 
PRI Palm Oil IWG through our close  consider increasing our valuation if the 
and frequent engagements with the  company sold its properties and dis-
company’s senior management. tributed proceeds to shareholders.
33  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosure 
Update
I
n August 2019, we published our first Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) report for the January to December 2018 period, and our 
current views are largely the same. Ahead of our upcoming TCFD report for 
2020, this is a brief update on the climate-related initiatives undertaken from 
January to December 2019.
Progress in 2019 TCFD Consortium and the global TCFD  the Milken Institute Asia Summit.
Summit. In May 2019, the inaugural 
meeting of the Japan TCFD Consortium  Climate change e-training
Collaborative engagement was held, representing a platform  We emphasise training for investment 
We continued our Climate Action 100+  for industry, financiers, regulators,  professionals in our implementation of 
engagements. We also joined the PRI  and academia to collectively work  ESG, including on climate change. Apart 
Palm Oil Investor Working Group (IWG).  towards effective and efficient climate- from implementing the UN PRI’s respon-
We recognise deforestation to be a  related disclosures. We are proud to  sible investment e-learning, we have 
severe threat with regard to climate  have become a member of the TCFD  developed the first module on climate 
change, a fact that was emphasised  Consortium when it was created in  change to be rolled out across our firm 
in the Intergovernmental Panel  2018. The first-ever TCFD Summit was  globally. 
on Climate Change’s 2019 special  held in Tokyo in October 2019, and 
report highlighting the protection  was attended by Japan’s then-Minister  Climate scenario analysis tools
and restoration of forests as a critical  of Economy, Trade and Industry Isshu  We subscribe to third-party carbon port-
mitigation measure. We participate in  Sugawara, Chief Investment Officer of  folio analytics tools that help to assess 
collaborative engagement as part of  Japan’s Government Pension Investment  companies on metrics such as carbon 
the PRI Palm Oil IWG, seeking to learn  Fund Hiromichi Mizuno, and Governor  intensity, carbon risk management, and 
and share on ESG issues linked with  of the Bank of England Mark Carney  stranded asset exposure. In addition, 
sustainable palm oil. among others. The event took stock of  we continue to explore scenario analy-
We learnt that our strong Asian pres- TCFD implementation and participants  sis tools that can add value to our analy-
ence enables us to enhance our engage- discussed emerging best practices in  sis at both company and portfolio levels. 
ment. We have opportunities to dia- climate-related financial disclosure. Two  In 2019, examples from different sce-
logue directly with senior management  representatives from Nikko AM attended  nario analysis providers were presented 
teams to gauge management respon- the TCFD Summit. and discussed at the ESG Steering 
sivity, while other collaborative investors  In 2019, we were also invited to par- Committee meetings. We continue to 
typically speak only to a company’s chief  ticipate in the Advisory Group of the  investigate the applicability of existing 
sustainability officer or investor relations  Asia Sustainable Finance Initiative (ASFI),  and emerging climate scenario analysis 
officer. We will continue to develop high  through the Investment Management  tools to our various portfolios.
quality engagements. Association of Singapore. ASFI brings the 
financial sector together with academia 
Active dialogue with regulators and  and civil society to seek multi-stake-
the investment community holder and science-based solutions for 
Besides engaging with investee compa- sustainable finance.
nies, we also actively engage with other  We continue to actively participate in 
stakeholders to advance the climate  the other initiatives we reported on in 
change conversation across the financial  our 2018 report, such as the Asia Investor 
eco-system. These stakeholders include  Group on Climate Change (AIGCC) and 
regulators and the investment commu- Responsible Investment Association 
nity, which we engage with bilaterally  Australasia. In 2019, we supported AIGCC 
and also at multi-stakeholder platforms. in organising the AIGCC Asset Owner 
ASIAN INVESTOR GROUP ON CLIMATE CHANGE (AIGCC) 
Such platforms include the Japan  CEO/CIO Investor Roundtable, alongside  ASSET OWNER CEO/CIO ROUNDTABLE, HELD ALONGSIDE 
THE MILKEN INSTITUTE ASIA SUMMIT IN SINGAPORE
343 4  NNikikkok oA MAM S uSsutsatianianbaiblitilyit yR eRpeoprot r2t 0210919
Our  
Sustainability  
Activities
35  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
A Passion for 
Sustainability
A message
from the Head  
of Corporate 
Sustainability  
T
he year 2019 has been an incred-
ibly busy one for sustainability at 
Nikko AM. The UN’s Sustainable 
Development Goals have been a 
driving force behind some of our activi-
ties and, throughout the year, we have 
contributed to many of them, including 
Gender Equality, Quality Education, and 
Reduced Inequalities.
We continue to passionately support 
diversity and inclusion (D&I) at our firm. 
In addition to our initiatives to support 
female empowerment, this year we also 
started the Disabilities Working Group 
to help create a more inclusive work-
place for employees with special needs. 
Our promotion of D&I extends to society 
at large: this is our fourth year as proud 
sponsors of the Japan Wheelchair Rugby 
Federation.
Each of our offices has been engaged 
in a variety of community-led activi-
ties that are helping to benefit both the 
environment and those in need. For 
example, members of the Tokyo office 
volunteered at a local NPO devoted to 
refurbishing wheelchairs and sending 
them overseas to those in need. A team 
in Singapore looked after the children  collecting food waste for composting.
of low-income mothers after work to  Looking to the future, we have made 
“...we have made the 
give these women the chance to attend  the decision to concentrate our energy 
training classes. The Nikko AM Americas  decision to concentrate  on three core areas of sustainability, 
office helped to provide school supplies  namely D&I, reducing inequality, and 
our energy on 
to children in homeless and domes- the environment and climate. As we 
tic violence shelters. The London and  three core areas of  immerse ourselves in these areas, my 
Edinburgh offices spent time volunteer- hope is that in 2020 we will be even 
sustainability, namely 
ing at urban farms that promote envi- busier. 
ronmental sustainability and educa- D&I, reducing inequality, 
tional support to disadvantaged youth.  Stefanie Drews 
and the environment 
The Sydney office organised an event  Senior Corporate Managing Director,  
to highlight the importance of mental  and climate” Global Executive Committee Member, and 
health. The New Zealand office partici- Head of Corporate Sustainability 
pated in Plastic Free July and started 
36  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Our Approach
Sustainability at Nikko AM is truly a 
firm-wide effort. We believe that making 
honest disclosures and holding our-
selves accountable for our progress 
are key to becoming a better corpo-
rate citizen. By transparently communi-
cating our direction to our stakehold-
ers and assessing the areas where we 
can do more, we hope to spark dialogue 
within our industry that helps us all work 
together towards a better, fairer future.  
The Corporate Sustainability 
Department was established as a reflec-
tion of our commitment to capturing 
and addressing the needs of stakehold-
ers not only in our company, but in the 
societies in which we operate. 
The Advisory Council comprises non- We also standardised our travel policy 
Corporate Sustainability Department  executive board members and senior  for volunteer trips to encourage par-
management, including regional CEOs.  ticipation from all our offices for global 
Mission The Council meets quarterly and reviews  charitable initiatives. As a result, partici-
-  To ensure sustainability is embedded  the firm’s corporate sustainability action  pants from our Edinburgh and Sydney 
in the firm’s strategy plans. It also assesses the materiality  offices were able to join volunteers 
-  To create an environment of engage- of initiatives and ensures that the firm  from Singapore and Hong Kong on an 
ment and inclusion has a cohesive approach to corporate  initiative to build and install water filters 
-  To embrace all stakeholders in our  sustainability.  in Siem Reap, Cambodia. 
ecosystem At each office, local working groups 
-  To constantly challenge and enhance  initiate and execute activities in line with  Contributing to the UN Sustainable 
the status quo the sustainability strategy. Run by volun- Development Goals (SDGs) 
teers, the working groups translate the  We use the UN SDGs as a common 
company-wide strategy into local objec- language and framework that is easily 
Structure  tives. This structure gives staff the free- understood by all of our stakeholders. 
dom to implement initiatives that make  In order to highlight the ever-increasing 
Advisory Council
sense to their regions.  importance of SDGs and sustainability 
to our business, Nikko AM hosted 
Interconnectedness  an SDG training programme at the 
Local working group As a global firm, we bring a spirit of col- Tokyo Office for leaders who drive our 
laboration into all our corporate sustain- sustainability efforts.
ability activities. Our Japan headquar-  In 2019, employees chose to priori-
ters and our global offices work closely  tise Quality Education, Clean Water and 
together in setting the direction for the  Sanitation, and Climate Action, while 
firm’s sustainability initiatives.  the Advisory Council chose to com-
Americas EMEA sia (ex. Japan) Japan Australia New Zealand iRerneme cIJsneapo ip2luvoa0erycn1 ete9 hwes,e s toD  hisrneaek pm esLaadGemr tB wbmeTiet -eWhsnne eotxtfih r trtkeoesi n  lHaeagstuni  oemGambnraolsenphu  lipop yse teos   pRtuhenleeIddnm uce toecrhterneapdt kfo  etoIhrnnlalieo stbeq wwy usi inuoathlgsuitt  rGaip egieansl.gnoa edbbseial,i rltw  oyEe ffiqin uhciatiegilasiht tyilvi gaenhs dt  
A in opposite-sex marriages. This is similar  in 2019, along with the SDGs they 
to what is offered at our offices in regions  contribute to.
such as Australia and New Zealand. 
37  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Diversity & Inclusion
B
eing inclusive and  with the decrease in Japan’s labour  Mental Wellness” for employees. Statistics 
force, which is due to a shrinking and  have shown that there are increas-
ensuring diversity 
ageing population. We set-up the  ingly more people, including youths, 
20-member Work Style Reform Project  who have experienced a mental disor-
of thought are not 
Working Group with members from vari- der in recent years. While the topic is 
only the right things to  ous departments. The aim of the proj- still considered taboo in many work-
ect was to review our current remote  places, our Australia, Hong Kong, and 
do but also make busi-
working policies so they fit the diverse  Singapore offices have set up the EAP for 
work-styles of our employees and  employees. Recognising that the over-
ness sense. At Nikko 
enhance work-life integration through  all well-being of a family is critical to our 
Asset Management, we  the improvement of our telecommuting  employees, we subsequently extended 
programme. By realising this, we also aim  the programme to immediate depen-
recognise that diver-
to achieve sustainable business opera- dents (i.e. spouses and children).
tions. We have conducted trial sessions 
sity & inclusion (D&I) 
to implement telecommuting, where 25  “In building a 
is a key aspect to the  employees were pilot testers of the pro-
workplace that 
gramme for a period of between two 
development of our  and three months. The policies we have  is supportive of 
created in relation to these efforts are 
people and to our sus- diverse individuals 
available to all employees.
tainability efforts.  At our Australia office, our employ- and mindsets, these 
ees participated in Australia’s “R U OK? 
conversations become 
Day” on 12 September 2019, a national 
D&I in people development
day of action dedicated to suicide pre- easier to start as staff 
Our people are our most important 
vention, reminding people to ask family, 
asset, and the inclusion of D&I in our cor- feel the ability to be 
friends, and colleagues the question, “R 
porate values strengthens this convic-
U OK?”.  Employees received training to  more open amongst 
tion. All employees have a key perfor-
better understand the impact of starting 
mance indicator (KPI) related to how  colleagues”
these important conversations. In build-
they behave within the guidelines of our 
ing a workplace that is supportive of 
values. 
diverse individuals and mindsets, these  We believe that a diverse and inclu-
The emphasis on D&I means that we 
conversations become easier to start  sive workplace is a critical component 
recognise that every individual has their 
as staff feel the ability to be more open  in being able to best support and serve 
own set of challenges faced both in the 
amongst colleagues.  clients. As a result, our working practices, 
workplace and outside it. Here, we show-
Our Singapore office engaged  promotions, and recruitment are wholly 
case how some of our Nikko AM offices 
the Singapore Anglican Community  based on individual merit with diversity 
address these different challenges. 
Services — our corporate partner for the  and capability at its heart. 
In 2018, our Tokyo office began set-
Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) 
ting out a strategy to help our firm deal 
— to conduct a session on “Insights to  Corporate sustainability  
champions D&I
At Nikko AM, we acknowledge that 
building an inclusive culture is not 
only the responsibility of our Human 
Resources Department. Corporate sus-
tainability has an important role in fos-
tering such a culture. The Corporate 
Sustainability Department has identi-
fied three priorities to further the firm’s 
D&I agenda: women’s empowerment, 
LGBT, and special needs in the workforce. 
Each of these is championed by a group 
of employees with a passion for their 
chosen cause.
For the first initiative, women’s 
empowerment, the firm signed a state-
ment of support for the Women’s 
Empowerment Principles (WEPs) in 2018. 
Produced and disseminated by the 
United Nations Entity for Gender Equality 
and the Empowerment of Women (UN 
Women) and the United Nations Global 
38  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
 IN SUPPORT OF LGBT RIGHTS
 WHEELCHAIR RUGBY engagement, development, and policy.
We have also actively engaged in 
Compact, the principles present seven  organisations. The networking event  our third initiative, the inclusion of spe-
steps that business and other sectors  was aimed at helping students under- cial needs individuals into the work-
can take to advance and empower  stand the impact that investors have on  force. Since 2013, Nikko AM has run the 
women. Nikko AM’s support for the WEPs  the economy and the opportunities for  Athlete Employee Programme, which 
aims to deepen employee understand- young women to build a thriving career  focuses on hiring wheelchair-bound 
ing of and respect for diversity, and  in the investment management indus- athletes. In 2015, we became an official 
thereby nurture innovative approaches  try. As part of this effort, staff have held  sponsor of the Japan Wheelchair Rugby 
to meet our clients’ needs. discussion sessions with the founder of  Federation. One of our employees, who 
In Tokyo, the Japan Women’s Group  Future IM/Pact about diversity trends in  joined the firm through the Athlete 
has been active since 2015 and is the  the asset management sector as well as  Employee Programme, and who won a 
longest running D&I group at Nikko AM.  considerations and possible solutions  bronze medal at the 2016 Rio Summer 
The group invites external speakers to  within the Australian market. Paralympic Games for wheelchair 
Lunch and Learn seminars and also hosts  With regard to the second initiative  rugby, founded the Disabilities Working 
training workshops for staff so that they  on LGBT, the firm has been very active. 
can learn positive communication, prac- This effort was originally triggered when 
“As a result of these 
tise using it, and enhance their leader- one of our employees proposed an idea 
ship skills. The group recognises that one  at our Idea Generation Forum to better  efforts, the firm was 
individual will not become everyone’s  engage with our LGBT clients and cus-
presented with the Work 
role model, so they look to find speakers  tomers. The LGBT Working Group was 
with various backgrounds.  formed in Tokyo to focus primar ily on  with Pride gold award”
Another element of the working  LGBT issues, but at the same time, it pro-
group’s efforts is to work with the  motes the recognition of a diverse work-
Human Resources Department to  force supportive of all individuals. 
set-up a five-year action plan to meet  In 2019, the group worked with the 
the expectations of Japan’s Act on  Human Resources Department to enable 
Promotion of Women’s Participation and  employees in the Tokyo office who are 
Advancement in the Workplace. The  in same-sex relationships to receive the 
group sets the KPIs that Nikko AM would  same benefits as employees in oppo- Group together with the Corporate 
aim to meet in the next four to five years.  site-sex marriage. This is similar to what is  Sustainability Department in early 2019.  
Nikko AM has also begun introducing  offered at our offices in regions such as  The group’s mission is to create an all-
employees that are considered potential  Australia and New Zealand. inclusive workplace that makes it easier 
role models, through interview articles  The group has also hosted several  for those with special needs to work, and 
about them.  external speakers to speak on various  also create an environment that is more 
Our Australia office has partnered with  topics, including potential business prod- employee-friendly for all. 
Future IM/Pact, an industry initiative  uct ideas that can help address issues  Just as we believe in partnering with 
aimed at attracting more diverse talent  the LGBT community is facing, as well as  our clients to build progressive invest-
to the investment teams of Australia’s  the importance of understanding the  ment solutions on the business front, 
leading fund managers and superannua- need for LGBT rights and joining LGBT  our approach to D&I is about partnering 
tion funds, where the majority of invest- Finance, a network of financial institu- with our stakeholders to build an inclu-
ment teams remain male-dominated.  tions in Tokyo that share resources to sup- sive environment that supports diver-
Representatives from the Australian  port the larger community. As a result  sity of thought. There is much academic 
office attended Future IM/Pact’s major  of these efforts, the firm was presented  evidence that diversity of thought and 
student networking event. Featuring  with the Work with Pride gold award  perspective is a key element to engen-
keynote and panel presentations, the  from a Japanese non-profit organisa- dering innovation. And in an industry as 
event was attended by over 250 stu- tion that assesses an employer based  competitive as ours, innovation is essen-
dents and investors from partner  on elements such as empowerment,  tial to success. 
39  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019
Environment  
and Climate
N
ikko Asset  Achieving carbon neutrality the use of plastic water bottles from 
Management  We have been assessing our CO2 emissions  the majority of our offices globally and 
and energy usage at our Tokyo headquar- replaced them with water servers instead.
has a long his- ters for several years now. With the estab- We recognise that many environmen-
lishment of the Corporate Sustainability  tal issues are themes of a global scale 
tory of committing to  Department in 2018, we have further  and often too onerous for individuals to 
the environment in  enhanced our effort to expand the assess- tackle on their own, so our approach is 
ment to our overseas offices.  to link awareness and understanding to 
both our business and  Our Corporate Sustainability  actions taken. This means engaging with 
Department aggregated the travel and  both internal and external stakeholders to 
office activities. Our  financial data from our global offices in  bring about change. 
Environmental Policy,  Tokyo, Singapore, Sydney, Melbourne,  Using this approach, our Tokyo office 
Auckland, New York, and London. In line  took a survey of individual employees’ 
developed in 2010, is  with the findings and our commitment to  efforts to reduce, reuse, and recycle. The 
the UN’s SDG #13 (“Take urgent action to  survey showed that 75% of our employ-
the guiding principle of  combat climate change and its impacts”),  ees used reusable bags instead of receiv-
our efforts. On the busi- we reached out to Carbon Footprint Ltd  ing plastic bags from retailers. In order to 
— a UK-based international organisation  increase the number of users of reusable 
ness side, we created  — to help us offset our emissions. We are  bags, we handed out compact foldable 
proud that we have been certified as a  reusable bags for all employees to use. 
Japan’s first eco-fund in  carbon-neutral organisation for the first  A month later, another survey was done 
1999 and then became  time.  and results indicated that the number 
The carbon offsets will be used to fund  of employees using reusable bags had 
the first asset manager  the installation of renewable solar PV cells  increased. The firm will continue to 
in the Indian National Grid for diversifica- engage employees to raise awareness of 
to offer a global green  tion of energy sources and sustainable  how individuals can work to reduce the 
bond fund. On the cor- growth. This also contributes to sustain- impact we have on the environment.
able employment, improved healthcare, 
porate front, we have  sanitation, and education to the local 
communities.
been assessing our envi-
ronmental footprint for  Committed to reducing the use of 
plastic 
several years. This year,  At the G20 Summit hosted in Osaka in 
June 2019, Japanese citizens made it clear 
we have been certi-
that the global problem of plastic waste 
fied as a carbon-neutral  needed to be made a priority. At Nikko 
AM, we have also made our own com-
firm for the first time. mitment to reducing reliance on plastic. 
As a result, we have successfully removed 
 REUSABLE AND ECO-FRIENDLY GIFTS
40  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Shaping sustainable behaviour designated set for visitors. This has sig- bio-sand water filters. In many of these 
Shaping sustainable behaviour and  nificantly decreased the use of single  rural communities, water is drawn from 
sparking dialogue among staff is one of  use disposable coffee cups in the office,  wells or polluted ponds and rivers, 
our key goals. For Earth Day on 22 April  which went hand-in-hand with Plastic  or it is collected from rain, and as a 
2019, the Asia (ex. Japan) office distrib- Free July when the use of single-use  result, waterborne diseases are rife.  
uted reusable bento boxes made from  plastics was actively discouraged and  The bio-sand filter is a cement struc-
bamboo to all local employees. This was  the use of alternative options was pro- ture, about one-metre tall, which is filled 
to encourage staff to reduce their reli- moted throughout the month. with sand and gravel. Contaminated 
ance on single-use packaging. The office  In our Americas office, the team  water is poured into the top of the 
chose bamboo as it is biodegradable,  has promoted sustainable behaviour  filter, and gradually a bio-layer will 
while being extremely strong and light- through community outreach with  form on top of the sand. The forma-
weight. It is also one of the fastest grow- Grow NYC, an organisation that aims  tion takes about three weeks after the 
ing plants on the planet, but does not  to nurture future environmental stew- installation. The bio-layer contains bac-
rely on pesticides or much water; and its  ards by providing 66,000 children each  teria that eats up most of the micro-
roots are able to absorb metals from soil,  year with programmes that allow them  organisms in the water. As the water 
which in turn makes land healthier for  to have meaningful interactions with  moves through the sand and gravel, 
animals and other plants. the natural environment. Some mem- the rest of the micro-organisms will 
To further support this effort, the Asia  bers of the team volunteered to help  die making the water safe to drink. 
(ex. Japan) office invited The Sustainability  improve the Governor’s Island Teaching  Inexpensive and relatively simple 
Project to host a lunch session that  Garden, which is used to educate inner  to construct, the bio-sand filter uses 
focused on practical tips on how staff can  city school children on the importance of  materials that can all be sourced 
lead more sustainable lives by reducing  gardening fresh produce for better living. locally within Cambodia. It is easy 
waste and becoming more environmen- to maintain and can work for up 
tally conscious individuals, both inside  Towards sustainability globally to 15 years once installed. 
and outside the office. Employees had to  Beyond shaping behaviour internally,  Adoption of this project at Nikko 
bring their own lunches in reusable con- our firm, through the Global Marketing  AM was again a ground-up initiative. 
tainers for the event.  team, is also working to implement an  It started with three Nikko AM vol-
event sustainability checklist for all mar- unteers from Singapore and Tokyo 
keting-related events the firm organises  joining an expedition to Siem Reap, 
“For Earth Day on   globally. The checklist includes guide- Cambodia in May 2019. On their return, 
lines to make our events plastic-free  they shared their experience with the 
22 April 2019, the Asia  
(e.g. no bottled water) and paper-free  firm through internal communica-
(ex. Japan) office  (e.g. with the use of an app/QR code  tions platforms such as the intranet 
for clients to download presentation  and town hall. The significance of 
distributed reusable  materials, electronic invitations, etc.).  access to clean water was not lost on 
bento boxes made  Another key global effort towards a  the global citizens of Nikko AM who 
more sustainable world is our partici- were keen to sign up for this project. 
from bamboo to all local  pation in the Water for Life initiative,  To enable employees from differ-
aligned with the UN’s SDG #6 (“Ensure  ent regions to volunteer, the firm stan-
employees”
access to water and sanitation. for all”).  dardised our travel policy for volunteer 
Water for Life, which is a partnership  trips. As a result, participants from our 
between the Singapore International  Edinburgh and Sydney offices were 
For our EMEA team, shaping sustain- Foundation and a Cambodian NGO  able to join volunteers from Singapore 
able behaviour has begun with the cir- called Water for Cambodia, aims to pro- and Hong Kong on this meaning-
culation of a monthly email to employ- vide access to clean water in rural com- ful initiative to build and install water 
ees with tips on sustainable living. This  munities through the installation of  filters in Siem Reap, Cambodia. 
is done in tandem with activities such 
as eliminating the use of plastic bottles, 
recycling coffee pods, and implement-
ing a tax efficient scheme for employees 
to purchase bicycles for commuting.
In our Sydney office, the team made 
headway towards a more sustainable 
environment by changing their paper 
source. They have started to use one of 
the most environmentally responsible 
paper products on the market: Planet 
Ark 100% Australian Recycled Paper. 
It is 100% recycled, Australian made, 
carbon neutral and certified through 
the Australian government’s National 
Carbon Offset Scheme. This is an effort 
that is a combination of quality, cost, and 
environmental responsibility.
Our New Zealand team has intro-
duced reusable cups to the office. 
Employees are able to “adopt” or use 
these cups through a library-style 
check-out system, and there is also a 
 GLOBAL EFFORT TOWARDS A MORE SUSTAINABLE WORLD
41  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Reducing Inequalities
S
ince the inception of the world’s first dedicated green bond fund in 2010, Nikko 
Asset Management has made monetary contributions to the International 
Development Association, which is a part of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development, and which helps the world’s poorest countries. 
Over the years, as the firm grew and  Staff in Tokyo also volunteered 
evolved, we have begun to recognise  at The Volunteers Group to Send 
that we have the capacity to play a part  Wheelchairs to Overseas Children. 
in reducing different forms of inequal- In addition, the firm contributes to 
ity and supporting our employees who  earthquake and other disaster relief 
are passionate about different causes. In  efforts by donating a portion of fund 
2018, we conducted a survey of all our  management fees and soliciting dona-
employees to find out which causes res- tions from staff, which are also matched. 
onated most with them. Based on the  In 2019, through our relationship with 
results of the survey, we have chosen to  UNHCR, we hosted our first internship 
focus our efforts on supporting and edu- for three Syrian graduate school stu-
cating children and young people.  dents studying in Japan. The interns are 
At a global level, we support chari- members of the Japanese Initiative for 
table giving for the UNHCR Educate a  the future of Syrian Refugees, a pro-
Child programme, which aims to pro- gramme that was implemented by the 
vide quality primary education to refu- Japan International Cooperation Agency. 
gee children around the world. In select  The programme’s objective is to prepare 
markets, we offer to match employee  Syrian refugees to lead Syria’s reconstruc-  ‘WATER FOR LIFE’ IN CAMBODIA
donations to this programme.  tion in the future, while increasing their 
This global commitment is comple- understanding of Japanese people, soci- In Edinburgh, our team volunteered 
mented by local grassroots charitable  ety, and systems, thereby strengthening  with Gorgie City Farm, which supports 
giving and volunteering, which is also  the friendship between Syria and Japan. the local community through a variety of 
focused on education for children and  Our Asia (ex. Japan) office in Singapore  actions, notably by providing opportuni-
young people.  is committed to reducing inequalities in  ties for those with special needs to par-
In 2011, at our Tokyo headquarters, we  society, particularly through initiatives  ticipate in efforts that strengthen social 
formed the Charity Committee made up  that support women and children. The  and physical skills. As Gorgie City Farm 
of staff volunteers from a range of func- team there began a partnership with  provides its services for free, volunteer 
tions across the business. The commit- Daughters of Tomorrow, an organisa- support is critical to the farm providing 
tee collects donations from employees  tion that works with low-income women  community development, environmen-
for various charities, and these donations  by providing skills training to help them  tal sustainability, and social inclusion. 
are matched by the firm.   find employment and become finan- Our London office also volunteered 
  cially independent. Every Wednesday  at a similar organisation, Vauxhall City 
The causes we support include: evening over nine weeks, our employee- Farm. The city farm provides opportu-
1. Fair Start, which supports young  volunteers took care of children whose  nities for children from deprived back-
people living in government facil- mothers were attending job training. At  grounds and/or those with special 
ities to establish themselves  a number of office events, funds were  needs. These opportunities include work 
when they leave the facilities also raised for Daughters of Tomorrow. experience and a programme designed 
2. Mirai No Mori, which offers outdoor  Water for Life, a project supporting  for children and young people who 
programmes for abused, neglected,  clean water and sanitation — which will  require a flexible approach to learn-
and orphaned Japanese children lead to the reduction of inequality in  ing within a therapeutic environment. 
3. The Volunteers Group to Send  various ways — was another ground-up  Vauxhall City Farm is also a registered 
Wheelchairs to Overseas Children,  initiative from Singapore. Two Singapore  Riding for the Disabled Association. 
which refurbishes wheelchairs from  employees and one from Tokyo first par- More than 25% of our London employ-
Japan and sends them to devel- ticipated in this programme through  ees participated in these activities lead-
oping countries where physi- the Singapore International Foundation  ing to a re-evaluation of the policy 
cally challenged children, who  in May 2019. This resulted in the firm  around volunteer leave in London. 
would otherwise have no access  facilitating and supporting a team of  Some of our employees in London 
to wheelchairs, can use them employees from Nikko AM offices in  have also started making regular dona-
4. UNHCR, which supports education  different regions to participate in the  tions to a charitable initiative driven by 
programmes for refugee children  same programme later in the year.  their building manager to collect and 
42  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
 GORGIE CITY FARM IN EDINBURGH
bake-off to raise funds for a few chosen 
charities. Competitors were told they 
could bake anything they wished, and 
all entries were put on display in the 
kitchen. Each baker had a money box 
next to their item. Staff had to pay a gold 
 VOLUNTEERING TO REFURBISH WHEELCHAIRS FOR CHILDREN coin donation into the money box to 
taste an item, and use additional coins/
“This global  donations to vote for their favourite item. 
Another event the Sydney office 
commitment is 
participated in was the Bloomberg 
complemented by  Square Mile Relay 2019, along with the 
local grassroots  Tokyo, London, and New York offices. 
Nikko AM also takes part in other char-
charitable giving and 
ity races including the FIT Charity Run.
volunteering, which  Finally, we place a very substantial 
is also focused on  focus on financial education. The Nikko 
AM Fund Academy is a training facility 
education for children 
that was built in our Tokyo and Osaka 
and young people” offices in 2008 and 2011 respectively. It 
was created to provide training to finan-
cial institutions that sell our investment 
trusts and educate them in an effort to 
 BLOOMBERG SQUARE MILE RELAY CHARITY RUN boost the understanding of investment 
re-use or recycle clothing and other  shelter, would contribute to setting  trusts among our various stakehold-
household goods. Separately, the firm  the stage for a successful school year  ers. Since 2011, we have used this facil-
donated computer monitors that were  and building a foundation for the chil- ity to provide opportunities for parents 
being replaced in the office to schools  dren to continue to strive and achieve.  and children to enjoy learning about 
that were unable to afford replacements  While ensuring that children receive  the relationship between daily life and 
for their own, which were beginning to  a proper education is vital, the team  money. Financial literacy events are 
fail. This activity increased the life cycle  also hopes to assist adults coming  held to coincide with children’s summer 
of the electronics while providing reli- from underprivileged backgrounds  holidays. We believe that the improve-
able electronics for children to assist in  who are seeking work by partnering  ment of financial literacy contributes 
building their educational foundation. with Career Gear and Dress for Success.  to the realisation of a fair and sustain-
The team in our Americas office has  Both charities respectfully empower  able society by enabling people to 
dedicated themselves to assisting the  men and women by providing a sup- lead better lives through the achieve-
community around them. Recognising  port network and development tools  ment of economic independence.
that a stable life starts with a solid foun- to help them enter and thrive within  Internally, we also organise Lunch 
dation in education, the team partici- the workforce. One obstacle that many  and Learn seminars for all employees. 
pated in Operation Backpack, a com- often face when entering the work- These seminars explore a wide range 
munity service campaign of Volunteers  force is the fact that they do not have  of topics including diversity & inclu-
of America-Greater New York that  suitable business attire. Recognising  sion, and the environment. There is 
provides new backpacks filled with  this, our team, over the course of three  strong attendance by employees across 
grade-specific supplies to children  months, donated gently used profes- departments in Tokyo, and employ-
living in New York City’s homeless or  sional clothing to both charities for the  ees in other locations can also attend 
domestic violence shelters. The team  men and woman to use as they move  via video conference. Similarly, in our 
believes that supporting these chil- forward towards their career goals. London and Singapore offices, smaller 
dren, often stigmatised for living in a  In Sydney, our Australia team hosted a  scale Lunch and Learn seminars are held.
43  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Looking Ahead
Going into 2020, we are excited to continue working towards a better future for our 
stakeholders and the communities we operate in. 
As an asset manager, we have a responsibility to help overcome sustainability 
challenges and will continue to innovate in the spirit of fiduciary and ESG principles. 
We aim to use our position to engage with our clients and the companies we invest 
in, and to effect positive change while creating long-term value. 
We will continue to hold ourselves accountable for our progress in corporate 
sustainability efforts and to challenge the status quo. Through our focus on diversity 
and inclusion, reducing inequality, and the environment and climate, we hope to 
contribute to a fairer and more sustainable society. 
Together we are nikko am
44  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
External 
Commitments
Our participation in external initiatives
Where specific to an office, the office is indicated in parentheses.
Asia Investor  
Japan Association of  
Group on Climate Change  
Value Creating ERM  
(AIGCC) 
(Nikko AM Tokyo)
Nikko AM acts as vice-chair
Principles for Financial  
CDP  
Action for the 21st Century  
(Carbon, forests, water)
DISCLOSURE INSIGHT ACTION (Nikko AM Tokyo)
Climate 30% Club  
Action Climate Action 100+  Investor Work Group  
Global Investors DrivingBusiness Transition (Nikko AM Tokyo)
Climate
Action
Global Investors DrivingBusiness Transition
International Corporate   ESG Research Australia  
Governance Network (ICGN) (Nikko AM Australia)
United Nations-supported Principles 
for Responsible Investment
Future IM/Pact  
– Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) 
– PRI Statement on ESG in Credit Ratings  (Nikko AM Australia)
– PRI Palm Oil Investor Working Group
Responsible Investment  
Task Force on Climate-related 
Association Australasia (RIAA) 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
(Nikko AM Australia)
Stewardship Codes
The Investor Agenda
– Japan Stewardship Code (NAM Tokyo) 
– Singapore Stewardship Principles (NAM Asia) 
– UK Stewardship Code (NAM Europe)
Global Investor  
Statement to Government  
on Climate Change
45  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction
ESG at Nikko AM
Our Sustainability Activities
Looking Ahead
Contact 
Information
Japan  EMEA
Nikko Asset Management Co., Ltd. Nikko Asset Management Europe Ltd
Midtown Tower, 9-7-1 Akasaka, Minato-ku,   1 London Wall, London EC2Y 5AD, U.K.
Tokyo, 107-6242, Japan Tel: +44-20-7796-9866
Tel: +81-(0)3-6447-6000 Fax: +44-20-7796-9816
Fax: +81-(0)3-6447-6001 emea.nikkoam.com/
en.nikkoam.com/ Contact: EMEAenquiries@nikkoam.com 
Contact: corp-sustainability@nikkoam.com
Germany
Nippon Institutional Securities Co., Ltd. (NIS)   Nikko Asset Management Europe Ltd (German Branch)
(Subsidiary of Nikko AM) Tower 185, Friedrich-Ebert-Anlage 35-37,  
Midtown Tower, 9-7-1 Akasaka, Minato-ku,   60327 Frankfurt am Main, Germany
Tokyo, 107-6242, Japan Tel: +49-(0)-69-505047-301
Tel: +81-(0)3-6447-6080 emea.nikkoam.com/
www.ni-sec.com/en/ Contact: EMEAenquiries@nikkoam.com 
Luxembourg
Singapore  Nikko Asset Management Luxembourg S.A.
Nikko Asset Management Asia Limited Private Business Centre, 32 – 36 Boulevard d’Avranches
12 Marina View, #18-02 Asia Square Tower 2, Singapore 018961 L-1160, Luxembourg
Tel: +65-6500-5700 emea.nikkoam.com/
1-800-535-8025 Contact: EMEAenquiries@nikkoam.com 
Fax: +65-6534-5183
www.nikkoam.com.sg/
Contact: SGContactUs@nikkoam.com Americas
Nikko Asset Management Americas, Inc.
605 Third Avenue, 38th Floor, New York, NY 10158, U.S.A.
Australia Tel: +1-212-610-6100
Nikko AM Limited Fax: +1-212-610-6140
Level 26, One International Towers Sydney,  americas.nikkoam.com/
100 Barangaroo Avenue, Barangaroo NSW 2000, Australia Contact: USsalesinquiries@nikkoam.com 
Tel: +61-2-8072-6300
Fax: +61-2-8072-6304
www.nikkoam.com.au/ Hong Kong
Contact: DLsales.au@nikkoam.com  Nikko Asset Management Hong Kong Limited
24/F Man Yee Building, 60-68 Des Voeux Road Central,  
Hong Kong
New Zealand Tel: +852-3940-3900
Nikko Asset Management New Zealand Limited Fax: +852-3940-3904
Level 17, Vero Centre, 48 Shortland Street www.nikkoam.com.hk/
Auckland 1010, New Zealand Contact: HKinstibusinessdev@nikkoam.com
Tel: +64-9-307-6363
Fax: +64-9-307-6399
www.nikkoam.co.nz/
Contact: NZenquiries@nikkoam.com 
If you would like a copy of this report, please email:  corp-sustainability@nikkoam.com
46  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019
Important Information
This document is prepared by Nikko Asset Management  United Kingdom and the rest of Europe: This docu-
Co., Ltd. and/or its affiliates (Nikko AM) and is for distri- ment constitutes a financial promotion for the purposes of 
bution only under such circumstances as may be per- the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (as amended) 
mitted by applicable laws. This document does not  (FSMA) and the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority 
constitute investment advice or a personal recommen- (the FCA) in the United Kingdom (the FCA Rules).
dation and it does not consider in any way the suit-
ability or appropriateness of the subject matter for  This document is communicated by Nikko Asset 
the individual circumstances of any recipient.  Management Europe Ltd, which is authorised and regulated 
in the United Kingdom by the FCA (122084). It is directed 
This document is for information purposes only and is not  only at (a) investment professionals falling within article 19 
intended to be an offer, or a solicitation of an offer, to buy  of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial 
or sell any investments or participate in any trading strat- Promotions) Order 2005, (as amended) (the Order) (b) cer-
egy. Moreover, the information in this material will not affect  tain high net worth entities within the meaning of arti-
Nikko AM’s investment strategy in any way. The informa- cle 49 of the Order and (c) persons to whom this docu-
tion and opinions in this document have been derived from  ment may otherwise lawfully be communicated (all such 
or reached from sources believed in good faith to be reli- persons being referred to as relevant persons) and is only 
able but have not been independently verified. Nikko AM  available to such persons and any investment activity to 
makes no guarantee, representation or warranty, express  which it relates will only be engaged in with such persons.
or implied, and accepts no responsibility or liability for the 
accuracy or completeness of this document. No reliance  United States:  This document is for information pur-
should be placed on any assumptions, forecasts, projections,  poses only and is not intended to be an offer, or a solicita-
estimates or prospects contained within this document.  tion of an offer, to buy or sell any investments. This docu-
This document should not be regarded by recipients as a  ment should not be regarded as investment advice.  This 
substitute for the exercise of their own judgment. Opinions  document may not be duplicated, quoted, discussed or 
stated in this document may change without notice.  otherwise shared without prior consent. Any offering or 
distribution of a Fund in the United States may only be 
In any investment, past performance is neither an indi- conducted via a licensed and registered broker-dealer or a 
cation nor guarantee of future performance and a  duly qualified entity. Nikko Asset Management Americas, 
loss of capital may occur. Estimates of future perfor- Inc. is a United States Registered Investment Adviser.
mance are based on assumptions that may not be 
realised. Investors should be able to withstand the loss  Singapore: Nikko Asset Management Asia Limited. (Co. Reg. 
of any principal investment. The mention of individ- No. 198202562H) is regulated by the Monetary Authority of 
ual stocks, sectors, regions or countries within this docu- Singapore. 
ment does not imply a recommendation to buy or sell. 
Hong Kong: You should seek advice from a financial 
Nikko AM accepts no liability whatsoever for any loss  adviser before making any investment. In the event that 
or damage of any kind arising out of the use of all  you choose not to do so, you should consider whether 
or any part of this document, provided that noth- the investment selected is suitable for you. The con-
ing herein excludes or restricts any liability of Nikko AM  tents of this document have not been reviewed by the 
under applicable regulatory rules or requirements.  Securities and Futures Commission or any regulatory 
authority in Hong Kong. Nikko Asset Management Hong 
All information contained in this document is solely for  Kong Limited is a licensed corporation in Hong Kong.
the attention and use of the intended recipients. Any use 
beyond that intended by Nikko AM is strictly prohibited.  Australia: This document is issued in Australia by Nikko 
AM Limited (ABN 99 003 376 252, AFSL 237563). It is for 
Japan: The information contained in this document per- the use of wholesale clients, researchers, licensed finan-
taining specifically to the investment products is not  cial advisers and their authorised representatives only.
directed at persons in Japan nor is it intended for distribu-
tion to persons in Japan. Registration Number: Director  New Zealand: Nikko Asset Management New Zealand 
of the Kanto Local Finance Bureau (Financial Instruments  Limited (Company No. 606057, FSP22562) is the licensed 
firms) No. 368 Member Associations: The Investment Trusts  Investment Manager of Nikko AM NZ Investment Scheme, 
Association, Japan/Japan Investment Advisers Association.  the Nikko AM NZ Wholesale Investment Scheme and the 
47  Nikko AM Sustainability Report 2019
Nikko AM KiwiSaver Scheme. This material is for information  because of regulations or internal procedure is not reflected 
purposes only. in this document. The investments mentioned in this docu-
ment may not be eligible for sale in some states or coun-
Kingdom of Bahrain: The document has not been approved  tries, and they may not be suitable for all types of investors. 
by the Central Bank of Bahrain which takes no responsibil-
ity for its contents. No offer to the public to purchase the  Oman: The information contained in this document nei-
Strategy will be made in the Kingdom of Bahrain and this doc- ther constitutes a public offer of securities in the Sultanate of 
ument is intended to be read by the addressee only and must  Oman as contemplated by the Commercial Companies Law 
not be passed to, issued to, or shown to the public generally.  of Oman (Royal decree 4/74) or the Capital Markets Law of 
Oman (Royal Decree80/98, nor does it constitute an offer to 
Kuwait: This document is not for general circulation to the  sell, or the solicitation of any offer to buy non-Omani secu-
public in Kuwait. The Strategy has not been licensed for offer- rities in the Sultanate of Oman as contemplated by Article 
ing in Kuwait by the Kuwaiti Capital Markets Authority or  139 of the Executive Regulations to the Capital Market 
any other relevant Kuwaiti government agency. The offer- Law (issued by Decision No. 1/2009). This document is not 
ing of the Strategy in Kuwait on the basis a private place- intended to lead to the conclusion of any contract of what-
ment or public offering is, therefore, restricted in accor- soever nature within the territory of the Sultanate of Oman. 
dance with Decree Law No. 7 of 2010 and the bylaws 
thereto (as amended). No private or public offering of the  Qatar (excluding QFC): The Strategies are only being 
Strategy is being made in Kuwait, and no agreement relat- offered to a limited number of investors who are willing 
ing to the sale of the Strategy will be concluded in Kuwait.  and able to conduct an independent investigation of the 
No marketing or solicitation or inducement activities are  risks involved in an investment in such Strategies. The docu-
being used to offer or market the Strategy in Kuwait.  ment does not constitute an offer to the public and should 
not be reproduced, redistributed, or sent directly or indirectly 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia: This document is communi- to any other party or published in full or in part for any pur-
cated by Nikko Asset Management Europe Ltd (Nikko AME),  pose whatsoever without a prior written permission from 
which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services  Nikko Asset Management Europe Ltd (Nikko AME). No trans-
and Markets Act 2000 (as amended) (FSMA) and the rules  action will be concluded in your jurisdiction and any inqui-
of the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) in the United  ries regarding the Strategies should be made to Nikko AME. 
Kingdom (the FCA Rules). This document should not be repro-
duced, redistributed, or sent directly or indirectly to any other  United Arab Emirates (excluding DIFC):  This document and 
party or published in full or in part for any purpose whatso- the information contained herein, do not constitute, and is not 
ever without a prior written permission from Nikko AME. intended to constitute, a public offer of securities in the United 
Arab Emirates and accordingly should not be construed as 
This document does not constitute investment advice  such. The Strategy is only being offered to a limited number of 
or a personal recommendation and does not consider  investors in the UAE who are (a) willing and able to conduct an 
in any way the suitability or appropriateness of the sub- independent investigation of the risks involved in an invest-
ject matter for the individual circumstances of any recipi- ment in such Strategy, and (b) upon their specific request. 
ent. In providing a person with this document, Nikko AME 
is not treating that person as a client for the purposes of  The Strategy has not been approved by or licensed or reg-
the FCA Rules other than those relating to financial pro- istered with the UAE Central Bank, the Securities and 
motion and that person will not therefore benefit from  Commodities Authority or any other relevant licens-
any protections that would be available to such clients.  ing authorities or governmental agencies in the UAE. This 
document is for the use of the named addressee only 
Nikko AME and its associates and/or its or their officers, direc- and should not be given or shown to any other person 
tors or employees may have or have had positions or mate- (other than employees, agents or consultants in con-
rial interests, may at any time make purchases and/or sales  nection with the addressee’s consideration thereof). 
as principal or agent, may provide or have provided cor-
porate finance services to issuers or may provide or have  No transaction will be concluded in the UAE and any inqui-
provided significant advice or investment services in any  ries regarding the Strategy should be made to Nikko Asset 
investments referred to in this document or in related invest- Management Europe Ltd.
ments. Relevant confidential information, if any, known 
within any company in the Nikko AM Group or Sumitomo 
Mitsui Trust Bank Group and not available to Nikko AME 
