
People & Planet Report 2019
We are on a journey to 1.5°C where we can help 
build a more sustainable future for all people and 
the planet. Trust and integrity are the basis of our 
business. We strive to ensure the technology we 
provide is not misused to limit freedom of expression 
or right to privacy. We engage with our supply chain 
to improve transparency. We believe in an inclusive, 
diverse world where nobody is left behind. Join us.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 2
Letter from the President and CEO
Here, at Nokia’s headquarters in Finland, it seems  This report sets out the steps we have taken to  Technology alone 
that spring starts earlier and winter ends sooner  become a more sustainable company: increasing 
cannot solve the 
each year. Yet your perspective on the dangers of  the energy efficiency of our products and processes; 
climate change will be very different depending on  reducing carbon emissions at all of our sites;  global climate challenge 
where you are in the world. helping our customers make their operations 
we face. We need both 
more sustainable; and building the technologies 
The Australian firefighter, who has been battling  of the future that will improve people’s lives while  the individual and the 
raging bushfires for months on end. The Kenyan  protecting the planet and conserving its resources.
collective will to take 
subsistence farmer, who faces another failed crop 
because of another year without rain. For them,  Equally, this report looks at what we are doing to better  the right decisions and 
climate change is already a matter of life and death. care for people as well as the planet. We are a company 
follow through on our 
whose reputation is built on over 150 years of 
Nokia is a global company. That means we have  trustworthiness. That trust is earned by our employees  ambitions.”
global responsibilities not just to our shareholders,  acting ethically and with integrity at all times.
customers and employees, but to the countries 
we work in, and the world we leave behind to our  That means conducting business honestly and 
children and grandchildren. transparently wherever we find ourselves; promoting 
human rights and human dignity by ensuring our  However, technology alone cannot solve 
This really hit home for me recently when reading  products do no harm; protecting private data;  the global climate challenge we face. We 
David Wallace-Wells’ excellent book The Uninhabitable  building on our impressive work to close unexplained  need both the individual and the collective 
Earth. In 2008, our neighbours Norway created  pay gaps at Nokia; and creating an inclusive working  will to take the right decisions and follow 
“Doomsday” – a seed vault that was designed to  culture where everyone can fulfill their potential.  through on our ambitions. Economic 
store every crop on the planet and act as a global  prosperity and ecological harmony is 
food bank in the event of a global catastrophe. But  This report goes into detail on the ambitious targets we  possible. We believe that improving the 
due to an unprecedented heatwave in the North Pole  have set ourselves on cutting emissions and playing our  lives of people and nurturing our planet 
last year, the permafrost, which protects the vault,  part in meeting the 1.5°C global warming goal set by  should go hand in hand.
has started to melt. the United Nations – a goal that climate experts agree is 
critical to avoid catastrophic climate change. The report  After reading this report, I hope you 
The global catastrophe is already happening.  is also aligned with the United Nations Global Compact. will join us on this journey.  
The≈question we need to ask ourselves is:   Warm regards
Can we do something about it? We believe our work to build a more connected world 
will create new solutions and new opportunities to  Rajeev Suri
At Nokia, we believe we can and we must. work, travel and live more sustainably. Nokia President and CEO
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 3
Contents
Letter from the President and CEO  3 4.3  Compliance reimagined 2019   44 
About this report  5 4.4  Reporting of ethical concerns without fear of retaliation  47
Nokia today  6 4.5  Anti-corruption, Center of Excellence &  
Third-Party Program  49
1.0  Our approach  8 4.6  Addressing human rights  50
1.1  Sustanability highlights and challenges 2019  9 4.7  Responsible sourcing  54
1.2  Our sustainability priorities and impacts  10 4.8  Materials traceability and conflict minerals  60
1.3  Sustainability scope and key topics  11  4.9  Data privacy and security  61
1.4  The UN Sustainable development goals and our business  13
1.5  Managing sustainability    14 5.0  Respecting our people  63
5.1  Highlights  64
2.0  Improving people's lives with technology  15 5.2  Who we are  65
2.1  Highlights  16 5.3  A great place to work  66
2.2  Our economic impact  17 5.4  People development  68
2.3  Innovation and sustainability  19 5.5  Ensuring decent working conditions and fair employment  71
2.4  Connecting people and things  20 5.6  Inclusion, diversity, and anti-discrimination  74
2.5  Connecting the unconnected  21 5.7  Strengthening our health and safety performance  76
2.6  Efficiency and digitalization  22
2.7  Making a difference with technology  24  6.0  Making change happen together  78
6.1  Highlights  79
3.0  Combatting climate change  25 6.2  Collaborating with NGOs  80
3.1  Highlights  26  6.3  Working with governmental and multilateral organizations  83
3.2  Climate commitment  27  6.4  Collaboration with universities, cities and other industries  85
3.3  Climate – our products and networks  28 
3.4  Sustainable product design and materials  32  7.0  Key data and reporting principles  86
3.5  Circular practices and products  34  7.1  Data reporting principles  87
3.6  Our own operations - energy efficiency,   7.2  Environmental data  92
emissions, and circularity  36  7.3  Social, ethics and management systems data  99
3.7  Waste in own operations  38  7.4  Supply chain management data  104
3.8  Water  40  7.5  Financial data  105
4.0  Conducting our business with integrity  41 8.0  Independent practitioner's assurance report  106
4.1  Highlights  42 8.1  Independent practitioner's assurance report  107
4.2  Ethical business and corporate governance  43 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 4
About this report The journey to Improving lives
Since 2016 around 1 633 500 people 
have already benefitted from our 
community investment programs 
The scope of this report is Nokia Group in 2019, including  1.5°C
globally against our 2025 target of 
the Networks segment, Nokia Software, Nokia Technologies 
improving the lives of 2 000 000 
and Group Common and Other. The report contains limited 
people. Read more
information on our undersea cables business, Alcatel Submarine 
Networks (ASN), and our antenna systems business, Radio 
Business  
Frequency Systems (RFS). Both ASN and RFS are reported in 
Group Common and Other.  with integrity
Nokia has been recognized as one 
In our reporting, we are committed to expanding our  of the 2020 World’s Most Ethical 
transparency and our coverage. Our report is prepared in  Companies by Ethisphere, a global 
accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative GRI Standards,  leader in defining and advancing 
Core-option, and is compliant with the UN Global Compact. Our  the standards of ethical business 
selected key sustainability indicators have been assured by the  practices. Read more
independent auditor of Nokia, PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy. 
This report was published in April 2020 and it is only available in 
Addressing  
digital format. We have also published supplementary information 
human rights
online at www.nokia.com/about-us/sustainability, including an 
executive summary of the key achievements in 2019, and the  We successfully completed our first 
Global Reporting Initiative index. external human rights assessment 
for the Global Network Initiative 
Sustainability and corporate responsibility topics are also  (GNI). Read more
discussed in our official annual reports, including the annual 
report on Form 20-F that is filed with the US Securities and 
Exchange Commission. The Board Review of 2019 Annual  Supply chain  
Accounts includes non-financial information as required by  transparency
the Finnish Accounting Act implementing the EU Directive on 
Our supplier audit implementation is 
disclosure of non-financial information. Financial and operational 
aligned with SA8000 methodology 
information in this report should be read in conjunction with 
and we implemented 332 supply 
the information provided in our interim reports and annual 
chain audits of which 91 were 
financial reports, as well as the risk factors and forward-looking  Climate action onsite audits and 241 suppliers 
statements included in such reports. For more information on our  In September 2019, at the United Nations climate summit, we joined a group  were assessed using the EcoVadis 
financial results, operations, and reporting structure, please see  of 87 companies in committing to recalibrate our existing science-based  sustainability ratings scorecards. 
www.nokia.com/about-us/investors. climate targets in line with the 1.5°C scenario. Read more Read more
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 55
Nokia today We create the technology to 
Our customers include communications service  We have customers in nearly 200 countries. Our 
connect the world. We develop  providers whose combined networks support 6.4  technologies transform the way people and things 
billion subscriptions, as well as enterprises in the  communicate and connect. At the end of 2019, we 
and deliver the industry’s only 
private and public sector that use our network  employed 94 723 people. More than a third worked 
end-to-end portfolio of network  portfolio to increase productivity and enrich lives. within our research and development (R&D) in 
Europe, North America, and Asia.
equipment, software, services and 
Through our research teams, including the world-
renowned Nokia Bell Labs, we are leading the world  In 2019 we delivered net sales of EUR 23.3 billion and 
licensing that is available globally. 
to adopt end-to-end 5G networks that are more  invested EUR 4.4 billion in R&D. We have seven main 
energy efficient, faster, more secure and capable of  business groups: Mobile Networks, Global Services, 
revolutionizing lives, economies and societies. We  Fixed Networks, IP and Optical Networks, Nokia 
adhere to the highest ethical business standards as  Software, Nokia Enterprise and Nokia Technologies. 
we create technology with social purpose, quality  Nokia Bell Labs leads the company’s research and 
and integrity. development. For more information see our financial 
reporting at www.nokia.com/investors.
Net sales by business 2019 Net sales by region 2019
4 1   Nokia’s Networks  EUR 18 209 (+5%) 
3
business 1
1  Asia-Pacific EUR 4 556m (+12%)
2     A   Mobile Access  EUR 11 655m (+3%) 6
2  Europe1 EUR 6 620m (+2%)
    B   Fixed Access EUR 1 881m (-5%)
3  Greater China EUR 1 843m (-15%)
D A     C   IP Routing EUR 2 921m (+15%)
4  Latin America EUR 1 472m (+7%)
    D   Optical Networks EUR 1 752m (+9%)
C 2  Nokia Software EUR 2 767m (+2%) 5 2 5  Middle East & Africa EUR 1 876m (0%)
B 3   Nokia Technologies EUR 1 487 m (-1%) 4 6  North America EUR 6 948m (+6%)
1 3
4  G roup Common  EUR 952 m (-7%)
and Other
1A  ll Nokia Technologies IPR and Licensing net sales 
are allocated to Finland.
The figures are derived from our consolidated  
The figures are derived from our consolidated 
financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS. 
financial statements prepared in accordance with 
Year-on-year change is in parenthesis.
IFRS. Year-on-year change is in parenthesis.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 6
Year-end number of employees by region 2019
North America Other   Finland Asia-Pacific
European 
12 394 5 962 21 311
countries
33 235
Year-end number of  
employees in 2019
94723
 
Latin America Middle East & Africa China
2018: 101 203 
3 949 3 400 14 472
2017: 102 761
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 7
1.0
Our approach
Our approach
In 2019 our sustainability vision remained to create the 
technology to connect the world, in a responsible way.  
We started a major review of our sustainability strategy  
and approach in 2019. We looked at the impact, scope,  
focus areas, and targets. The work is ongoing at the time  
of this report and final priorities and plans will be 
communicated once finalized and approved.
People and nature can and must live in harmony.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 8
1.1
Sustainability highlights and challenges in 2019
Sustainability highlights and challenges in 2019
What we did well... What we need to do better...
    In 2019, the radio networks we supplied      By the end of 2019, we had secured 62     In 2019, we deeply regret the seven fatal 
to our customers supported around  commercial 5G contracts and launched  incidents involving people working on 
6.4 billion subscriptions worldwide. 18 live 5G networks with our customers. our behalf. One of the incidents involved 
our own employee and six involved our 
    In September 2019, at the United      As part of our inclusion and diversity 
contractors or subcontractors.
Nations climate summit, we joined a  work in 2019, we closed the unexplained 
group of 87 companies in committing  pay gap identified in our company based     In our supply chain management, audit 
to recalibrate our existing science- on pay equity analysis we conducted  closure continues to be a challenge. We 
based climate targets in line with the  with Mercer.  target to close Corporate Responsibility 
1.5°C scenario. onsite audit findings within six months 
   In 2019, 96% of our suppliers achieved 
of audit. In 2019 audit closure within six 
   We delivered zero emission products  full visibility to the smelters in our 
months was the same as previous year 
to over 150 customers globally and  supply chain. 82% of smelters identified 
at 52%. We need to improve this.
the customer base station sites we  as part of our supply chain were 
modernized used on average 46% less  validated as conflict-free or were active     While the total facilities waste decreased 
energy (43% in 2018) than those where  in the validation process.  by 41% compared to 2018, we did not 
our customers did not modernize.  reach our target of recycling 60% of all 
    In May 2019, we launched our Helping 
facilities waste.
    In October 2019, we completed our first  Hands volunteering and engagement 
external human rights assessment for  program for employees. Through our     Women accounted for 22% of our 
the Global Network Initiative (GNI). The  community investment programs, we  workforce and 15% of the leadership 
GNI board found we had made good  have cumulatively improved the lives of  positions. Despite great efforts, we need 
faith efforts over time to implement the  1 633 500 people globally since 2016.  to work harder to reach our 2020 goal of 
GNI Principles on freedom of expression  increasing women in leadership positions 
    We were again recognized for our 
and privacy. by 25% (baseline 15.5% in 2016).
sustainability work by many independent 
organizations. A full listing can be found 
on our website.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 9
1.2
Our sustainability priorities and impacts
Our   Our core business is connectivity 
At the end of 2019 we began a major review and  Our strategy work is still ongoing. Final priorities and 
and related activities. Our  overhaul of our sustainability strategy, with emphasis  roadmaps were pending Board approval when this 
sustainability 
on the range of impact, scope, focus areas, and  report was published.
technology connects people and 
targets. The strategy work is based on a number of 
priorities and  Global macro trends impacting our 
things, improves lives by providing  factors related to our business and the impact on 
sustainable development including:  sustainability approach
impacts access to education, information,  •  Global macro trends with an impact on sustainable  2019 saw some key global trends that continued to 
development. See below and more on our website. impact our sustainability work which included:
better healthcare, and greater 
•  Our regular engagement with various stakeholders.  •  The potential of technology
opportunity, connecting us to our  Read more about Making change happen  •  Growing concern about the risks of technology
together. •  The role of ethics and transparency
communities and business, and can 
•  Requirements and information requests especially  •  Climate change and the sustainable use of natural 
help enable a safer environment  from our customers and investor. See our  resources
Recognitions and Awards. •  Geopolitical and societal changes
and healthier planet. 
•  Our benchmarking of 23 industry peers and the  •  Competition for talent
leaders in sustainability 
•  Our corporate strategy and Code of Conduct  To read more about these trends visit our website.
•  Assessments of risks and opportunities through 
Nokia Enterprise Risk Management system 
•  Analysis of the economic, environmental and social 
value we can create throughout our value chain. 
Read more here.
•  Analysis of UN Sustainable Development Goals and 
Targets and their relevance to Nokia. Read more on 
our website. 
•  International sustainability frameworks such as 
SASB, TCFD, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
G4 and the UN Global Compact   
•  Our long history and experience in sustainability 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 10
1.3
Sustainability scope and key topics
Sustainability scope   gh Improving lives with technology
Hi Connecting 
people and things
and key topics – impact 
Environment
on our business and  
Our people
Climate
sustainable development
Sustainability  Nokia’s direct  FOCUS Integrity
related products  economic impact
and services
Based on the analysis described 
Ethical business 
above, we revised and clarified  practices and corporate 
All the topics shown in this diagram are 
governance
our materiality, reduced the total  material to our sustainability work. Those in
the top right corner of the diagram are most
number of topics included in our  Preventing the misuse of  Privacy and
Health   important to our business and sustainable
our technology data security
and safety
sustainability scope from 20 to 13,  development.
adjusted the contents of the topics 
Responsible  Employee 
sourcing engagement, 
and assessed their importance 
diversity and 
inclusion
to our business success and 
Labor practices - 
sustainable development.  own operations
t
n
e
m
Prevention of 
p
o environmental pollution 
el
v in own operations
e
d Sustainable 
e  product materials 
bl
a and E-waste
n
ai
t
s
u
s
n 
o
t 
c
a
p
m
I
Impact on our business High
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 11
1.3
Our targets and performance
Our targets and  Focus area Targets Achievement Status
performance
Improving  2022
people’s  Helping our customers to connect the next billion, measured by  At the end of 2019 the radio networks we delivered to our 
customers served around 6.4 billion subscriptions worldwide, 
lives with  number of subscriptions in Nokia radio customers’ networks
compared to around 5.5 billion at the end of 2016. Ongoing – on track
technology
We have set a total of 28 external 
targets for our key sustainability 
2030 
areas. Below is a snapshot of 
Scope 3 emissions included in our Science Based Target were on 
Science Based Target for Scope 3 (use of sold products): GHG emission 
the end of year status for some 
track to reach the 2030 target.
reduction of 75% compared to the 2014 baseline
of the most significant external  Ongoing – on track
Climate 
targets across our sustainability 
2030 
focus areas. 
Scope 1+2 emissions included in our Science Based Target were on 
Science Based Target for Scope 1+2: GHG emission reduction of 41%, 
track to reach the 2030 target.
compared to the 2014 baseline
By the end of 2019, of the  Ongoing – on track
existing 28 short-term and long-
term targets:  Ethical  2020 
In 2019, the training was completed by 96.7% of our employees. 
•  6 of the 9 short-term targets  business  Ethical Business training (EBT) completion: 95%
were achieved and 3 were not  practices Ongoing – on track
achieved. 
•  11 of the 19 long-term targets  2020  Our security Capability Maturity Model score for 2019 was 3.1 
were ongoing and on track,  Privacy and  and ahead our industry peers. Critical information protection and 
Our aim for 2020 is that Nokia be recognized as an industry leader 
1 was achieved during 2019,  security in security and privacy. This will be assessed through external  employee engagement targets were met and over 95% of the 
and 7 were on-going and not  benchmarking identified critical and high audit findings were addressed. Ongoing – on track
on track. 
  2020  The target was measured by an anonymous employee engagement 
For a more detailed overview of all  Sustained focus on CEO-sponsored Nokia Culture Principles survey. The result was 78.2% favorable towards the company, as 
of our public targets please visit  Employee  measured by the average of two target questions about overall 
the website and download our  direction of the company and its culture. Albeit the result was down  Ongoing – on track
engagement, 
by 1.3 percentage points compared to 2018, it remains on green.
executive summary of this report.
diversity and 
inclusion
2020 
In 2019, we had 15.0% women in leadership positions, 0.5 
Increasing the % of women in leadership by 25% (baseline 2016)
percentage points down from the 2016 baseline of 15.5%. 
Ongoing – not on track
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 12
1.4
The UN Sustainable Development Goals and our business
The UN   In 2019, the SDGs and their  Improving people’s lives  Protecting the   Conducting our business with  Making change happen 
with technology environment integrity and Respecting our  together 
targets continued to provide  people in everything we do
Sustainable 
a key framework for our 
Development 
sustainability work. Our priorities 
Goals and our  have been remapped against our 
most material United Nations 
business
Sustainable Development Goals  Goal 9: In 2019, the  Goal 13: The call for climate  Goal 8: We were again  Goal 17: We work with our 
digitalization of industry and  action became the most  acknowledged as one of  customers, suppliers, other 
(SDGs) 8, 9 and 13 where we 
enterprises took off while the  important sustainability   the World's Most Ethical  industries, enterprises, 
can have the greatest impact,  rollout of 5G began, and we  issue during 2019 and we  companies by the Ethisphere  organizations, authorities, 
also continued to support  strengthened our response.  Institute. During 2019 we  and NGOs. Our social and 
though we continue to believe 
public safety, smart cities and  In September 2019 we  also completed two major  environmental programs in 
the technology we provide can  critical communications. We  committed to recalibrate our  milestones in our Human  2019 included improving 
connected the unconnected  science-based targets to  Rights work completing both  healthcare and education 
positively impact all 17 SDGs. 
across the world to better  align with the 1.5°C scenario.  an internal human rights  with UNICEF, as well as 
education, healthcare and  Read more about this and  assessment and undergoing  working with customers on 
market opportunities. Read  our environmental activities  the external Global Network  environmental and supply 
more on pages 15–24 and on  on pages 25–40.and on our  Initiative's Human Rights  chain projects.
our website. website. assessment for the first time. 
See pages 41–62 in this  For more information on how 
report and our website. we engaged and collaborated 
with key stakeholders in 2019 
At the end of 2019, we had  visit pages 78–85 and our 
94 723 people globally, while  website.
our supply chain numbered 
some 14 000 suppliers. We 
continued to emphasize 
diversity and inclusion as 
well as development and 
improvement. See pages 
63–77 in this report and 
our website.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 13
1.5
Managing sustainability
Managing 
Sustainability issues are reviewed regularly at  The Nokia Group Leadership Team is chaired by the  and hazard risks. The aforementioned governance 
all levels of the company. We have built strong  President and CEO. The Leadership Team reviews  practices ensure adequate focus on key sustainability 
sustainability
governance structures and processes to manage  and approves sustainability related policies, strategy,  topics and related issue management.
good ethical business practices and corporate  and the annual sustainability report, and also reviews 
responsibility. Our Code of Conduct provides our  other sustainability related topics when needed. Nokia  The most important risk factors and the principal 
requirements and guidance for all employees. The  governance meetings and committees where Group  factors and trends affecting our operations are 
Code is supported by policies and management  Leadership Team members participate and where  discussed in our Form 20-F filing for the year 
systems related to responsibility issues. Our key  sustainability related topics are frequently reviewed  2019 here.
corporate responsibility policies are regularly  include for example the Compliance meeting, the 
updated and can be found online. Security meeting, the Diversity Steering committee,  These risk factors include sustainability-related threats 
the Sponsorship and Donations Committee, and  such as:
The highest decision-making body in our company  Human Rights Due Diligence governance council.  •  risks related to product safety, product misuse, 
after the General Meeting of shareholders is the  Our Chief Marketing Officer (CMO) is responsible for  environmental accidents, health and privacy and 
Board of Directors. In 2019, the Board of Directors  sustainability at the executive management level.  security, including cybersecurity threats
reviewed our corporate sustainability status including  During the year, sustainability related topics were  •  risk of non-compliance with regulations or our 
targets, performance, key trends and priorities. The  reviewed during CMO management team monthly  supplier and customer requirements
Board also agreed on renewal of the sustainability  meetings. At the operational level, sustainability  •  violation of ethical standards, including our Code 
strategy and targets and the Corporate Community  is managed by the Sustainability team (reporting  of Conduct
Investment and University donations budget and  to CMO), the Ethics and Compliance team and  •  labor unrest and strikes
adjusted focus areas for the year 2020. The Board  subject matter experts in our business units. The  •  inability to retain, motivate, develop and recruit 
also had cybersecurity/information security, ethics &  sustainability governance model will be reviewed in  appropriately skilled employees
compliance and privacy updates. 2020 in order to support implementation of the new  •  purchasing boycotts and public harm to our brand
sustainability strategy. More information about our  •  risks related to issues with tariffs and taxation, 
The Board of Directors Review of Nokia 2019 Annual  corporate governance practices is available in our  including tax disputes
Accounts also includes non-financial information  annual reports and on our website. •  disruptions in our manufacturing, service creation, 
which was also reviewed by the Board of Directors’  delivery, logistics or supply chain caused, for 
Risk and opportunity management 
Audit Committee. The Audit Committee also received  instance, by natural disasters, military actions, civil 
an annual update on conflict minerals, ethics and  The key opportunities and risks are primarily  unrest, public health and safety threats (including 
compliance, and internal audit and controls reviews.  identified against business targets as an integral  disease outbreaks), many of which may be fuelled by 
The Board of Directors’ Personnel Committee received  part of strategy and financial planning, and in  the adverse effects resulting from climate change.
culture, demography, and diversity updates, and  daily business operations. Our Enterprise Risk 
reviewed the results of the Nokia Culture Cohesion  Management covers all types of risks that can affect  For more information on Nokia Enterprise Risk 
Tracker survey in 2019. Nokia including strategic, operational, financial  Management, please go to our website.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 14
2.0
Improving people’s lives with technology
Improving 
people’s lives 
with technology
We can achieve our greatest impact on the world’s  
sustainability challenges by developing and enhancing solutions 
and technology that improve lives and provide greater 
opportunities for people and planet to thrive. The continued 
development and rollout of 5G, Internet of Things (IoT), Artificial 
Intelligence and other new technologies together have the 
potential to socially and economically empower any individual, 
community, industry or country.
Everything and everyone will be connected, bringing immediacy to all 
information with new opportunities and challenges for humanity.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 15
2.1
Highlights
Highlights 6.4
100
Connectivity will bring economic, 
educational, health, environmental 
and efficiency opportunities to all.
villages in India will be digitalized  
as part of our Smartpur cooperation  
with NGO Digital Empowerment Foundation
billion 
The number of subscriptions globally served by the radio networks  
we have delivered to our customers. This is an increase of some 0.3 billion 
subscriptions over 2018. We are on track to achieve our target to help our 
+1 300
customers connect the next billion by 2022 (baseline 2016)
206 900
customers
direct beneficiaries of our community programs in 2019 deploying our mission critical networks globally
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 16
2.2
Our economic impact
Our economic 
As a global company we have  we contribute to society in the form of pension  We may also seek advance pricing agreements, for 
contributions, social security contributions, payroll  example, agreements between taxpayers and tax 
impact significant direct and indirect 
taxes, value added taxes, sales taxes, customs  authorities, to the extent feasible in order to gain 
economic impact on our  duties, excise taxes, environmental taxes, and other  mutual understanding and acceptance on the tax 
similar duties and fees. As a major taxpayer and  treatment of intercompany arrangements. The 
stakeholders. Direct economic 
collector of indirect taxes and payroll-related taxes,  benefit of such agreements is to remove uncertainty 
impact includes our purchasing of  we pay and collect these taxes in accordance with the  regarding tax treatment, especially in complex 
applicable rules and regulations. business arrangements.
goods from suppliers, dividends 
Our tax policy
Nokia conducts business in many countries, and in 
paid to shareholders, wages and 
The foundation of our tax policy is to pay the right  every one of these countries our policy is to operate 
benefits paid to our employees,  amount of tax that is legally due in the correct  in an open and cooperative relationship with the 
jurisdiction. Furthermore, we observe all applicable rules  tax authorities. Our tax planning is aligned with 
as well as financial expenses 
and regulations in every country where we operate, and  our business models, and taxes are considered in 
paid to creditors, income taxes  we follow the rules set by the relevant authorities. business decision-making – but only as one of many 
elements. Our business and location planning is 
paid to the public sector, and 
We also follow a global transfer pricing policy that  driven by sound commercial needs. We are subject to 
community investments.  is based on the Transfer Pricing Guidelines for  income taxes in multiple jurisdictions. Our businesses 
Multinational Enterprises and Tax Administrations  and investments globally, particularly in emerging 
issued by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation  markets, are subject to uncertainties, including 
and Development (OECD). The guidelines outline  unfavorable or unpredictable changes in tax laws, 
The related key performance indicators are listed in  the arm’s length principle as an internationally  taxation treatment, and regulatory proceedings, 
the table. We contribute indirectly to the economy in  accepted valuation standard for intercompany  including tax audits. We are compliant with reporting 
a variety of ways, though our greatest indirect impact  dealings. Based on the policy and guidance given  requirements to disclose country specific information 
comes as a result of the benefits of technology. Read  by the OECD, we comply with the arm’s length  to tax authorities according to the country by country 
more below and in the Improving Lives chapter of  principle in all our intercompany dealings. We also  reporting requirements. We will also actively monitor 
this report. follow the development of local transfer pricing rules  and comply with other regulations in this area.
and regulations in all territories and adopt localized 
Our tax payments Indirect economic impact
transfer pricing policies if necessary.
In 2019, we paid a total of EUR 516 million in  Our company and its activities also indirectly impact 
direct income taxes (EUR 364 million in 2018), of  Large multinationals are obliged to disclose country- economic development in other ways. We generate 
which EUR 179 million was paid in Asia-Pacific and  specific information to the tax authorities (so-called  business opportunities and employment within our 
EUR 257 million in Europe, the Middle East, and  country-by-country reporting within the framework  supply chain and enable competence development 
Africa. The taxes paid in the Americas region were  of OECD BEPS action 13). We are compliant with  for our employees. Connectivity is beneficial in many 
EUR 80 million. Besides paying direct income tax,  these reporting requirements. ways and has been shown to increase productivity 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 17
2.2
Our economic impact
and economic growth. According to the GSMA’s The  Economic impact
This activity  Mobile Economy 2019 report, by 2023 the mobile 
supports SDG  industry contribution to global GDP will stand at USD  2016 2017 2018 2019
4.8 trillion. Furthermore, the report states that 5G 
Target 8.2: 
Stakeholder  Impact  Nokia Group Nokia Group Nokia Group Nokia Group
technologies are expected to contribute USD 2.2 
“Achieve higher levels of  (EUR million)
economic productivity through  trillion to the global economy over the next 15 years, 
diversification, technological  with key sectors such as manufacturing, utilities and  Direct economic  Customers Net sales 23 614 23 147 22 563 23 315
upgrading and innovation,  value generated
professional/financial services benefiting the most 
including through a focus on 
high-value added and labor- from the new technology. Download the report here. Economic value  Suppliers Total purchases of goods  13 544 12 572 14 118 14 989
intensive sectors” distributed and services
Connectivity helps to connect the unconnected and  Shareholders Dividends paid 1501 963 1081 570
provide access to information, as well as to financial 
Employees Wages and benefits1 7 814 7 845 7 834 7 191
and commercial services to underserved areas. It 
enables new ways of doing business, transforms  Creditors Net financial expenses 273 531 233 346
public service delivery, and brings innovation to a 
Public sector Income expenses paid (+)  503 555 364 516
wider audience. Our industry also has a major role  Income taxes refunded (-)
to play in technology transfer and human capital 
Communities Community investments2  5 7 7 2
development globally.
Group numbers include both continuing and discontinued operations. Discontinued operations refer to the sale of the  
A recent study looking at the enabling effect of 
Devices and Services business in 2014 and the sale of the HERE business in 2015.
mobile communications, carried out by the GSMA 
(Global Mobile Association) and the Carbon Trust  1 Includes termination benefits and excludes social security expenses
stated that compared to the global carbon footprint  2 R  eporting with current methodology started in 2016. 2016 values are including corporate and key regional contributions,  
2017 also some local contributions.
of mobile networks themselves, the level of avoided 
emissions enabled by mobile communications 
technologies is ten times greater. Read the 
report here.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 18
2.3
Innovation and sustainability
Innovation and  We understand the need to 
For example, in 2019, we announced that Canadian  the Millennium Prize enabling us to promote the 
grow further and enable new  startup company HaiLa, which offers technologies  value of innovation and technology in creating a 
sustainability
that can drastically reduce energy consumption for  better life. This prize is intended to raise awareness 
technology, creativity and 
Internet of Things devices, had won the 2019 Nokia  of the importance of innovation globally. Read more 
Open Innovation Challenge. Read more here. at taf.fi/millennium-technology-prize.
innovation. Technology innovation 
plays a key role in achieving a more  Nokia Bell Labs leads the research arm in Nokia and  We also look at environmental innovation. For 
conducts disruptive research for the next phase of  example, in a trial carried out with Nordkapp, the 
sustainable planet and better, 
human existence. Nokia Bell Labs is world-renowned  Finnish Environment Institute SYKE, Telia and Vaisala 
healthier lives for all people.  for its profound influence on the evolution of  we showed how 5G, video drones and computer 
communications and information technologies and  vision can be used to monitor and provide real-time 
consequently how people connect, collaborate,  insights into environmental conditions such as the 
compute and communicate. For more information  problems with blue-green algae in the Baltic Sea. 
see www.bell-labs.com. In 2019 we again held our  Imagine if the same technology could be used to 
Nokia Bell Labs prize competition to attract the  monitor and analyze plastic pollution in the sea or be 
best minds to help solve humanity's problems  used in other environmental analysis. Read more on 
www.bell-labs.com/prize. our website. 
Through our Invent with Nokia platform we are eager  In February 2019 we demonstrated the world’s first 
to work with external companies and individuals who  liquid-cooled 5G base station at the Mobile World 
can bring diverse technology and new ideas to our  Congress in Barcelona, a project that went on to win 
business. Read more at inventwithnokia.nokia.com. the Finnish Quality Innovation award.
Innovation will drive the creation of many solutions  For information on how we innovate visit 
to today’s challenges and opportunities. We sponsor  www.nokia.com/innovation.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 19
2.4
Connecting people and things 
Connecting  We are building extraordinary  Technology and sustainable development 
The total annual energy bill of global radio networks  This activity 
networks, software and 
people and 
in 2018 was EUR 81 billion showing a 4% increase  supports SDG 
ecosystems. We are continually  from 2017. The arrival of the first commercial 5G 
Targets: 
things networks may have a small negative impact on the 
reimagining technology to meet  9.c: Significantly increase 
total 2019 figures due to the rollout of the first  access to information and 
society’s many challenges and  new 5G equipment to existing 2G, 3G and 4G sites.  communications technology and 
strive to provide universal and 
The positive news is that 5G technology has been 
opportunities, making communities  affordable access to the internet 
designed to build towards 100 times more energy  in least developed countries by 
smarter and more sustainable,  efficient than other radio technology used before.  2020; and
This enables us to decouple the huge expected traffic 
transportation safer, and 
growth from the energy consumption, which means  9.1: Develop quality, reliable, 
sustainable and resilient 
enterprises more agile and efficient. the potential for much more sustainable networks.  infrastructure, including regional 
and transborder infrastructure, to 
support economic development 
We are rolling out 5G with customer networks 
and human wellbeing, with a 
across all continents. New technology will empower 
focus on affordable and equitable 
We look at how our technology impacts people –  individuals and communities. In fact, technology  access for all.
enabling them to control and manage their wellness,  is already bringing greater, more sustainable 
experiences, choices, and lives, and how they explore  efficiencies to enterprises and communities: safer, 
and experience the world around them. We are  cleaner cities, and access to digital health; better 
focused on the human benefits of technologies.  management of natural resources, and improved 
data about and analytics of the world around 
Digitalization is driving industry in more sustainable  us and its resources. Social and ethical issues 
ways and further improving individual lives and the  related to technology include automation and the 
planet. Key areas of industry are the digitalization of  changing landscape of jobs and talent acquisition, 
the energy sector, the digitalization and automation  the role of AI and big data in privacy, the enhanced 
of the transport sector, the facilitation of healthcare  security of smart cities, and the potential misuse 
anywhere, the digitalization of communications  of technology. Technology will help us change the 
between people and things, and the implementation  way we consume to enable a more sustainable 
of digital production and manufacturing that will  future and a healthier planet. it is also imperative 
decentralize and localize manufacturing while making  that the digital divide is not widened and no one is 
it more efficient. left behind.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 20
2.5 
Connecting the unconnected
Connecting the  In 2019 we had customers in nearly 
healthcare and education. With the advent of 5G  low latency, which provides real-time connectivity 
200 countries, and the rollout of  we must ensure the digital divide does not widen  and massive amounts of data, with sensors and 
unconnected
between those who have access and those who do  analytics will enable all sorts of smart services that 
5G began in earnest around the 
not. Rural communities and women are often the  will greatly improve environmental, health, and 
world. We continued to improve  most affected by lack of connectivity. public safety. For example: 
connectivity and coverage in many 
Across our regions our employees volunteer as part  •  Weather companies - can significantly improve 
of our community investment programs to help  forecasting accuracy, adopt new climatology 
emerging markets and announced 
connect people to better healthcare, improved  models, deliver more granular weather forecasts, 
new cooperation in countries and  educational opportunities and access to market  and deliver intelligent alerts for extreme 
opportunities. We work with both global and local  weather conditions. 
territories such as Algeria, Aruba, 
community organizations and NGOs to enable people  •  Healthcare providers – can build intelligent patient 
Brazil, Egypt, Ethiopia, Kenya,  to connect to greater opportunities. alerts around environmental data sources. For 
example, asthma patients or those suffering from 
Malaysia, Nigeria, Pakistan, Rwanda, 
5G and digital lives
extreme allergies can be automatically alerted if a 
Sudan, the Marianas, Tanzania,  5G will touch all aspects of life. We offer the broadest  weather event or dust build-up in a certain area is 
portfolio of solutions in our industry. By the end  likely to impact their health. 
Tunisia, Uganda, and Vietnam. 
of 2019 we had 66 5G commercial deals, over 100  •  Smart cities – could improve living conditions  
5G agreements, and had rolled out 5G networks  and security with up-to-date traffic and 
across all regions. We announced, among others,  movement insights. 
agreements and collaboration on 5G with AT&T,  •  Public safety organizations – can use environment 
Sprint, T-Mobile, US Cellular and Verizon in the USA,  data to predict and react faster to forest fires, 
For example, in Brazil we will help bring connectivity  with NTT DoCoMo, KDDI and Softbank in Japan,  hurricanes and other natural disasters. 
to some of the 93% of Brazilian farmers who  KT,SKT and LG Uplus in Korea, Elisa, Telefonica,  •  Insurance companies – can create more nuanced, 
currently have no wireless access to broadband  Telia Company, Vodafone in Europe, Antel in Latin  accurate risk profiles to price their products 
services on their farms, while in Kenya we will  America, and du, Ooredoo, Rain, Saudi Telecom, and  and services more effectively. With a range of 
upgrade the fiber network providing higher capacity  Zain in the Middle East and Africa region. For more  environmental data, they can better understand 
for expanded broadband service in East Africa.  information on where we are rolling out 5G and its  risk factors across different geographies, and even 
More examples of customer projects can be found  benefits go to networks.nokia.com/5g. different parts of the same city. 
on our website. •  Smart car developers - will want real-time  
For example, 5G can, in combination with other  data to help optimize routes, predict hazards  
There are still more than three billion people without  technologies and smart planning, bring new types  and avoid danger. 
broadband internet connectivity, which makes it  of services and greatly improve existing ones to  •  UAV, USV and drone designers – can improve 
more challenging to enable their economic welfare  help fight climate change through faster, better  flight path calculations with accurate air pressure 
and access to basic human rights such as good  and more accurate data. The combination of 5G’s  and humidity data. 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 21
2.6 
Efficiency and digitalization
Efficiency and  The Fourth Industrial Revolution 
this development. For example, we are helping  collection, device detection and analytics, and 
(4IR) will be powered by 5G and  transform Finland’s nationwide smart grid to  business application development, on top of device 
digitalization
better support renewable energy. Making resource  and subscription management across all industries.
will provide the spark that lights 
industries safer, more efficient and reducing 
a revolution of change, enabling  waste is a positive that can be achieved through  Imagine being able to provide IoT services for 
digitalization of mining operations as we have done  agriculture, industry and even connected vehicles 
more efficient sustainable industry, 
in Peru.  from a single platform. Service providers can do 
that and more with our IMPACT platform. In 2019 
a significant response to climate 
We also live by our own words through the  for example, Rakuten in Japan selected our IMPACT 
challenges and providing alternative  digitalization of our own 5G factory in Oulu,  platform to help support the rollout of such IoT 
Finland. In July 2019 this project was selected  services across Japan. To further support the 
consumption options for individuals 
by McKinsey and the World Economic Forum  global adoption of IoT solutions, we also launched 
and communities. In 2019 we  as an Advanced 4th Industrial Revolution (4IR)  an innovation studio in Germany with AT&T. Read 
Lighthouse, reflecting leadership and proven  more here.
provided solutions to more than 
success in adopting and implementing 4IR 
120 new private wireless network  technologies at scale. Read more here. It is critical that security is an integral part of IoT 
solutions. In October 2019, we launched NetGuard 
customers paving the way to 
In 2019 we also enabled a range of customers in the  Adaptive Security Operations to give service 
Industry 4.0. manufacturing, energy and other industries including  providers a highly automated end-to-end system to 
automotive and logistics to be more efficient, less  meet the demands of 5G network connectivity and 
wasteful and potentially helping them improve their  to address the rising cybersecurity threat posed by 
climate response. Read more here. internet-connected devices. Read more here.
What if transportation and logistics companies 
could not only greatly improve efficiency and safety,  Internet of Things (IoT) Artificial Intelligence
but through digitalization also positively affect  Connected devices have an increasing role in our  AI and Machine Learning make communications 
their carbon footprint by enabling collection and  daily lives, from sensor and security systems in  networks more efficient and are becoming part of 
analysis of environmental data, improve waste  smart cities, to control and safety systems in smart  a wide range of new services over 5G and cloud. In 
management or material use. That’s why we are  homes. Industrial IoT is integral to enabling greater  2019 for example we announced the opening of a 
providing solutions to transportation and logistics  efficiency, security and safety in the utility industry,  network of Cognitive Collaboration Hubs. These data 
bodies such as the Ports of Kokkola and Oulu in  agriculture, the automotive industry, healthcare and  science centers will further our cooperation with telco 
Finland and Vienna Airport, enabling potential  public safety.  operators and enterprises with an aim to develop 
improvements in efficiency, safety, environmental  innovative, AI-powered use cases, such as to improve 
issues and security. The production and use of  We offer our Intelligent Management Platform for All  road safety through better real time analysis.
renewable energy are only set to grow and energy  Connected Things (IMPACT) IoT Platform, a horizontal 
companies need to be ready to better support  platform covering connectivity management, data 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 22
2.6 
Efficiency and digitalization
Our white paper "What will it take to create an AI- Digitalization will make cities more efficient and more 
driven telecoms industry?" can be downloaded here. sustainable by offering better safety and surveillance 
services, as well as better lighting, parking, waste 
There are also ethical questions around the use  management and environmental services. 
of AI and Machine Learning in organizations which 
creates trust issues. These issues relate to the  In 2019 we announced cooperation with 32 
potential to discriminate and to misuse, as well  customers in the public sector and smart cities 
as potential negative affects of how people and  space. For example, a Nokia Bell Labs-driven industry 
machines interact. Collective debate is critical in  group is building key enablers for a fast 5G network 
finding a balance that maximizes the benefit of these  based on smart light poles, which will form the digital 
technologies for society and minimizes or mitigates  backbone of the smart cities of the future. The 
the risks. To this end we continued our participation  LuxTurrim5G ecosystem project has developed the 
in the EU Commission High-Level Expert Group on AI,  5G smart pole concept where 5G base stations, a 
where we helped create guidelines for trustworthy  variety of different sensors, video cameras, displays 
artificial intelligence.  and other devices have been integrated into light 
poles. Read more here.
We have also set up an internal AI Ethics and 
Governance Advisory Board that aims to support  We have well over a 1300 reference cases in mission 
innovation and enable the development of  critical networks which can, for example, enable first 
responsible and trustworthy AI by leveraging  responders to use applications, such as video, for 
internal expertise and by offering specialized and  better information and faster response times and 
multidisciplinary oversight and guidance. It is  provide improved critical service availability and 
intended to serve as a forum for debate, where  security features. 
solutions to ethical dilemmas are found, in line with 
the existing regulatory framework. For more cases on how digitalization, 5G and other 
technologies are improving many facets of life and 
Smart cities and public safety
our planet, visit our website. For more information on 
Urban populations are growing and continue to  secure and reliable high-capacity connectivity, visit 
deal with congestion, security, citizen safety,  our website.
environmental pollution, resource management, 
infrastructure capacity, and access and supply of 
services. Cities will need to be digitalized providing 
more connectivity and accessibility for all citizens. 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 23
2.7 
Making a difference with technology
Making   Technology can make a real 
difference by reducing the impact 
a difference 
of natural disasters, both before 
with technology
and after the event, and by 
enabling the transformation and 
modernization of community 
7
1
0
health services. F/2
E
C
NI
U
/
s
Saving Lives ger
o
R
Nokia Saving Lives (NSL) brings advanced technical  y 
or
solutions to the crisis field for humanitarian  ©C
purposes. The initiative gathers innovative 
technology such as Nokia Drone Networks and people  Child receiving Measles-Rubella vaccine at a health facility in Semarang District, Central Java.
together in a way that drives speedy collaboration 
between humanitarian workers, technology vendors  looking at the potential of space division multiplexing  by connecting the unconnected, empowering women 
and operators. More information here. (SDM) optical technology which could, for example,  and girls, and saving lives. In 2019, we continued 
be used in medical imaging. Read more here. our corporate programs at the global level including 
In a world first, we worked with Sendai City in Japan  connecting schools in Kenya and the mHealth 
to conduct a trial of a Nokia drone on a private LTE  In 2019 we continued our Smartpur collaboration in  program in Indonesia, as well as local programs 
network provided by our Digital Automation Cloud.  India with the NGO Digital Empowerment Foundation.  around the world. For example, our collaboration 
The aim was to test the potential use of drones  The project aims to create a sustainable ecosystem  with UNICEF on mHealth in Indonesia has been able 
during a tsunami or other disasters to help in  where community members can leverage digital  to reach 83 300 direct beneficiaries and 76 300 000 
prevention and mitigation efforts. Read more here. tools to bring efficiency to daily lives, transparency  indirectly since the beginning of the program in 
in governance, economic prosperity for households  2017. Read more here.
In healthcare organizations we offer intelligent  and ease of access to various government services 
infrastructure and digital technologies to support  and information. In 2019, the project scaled up to  In 2020 we will slightly adjust the focus of our corporate 
better, more targeted patient care while also reducing  100 villages across 7 states in India. Read more here. community investment programs to concentrate on 
costs. In May 2019, we began working with GE's  three areas: connecting the unconnected, empowering 
Corporate community investments
Licensing business (GE) to commercialize our latest  diversity, and defending our climate. Read more on our 
technologies and intellectual property in markets  Our corporate community investment again  social programs in Making Change Happen together 
beyond telecommunications. The initial focus is on  emphasized the role of technology in improving lives  section or online here.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 24
3.0
Combatting climate change
Combatting  
climate change
In 2019 climate change took center stage in the world. We 
must act – governments, cities, business and individuals. 
Technology will play a key role in providing solutions to many 
of the issues associated with climate change through Industry 
4.0 underpinned by 5G. 5G and other emerging technologies 
will enable positive sustainable change in economies, 
industries and connectivity itself, when processes are planned 
wisely. We also believe a circular approach is necessary to 
achieve a carbon neutral society. We aim to play our part and 
welcome others to join us. 
Coastal regions are at the forefront of the  
damaging effects of climate change.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 25
33..11
Highlights
Highlights
56 300 5G and drones were 
successfully trialed for  46% 
Climate change provides by far 
monitoring of blue-green 
the greatest challenge of our 
algae in the Baltic Sea
time and we are at the beginning 
product units were reused as 
of the decisive decade. We 
must act – governments, cities,  part of our circular practices 
businesses and individuals. 
and products program
Digitalization will provide one way 
to achieve global climate targets, 
Over 400 
but these tools and solutions 
require innovative cross-sector 
collaboration to maximize the  less energy was used on average  
of our key suppliers 
impact. We continue to play  Over 
by the networks we modernized in 2019  
our part in improving energy  representing around 59% 
compared to those not modernized 
efficiency and circularity in order 
of our total procurement 
to encourage the ICT sector in 
managing potential increases in  disclosed their climate 
its own emissions. 150 performance information 
via CDP survey
We undertook a full study  
of the plastics inventory across our 
1.5°C represents our 
operations to gain a fuller picture of where 
commitment to recalibrate 
our science-based  we can initially work to reduce and  
of our customers  
targets in line with the 
remove single-use plastics
with zero emission products and 
latest science concerning 
solutions delivered globally
global warming
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 26
3.2
Climate commitment
Climate   In 2019, we continued to  Our carbon footprint (Scope 1+2+3), metric tons CO e
2
emphasize environmental 
commitment Emission source Metric tons COe (% of total)
2
sustainability across our own  Use of sold products 35 310 000 88.9%
Purchased goods and services 3 063 000 7.7%
operations and throughout our 
88.9% Energy use in facilities and by fleet 452 200 1.1% Our Scope  
1 & 2 emissions
supply chain. 
Capital goods 417 000 1.0%
Use of sold 
Upstream transportation and distribution 303 600 0.8%
products
Employee commuting 110 900 0.3%
Business air travel 71 700 0.2%
We again concentrated on reducing power 
Percentages counted out of reported, relevant GHG emissions.
consumption where possible and improving energy 
and material efficiency across our product portfolio. 
We also increased our work with other industries and  and committed to recalibrate our existing science- Risks and opportunities 
organizations to provide more efficient technology  based targets to be in line with the latest science  The potential effects of climate change are wide 
solutions that can lower their emissions and improve  related to the 1.5°C warming scenario. Our current  ranging, from the natural disasters that could affect 
resource efficiency through greater automation and  science-based targets are set for 2030 (baseline 2014).  our supply chain, operations and customers to the 
digitalization.  impact on the world economy, rising energy prices 
Firstly, we aim to reduce by 75% our Scope 3  and greater regulation. The technology we develop 
We have a global Environmental Management System  greenhouse gas emissions caused by the use of our  can help others decrease their negative impact by 
(EMS) through which we analyze our most significant  sold products by our customers. Secondly, we also aim  providing more energy efficient products, more 
environmental aspects annually. We take into account  to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions from our own  efficient use of materials, greater automation, 
current and potential future regulatory and other related  operations by 41%. We believe technology can play a  and the digitalization of industries and society 
requirements, stakeholder interest, the size of the  significant role in helping industries, communities and  that can reduce waste and resource consumption. 
environmental impact, related risks and opportunities,  individuals reduce their carbon footprint.  We continue to minimize our footprint while 
and current and potential changes in our business. Our  also maximizing the beneficial handprint of the 
own operations are certified under the ISO 14001:2015  In 2019, the science-based targets we set in 2017  technology we produce. For examples of how we help 
EMS standard. In 2019 the coverage of employees  for the two-degree climate scenario were both on  others increase efficiency, visit our website.
within the scope of that certification was 85%. Our EMS  track. These targets will be reviewed over the coming 
covers our Networks segment. For more information on  year in line with the above commitment. This pledge  We have also aligned our climate related disclosures, 
our circular approach and our significant environmental  was also reflected in our 2019 work with the Nordic  including risks, opportunities, governance, targets 
aspects, visit our website. CEOs for a Sustainable Future Initiative and the  and scenario analysis according to the guidance 
climate commitment made in Reykjavik, Iceland with  of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
In September 2019, at the United Nations climate  the Nordic Prime Ministers in August 2019. Read  Disclosures (TCFD) in our CDP report.
summit, we joined an original group of 87 companies  more here.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 27
3.3
Climate — our products and networks 
Climate — our 
A technological revolution is needed  % of greenhouse gas emissions from different product life cycle stages
products and  for telecommunications networks  100%
95%
to support the onslaught of virtual  93%
networks  89%
reality, the massive scale of devices,  80%
as well as the need to analyze the 
60%
data from these devices. 
40%
We believe a new network will emerge, the Future  20%
X Network. In less than ten years, it will need to  10%
7%
5%
provide digital needs with imperceptible latency,  1% 2% 1% -1% -1% 0% 
deliver at terascale capacities, provide global-local  0%
alliance, have human cognitive operation, and ensure 
-20%
personalized protection.
Raw material acquisition Transportation2 Usage3 End-of-Life4
and production1
To accomplish this, researchers are working on 
projects to disrupt the field by a factor of 10x. That  Mobile Networks, typical   Fixed Networks, typical product  Optical Core Networks, typical 
product (design lifetime 10 years) (design lifetime 7 years) product (design lifetime 15 years)
means 10x more capacity, 10x lower latency, 10x 
better energy consumption, 10x better reliability or  1 Raw material acquisition, production, and associated transportation 
10x performance in some dimension. This individual  2 Transportation of the finished product to its point of installation 
research is bundled into what we call Future X  3 Product use at customer site, starts from installation, ends at de-installation just before the transport to end-of-life treatment
4  Starts with the transportation of de-installed goods and ends with the waste treatment, the final disposition of the product 
projects that seek to create innovations across 
after its useful life 
all the major dimensions of the network; from 
wireline and wireless access into optical transport, 
Based on product life-cycle assessments of typical configurations. Calculated with constant electricity usage @ 1kW.
IP routing, the control systems, data center 
architectures, and a common network operating 
system. Creating such a Future X Network from an 
environmentally sustainable point of view means,  assessment, the use phase accounts for the greater 
at the very least, minimizing the environmental  part of our carbon footprint caused by our typical 
impact of our products in use. According to life cycle  products. See the graph on this page. 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 28
3.3
Climate — our products and networks 
Future X Network contributions in energy efficiency  Nokia is improving the energy efficiency beyond the  Scope 3 CO2e-emissions from customer use  
of sold products reduced by 8% from 2018
will help reduce the greater part of our carbon  features standardized in 3GPP. As an example we 
footprint, but we also try to maximize the use of  are developing energy efficiency software features 
our products and services to bring positive impacts  to minimize the energy consumption of the Massive 
through automation, connectivity, efficiency,  MIMO products in all traffic conditions.
50
resource management, and digitalization. Read more  42.9
2e 40.2 38.4
on the Nokia Bell Labs Future X Network. The convergence of Wi-Fi, 5G and LiFi (Light Fidelity),  CO 40 35.3
foreseen as a promising technology for the coming  s 
n
Nokia science-based targets   years, opens new challenges. Our target in Nokia Bell  c to 30
for Scope 3 emissions reduction Labs Research was to propose an energy efficient  etri
m
Our Science Based Target (SBT) for Scope 3  backhauling system for this emergent market based  ga  20
e
emissions covers emissions from customer use of  on mature and low-cost components. This new system  M
our products. Our target is currently to reduce these  is currently studied in close collaboration with the 
10
emissions by 75% by 2030 compared to the 2014  Mobile Networks Business Group where perspectives  2016 2017 2018 2019
baseline. The SBT scope is smaller than our total  for Industry 4.0 are also envisaged. One first goal 
Scope 3 emissions from the use of sold products,  is to demonstrate the support of high bandwidth  Product use time varies between 6 and 15 years, depending on
the products. Energy use calculations are based on product group
and products within the scope of the SBT represent  applications, and the convergence of 5G, Wi-Fi and 
specific ETSI standards where ever standards have been published.
the two most energy consuming segments of our  LiFi in an integrated demonstrator between Nokia Bell 
In 2016 – 2019 data has 100% business group coverage of Nokia’s 
networks business product portfolio. We concentrate  Labs and our Mobile Networks Business Group.  Networks business and estimated at least 90% coverage of
on the long-term trend line, as product development  product portfolio.
takes time and is a step-by-step process. We  More information on zero emissions is available here.
continue on track with our emissions reduction. 
5G Network Energy Efficiency
Our science-based targets were originally set in 2017  Through 2019, we have dramatically expanded our 
based on the 2°C climate scenario in alignment with  radio portfolio called AirScale (4x more references), 
the Paris agreement. These targets will be reviewed  by introducing a wide range of single-band and multi-
over the coming year to be in line with our recent  band Remote Radio Heads, as well as an AirScale 
commitment to a 1.5°C scenario. Read more here. 6-pipe Radio Frequency Module, exhibiting a peak 
energy efficiency at unit level as high as 34% across 
Towards zero emissions
various frequency bands. AirScale portfolio deliveries 
5G is a natively greener technology than 4G and can  have represented more than 40% of all our Macro base 
potentially provide 100 times more traffic with less  station deliveries over the year. Shipped baseband 
energy per bit thanks to new standardized features  capacity has increased by over 50% while keeping the 
such as Lean Carrier and Massive MIMO. In addition,  energy footprint almost unchanged (+2%).
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 29
3.3
Climate — our products and networks 
We have further enhanced the energy efficiency  10% average load, and up to 30–40% gains at 20% 
of our AirScale radio products by delivering more  average load. Read more in our white paper "5G  Sensing as a Service - As part of 
powerful energy saving software features, such that  Network Energy Efficiency".
their latest collaboration within the 
higher savings can be achieved even in medium-to-
Nokia Center for Advanced Research, 
busy traffic conditions. Over 150 customers have  In 2019, we continued to develop and offer our zero 
installed energy efficiency software features to our  emissions radio network solutions, including energy-  Nokia Bell Labs and the University of 
products. Over 16% of our radio products in the  saving software features and services. We delivered  Helsinki are working on technologies 
field have one or more energy efficiency software  zero emission products to over 150 customers 
to enable highly precise, intelligent, 
features activated. worldwide, and the networks we modernized in 
real-time air quality and environmental 
2019 used on average 46% less energy than those 
Our Single RAN (SRAN) solution typically enables  that were not modernized, and the total energy  sensing over a 5G network. The 
45% lower energy consumption compared to the  savings of these modernizations were 4 times  project, called MegaSense, aims to 
traditional way of building separate 2G, 3G and 4G  bigger (in MWh) than in 2018. When we launched 
create the networking and sensing 
radio networks. The idea behind SRAN is that with  our AirScale base station in 2016 we promised 60% 
technologies needed to provide 
a single software and shared common hardware  energy savings, and now we have delivered 69% 
comprehensive environmental 
we can build a network that can support any radio  energy savings through AirScale configurations. This 
technology concurrently. Furthermore, due to sharing  not only reduces energy consumption and carbon  information to users’ devices, cars, 
of resources between different technologies, we  footprint, but also brings financial savings for our  homes and offices. The project 
can build much more efficient networks compared  customers. The typical payback time for base station 
builds on top academic excellence 
to individual networks which have idle resources  modernization is two to three years. Read more 
in atmospheric sciences, computer 
that consume energy without producing anything.  about 5G radio here.
Our SRAN solution is now used in over 21% of all  science, and geo-informatics. 
Nokia base station sites globally. We are currently  We are making energy efficiency gains across our 
developing 5G support for our SRAN solution, which  portfolio. In the fixed access networks segment,  Read more about Sensing as a Service and about 
will help our 5G customers gain the same benefits. we have enhanced our fiber access node portfolio  MegaSense project
to include form factors better suited to smaller 
The energy efficiency of mobile networks can be  deployments, which decreases the power 
significantly improved by using 5G power-saving  consumption per user in low density areas. Our  
features, by small cell deployments and by new  Multi-PON solution is built on our new chipset 
5G architecture and protocols. 5G has a significant  Quillion which enables much lower power 
potential for reducing energy compared to LTE by  consumption (up to 50%). In copper infrastructure 
using sleep modes at low load – up to 50–60% gains  it helps reduce rack space by 50% and power 
at the base station level when networks operate at  consumption by 10%.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 30
3.3
Climate — our products and networks 
Where we still sell our software together with 
hardware, we are working with leading suppliers that 
have dedicated energy efficiency programs. For both 
deployments including the underlying hardware 
and software-only business we are continuously 
working on reducing the footprint of our products, 
to keep emissions and associated cost low for our 
customers. Once in operation at our customers, 
Nokia Software’s products actively help reduce 
resource usage and in particular energy usage. We 
even build software that directly aims to minimize 
energy usage, like the Self-Optimizing Networks 
(SON) Energy Optimization package.
In optical networks, the new generation of our 
Photonic Service Engine (PSE) family of super-
coherent digital signal processors, underscores our 
leading position in the industry and our innovation 
pedigree. The Nokia PSE-3 is instrumental in 
improving the energy efficiency of our Photonic 
Service Switch (PSS) platform. Read more online.
Since 2009 we annually report product energy 
consumption according to the EU Code of Conduct 
on Energy Consumption of Broadband Equipment 
for the products that we place on the European 
Economic Area (EEA) market.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 31
3.4
Sustainable product design and materials
Sustainable  The aim of our Design for 
equipment. Customers can contact our Asset Recovery  Our products, including original equipment 
Environment approach is to help  services at asset.recovery@nokia.com manufacturers’ (OEMs) product parts, modules and 
product design 
components must meet the requirements stated 
ensure we create technologies that 
Our Design for Enviroment (DfE) program also helps  in the Nokia Substance List. Suppliers’ product 
and materials
take into account environmentally  product and software teams by setting targets and  documentation must also provide us with a list 
evaluating energy-saving features with each new  of any EU REACH candidate substance of very 
sustainable aspects. Life cycle 
product introduction. Read more on our website. high concern present in a product. Furthermore, 
products, parts, modules, and components must 
thinking is a key component of this 
In 2019 we initiated work with key suppliers of  not contain any substance listed as "To be Avoided" 
approach. It helps us reduce our  aluminum parts to assess their use of recycled  in our Substance List to the extent technically and 
materials content in feedstock materials with the  economically possible. 
environmental impact and improve 
goal to increase the amount of recycled content in 
material and energy efficiency  such materials. We also began work on eliminating  We globally restrict the use of ozone depleting 
our products’ reliance on certain brominated and  substances in products and packaging, as well as 
across our own operations, product 
chlorinated compounds as well as the work on  in supplier processes per the requirements of EU 
use-time and take-back, and  assessing the use of plastics in our product portfolio.  Regulation (EC)1005/2009 on Ozone Depleting 
For more information and more on our plastics  Substances, which implements the Montreal Protocol 
through to our suppliers. 
project see page 38 of this report. into EU legislation.
Nokia’s DfE for software guidance and best practices  We again updated our Substance List in 2019, with 
We employ the ISO 14040 /14044 standards as the  help designers to significantly reduce the amount  the elimination of four phthalates in accordance 
bases for the life cycle assessments (LCAs) performed  of energy used by network equipment by asking  with the European Union directive 2011/65/EU 
on our products.  designers to consider how their software code  (RoHS Recast). The regulation of these phthalates 
affects equipment energy usage.  (BBP, DBP, DEHP and DIBP) is in addition to the 
When we measure our carbon footprint from our  existing restrictions on lead, cadmium, mercury, 
Materials and Restricted Substances
operations through to the complete life cycle of  chromium (VI), polybrominated biphenyls (PBBs) and 
our products – that is, their design, manufacture,  Global legislation or regulations ban or restrict  polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs). 
distribution, use, and treatment at end of life – we  several substances considered hazardous to humans 
find that our products’ energy consumption during  and/or the environment. These substances must  We are committed to comply with all applicable 
use is a priority, as about 89% of our total carbon  not be present in our products, components, and  substance requirements from environmental laws and 
footprint comes from this part of our business. materials that are selected during the product  regulations such as the EU RoHS Directive (2011/65/
design phase. Beyond this, future customer and  EU), WEEE Directive (2012/19/EU) and REACH 
We also offer takeback, repair, refurbish and recycle  legal requirements may also influence product  Regulation ((EC) 1907/2006). For more information on 
services to maximize the value of the obsolete  development choices made today.  REACH, please see Nokia’s REACH Declaration.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 32
3.4
Sustainable product design and materials
Material Efficiency
Product Materials Breakdown
Material efficiency includes designing products 
that use less materials and energy while having 
100%
increased throughput capacity and functionality. 
In 2019, Nokia Fixed Networks unveiled its Quillion 
chipset family — designed to power massive-scale  80%
next-generation access networks. It is optimized to 
support time-critical and low-latency 5G transport, 
allowing operators to connect more people with  60%
higher speeds. Quillion chipset technology will help 
reduce rack space by 50% and power consumption 
by 10%, thereby enabling operators to support more  40% ate
n
o
customers without increasing the cabinet size. This  arb
is critical for providers confined by the capacity and  olyc BT
20% m m P P
sinpvaecset mofe an tg iinve and cdaitbioinneatl  orarc nko sdpea,c aen, dc aebliimneintsa toers   Aluminu Steels Aluminu Epoxies
nodes needed to serve more customers or deliver 
0%
enhanced ultra-broadband services. Learn more. Metals: Aluminum, Steel,  Plastics: Polycarbonate,  Minerals: Glasses,  Other organics: Epoxies, 
Brass, Copper, Tin Polyethylene, Polypropylene,  Ceramics, Metal Oxides Hardeners, Stabilizers, 
Nylon Pigments
Product Materials Breakdown
Our products are comprised predominantly of metals  Mobile Networks Product -AirScale  Fixed Networks Product - ISAM  IP/Optical Networks Product - 1830 
Compact Active Antenna (ANEG-A)  FX-16 (100G)  Photonic Service Switch (PSS-24X)
which constitute more than 75% of the total weight 
in most products. Aluminum is the most significant 
Based on product life cycle assessments of typical configurations. Largest shares of single materials by product stated inside 
metal, which is used in sheet metal for cabinets  the bars.
and chassis, and in castings for heat sinks. Alloyed 
steels are also used for structural parts. Copper 
and tin are the chief metal constituents in printed 
wiring boards and cable conductors. Tiny amounts  type products such as the Nokia WiFi Access Point.  based printed wiring boards. Minute amounts of 
of precious metals such as gold and silver are used  Epoxy resins are used for the insulating build-up  other organic materials are employed as hardeners, 
in special components such as integrated circuits  layers of printed wiring boards. Crystal polymers are  stabilizers and pigments in components. The total 
and as electrical contact finishes on printed wiring  used for connector housings. Inorganic materials are  weight percentage of these material types for three 
boards and connectors. Polymer plastics such as  chiefly comprised of minerals such as silicate glasses  Nokia product examples are shown graphically on 
polycarbonate are used for housings in residential- that are woven into reinforcing for epoxy resin- this page. 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 33
3.5
Circular practices and products
Circular  We have well established circular 
practices that utilize the full value 
practices and 
of our products. As the original 
products
equipment manufacturer, we 
maintain closed loop processes 
that keep products at their highest 
value and quality for multiple uses 
and the longest time possible. 
We take back or acquire excess and obsolete products 
from customers and markets, and then repair, 
refurbish or remanufacture the units for inclusion 
in the product supply chain for customer purchase 
or our own internal use. Products that cannot be 
reused are recycled to generate raw material for 
another application or industry. In 2019, we reused 
56 300 units (56 000 in 2018) and sent approximately 
4 000 metric tons of old telecommunications 
equipment for materials recovery (4100 in 2018).
In October 2019 we were invited to present Circular 
Supply best practices at the inaugural Global Telecom 
Industry Circular Economy Forum in Nanjing, China, 
which was organized by our customer Orange with 
the China Association of Circular Economy. The focus 
of the forum was to look at the opportunities and 
new regulations related to circular economy, and to 
develop a common understanding of the principles 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 34
3.5
Circular practices and products
and practices that underpin the responsible use of the 
planet’s resources. We were also recognized in Finland 
for our circular practices and presented at the Taiwan 
Mobile circular seminar. Circular Consultation
Customer  
Scope of Work definition and 
Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) network
solution creation to maximize 
circularity potential
Compliance with relevant environmental regulations 
is an important part of our environmental policy. 
Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) regulatory 
Material collection, 
Utilizing and reselling circular 
programs strive to decrease the environmental  warehousing, disassembly 
equipment and parts
and segregation
impact of covered products by making the 
manufacturer responsible for the entire life cycle of  Reuse Collection
the product, especially end-of-life (EOL) management 
through product takeback. 
We continued our work on increasing product value 
Recycling
at end of life with the iNEMI organization. Read 
latest here.
E-Waste
Maximizing 
material recycling 
Product take-back Repair/ refurbishment/  and minimizing 
remanufacturing landfilling
Preparing pre-owned equipment  
and parts into fully functioning or  
like-new equipment
Recycled, 91.6%
99.3%
Energy recovery, 7.7%
utilized
Landfill, 0.7%
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 35
3.6
Our own operations – energy efficiency, emissions, and circularity
Our own  As defined in our original Science  Virtual meetings increased, business travel emissions decreased
Based Targets (SBT), we have 
operations 
Air travel CO₂e emissions  Webex and video hours 
committed to decrease our  (metric tons) (million hours)
– energy 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions, that 
100 000 25
-16%
efficiency,  is emissions from our own 
-12%
operations, by 41% by 2030, 
emissions,   80 000 20
compared to the 2014 baseline.
and circularity +7%
60 000 +14% 15
In 2019 our electricity consumption across our 
facilities decreased by 4% as compared to 2018  40 000 10
and 31% of our total purchased electricity was from 
renewable sources. These actions reduce our Scope 
2 emissions and help us in reaching the long-term 
20 000 5
climate target. Currently we are well on track.
Our Real Estate team maintained its focus on 
0 0
developing and delivering efficient facilities in line 
2017 2018 2019
with our overall company goals and SBT targets. 
In the area of energy efficiency, all the real estate 
Air travel CO₂e emissions Webex and video hours
regions made considerable contributions to the 
overall energy saving of 82 000 MWh representing 
a 7% reduction on our 2018 consumption. Larger 
capital investments in several major sites such as 
Espoo, Finland and Dallas, USA, incorporated energy  The inclusion of energy efficient equipment  Real Estate's improved data collection and 
efficient equipment and controls. The Coolab  in maintenance replacement schedules and  reporting process have seen an increase in the 
project in China achieved overall savings of 12  refurbishment projects continued to be deployed  number of sites reporting their utility and waste 
600 MWh and 9 900 tons of CO2. Building audits  across our portfolio with projects implemented  data. We supported Earth Hour and through our 
as required by the EU Energy Efficiency Directive  in all areas including Heating, Ventilation and Air  Switch Off Campaign reinforced the message 
identified a number of improvement opportunities  Conditioning (HVAC) controls, all aimed at reducing  of energy conservation to all staff within our 
which are being evaluated.  our energy use. facilities. We continue to encourage consideration 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 36
3.6
Our own operations - energy efficiency and carbon emissions
of sustainability in the selection, development,  Product transportation and distribution Share of transportation modes
management and disposal of our facilities. We aim to save space, reduce packaging materials 
and maximize transport efficiency thus reducing 
50%
Employee transportation — our car fleet
inbound and outbound shipments. Reuse of  42% 41% 42%44% 43%
In 2019 our global fleet greenhouse gas emissions  packaging materials also contributes to reductions  40% 39%
decreased by 8% compared to 2018.  in CO2 emissions from deliveries. In 2019, we 
30%
reduced the use of new packaging materials by 3 200 
As a follow-up to the commuting survey in 2018 we  metric tons (4 200 in 2018) through the reuse of 
20% 16% 15% 18%
have identified our main locations where mobility  transportation packaging.
programs would support employee commuting  10%
to the office. Read some interesting examples  We look at the most efficient transportation options 
0%
of local actions taken in 2019 to promote public  and in 2019, our Scope 3 GHG emissions related 
Air Sea Road
transportation and bicycle usage on our website. to upstream transportation and distribution of our 
2017 2018 2019
products stood at around 303 600 metric tons CO2e, 
Our Travel and Fleet Procurement strategy and vision  a decrease of 21% over the previous year. We also 
on fleet and mobility was recognized externally at  carried out an analysis of the routes/customers that 
the Fleet Europe Awards 2019. We received the Fleet  have the greatest impact and are working on specific 
Manager of the Year and Fleet and Mobility Manager  reduction targets with our business lines.
of the Year Awards at the Fleet Summit in Estoril.
Our supply chain – energy efficiency  
In 2019 we improved our use of railway 
Reducing our travel footprint and carbon emissions
transportation, reduced material airfreight to 
Business travel includes flights, rail, rental cars,  factories through localization initiatives, and  For information on our environmental work with our 
taxis, and public transport. Our reporting is based  prevented defective material reaching Nokia by  supply chain please refer to the Responsible Sourcing 
on the biggest contributor to business travel  detecting the defects at the source via remote  section on pages 54–59 of this report. 
emissions, air travel, for which we calculate the CO2e  inspections. For 2020, our focus will be to further 
emissions based on the number of miles flown.  positively impact the environmental efficiency 
In 2019, our CO2e emissions related to business  of our transportation by identifying the biggest 
travel were approximately 72 000 metric tons,  contributors and highlighting the issue. 
meaning an estimated 12% decrease compared to 
2018. The use of virtual meeting hours increased  We also have a marine fleet related to our separately 
by an estimated 7% compared to 2018. We also  managed undersea cables business, Alcatel Submarine 
continued to encourage the use of other eco- Networks (ASN). The greenhouse gas emissions 
friendly commuting options. increased in 2019 by 2% compared to 2018. 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 37
3.7
Waste in our own operations
Waste in our  We have implemented waste  Plastics  Most of the plastic in 
reduction, reuse, and recycling  Half of all plastic produced and used in the world 
own operations our products is already 
is designed to be used only once and then thrown 
programs across our operations. 
away. The issue of plastics escalated globally  recoverable, 92% of the 
All electronic waste processing  around the world in 2019. 
materials are recycled at product 
facilities used by our facilities 
We initiated a complete plastic inventory study to  end of life and 56 300 product 
understand the amount of plastics we use a year 
and operations, including Asset 
units were reused in 2019.”
and how we use them in our own office operations, 
Recovery, must undergo a Health,  for inbound and outbound packaging, and in the 
products and services we create. 
Safety & Environmental (HSE) 
Liability Assessment.  The results from the study showed that we use  recycling service. Also, our packaging is already 
10 700 tons of plastics every year. 91% of our  85% renewable and only 15% of it is plastics. But 
plastic is in products but they are not single- we can always do more.
use plastics as they are in use over many years. 
Our electronic waste can only be shipped to  Although most of the parts in our products are 
processing facilities that are on an HSE approval list.  metal, we also need plastics for our products to 
The requirements for the HSE liability assessment  function such as in electronic components and 
vary based on risk, which is dependent on waste  cables. In addition, we currently have plastics in 
quantity, shipment frequency, waste type/toxicity,  our inbound and outbound packaging, and the 
waste treatment technology, environmental  operational waste from offices and canteens is also 
management systems, location, legal requirements  calculated as a part of our plastic use. We had 1.6 
and prior assessments.  kg of plastic waste per employee in the most recent 
year. Part of this waste is plastic bottles used in the 
Our goal is to maintain the minimum number of  office and the packaging of canteen food.
approved waste processing facilities needed to 
meet required services and minimize environmental  We cannot escape the fact that we need plastic in 
liability. In 2019, we completed eight HSE liability  our products. Most of the plastic in our products 
assessments of e-waste recycling facilities located in  is already recoverable, 92% of the materials are 
Canada, USA, United Kingdom, Finland and Hungary. recycled at product end of life and 56 300 product 
units were reused in 2019. Some of our products 
In 2019, year on year, the total facilities waste  are used for as long as 30 years. We have several 
decreased by 41%. good practices in place such as product takeback 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 38
3.7
Waste in our own operations
Amounts of plastic used in Nokia
Products
64%
Services  
(product related material)
27%
Factory  
incoming packaging
Operational waste,  
6%
office & canteen
Outbound  
2%
packaging 
1%
CCAANNTTEEEENN
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 39
3.8
Water
Water Life cycle assessment (LCA) shows 
that the predominant amount 
of water withdrawal results from 
the generation of electricity 
used to power our products in 
our customers’ networks. As our 
products consume electricity during 
their relatively long design lifetime 
(10 to 15 years for many of them), 
our biggest influence on water 
withdrawal is to reduce power 
consumption over the product’s 
use time.
Water in our own operations
Where possible we measure the total water use in a 
building which may include water used for cleaning, 
catering, toilets and business group operations. 
However, these activities are not submetered 
separately. Our greatest water withdrawal in our 
own operations occurs in sanitary use: flushing  similar commitments. More information on supplier  compared to 2018 as water conservation measures 
toilets and in the cleaning of facilities. Where it is  engagement and water issues can be found on  were enhanced compared to the previous year. 
within our control, we focus on those top 20 sites  pages 57–59. In addition, in 2019 more accurate water data 
that are located in countries identified as being  was obtained and less data was estimated. The 
in the Extreme and High-Risk categories and we  In 2019, we used 1 737 000 m3 (1 791 000 m3  estimations we use are typically more conservative 
will work to influence building owners to make  in 2018) of water. Water use decreased by 3%  than measured data.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 40
4.0
Conducting our business with integrity
Conducting 
our business 
with integrity
Our business is built on a foundation of trust.  
Our Code of Conduct (CoC) is our commitment to 
building and maintaining trust across our business 
and wherever we operate. It provides clear and simple 
direction for all our employees and business partners 
and defines the principles of ethical and compliant 
business practices, including how we work with 
suppliers to ensure responsible sourcing and respect 
for human rights.
Trustworthiness, transparency, risk mitigation and open dialog 
are keys to conducting our business with integrity.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 41
44..11
Highlights
332
Highlights
228 
We are defined by our actions, 
not just words. We aim to act 
in a trustworthy, ethical and 
transparent way with our own 
local Ombuds leaders based in 
employees, our suppliers, our 
88 countries by end of 2019
partners, our customers and 
other external parties. Our good 
reputation is an integral part of 
why our customers buy from us 
and why others work with and 
for us. Our Code of Conduct,  96.7% 
processes and procedures ensure  supply chain audits were implemented,  
we retain that reputation.
of which 45 were onsite audits on corporate responsibility topics
of our employees globally completed the 
mandatory online Ethical Business Training We greatly strengthened   1st
compliance oversight, governance,  
and engagement by establishing close 
partnerships between the regulatory 
994
excellence experts and business group 
compliance leads, not only providing legal 
interpretation and guidance but also ensuring 
independent external Human Rights 
that risk mitigation, training, and awareness  
assessment was successfully completed  
are embedded in the business
reported concerns were received and processed  for the Global Network Initiative (GNI)
through our Ethics and Compliance team
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 42
4.2
Ethical business and corporate governance
Ethical business  Our long-standing reputation for  Leadership engagement, accountability 
our employees as part of our annual mandatory 
and compliance oversight
acting with unyielding integrity  compliance training. The Code is accessible from 
and corporate 
various resources, including a company mobile app,  Our commitment to integrity applies to every 
is our most precious asset. Our 
and online versions in 23 languages. Please see our  part of our business, at every level. Our Chief 
governance
commitment to upholding the  Code of Conduct. Compliance Officer (CCO) presents separately and 
independently to the full Board of Directors once 
highest principles of business 
We are committed to upholding the laws and  per year, to the Audit Committee of the Board four 
regulations in all countries where we operate.  times per year, or as needed, and to the Compliance 
ethics and integrity defines us as a 
The CoC includes basic legal guidance and  Meeting attendees, which includes Group Leadership 
company and distinguishes us from  information on key ethical behavior and standards.  members, twice per year. The CCO also regularly 
It includes summaries of the 14 key business  meets with the Audit Committee in executive 
many of our competitors. 
policy statements that provide guidance on proper  sessions without members of senior management 
ethical conduct. The 14 policy statements include:  present. Our CCO reports solid line to the Chief Legal 
Improper Payments/Anti-Corruption, Conflict of  Officer (CLO), with dotted line reporting to the Board 
Every employee is held accountable and responsible  Interest, Fair Competition, Privacy, Dealing with  of Directors. 
for upholding our ethical values and for conducting  Government Officials, Intellectual Property & 
business with unwavering standards of integrity. Confidential Information, Working with Suppliers,  We have dedicated compliance leaders for each of 
Trade Compliance, Insider Trading, Health, Safety &  the company’s seven regions, including the Nokia 
Code of Conduct
Labor Conditions, Controllership, Fair Employment  Shanghai Bell (NSB) compliance team. Another 
Our Code of Conduct (CoC) is applicable to all  Practices, Human Rights, Environment, and  compliance team is focused on supporting our 
our employees, directors, and management. We  operational guidance on third-party screening  business groups. This ensures that compliance risks 
also require our third-party business partners to  and corporate hospitality. The complete policies  are identified and managed both horizontally and 
follow strict requirements based on our Code of  and respective Q&As are made available to our  vertically. Our Legal Team is responsible for driving 
Conduct. Our Code promotes personal integrity and  employees in the intranet. compliance in their daily operations and those of 
sets forth the key principles and practices of our  their assigned client groups. 
ethical business approach, protecting our valuable  Each compliance policy area is the responsibility of 
reputation and providing clear guidance to our  one or more subject matter experts. These experts 
employees and other stakeholders. Additionally, a  ensure that our policies and procedures remain up 
Code of Ethics is applicable to the President and CEO,  to date and in conformity with applicable laws and 
Chief Financial Officer, Deputy Chief Financial Officer,  regulations. They consider new and emerging issues 
and Corporate Controller.  within their fields, and they develop and deliver 
training and communications on matters within their 
We require employees to acknowledge the  respective fields. 
Nokia Code of Conduct, which is cascaded to 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 43
4.3
Compliance reimagined 2019
Compliance  In 2019 in addition to introducing new programs  Ombuds Update
and processes, we continued to execute the key 
reimagined 2019 initiatives supporting our compliance reimagined  Status as of 31 Dec 2019
program, including: 
•  the Go Local initiative, which targeted compliance 
at the grassroots level
•  a comprehensive 360-degree Compliance Risk 
Assessment, including soliciting employee 
feedback through an Employee Compliance Survey
•  culture and awareness programs focused on high 
risk markets via our compliance Spotlight program
•  renewal plans based on designing and 
implementing customized compliance governance 
in challenging markets
•  data analytics and monitoring activities, including 
Digitalization: enhanced digital and user-friendly 
solutions to gather, identify, and analyze risk-
related data
•  Compliance Operating Reviews (CORs) conducted 
Ombuds Roll-Out
in collaboration with business teams or country 
Completed
heads as the lead facilitators along with active  Read about 
participation from senior leaders in finance, HR,  Planned the Ombuds 
and other gatekeeping functions  program here.
•  newly formatted and engaging online training and 
targeted microlearning opportunities
Open reporting – Global Ombuds Program Ombuds Landscape 2019 Statistics 2020 Priorities 
228 Local Ombuds Leaders Based in • Overall, ~600 questions, concerns and  • Global rollout continuation
The Ombuds Program continues to strengthen 
• 88 countries requests for guidance raised  
our company speak-up culture and reinforce our  • 2020 refresh  
non-retaliation policy. The vast network of local  • 145 cities • 65 issues reported to Ethics Helpline  (Ombuds reaching 2-year tenure)
ombuds leaders actively promotes the program 
• 200 sites • 30% substantation rate  • Revamp awareness campaign
and serves as confidential and neutral resources for 
• ~86% employee coverage • Training: 
employees who have compliance questions, concerns 
  2020 Code of Conduct 
and requests for guidance. The Ombuds network 
  Investigations Learning Academy
is a critical element in preventing, detecting and 
• 2020 Virtual Integrity Day
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 44
4.3
Compliance reimagined 2019
addressing wrongdoing by expanding the existing  1.  Quarterly review of compliance risks within the  In 2019, Ethics and Compliance carried out 23 CCF 
channels currently available for raising concerns. In  Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program reviews, including 21 country CCF reviews, one region 
2019 we: 2.  Annual company-wide Compliance Risk  review (Central America & the Caribbean), and one 
•  continued to deploy our creative and impactful  Assessment to identify potential compliance  Joint Venture review.
global awareness campaign  issues that employees may face and to provide 
Gauging effectiveness
•  implemented two new on-line trackers to  appropriate support to help them deal with 
gather real-time updates from Ombuds Leaders  compliance risk In addition to these assessments, as part of 
regarding local awareness activity and employee  3.  Country or entity-specific Compliance Controls  our Compliance Risk Assessment Program, we 
engagement. The trackers are linked to the  Framework (CCF Reviews) – essentially an  continuously engage with employees through 
Ombuds Power BI dashboard, which includes other  internally-developed, business-owned process of  anonymous surveys to gauge the effectiveness 
data points (e.g. case statistics) to allow for deeper  identifying anti-corruption risks and developing  and understanding of our compliance program. In 
analysis of the Ombuds Program responsive mitigation controls. The CCF review is  2019, our online anonymous Employee Compliance 
•  focused on Ombuds training as a key theme this  used to enhance engagement by, for example: Survey included 19 questions addressing: Tone 
year. An online module was implemented to deliver  •  convening round table discussion with senior   from the Top, Compliance Program effectiveness, 
24x7 training to newly appointed ombuds and  management on exceptional compliance risks  Improper Payments, Conflict of Interest, Data 
to serve as refresher training (the online module  faced and how to remediate them Protection, Confidential Information, Privacy and 
supplements mandatory WebEx training)  •  conducting targeted face-to-face training Trade Compliance:
•  created and deployed an Ombuds Handbook •  encouraging open discussion of compliance risks  •  20% of our employees responded
faced and instigating buy-in •  Results were overall very positive with responses 
Compliance risk assessment and mitigation 
•  demonstrating compliance presence and oversight  falling in the range of 76% to 96% favorable
Evaluating, managing, and eliminating ethics and  across the globe to ensure all employees 
compliance risks is critical to our success. We have  worldwide understand our compliance culture and  Findings from the Survey were integrated into the 
a systematic and structured approach to risk  expectations 2019 Compliance Risk Assessment alongside other 
management across our business operations and  inputs (CCF reviews, Compliance Operations Reviews 
processes. Key risks and opportunities are identified,  Identified risks are then addressed through a  and Internal Audit Reviews results, Compliance 
analyzed, managed, and monitored as part of overall  detailed mitigation plan with assigned ownership  investigations, CCT Survey results, etc.) 
business performance management with the support  and accountability. Each item is tracked for timely   
of risk management personnel. Risk management  completion. Each methodology complements the  Employee and other stakeholder inputs are 
covers strategic, operational, financial, and safety risks. other and using all three vehicles, spread out at  actively and routinely sought to further develop 
different times during the year, ensures that we have  the company’s program. We use multiple feedback 
Our risk assessment program is a dynamic process  a 360-degree view of our processes and are receiving  channels, discussions, and training to drive and 
and the program is implemented through three  feedback from multiple touch points. enhance the culture of continuous improvement in 
independent and unique mechanisms: our compliance program.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 45
4.3
Compliance reimagined 2019
On an annual basis, our Internal Audit team  hospitality, and third parties. For example, targeted  trainings and discussion sessions held by regional 
collaborates with the compliance team in audits  training sessions on competition law were provided  and market compliance representatives; and various 
and through other inquiries that assess the  to business stakeholders, and a new short form  communications on trending compliance topics, 
effectiveness of our compliance processes and  competition course was developed for deployment in  including blogs and posts on trust and integrity.
controls. The Internal Audit team is also called in  2020. The competition law training covers key areas, 
by the E&C organization to assist with financial  including dealing with competitors and collaboration  We hosted a global Integrity Day event. The day 
investigations. The Internal Audit team takes steps  in tenders, procurement, and implementing our  was met with great enthusiasm and increased 
to collaboratively mitigate all risks identified during  global dawn raid guidelines.  participation. Global engagement of senior leaders, 
these reviews and investigations. legal and compliance members, and Ombuds 
In 2019, we delivered 231 face-to-face sessions,  representatives resulted in an estimated 10 000 
Similarly, Internal Audit attends the quarterly  training over 8 900 individuals across the globe,  employees in attendance at over 130 sites. The 
E&C regional reviews where issues that have  covering business groups, relevant stakeholders,  Integrity Day event included the announcement of 22 
been identified through audits are presented and  regional groups, including country engagement  Compliance Hero award recipients and ten Ombuds 
discussed and involves the E&C organization when  sessions, and service companies. award recipients in recognition of their exemplary 
ethics-related issues are identified in audits.  ethical behavior and outstanding contributions to our 
Annual training plans are created and are based on  compliance culture.
Compliance training program
defined compliance topics of importance, new and/
The Ethical Business Training (EBT) module is one  or updated policies, identified potential risks, and any 
of four mandatory web-based training courses  other key changes to law or regulations that need to 
deployed in 2019. In addition to including a review  be addressed.
and acknowledgment of our Code of Conduct and 
Compliance communications program 
the related 14 policy areas, the EBT also provides 
a review of key information related to our ethical  Compliance communications help employees 
values and ethics in the workplace. Included in the  understand the laws, regulations and policies that 
training are practical examples and information on  apply to their everyday work. In addition to formal 
policies and laws that guide employees through the  training, we annually refresh and deploy both a global 
process of considering potential risks and making  and region-specific communication and awareness 
ethical decisions. In 2019, 96.7% of our employees  program to strengthen understanding and to ensure 
completed the EBT module. adherence to our Code, policies, and core values. 
In addition to the mandatory annual EBT, we also  In 2019 our Ethics & Compliance communications 
conducted live training sessions and deployed several  included ten compliance job aids and related 
targeted web-based trainings on topics such as anti- talking points to assist managers in discussing 
bribery, competition law, conflict of interest, privacy,  compliance topics with their teams; face-to-face 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 46
4.4
Reporting of ethical concerns without fear of retaliation
Reporting of 
It is our priority to ensure all  Ethical business –  case examples of reported concerns
ethical concerns  employees are empowered to 
Issue raised Our guidance Actions taken
raise concerns and speak up about 
without fear of  Sales employee expensed thousands of US  Nokia Code section on Controllership  The allegations were substantiated, the 
potential violations of our Code  dollars in personal and family entertainment  emphasizes that an employee must not  employee was terminated for cause and the 
to Nokia and falsified expense reports, while  misrepresent financial records, including  manager was reprimanded. 
retaliation
of Conduct. Retaliation of any  the manager was lax in reviewing the expense  falsifying expense reports. 
claims.
kind is not permitted, and we take 
seriously all allegations regarding 
Employees solicited and received cash,  Nokia Code section on Working with  The allegations were substantiated and all 
meals and other items of value from vendors  Suppliers mandates ethical and transparent  culpable employees were terminated for 
any form of reprisal and investigate 
in exchange for steering business to the  relationships with its suppliers. We do  cause.
vendors. not solicit or accept things of value when 
such concerns thoroughly. 
managing supplier relationships. 
Employees engaged in a pattern of  Nokia Code section on Fair Employment  The allegations were substantiated. Based 
We offer multiple channels to report ethical concerns, 
harassment, intimidation and unprofessional  stresses that respect is fundamental  on their respective roles in the misconduct, 
including a dedicated email address, an online portal,  conduct toward other employees.  to Nokia’s culture, and discrimination,  one employee was terminated and two were 
a mobile app, and country-specific phone numbers.  harassment and retaliation, in any manner,  reprimanded.
are prohibited. 
Our Business Ethics Helpline allows for anonymous 
reporting and is open to employees and external 
stakeholders. We respond to and investigate all 
Above are anonymized illustrative examples of investigations carried out in 2019 by our Business Integrity Group.
concerns promptly and establish remediation plans 
as needed.
In 2019, our Ethics & Compliance Office received 
994 concerns of which 289 were investigated as 
alleged violations of our Code of Conduct and 106  number of reported concerns increased by 12% from  and regulations related to anti-corruption, product 
allegations were substantiated with “cause found”  2018 which we attribute to increased awareness of  health or safety and security, environment, data 
after investigations. Specifically, two concerns  reporting channels, growth of the global Ombuds  privacy, export control laws or taxation.
were received as alleged violations of our anti- program, and increased line manager engagement in 
bribery policies, involving third parties, but neither  driving open reporting.
of these concerns was substantiated. During the 
year, we implemented corrective actions including  In 2019, there were no significant fines or non-
32 dismissals, and 30 written warnings. The total  monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 47
4.4
Reporting of ethical concerns without fear of retaliation
Number of investigations by the Ethics & Compliance Office Number of ethical concerns reported in 2019
Conflict of interest 69
300 289
Controllership 88
257 248
228 Dealing with government officials 1
200
Fair competition 2
Fair employment (all HR related concerns) 416
100
Guidance 164
Human rights 1
0
2016 2017 2018 2019
Improper payments 11
Intellectual property & confidential  54
information
Number of ethical concerns reported Privacy 7
Trade compliance 5
1 000 994
Wellbeing, health, safety and environment 27
900
887
Working with suppliers 64
800
Other 85
700
678 Total number of concerns reported 994
637
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
2016 2017 2018 2019
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 48
4.5
Anti-Corruption Center of Excellence and Third-Party Program
Anti-Corruption 
The Anti-Corruption Center  third parties and for gifts, travel, entertainment, 
World’s Most Ethical Award
sponsorship & donation requests.
of Excellence (COE) drives 
Center of 
We were honored for three consecutive years, and four 
awareness through training and  We have implemented a global Improper Payments  times overall, by the Ethisphere Institute as one the 
Excellence and 
program covering employees and business partners.  World’s Most Ethical Companies, in recognition of our 
communications and employs 
We work closely with third parties, including  strong compliance program, culture, and bold vision for 
Third-Party  a multi-faceted, risk-based  commercial third parties and suppliers, to encourage  the future.
adherence to the same standards of ethical 
approach to efficiently manage 
Program business across all interactions and to help ensure  1 W  orld’s Most Ethical Companies” and “Ethisphere” 
and monitor the sales third- responsible sourcing and globally acceptable labor  names and marks are registered trademarks of 
Ethisphere LLC.
practices. For example, sales third parties undergo a 
party risk management process; 
thorough screening during which they are required 
review, approve, and monitor  to acknowledge our Commercial Third-Party Code 
of Conduct which is available in eight languages. 
gifts, entertainment, hospitality, 
We also follow a strict no agents rule that prohibits 
donations, and sponsorships; and  the use of commercial agents in virtually all of our 
commercial dealings, other than where required 
screen customers through an 
by law or in exceptional cases. Our regional and  guidelines and materials, and recorded training 
business compliance counsels deliver training and  sessions and presentations are available to our 
enhanced Know Your Customer 
communications to our third parties regarding our  employees through the company intranet. There 
screening program rolled out  expectations on ethical conduct, where necessary. is a dedicated Fair Competition website for the 
competition compliance program.
in 2019. 
Competition laws
Responsible advertising
Our competition law compliance program aims to 
ensure that we meet our goal of full compliance  Advertising at our company must be built on a clear 
We have clear and unequivocal anti-corruption  with applicable competition and anti-trust laws. We  and accurate messaging framework, as set out in 
policies. Risks and mitigation measures are reviewed  are committed to complying with competition laws  our visual and verbal guidelines, with pragmatic 
with the company’s senior leadership, Board of  everywhere we do business. Our Code of Conduct sets  statements, grounded in fact, with real proof points, 
Directors, and the Audit Committee. out the key elements of our competition law policy and  and reasons to believe in Nokia. The use of false or 
is supplemented by detailed policies and training.  deceptive messages, ambiguity, or aggressive sales 
As part of our comprehensive anti-corruption  techniques are strictly forbidden and against our 
program, the COE employs online tools for screening,  Our Competition Law e-learning, the Competition  Code of Conduct and our brand guidance. Our brand 
approval, and monitoring processes related to  Law Policy, some specific competition compliance  guidance is available on brand.nokia.com.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 49
4.6
Addressing human rights
Addressing  We fundamentally believe that  Our Human Rights Framework
connectivity and the technology 
Nokia employees  Technology Misuse  Nokia supply chain
human rights
we provide are a social good that 
Human Rights Impact Labor rights, Health, Safety,  Freedom of expression and  Labor conditions, freedom of 
can support human rights and we  Wellbeing, Decent working  privacy expression, compensation, 
conditions, Compensation health and safety, corruption
acknowledge the responsibility that  Impact - Materiality - Risk
Impact - Materiality - Risk Impact - Materiality - Risk
comes with this. Upholding human 
rights is a complex issue that 
Potential Risk mitigation Ensuring decent   Code of conduct Code of conduct for suppliers
covers not only the technology we  working conditions
Human rights due diligence Audits, assessments and 
provide, but our partners, suppliers  Health and wellbeing training
and our own operations. Therefore,  Health & safety maturity
we strive to continuously learn and 
improve and believe that engaging  Grievance mechanisms Ethics Helpline Ethics Helpline Ethics Helpline
with the broader stakeholder  One in 90 discussions Audits and assessments
community to drive dialogue is the 
Measurement Cultural cohesion tracker Reported and investigated  Developing health and safety
best way forward. 
concerns
Related targets Related targets
Related targets
In 2019 we updated our Human Rights Policy to 
reflect our expanded portfolio and it is available on 
our website. The policy addresses the impact of our 
products and services on free expression, access 
to information, exchange of ideas, and economic 
development. Policies related to other human rights, for 
example rights related to fair labor practices, modern 
slavery and human trafficking, and environmental 
stewardship, are reflected in other company policies. 
See Human Rights Framework table below.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 50
4.6
Addressing human rights
The most salient human rights risks related to our  to undertake an independent assessment of our  We look at a country’s 
company and business involve the potential misuse  Human Rights approach.
long-term commitment 
of the technology we provide. Our rigorous Human 
Rights Due Diligence (HRDD) process helps mitigate  In October 2019 we completed our first ever GNI  to upholding Human Rights, the 
these risks by aiming to ensure that human rights  assessment by the independent assessor Foley 
intended use of the technology 
are not infringed upon through the misuse of the  Hoag LLP. We are honored to report that the GNI 
technology we provide to our customers.  Board found Nokia has made good faith efforts over  in question and the customer 
time to implement the GNI Principles on freedom of 
type in order to identify potential 
This process is pre-emptive. Before any sale is made,  expression and privacy.
the process is used to identify the potential risk  risks early in the process and 
level to human rights through any potential misuse  The table on the previous page provides links to 
trigger the required HRDD 
of our technology. We look at a country’s long- information on specifically mentioned human rights 
term commitment to upholding Human Rights, the  topics in relation to the requirements of the French 
investigation and senior-level 
intended use of the technology in question and the  duty of vigilance law. Similar regulatory discussions 
customer type in order to identify potential risks  are ongoing in other countries. approval/denial review where 
early in the process and trigger the required HRDD 
needed. The HRDD triggers are 
Increasing transparency  
investigation and senior-level approval/denial review 
where needed. The HRDD triggers are a mandatory  on the overall narrative a mandatory part of the sales 
part of the sales approval process.  In this year’s report we have again included new 
approval process.”
anonymized case examples from our Human Rights 
Training, tracking results, communication of  Due Diligence work in 2019 providing insight and 
findings, checkpoints and triggers for the process  examples on the robustness of our HRDD as well as 
are reviewed and where needed improved on an  showing "Go," "No go" and "Go with conditions" sales 
ongoing basis.  cases. We believe these real case examples support 
greater transparency and help to drive the dialogue 
We aim to be transparent and active by working  and narrative further, rather than simply reporting 
with key industry stakeholders including, amongst  numbers of cases. They also serve to emphasize the 
others, through membership in the Global Network  importance of looking at the use case rather than a 
Initiative (GNI). GNI is a unique multi-stakeholder  simple list of products. Of the HRDD cases investigated 
group involving leading ICT companies, investors,  in 2019, 71% were resolved as “Go," 6% as “No go” 
1 T ime period covers 1 April–31 December 2019 due to 
academics and civil society groups. We are a Board  and 21% as “Go with conditions.” In addition, 2% of the 
changes in the HRDD process. From 2020 onwards, the 
member of GNI and as part of membership, we agree  investigations were still ongoing at the end of 2019.1 data will cover the whole reporting period.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 51
4.6
Addressing human rights
Human Rights Due Diligence anonymized case examples
Country Requestor Request HRDD investigation HRDD  Policy Principle
decision
Case example 1 Extreme risk  A non- Connectivity for video surveillance including static  The requested solution was for closed private network  Nokia will provide communication systems, drones, 
country governmental  cameras on private land. connectivity and video surveillance and monitoring of  video transmission capabilities, networking 
private entity private static industrial sites on private land to monitor key  capabilities and other technology to governmental 
assets of the company. HRDD focused on whether there  and enterprise customers for purposes such as 
would be any link to the public network or any possibility  public safety, transport, energy and smart city 
of misuse, surveillance or monitoring of public areas  enablement. 
outside the client’s facilities. The closed network requested  GO
to be supplied would be used exclusively by the private  We will not, however, pursue direct business with 
enterprise for their internal communication and would not  intelligence agencies or similar institutions involving 
be connected to any networks open to the public. HRDD  or relating to active surveillance or interception of 
checked the location of the video surveillance sites and  communications. 
established that there would be no public areas and no 
habitation near the targeted areas. The connectivity would 
be limited to the area and supplied video surveillance via 
this connectivity would therefor only work in this area.
Case example 2 High risk  Governmental  Connectivity for government private entity law  The requested solution was for microwave and routing  Nokia will provide communication systems, drones, 
country entity enforcement for public safety  connectivity for a private network for law enforcement  video transmission capabilities, networking 
personnel in a high risk country to communicate with  capabilities and other technology to governmental 
each other. HRDD focused on whether there would be any  and enterprise customers for purposes such as 
connectivity link to the public network or potential for  public safety, transport, energy and smart city 
misuse. HRDD confirmed that the connectivity would be for  enablement. 
a closed solution for use only by law enforcement to talk to  GO 
each other. There would be no link to the public network and  We will not, however, pursue direct business with 
no surveillance capabilities. intelligence agencies or similar institutions involving 
or relating to active surveillance or interception of 
communications. 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 52
4.6
Addressing human rights
Human Rights Due Diligence anonymized case examples
Country Requestor Request HRDD investigation HRDD  Policy Principle
decision
Case example 3 High risk  Local telco  Standard passive 3GPP/ETSI compliant lawful intercept  The requested solution was for passive 3GPP/ETSI  Nokia will provide passive lawful interception 
country Operator capabilities in the telco network compliant lawful intercept capabilities for Voice over LTE  capabilities to customers who have a legal 
as required by law in that country. HRDD checked that the  obligation to provide such capabilities. This 
requirements were standard ETSI/3GPP passive with no    means we will provide products that meet agreed 
extra customization. The solution would allow the operator    standards for lawful intercept capabilities as 
only to react and respond to authority-originated queries.  defined by recognized standards bodies such as 
The capabilities would not, by themselves, be sufficient for  GO the 3rd Generation Partner Project (3GPP) and the 
the delivery of the full lawful interception process.  (with  European Telecoms Standards Institute (ETSI). 
conditions)
The conditions are that only 3GPP/ETSI standard defined  We will not, however, engage in any activity relating 
requests would be supported and the operator would not  to active lawful interception technologies, such as 
provide any access to non-public product information  storing, post-processing or analyzing of intercepted 
without further review. data gathered by the network operator
Case example 4 High risk  Governmental  Video surveillance mounted on vehicles in an area of  The requested solution was for video surveillance mounted  Nokia will seek to prevent the sale of our products 
country entity unrest on vehicles with the specific intent of recording interactions  and services in cases where we believe there is a 
between two conflicting groups within an area of dispute.    significant potential that those products or services 
The HRDD investigation concentrated on the location of    could be used to infringe human rights.
the proposed case, intended customer and actual use case.  To assess such situations, we have a senior-
The decision to decline pursuing this case was made as the  NO GO level internal review process that focuses on 
intended location was disputed between two conflicting  sales in countries that have been deemed by an 
parties and the ability to put any sort of controls around the  independent expert as presenting a high human
misuse of the specific technology and any resulting data  rights risk. 
were extremely limited.
We will, in situations where conflict may exist 
between local law or its interpretation and the 
generally accepted international human rights 
standards, strive to resolve that conflict in a 
manner that best respects human rights.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 53
4.7
Responsible sourcing 
Responsible  Our supply chain is a critical 
Our suppliers fall into three broad categories:  Supplier coverage in Nokia’s  
part of our own reputation and  hardware suppliers for product materials, services  sustainability programs
sourcing 
suppliers who support the provision of services 
extended impact. We work with  Program Coverage
to our customers, for example, in installation and 
both customers and suppliers to  construction of the networks we sell, and indirect  Health & Safety maturity  over 98% of relevant 
suppliers for everyday goods and services we need  assessment supplier base
drive transparency, sustainability 
to run our business such as IT, software, legal and 
CDP supply chain climate  over 59% of supplier 
and good ethical and business  marketing. Our manufacturing suppliers are mainly  change spend
based in Asia and services suppliers are based 
Responsible minerals  98% of relevant supplier 
practice in our long and often  around the world. Our final assembly included our 
program spend
own factories in Finland, India and Poland as well 
complex supply chain. 
EcoVadis sustainability  56% of supplier spend
as Flextronics, Foxconn, Jabil and Sanmina supplier 
assessments
sites in Brazil, China, Hungary, Italy, Mexico, Romania, 
Thailand, Ukraine, USA and Vietnam.  Request for Information  100% of supplier spend
process (anti-corruption, 
We work with our suppliers to remedy, develop 
health & safety and overall 
and build capability to enable a more sustainable  In 2019 our Supplier Requirements were again 
sustainability)
and transparent ecosystem. We engage with our  communicated to our suppliers as part of our 
customers to share and drive improvements  supplier contracts, and we expected our suppliers 
We do not measure percentages for onsite audits  
and knowledge in our common supply chain and  to commit to these as part of their contractual  as they are risk-based
collaborate where possible across the ICT industry  obligations. An overview of those requirements can 
for greater impact. For example, we continued our  be found on our website. The requirements cover 
collaboration with the Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC)  social, ethical and environmental issues. In 2019 we 
initiative, the association of some of the world’s  also thoroughly reviewed our Supplier Requirements 
largest telecom operators. We engaged on supply  and in 2020 intend to adopt the RBA guidelines as  requiring them to comply with all applicable laws and 
chain efficacy, circular economy practices and health  the basis of our requirements going forward.  regulations, and show they share the values stated 
and safety improvements as well as auditing best  in our Code of Conduct. To learn more about our 
practice. Read more online. We continue to expect and encourage our tier  supplier management and related sustainability visit 
one suppliers to apply and cascade the same  our responsible sourcing page online.
Sustainability is one of the six pillars of our Supplier  requirements to their own suppliers. Transparency 
Performance Evaluation. In 2019 we had business  and compliance requirements are firmly applied to  Our materiality analysis and Enterprise Risk 
with around 14 000 suppliers, and 80% of our  all supplier relationships, and gifts or entertainment  Management help identify potential supply chain risks 
total supplier spend was distributed across around  are neither given nor received beyond nominal  and we carry out more in-depth analyses to determine 
450 suppliers.  value items. We investigate and qualify all suppliers,  all supply chain risks. The outcomes are included in our 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 54
4.7
Responsible sourcing 
category strategies related to nature and size, as well  Findings from our in-depth audits
as monitoring and performance related requirements. 
Total number of 
We review category strategies annually. We also review 
Category Instances of  Number of potential risk  recommendations for 
the supplier location and business context. of Findings non-compliance areas identified improvement
Child labor (proof of age documents missing) 0 0 0
We have detailed KPIs and public global targets 
related to supply chain activities. In 2019, 64 cases  Forced labor (contract agreement issues/ 1 0 1
out of a total of 994 concerns raised on the ethics  fine/deduction etc.)
helpline were related to our suppliers (58 in 2018).  Health and safety 210 75 285
More information on raising concerns can be found 
Freedom of association and right to  10 3 13
on pages 47–48 of this report. 
collective bargaining
Monitoring, assessment and auditing  Discrimination 3 2 5
In 2019 we again ran regular assessments with our  Disciplinary practices 4 4 8
supplier network to help them meet our ethical 
Working hours 29 8 37
standards and improve performance as needed. 
Our general audit covers the full set of supplier  Remuneration 40 12 52
requirements, including corporate responsibility 
Management systems 115 55 170
requirements, and are often used with new high-
risk suppliers or suppliers where there has been  Environmental management system 64 21 85
significant change in business or location. 
Total  476 180 656
We also conduct specific corporate responsibility in- The table is based on 45 CR in-depth audits conducted in 2019.
depth audits on our existing suppliers and align with 
SA8000 methodology in audit implementation. The 
audits include not only document reviews, interviews  In 2019, 74% (74% in 2018) of suppliers had a  2018) at 45 supplier sites (75 in 2018). Countries 
with managers and employees, and site visits, but  satisfactory score on EcoVadis. We implemented 332  covered by these audits were China, Finland, India, 
also inspections of facilities, production lines, and  (364 in 2018) supply chain audits of which 45 were  Jordan, Mexico, Pakistan, Thailand and Vietnam 
warehouses. In addition, we continue to use EcoVadis  onsite audits on corporate responsibility topics; 46  and reached a total of around 34 000 supplier 
sustainability assessments and supporting document  were against our full set of supplier requirements  employees. 
reviews. We require suppliers to at least achieve  and 241 suppliers were assessed using the EcoVadis 
a satisfactory score on EcoVadis and should be  scorecards. We spent 90 auditor days conducting  Of the 476 instances of non-compliance, 210 related 
renewed every two years.  corporate responsibility in-depth audits (190 in  to health and safety and 64 to environment. As a 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 55
4.7
Responsible sourcing 
Identified non-compliance and actions taken
Category Non-compliance identified Actions taken by supplier
Forced labor Supplier employees did not get a copy of their contract  Supplier revised the contract agreement regulation so that, upon employment, 
agreement. employee signs the contract agreement and receives a copy of the contract 
agreement while one set is kept with the employer. Supplier has shared few 
samples of the signed contract and confirmed that such contract has been 
signed with all of the employees.
Management systems Supplier had a service agreement, covering a group of foreign  Supplier amended the contract agreement of the foreign employees, clearly 
employees, where it stipulated that overtime or weekend work  defining regular and overtime work and relevant compensation. Evidence of the 
will not be compensated if such work is carried out due to a  amendment and the communication to the foreign employees were shared with 
project requirement. Nokia.
Health & Safety, Supplier had no access control to hazardous waste and chemical  Supplier has undertaken several activities, including constructed a fence and 
Environmental  storage area. There was no eye wash in the chemical usage area  a gate to restrict physical access to the chemical storage, created an approval 
management or shower station in the hazardous waste and chemical storage  process to bring in/out chemical to/from the storage area, installed a shower 
area. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) was not available near  station, and started providing PPE in the chemical storage area. Supplier has 
the chemical storage area. shared pictures with Nokia as evidence of completing the action plan. 
Health & Safety Supplier had no H&S training in place on either PPE or certified  Supplier has revised training procedure by adding PPE training, First Aid training 
First Aid. There was also no general H&S training for all the  requirement and general H&S training for all employees. Supplier has started 
employees. maintaining the training record for evidence. Images and scanned documents 
were shared with Nokia as evidence of completing the action plan.
Remuneration Supplier had no full and final settlement records available for  Supplier established a policy to clear all pending full and final settlement records 
four former employees whose records were requested to be  within 45 days and to communicate with those absconding employees. Example 
shown. There was no procedure to deal with the absconding  of the final settlement records for a few employees was shared with Nokia as an 
employees. Delay in the final settlement was also observed for  evidence of implementing the policy and the action plan.
one of the former employees included in the data sample.
Remuneration Supplier had a leave policy stipulating the number of employee  Supplier amended the leave policy ensuring compliance with the legal 
leave days but the policy did not meet the legal requirements. requirements. A new, legally compliant policy was approved and shared with 
Nokia as an evidence of completing the action plan.
Working hours Supplier employees were found working excessive overtime. Supplier has developed the controls for overtime monitoring and alerts as well 
as accountability. Gradual overtime reduction plan was provided to Nokia with 
proof records of gradual reduction of overtime as per reduction plan.
This table is based on 45 CR onsite audits conducted in 2019.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 56
4.7
Responsible sourcing 
result, we made 656 improvement recommendations  Supplier climate disclosure figures
which are addressed through corrective action 
plans. Three of the 45 onsite audits were 
conducted through our customers’ Joint Audit 
1 333 million EUR 644
Cooperation (JAC) framework. See findings and real 
Total Total
recommendation examples below. 
CO2e €
reduction tCO e saved million
Audit closure continues to be a challenge. We target  2
to close CR onsite audit findings within six months 
of audit. In 2019, 52% of audits were closed within  404 171 184
this time (52% in 2018). We continue to emphasize 
this as an issue which needs constant vigilance and  Suppliers disclosed data,  Suppliers purchased   Suppliers engaged  
>50% of Nokia spend renewable energy their own suppliers
improvement.
Capability building – driving improvements 
292 192 55
In 2019 we ran 6 supplier training workshops in 
China, India, Jordan, Mexico, Pakistan, and Vietnam 
Suppliers reported GHG  Suppliers report reduction and   Highlighted collaborative 
and we organized online training on conflict-free 
emissions (Scope 1/2) 234 have active targets for   opportunities with us
sourcing and climate change, as well as arranging  emission reduction
face-to-face training workshops to create 
improvement plans and actions for 98 suppliers. See  Supplier participation in Nokia sustainability workshops and webinars
supplier workshop participation below. 
700
We require all suppliers, except those with very  600 606
low environmental impact, to have a documented  500 522 549
Environmental Management System (EMS) in place. 
400
393 360
We require and track that key suppliers and those  300 355 328
with greater impacts are certified to ISO 14001.  255
200
We create environmental improvement programs 
100
together to drive improvements in our upstream 
0
Scope 3 emissions through the CDP Supply Chain 
2016 2017 2018 2019
Program. We encourage our key suppliers to report 
their climate impacts and set carbon reduction  Number of participating management-level supplier employees Number of participating supplier companies
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 57
4.7
Responsible sourcing 
Water risk countries
targets through CDP and work with them to build 
improvement programs.
Water security risk across our manufacturing sites of 
In 2019, 404 of our key suppliers representing around  tier 1 suppliers for our top 50 sales item products.
59% of our total procurement spend, responded 
to the CDPs request to disclose their climate 
performance information. 234 of them also provided 
emission reduction targets (an increase of 47 suppliers 
from 2018). The total saving from these carbon 
reduction initiatives was 1333 million metric tons CO2e 
and around EUR 644 million during the year. 
In early 2020 we were again placed on the CDP 
Supplier Engagement Leaderboard. Our company 
was in the top 3% for our supplier engagement 
activities on climate change. 
184 suppliers also further engaged their next 
tier in CO2 reporting. 141 suppliers calculated an 
allocation of their emissions for us based on the 
products and services we purchase from them 
and 82 suppliers provided emissions intensity 
data. Using a hybrid methodology for calculation, 
based on supplier information for Scope 1 and 
2 emissions, our emissions with participating 
suppliers totalled 1.5 million metric tons of CO2e.  Low risk
By scaling up the allocated emissions to 100% of 
Medium risk
our suppliers, we estimated our Scope 3 emissions 
from our supply chain to be approximately 3 million  High risk
metric tons of CO2e.
Extreme risk (not in relevant countries)
Water – resource management No manufacturing sites in the country as per map scope
We earlier identified supplier categories where 
water may be a material risk and address them  Water security risk evaluation source Verisk Maplecroft. 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 58
4.7
Responsible sourcing 
through a water assessment program. In 2019,  supplier status. Any supplier not meeting H&S  in the supply chain. This work included advocating 
237 (150 in 2018) our manufacturing suppliers  requirements were to be phased out or required  for greater dialogue on modern slavery and human 
representing 47% of total spend, completed the  thorough improvement where we had no alternative.  rights through industry and UN sponsored events.
CDP water assessment. Out of the participating  We had 54 supplier-related fatal, critical or high 
suppliers, 59% had undertaken a water related  potential incidents in 2019. As part of consequence 
risk assessment for their direct operations and  management related to those incidents, we issued 
26% identified actual water related risks in their  33 warning notes to our suppliers and terminated 
operations such as increased water stress, flooding  business relationships with six suppliers. 46 of the 
and higher water prices. incidents were designated high-potential where no 
one was critically or fatally injured. 
54% of the suppliers have a water related policy. 
Combatting modern slavery  
52% of the suppliers reported water consumption 
information and 50% water discharge information.  in the supply chain
There were 10 water projects implemented due to  We do not tolerate slavery, servitude, trafficking in 
Nokia engagement with suppliers in 2019 and 13%  persons, and forced or compulsory labor in our own 
of our supplers reported collaborative engagement  operations or in our supply chain. In June 2019 we 
opportunities with us. 73% of the suppliers reported  published our third Modern Slavery statement, with 
active target or goal. 16% of the responding  an updated risk map and a full listing of covered 
suppliers also engaged with their own supply chain  businesses. The statement can be found on our 
on water risk. corporate website at www.nokia.com/about-us/
sustainability/downloads.
Developing Health & Safety Maturity 
Many of our subcontractors work at height, with  In 2019 our audits uncovered one case which 
electricity, and need to drive long distances as part  included a potential risk of forced labor. This instance 
of their work on our behalf. We therefore emphasize  involved workers not receiving a copy of their 
the importance of health and safety in our supply  contract agreement. As part of audit follow up the 
chain. Our supplier training provides awareness of  related supplier has been addressed on this case, and 
potential dangers related to their work and ensures  the finding was also shared with all local suppliers in a 
the correct safety equipment is used as required.  workshop as one of our fundamental requirements. 
CR risk map 
At the end of 2019, 97% of high-risk activity 
suppliers were covered by our onsite health and  In 2019 we continued our work to raise awareness 
safety maturity assessments. 99% (89% from  of modern slavery and the role of technology in 
2018) of assessed suppliers met H&S compliant  combatting it and all other forms of forced labor 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 59
4.8
Materials traceability and conflict minerals 
Materials  
Military conflict, human and labor rights, and  Share of suppliers who have completed identification of all smelters  
environmental impact remain key risks in the mining,  and have achieved conflict-free status
traceability  
extraction and trade of metals industry that provide 
key minerals in electronic components. Tracing 
and conflict  100%
the materials used in our products and ensuring  97% 97%
95% 95%
they are conflict-free is key. We aim to contribute  94%
95%
minerals  to a long-term solution to the issues of conflict  91%
90%
minerals that ensures responsible and conflict-free  90%
sourcing via legitimate trade that brings sustainable  85%
85%
improvements in those countries where the risks are 
greatest. We demand that our suppliers commit to  80%
sourcing these key materials from environmentally 
75%
and socially responsible sources. In 2019 we also 
Tantalum Tin Gold Tungsten
revised our responsible minerals sourcing policy 
which can be found here. Suppliers who have completed identification of all smelters
Suppliers who have achieved conflict-free status
In 2019 we continued our work with the Responsible 
Minerals Initiative to improve the traceability of 
minerals and ensure responsible sourcing. Our due 
diligence approach is aligned with the OECD Due 
Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains 
of Minerals. 
further 5% of smelters were identified where our due  For upstream engagement we have continued our 
We achieved a 96% rate of suppliers establishing  diligence efforts have demonstrated that the smelters  work with the Public-Private Alliance, contributing 
a full traceability of 3TG smelters. Any supplier not  can be reasonably considered as conflict-free.  to the development of in-region programs. In 2019 
meeting our objective or with no corrective action  we joined an industry delegation visit to DRC and 
plan was recommended for phasing out from our  We also undertook mapping of cobalt in our  Rwanda, where national and regional government and 
supplier pool. In 2019, we held a workshop in China  components based on part material declarations.  civil society stakeholder meetings were conducted 
on responsible minerals sourcing and carried out  We addressed 41 relevant suppliers about our  and visits to mines completed. For more information 
eight audits covering conflict minerals due diligence.  requirements related to cobalt and engaged them  on our responsible minerals due diligence results, 
in exercising due diligence over cobalt supply chain  please refer to our conflict minerals report available 
Under the Responsible Minerals Assurance Program  by using the industry's cobalt reporting template.  at the end of May 2020 at www.nokia.com/about-us/
(RMAP) we achieved an 82% validation level for the  We also engaged in cobalt smelter outreach and  sustainability/downloads. 
smelters and refineries in our supply chain that are  encouraged them to go through Responsible Minerals 
conflict-free or active in the validation process. A  Assurance program.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 60
4.9
Data privacy and security 
Data privacy 
The protection of customer, 
employee, or other sensitive  
and security 
data is a critical issue, and 
has come very much to the 
forefront during 2019 as we see 
the first rollouts of 5G-based 
communications networks. We 
continue to ensure we have 
dedicated processes in place that 
focus on technical protection, 
processes and people. 
Technical protection includes, for example, security 
incident event monitoring (SIEM) by our security 
operations center (SOC), access management,  storage, transmission, and destruction of sensitive or  management. To drive this, we have an internal 
anti-malware operations, certificate management,  confidential information.  accreditation program with three tiers. Our security 
log provisioning, network security services, security  culture program also provides other learning 
incident management, server provisioning, software  Our key programs to protect and identify critical  channels such us regular company-wide phishing 
whitelisting and vulnerability remediation.  data include critical information protection program,  testing, mandatory e-learning for all employees and 
focused assessments, company privacy program,  targeted campaigns. 
Process-related controls comprise of business-driven  supply chain security program, customer security 
governance, security as part of global business  requirements program, common security controls  Security is an ever-growing concern within  
processes, integrated enterprise risk management,  program, and selected ISO 27001 certifications. the telecommunications industry. We are 
active third-party management and a dedicated  firmly dedicated to protecting next-generation 
security program to respond to our customers’  People-related mitigation relies on active security  networks from attacks and are seen as a 
security and privacy requirements. Our internal  culture management, enabling and supporting  leader in the provision of network security 
processes help to enforce the proper handling,  employee security work, and employment life cycle  solutions. We hold annual Security Days and 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 61
4.9
Data privacy and security 
Nokia HackAthons. For more information on  All our employees and external contractors are  We also ensure that all personal data is only accessed 
the solutions we provide to our customers visit  required to take mandatory Information Security  by persons with a clear need to know. Should a 
networks.nokia.com/solutions/security. e-learning courses every two years. New hires must  personal data breach occur, the process is in place 
take an e-learning course when starting and our  to manage and mitigate any related risk to data 
Our breach management process is followed in  security awareness and culture Key Performance  subjects, including mechanisms to communicate 
the event of a breach or attack. The plan focuses  Indicators (KPIs) are tracked on a monthly level. with supervisory authorities if required. To drive and 
on three key elements: detection and analysis,  maintain privacy awareness, we designed and deliver 
containment, eradication, and recovery, and post  In 2019, we achieved our target to secure our  a program of awareness training targeting high-risk 
incident activities. defined critical information ecosystems and closed  groups. Employee privacy responsibilities are also 
95% of the identified critical and high vulnerabilities  covered in our Code of Conduct, and we handle all 
We run a response function that consists of three  identified in our assessments and audits. We are well  employee and Human Resources data strictly in line 
teams – Incident Response Teams (IRTs), the Major  on track to achieve our 2020 target to be recognized  with global and local privacy requirements.
Event Team (MET) and the Crisis Management Team  as an industry leader in security and privacy.
(CMT) – depending on the type of incident or crisis.  Our privacy management model, set out in our 
Getting privacy right
Each team has well defined tasks, and teams carry out  Group-wide Privacy Management Policy, is supported 
training on an annual basis. Teams consist of subject  With the growing complexities provided by today’s  by Nokia Executive Leadership. The model provides 
matter experts from all areas of the company. Regular  technology and business environment, enabling  clear and internationally acknowledged privacy 
training and internal and external testing on our  strategic and consistent management of privacy  principles as well as a governance framework to 
breach management capability is provided. The testing  ensures we are in a position to make the most of  implement sound privacy practices across our 
includes annual internal table-top exercises, as well as  the opportunities ahead. With the arrival of 5G and  businesses. Compliance with the General Data 
annual external outside-in simulated attacks. IoT, in a world where everyone and everything are  Protection Regulation (GDPR) and other privacy 
increasingly connected, cloud storage, big data, and  laws as well as commitments to customers, are 
As is the case for all international companies  other technology advances, getting privacy right is  enforced via our privacy principles. We continue to 
with internet-facing services, we face daily attack  a necessity. strengthen our framework to meet changing internal 
attempts. We actively and regularly validate our  and external needs. Thanks to our programmatic 
security throughout the year through: We have established a comprehensive company- approach, we remain in a position of strength to 
•  external and internal security audits  wide privacy program that builds privacy into our  safeguard personal data entrusted to us. 
•  group-wide external maturity assessment processes, products and services. We process 
•  external and internal simulated attacks   personal data transparently and fairly, only  There were no substantiated complaints regarding 
(red team tests) collecting personal data that is necessary and  breaches of customer data in 2019. For the latest 
•  regular group wide phishing testing retaining such data for no longer than it is needed.  information on our security and privacy visit 
•  external information security risk rating service We fulfil the data subject’s rights where required  our website.
•  customer feedback  and we do not disclose personal data to law 
•  external and internal ISO 27001 audits for our  enforcement or other governmental agencies unless 
key delivery sites required by law.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 62
55..00
Respecting our people
Respecting 
our people
Our people are our greatest asset and  
we aim to build a culture of trust, respect, 
diversity and opportunity for all. We believe 
it is essential that we continuously work on 
creating a company culture that is inclusive 
and makes use of all the talent to respond to 
our company business priorities.
Attracting the best talent from diverse backgrounds  
is key to sustainable business.
NNookkiiaa  PPeeooppllee  &&  PPllaanneett  RReeppoorrtt  22001199 OOuurr  aapppprrooaacchh Connectivity Environment Integrity PPeeooppllee Together Key data Assurance 63
5.1
Highlights 
97% 
Highlights
76 000
We foster a culture that supports 
productivity growth, high 
performance and the wellbeing 
of organizations and individual 
employees. It is a culture
of suppliers carrying out high 
that is guided by our vision, brand, 
and values. It is through our  risk work were assessed against 
people and culture that we shape 
our Health & Safety Maturity 
technology to serve human needs. 
people Assessment program
Our Code of Conduct applies to all 
our employees and our values of 
Respect, Challenge, Achievement 
and Renewal guide the way we  690 000
actively participated in internal online discussions around the culture of inclusion
develop our common culture.
training hours were provided by us 
56 762
We took affirmative 
to customers and partners
action to close the 
unexplained pay gap 
24%
based on a pay equity 
people
analysis we undertook 
with Mercer and we aim 
participated in webcasts   to keep it closed
of total hires were female in 2019 
for our annual Global Day of Learning
compared to 23% in 2018
NNookkiiaa  PPeeooppllee  &&  PPllaanneett  RReeppoorrtt  22001199 OOuurr  aapppprrooaacchh Connectivity Environment Integrity PPeeooppllee Together Key data Assurance 6644
5.2
Who we are
Who we are At the end of 2019, we had 94 723 
We also outsource certain non-core activities and/ our business groups and support functions, facility 
employees in 118 countries. 3%  or use subcontractors to meet customer needs  service providers, security guards and IT support. 
or volume demands. At end of 2019 the number  Externals are not covered in any of the employee 
of employees were based at our 
of temporary workers (external temporary labor,  sections of the report, but instead included in the 
headquarters in Espoo, Finland.  ETL) used for example to cover sickness was in the  responsible sourcing section.
region of 3 400 people. Activities performed by 
externals, be they ETL or subcontractors, include for 
example, consultants supporting different tasks in 
Ten biggest Nokia countries 
During 2019  by number of employees
Country % of employees1
94 723 22% 97%
India 16%
China 16%
employees in the year-end  of employees   of employees had 
USA 11%
(101 203 in 2018) were women   permanent contracts (the 
(22% also in 2018). rest were trainees or had  Poland 6%
fixed-term contracts)  
Finland 6%
(96% in 2018).
France 5%
4 493 166 11 211
Germany 4%
Russian Federation 3%
employees were hired,  different nationalities  employees left  
Hungary 2%
leading to 5% rate of  worked in Nokia. Nokia, leading to a 13% 
new employee hires   total attrition rate   Canada 2%
(8 849 in 2018). (9 988 in 2018).
1 At year-end 2019
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 OOuurr  aapppprrooaacchh Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 65
5.3
A great place to work
A great place   We believe it is essential that we 
continuously work on creating a 
to work
company culture that is inclusive 
and makes use of all the talent 
to respond to our company 
business priorities.
We foster a culture that supports productivity 
growth, high performance and the wellbeing of 
organizations and individual employees. It is a culture 
that is guided by our vision, brand, and values. It 
is through our people and culture that we shape 
technology to serve human needs. 
Our culture, which stems from our Finnish roots, 
is key to why our customers and partners choose 
to work with us. Integrity is fundamental to how 
we work and what we provide for our customers. 
We can stand out as a trusted customer partner 
who can sustain long-term relationships through 
a proven ability to foster a level of trust which we 
work relentlessly to earn and maintain.
Commonly shared cultural principles and a strong 
focus on Drive, Dare and Care forms the platform 
we use to shape our core culture. We focus on 
selected business priorities and the behaviors which 
drive them best.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 OOuurr  aapppprrooaacchh Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 66
5.3
A great place to work
Our pursuit of a common culture is always  of inclusion inspired more than 76 000 people to  All 2019 results below continue to be inclusive of 
done in accordance with our values actively hold discussions on Yammer, our internal  the Nokia Shanghai Bell (NSB) joint venture. The 
communication channel, 19 000 unique internal  most important questions in the CCT are two target 
•  Respect: Acting with uncompromising integrity, we  article readers, 10 000 culture video viewers and  questions about our overall company and culture 
work openly and collaboratively, seeking to earn  over 3 500 webcast and online event participants. direction, which remained in the green during 2019.
respect from others.
•  Challenge: We are never complacent. We ask tough  Change facilitation in the businesses continued  The average % favorability for these two CCT 
questions and push for higher performance to  with 72 000 people participating in the change  questions is 78.2%, down 1.3 percentage points year 
deliver the right results. map survey, while 1 000 trained change managers  on year. The overall CCT result, a combination of all 
•  Achievement: We take responsibility and  facilitated better change leadership. survey content, remained at 84% favorability towards 
are accountable for driving quality, setting  the company between 2018 and 2019, indicating 
Culture progression and follow-up 
high standards, and striving for continuous  good engagement and solid cohesion.
improvement. Our cultural progress and evolution are monitored 
Cohesion ranges:
•  Renewal: We constantly refine our skills; learning  through a company-wide employee survey called 
and embracing new ways of doing things and  the Culture Cohesion Tracker (CCT). The CCT results  •  85> Excellent engagement, strong cohesion
adapting to the world around us. give us a continued quantitative and qualitative  •  73> Good engagement, solid cohesion
employee feedback loop on a wide variety of  •  64> Moderate engagement, fluctuating cohesion
Engaging and working with our people
employment factors, from ethical behavior and team  •  <64 Concerning engagement, weak cohesion
A diverse and inclusive workforce has been shown to  meeting content to feelings about psychological 
contribute to the success of a company.  safety and our corporate commitment to sustainable  We continuously develop the way in which we follow 
operations. Above all, the survey targets our  up on our progress. We are currently migrating 
2019 marked a year when Nokia Way manifested  employees’ engagement in the future direction of  toward the use of a new survey and associated 
itself in initiatives which highlighted the importance  our company and our culture. tool called Change Map, which emphasizes 
of inclusion in how we encounter each other, how we  team performance.
lead, and how we do business. We concentrated on  The CCT was held during October 2019. Results were 
defining the benefits of inclusion for the company,  used to help each of the business groups and regions 
teams and individuals; what inclusive leadership is  update and refine their own respective culture 
about; and how to stay resilient in the face of the  roadmaps, for the sake of effective communications 
changes in work-life and business transformation.  about strengths and taking actions on prioritized 
challenges. For the first time, results were also made 
On a behavioral level, we concentrated on enhancing  available to all employees in an interactive online 
employees’ and leaders’ emotional and social  dashboard, with an intent to provide transparent 
intelligence, listening and sharing skills, and ability to  reporting and enable all employees to make changes 
make better everyday decisions. In 2019, the culture  in their day-to-day activities. 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 OOuurr  aapppprrooaacchh Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 67
5.4
People development 
People  Given the competitive market 
we face in finding and retaining 
development 
skilled employees in our business, 
it is essential that we continually 
develop not just our culture, but 
also our talent management, 
performance support and career 
development. 
Our performance and talent management approach, 
called Nokia People Focus, enables the company 
to have a strategic and integrated framework for 
company goals, individual performance, talent 
management, career development, reward, and 
recognition. Regular manager-employee dialogs (1 in 
90 dialogs) focus on five key areas: goals, feedback, 
wellbeing, development, and coaching. 
Our approach to talent development starts with all 
employees and development of top talent. Personal 
development is key to retaining and engaging our 
employees and developing their skills. 
End-to-End Employee Experience
In 2019 we continued focusing on employee/user 
experience to make our people practices available,  and validate what they value or is not needed. For  broaden focus to meet the needs of different user 
transparent and applicable by ensuring they are  2018–2019, we had set three priority areas to  groups. For example, with focused communication 
agile and fit for purpose and apply lean service  improve the user experience: maximize the value  and training, we increased awareness and made 
design principles. We conducted interviews with  of our current offerings, make our user interfaces  our service offering more easily accessible, relevant 
employees, senior leaders and executives to identify  more convenient and personally significant, and  and engaging.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 OOuurr  aapppprrooaacchh Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 68
5.4
People development 
Annual Development Review and  Leadership development Corporate leadership instructor led 
performance feedback culture  development programs in 2019
We continue to invest in our leaders at all levels 
We encourage managers to recognize performance,  through our instructor-led programs and online 
Number of 
celebrate achievement and talk about an employee’s  platforms which offer for example branded solutions  Target group participants
potential and career aspirations as well as plan for  from Harvard ManageMentor and Spark. A survey 
Aspring leaders  352
their development in the coming year. The Annual  we conducted in early 2019 with all 2018 program 
Development Review process is well understood  participants yielded 690 responses representing all  First line leaders 1008
and positively perceived. It is highly automated and  levels of leaders and showed content is both relevant 
Leaders of leaders 568
covers all employees.  and applicable.
Senior leaders 114
Through communication and training we have started  Particular focus is placed on developing coaching  Executives 186
to draw line managers’ attention to the importance  skills which we believe are enabling skills for leaders 
Several levels of leaders* 963
of regular, ongoing and transparent performance  to engage with employees. One of our high potential 
feedback. Inclusive, developmental and multi- programs was recognised by EFMD for its experiential  Total 3191*
dimensional feedback will continue to be one of our  learning approach where participants meet with 
*25% of the participants were female 
key focus areas in 2020. other companies to understand the challenges 
and opportunities around the Fourth Industrial 
Future Talent Growth 
Revolution. Two potential business opportunities are 
In 2019 we focused on talent identification and  currently being explored as a result. See the article 
growth beyond the top 300 leaders. We profiled  on Nokia’s Discovery Journey EFMD Global Focus Iss.  In partnership with Harvard Business Publishing we 
rising talent and high potential individuals, with a  3 Vol. 13 Innovation in Leadership here.  have successfully introduced technology-enabled 
focus on succession opportunities, talent rotation,  virtual four to ten-week leadership development 
diversity and preparing Generation Y for senior  We are 20 years into the 21st century and we  journeys. Close to 50% of senior leader learners 
positions. Criteria for consideration of talent  see leadership evolving, Situational leadership  already participated in an HBP program in 2019.
included aptitude as a future top 300, rising stars  is still here. Leaders still need to manage and 
2019 Leadership Development Figures  
(high performers, high potentials), fast trackers,  lead. But new 21st century leadership skills and 
key value creators and candidates who are on  mindsets are becoming necessities: coaching,  from Aspiring Leaders to Executives
multiple succession pipelines. Overall, we have  collaborating, networking, followship, agile thinking  In 2018 we introduced Harvard ManageMentor and 
increased our efforts in targeted development of  and experimenting to name a few. Our programs  in 2019 we saw 76% growth in visitors, 46% in visits 
executive successors towards specific roles. Robust  address these to make sure our leaders are future  and 53% in lesson completions (YoY) with close to 
development plans and pipelines have led to a high  fit. Our leaders are empowered to enrol in corporate  3000 active users. HMM Spark, introduced in 2019, 
executive successor utilization rate. leadership programs which target all levels and  is already incorporated into several talent programs. 
types of leaders. Additionally, over 22 000 employees have completed 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 OOuurr  aapppprrooaacchh Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 69
5.4
People development 
a wide selection of self-paced leadership online  (770 000 in 2018). Our training not only instructs 
solutions. Major effort was placed on training leaders  how to operate and maintain our products, but also  Goals &   Learning &  
outcomes development
on gender dynamics in 2019 with 723 workshop  includes more general technology training on topics 
Nokia  
participants. such as 5G and Internet of Things. Overall, NokiaEDU 
People  
learning solutions received a user satisfaction score 
Focus
104 face-to-face leadership development programs  of 97.6% in 2019 (96.9% in 2018).
Reward &   Dialogue &  
have been delivered in 23 countries in 2019 and 
recognition feedback
Learning Index 
41 virtual leadership development sessions covering 
Western, European and Eastern time zones. The Learning Index is an innovative tool designed 
to reinforce a culture of learning by enabling 
Chatbot in Human Resources Digitalization  
employees to monitor their commitment to 
and AI opportunities  continuous learning and information sharing. In 
In 2019, we continued to scale a range of  2019, we saw a 30% increase in Learning Index  participants across all sessions (88% increase over 
digitalization and AI activities to improve both the  points compared to 2018. The Learning Index is  2018), and 90% stated they would participate in 
employee experience and HR efficiency. Today, the  now used by 77% of our employees.  another GDOL.
HR country chatbots serve about 20 000 employees, 
Competence Development 
complemented with a global HR chatbot addressing 
the whole employee base. Employees can now access  We partner with our Business Groups to enhance 
HR information anytime, anywhere. In 2020, we will  employee competencies in business-critical areas, 
increase the country HR chatbot reach, and make the  including Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning 
experience more personalized and integrated. and more. More than 7 000 R&D engineers are 
participating in Phase One of Nokia’s Workforce 
NokiaEDU
Strategy, a comprehensive initiative designed to 
NokiaEDU is the company’s learning organization that  build a future fit workforce. The program will expand 
offers learning solutions to our customers, partners  in 2020 to include additional organizations and job 
and employees. In 2019, we delivered 2 million  roles across the company. 
training hours to our employees (2.2 million in 2018). 
Global Days of Learning (GDOL) 
Consistent with our digitalization strategy, about 
85% of employee training was technology-enabled.  Our Global Days of Learning 2019 reflected our 
Virtual instructor-led training accounted for 27% of  core value of renewal. This year’s theme was the 
employee training, compared to 19% in 2018.  company’s LEAP initiative, where leaders and 
subject-matter-experts discussed a variety of topics 
We also provide training to customers and partners,  related to Leadership, Execution, Accountability and 
which in 2019 totaled 690 000 training hours  Performance. The days gathered 56 762 webcast 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 OOuurr  aapppprrooaacchh Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 70
5.5 
Ensuring decent working conditions and fair employment 
Ensuring  We uphold high standards of  
ethics and rights in our own internal 
decent working 
activities and aim to treat all our 
conditions and 
employees in a way that satisfies 
fair employment  internationally recognized ethical 
and responsible business practices, 
customers, investors, partners and 
the relevant legislation, whether 
global or local.
A management framework  
for labor conditions 
Our Code of Conduct is the basis for our labor 
conditions and is underpinned by our Global Human 
Resources Framework and local employment laws, 
policies and practices. We adhere to the United 
Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
and the United Nations Global Compact. Wherever 
we operate we meet and often strive to exceed 
the requirements of labor laws and regulations.  freedom of association and collective bargaining,  based on SA8000 recommendations. See more in 
We publish information related to policies and  non-discrimination, humane treatment, working  Conducting our Business with Integrity. 
guidelines on our intranet.  time, disciplinary practices, compensation and 
occupational health and safety.  The identity and age of candidates are checked at 
We are aligned with key elements of the social  hiring to ensure that the terms and conditions of 
Zero tolerance for child and forced labor 
accountability standard SA8000. Our policies,  employment are in accordance with local legislation 
Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), and Code of  We have a strict policy against using child labor  as well as with the internationally accepted labor 
Conduct are implemented to cover our employees  and zero tolerance to all forms of forced, bonded,  standards. Proof of identity and age are part of 
and are also applied to our suppliers. The policies  or imprisoned labor in our own operations and  minimal vetting standards. 
cover child labor avoidance, forced labor avoidance,  our supply chain. Potential remediation is planned 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 OOuurr  aapppprrooaacchh Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 71
5.5 
Ensuring decent working conditions and fair employment 
Freedom of association   Non-discrimination provide any legally or contractually required benefits. 
and collective bargaining  We do not tolerate discrimination. We prohibit  Part-time or temporary workers are not excluded 
We respect the right to collective bargaining and  discrimination based on any personal attribute. See  from employee benefit plans due to company policy 
freedom of association. Collective bargaining  more under Diversity and inclusion.  or benefits practice. Pay practices are regularly 
agreements are local, and in most countries where  reviewed to align pay with performance, experience, 
Working time 
we have collective bargaining agreements, employees  and skills required for every position. 
who have chosen not to be members of a union  We do not permit our people to work more than 
are also covered. Employees can choose freely to  legally allowed. We define regular working hours in  Our reward programs contribute to our business 
join, not join, or leave unions and associations and  accordance with local laws. Young workers from 15  success by balancing market competitiveness and 
select their representatives based on local and  to 18 years old or as specified by local legislation  affordability based on a total reward approach. These 
international practices. We encourage active, open  are not permitted to carry out work that may be  are performance driven (both on an individual and 
communication and dialogue with employees and/or  hazardous, unsafe, or unhealthy, are not allowed to  company basis), flexible, and fair. The key elements of 
their representatives.  work night shifts, and have a maximum daily working  our compensation structures are annual base salary, 
time of eight hours. We provide guidance through  incentive/bonus programs, recognition programs and 
In countries where local works councils operate, we  the worktime standard operating procedure and  long-term incentives. We have an employee reward 
work with them as needed. We communicate regularly  guarantee the minimum one day off in every seven  and recognition program, Recognize Excellence, 
with employees directly as well as in meetings such  days in our production operations.  which allows employees and managers to recognize 
as the European Works Council (EWC) in Europe.  individual performance, and acknowledge the 
Disciplinary practices 
Employees and management prepare and participate  contribution of colleagues.
in the annual EWC plenary. We offer free elections  We appreciate that our employees conform to good 
Share in Success 
for employees to choose union representatives. The  conduct and practice, but we also ensure we have 
majority of production employees were represented  appropriate disciplinary processes in place where  We continued our employee share purchase program 
by an independent trade union or covered by  needed. Our disciplinary SOP helps ensure consistent  called Share in Success. Eligible employees are given 
collective bargaining agreements.  and fair treatment to all employees. Where local law  one free matching share for every two shares they 
or collective agreements differ from the SOP, we  purchase and continue to hold for 12 months. We 
Employee representatives are entitled to participate  apply local law or applicable collective agreements.  aim to include as many employees as possible, 
in trainings that are a necessity in order to take  All forms of physical, mental, or verbal abuse, or  subject to local laws and regulations. ln 2019, 
care of employee representative duties and to  harassment are unacceptable.  34% (36% in 2018) of the eligible population in 
increase their awareness of trade union rights and  72 countries chose to participate in the program. 
Compensation 
obligations. Additionally, employee representatives  In 2020, it is intended the total number of eligible 
can use company infrastructure during the workday.  We pay at least the minimum wage or the  countries will be 75 (out of a total number of 123 
See more on our website. appropriate prevailing wage, whichever is higher,  countries where we operate).
comply with all legal requirements on wages, and 
 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 OOuurr  aapppprrooaacchh Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 72
5.5 
Ensuring decent working conditions and fair employment 
Recruitment companies. In 2019 we maintained our strong  are facing continuous price pressure from our 
We have taken active steps towards promoting  positioning of 4.2 (scale from 1 to 5) which positions  competitors as the opportunities of the 5Gera 
diversity awareness in the hiring process by rolling  us as an employer of choice on the market. Also,  unfold. Following the successful integration of 
out a Diversity in Recruitment video for hiring  for the second consecutive year, 85% of the review  Alcatel-Lucent and having achieved the synergy 
managers to recognize and remedy bias in the  providers indicated they would recommend us to  savings target in 2018, we are on the right strategic 
selection process. In 2019 our leadership asked that  their friends and see our culture and values (4.2) and  path – however, in order to reach our goals and 
our recruiters ensure wherever possible that we  work/life balance (4.3) as two of our main strengths.  maintain best-in-class cost leadership we must move 
always have a qualified female or diverse candidate in  Learn more at www.glassdoor.com/nokia. faster and accelerate our strategy execution. To 
the final hiring manager interview shortlist.  achieve that goal the company has announced a cost 
Gender diversity focused  
savings target of EUR 700 million to be reached by 
In December 2019, we stopped asking external  recruitment programs the end of 2020. Delivering against this commitment 
candidates about their compensation history  We are committed to creating a work environment  has required that we reduce the number of 
except under exceptional circumstances in order  that values diversity and inclusion, respect and  employees that we employ. These reductions are 
to ensure we pay diverse candidates equally,  renewal, customer focus, and innovation. In 2019,  never easy. Throughout the process, we have made 
regardless of their pay history. Our approach aims  globally, female share of hires stood at 24% out of  it a priority to provide support for those employees 
to ensure that we treat all candidates fairly and  the total hires, compared to 23% in 2018 and 24%  and to treat them with dignity and respect.
with respect. Candidates do not pay for recruitment  in 2017.
costs. We as recruiter carry all recruitment costs  We have put in place extensive measures to limit the 
and none of our vendors charge candidates for  To increase diversity, for example, in the India region,  impacts of restructuring (including reorganizations 
recruitment costs. we have introduced various initiatives focused on  leading to headcount reductions), such as:
recruiting diverse talent, both at the lateral and  •  Employees affected by restructuring are entitled 
The recruitment of new talent is key to  graduate level. We believe that the success of our  to severance packages which are often higher than 
implementing our strategy, supporting youth  female employees is key to our success, and we are  local statutory minimum.
employment and enhancing our contribution to  committed to supporting the professional goals and  •  We support and encourage redeployment 
the communities in which we are present through  aspirations of our female colleagues. In 2019, in  activities for impacted employees to find new job 
our traineeship programs. We also encourage  India, our graduate diversity hiring improved to 54%  opportunities in the company, including retraining 
and support internal development of our whole  from 49% (2018). as necessary.
global employee population by promoting all non- •  We offer career counseling and job search support 
executive job vacancies internally first, for a period  More information on recruitment and careers can  outside the company.
of ten working days, prior to inviting external  be found at www.nokia.com/careers. Or visit us on  •  We offer employees continued training 
applications. In 2019, 49% of hires were internal,  LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter @NokiaCareers.  opportunities to maintain and develop their 
compared to 51% in 2018. skills and competencies to meet the anticipated 
Providing support during restructuring 
changes in business, markets, and the technology 
We take our Glassdoor reputation seriously and  The business environment we operate in is  environment in which we operate.
are proud to score among the best technology  challenging: the landscape remains tough and we 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 OOuurr  aapppprrooaacchh Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 73
5.6 
Inclusion, diversity and anti-discrimination 
Inclusion,  For our company, inclusion is about  Culture of Inclusion  Average age range of Nokia employees in 2019
creating an environment where all  We believe our inclusiveness is what makes us 
diversity 
thrive. In 2019, we launched the mandatory 
our people feel, and are, valued and  0.1%
eLearning module, Moving Beyond Bias, for all  Under 20
and anti-
accepted. They should feel they can  employees to foster a common understanding 
13%
about what inclusion and diversity means in Nokia  20–29 years
discrimination  bring their full selves to work each  and to counteract bias, and help shift from a fixed 
35%
mindset. As leaders play a vital role in creating an 
day and they are able to contribute  30–39 years
inclusive environment, we also piloted a training 
their personal best.  module called Navigating Bias. This program,  31%
40–49 years
specifically designed for line managers when 
making people-related decisions, will be rolled  18%
50–59 years
out in 2020. During 2019 we trained 1512 (906 in 
We cultivate a globally diverse workplace culture of  2018) managers on inclusive leadership practices. 4%
60 and above
respect. We do not tolerate discrimination based on 
any personal attribute such as race, ethnic origin,  In July we ran our first inclusion survey for all our 
color, nationality, disability, religion, age, gender,  employees to get an assessment of employee 
sexual orientation, gender identity, characteristics,  perceptions of inclusion and exclusion at Nokia.  Gender Balance
or expression, in all employment practices, including  Feedback gathered from 22% of our employees  We have a Gender Balance Steering Committee that 
recruitment, promotions, training, and pay levels.  indicated that the majority of employees feel  presents decision proposals to the Group Leadership 
included and agreed that the company's focused  Team and steers our various gender balance 
We have a strong focus on developing diverse  initiatives towards inclusion and diversity have  programs. The GLT members actively took part in 
talent across the organization. This includes pay  further strengthened our company culture. We  the high-touch global women leadership programs, 
practices which are regularly reviewed to align  also found out that when some employees felt  acting as mentors or sponsors to the Inspiring 
pay with performance, experience, and skills  excluded, they feel it’s because of who they are:  Women Leaders participants. 
required for every position. In 2019, we closed the  women who experience exclusion believe it is 
unexplained pay gap based on pay equity analysis  gender related; non-binary and other genders  Bloomberg has given us a strong score in its Gender 
we conducted with Mercer. This analysis found  tended to feel less included; some respondents felt  Equality Index (GEI) for 2020 – the second time in a 
a small but statistically significant unexplained  excluded based on their former legacy company  row that we are included in this index. Committed to 
pay gap in the company – a gap that could not be  origin. We have analyzed the reasons in detail  more equal and inclusive workplaces, we landed at a 
explained by factors that drive pay at Nokia, such  and developed focused action plans towards  GEI score of 71.26 compared to an average of 63.41 
as performance, experience, job grade, or location.  improvement. for the 37 technology companies included in the 
Read more.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 OOuurr  aapppprrooaacchh Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 74
5.6 
Inclusion, diversity and anti-discrimination 
overall list of 325 companies. For more information on  common theme for 2019 – Engaging managers for an  We take actions across our organization. For example, 
our diversity and inclusion activities visit our website.  inclusive workplace.  in India, our Human Resources team also modified 
its medical policies to make them more inclusive 
The gender diversity of our Board of Directors consists  StrongHer builds and deploys emblematic worldwide  for LGBT+ employees in 2019. The modifications 
of a number of individual elements, including gender,  programs through its global network of 40+ chapters  included allowing an employee cover for same 
generation, nationality, cultural and educational  across five continents. Its focus in 2019 was on the  gender partners and providing insurance cover for 
backgrounds, skills, and experience. In 2019, our board  deployment of the StrongHer Charter for Managers  procedures such as Sex Reassignment Surgery (SRS) 
represented 40% females and 60% males. In 2019,  to enable Nokia line managers to explicitly walk the  and Hormone Replacement Therapy (HRT).
15% of our leadership positions were held by women.  talk on gender balance, to publicly commit to take 
In total, women accounted for 22% of our workforce.  gender inclusive actions, and to become certified  EQUAL! is our LGBT+ Employee Resource Group which 
Our target has been to increase the percentage of  champions of the StrongHer values. Read more. provides education and support for our employees 
women in leadership by 25% by 2020 (baseline 2016). who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and other 
Black economic empowerment
related groups (LGBT+) or who have family, friends, or 
In 2019, we again hosted greenlight for girls (g4g)  In South Africa we are committed to good  colleagues who are LGBT+. We were proud to receive 
events to drive the interest of 11- to 15-year- governance practices, transparency, and compliance  recognitions for our activities around inclusion 
old girls in science, technology, engineering and  with all Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment  and diversity. For more information on our LGBT+ 
mathematics (STEM). Around 1 290 girls experienced  (BBBEE) codes of good practice. We have an  activities and recognitions in 2019 visit our website.
a day of science at our premises, hosted by 225  obligation to promote Black Economic Empowerment 
Equal opportunities for disabled employees 
employee volunteers. Read more on these and other  Programs, and also to ensure alignment to our group 
activities on our website. diversity programs. Hence through our BEE plan, we  We aim to ensure equal opportunities for disabled 
always commit to achieving specific BEE deliverables  people through programs such as Mission Handicap 
Inclusion and diversity are also driven bottom up  and actual target percentages for each deliverable.  and @TalentEgal in France where our percentage of 
within the company. We work with 14 employee  Read more. disabled employees was 4.5% by end 2019 and our 
resource groups who actively support grassroot  activities in Germany where our current disabled 
LGBT+ inclusion
movements that promote diversity and inclusive  quota is 5%. In late 2019 we also celebrated the 
behaviors. Consistent with our support for the United Nations  International Day of Persons with Disabilities with 
Standards of Conduct for Business (a framework  personal employee stories. The main objective 
StrongHer – employee network that 
for businesses to prevent discrimination based on  of doing this at Nokia was to give persons with 
promotes gender balance sexual orientation and gender identity), we launched  disabilities a voice to share their own stories, make 
StrongHer is an inclusive employee network aiming  our OUT Leader program in June 2019. The goal is  their contributions visible, unlock some biased 
for a company culture where women have the same  both to provide the space for LGBT+ leaders to be  mindsets and make everyone more comfortable 
opportunities as men and are well represented in  safely out, and just as importantly, to showcase role  about including people with disabilities into both 
all business domains and functions. To achieve real  models for LGBT+ employees to highlight their career  their discussions and their teams. For more 
change in the nomination dynamics, and visible  potential in the company.  information on our diversity and inclusion programs 
increase in gender statistics, StrongHer defined a  look here.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 OOuurr  aapppprrooaacchh Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 75
5.7
Strengthening our health and safety performance
Strengthening 
In our networks’ businesses, 
our health  employees and contractors face 
inherent risks when installing 
and safety 
and maintaining equipment and 
performance
constructing base stations on behalf 
of our customers. We focus on 
ensuring that all our employees and 
contractors are aware of the risks 
related to their jobs and receive the 
necessary training and equipment 
to work safely, whether in the office 
or on site. We address job-related 
health and safety (H&S) risks through 
training, analysis, assessments and 
consequence management. 
Our H&S management system is certified with the 
internationally recognized OHSAS 18001 standard 
and has third-party verification by Bureau Veritas. 
As of year end 2019, coverage of employees within 
the scope of that certification was around 79% and 
comprises all activities within all networks business 
groups, customer operations and supporting corporate 
functions. Moreover, we began the transition to the 
ISO 45001 standard in 2019.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 OOuurr  aapppprrooaacchh Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 76
5.7
Strengthening our health and safety performance
Group Leadership representatives review our health  supplier status for Health & Safety. Read more in  decreased by 20% with 362 incidents reported in 
and safety performance on a regular basis through  the responsible sourcing section. In 2019, we also  2019 (454 in 2018).
a Consequence Management Committee, covering  carried out impact assessments on 99% of all high-
Wellbeing
all fatal and high potential incidents and setting  risk projects. 100% of those projects were found to 
strategic direction. meet our minimum non-negotiable requirements.  Internally we continued to focus on wellbeing as a 
Projects were assessed, scored and tracked to  key enabler of performance excellence and business 
More information on our Health & Safety programs  identify potential improvements.  success. Our wellbeing framework has three pillars: 
can be found online. We encourage employees and  Thrive, which creates a working environment at 
contractors to report near misses and dangerous  We strive to be the industry leader in Health and  Nokia where people’s health and wellbeing is not 
incidents. Our health, safety and labour conditions  Safety and were honored to receive the Golden  only maintained but improved; Manage, which 
policy can be found here. Peacock Award for Occupational Health & Safety  embeds wellbeing into all aspects of our people 
at the 20th World Congress on Environment  management practices; and Care, which provides 
Health and safety campaigns
Management and Climate Change in India. We  timely, professional support for every employee. 
On 2 May 2019 we celebrated World Safety Day, and  also attained the prestigious bizSAFE Level 3  More on wellbeing and our activities in 2019 can be 
this year we shone a spotlight on our achievements.  certification in Singapore, as one result of going  found here.
The theme was Excellence on repeat, which involves  above and beyond general requirements for our 
taking a different perspective, placing a focus on  customers. The topic of Health and Safety is  We design products that transmit and receive 
the positive, and learning from what we do right  also an important part of our mandatory Ethical  radio frequency (RF) energy. In 2019 we were also 
in Nokia. The aim was to understand what enables  Business Training.  a key contributor to the standardization of Electro 
us to succeed so that we not only celebrate our  Magnetic Field (EMF) exposure assessment for 5G 
Our health and safety performance
achievements, but also share how and why we  base stations. Our updated Nokia RF exposure 
earned those achievements,so that others may learn  In 2019, there was one (zero in 2018) work-related  statement can be found here.
from them, and more importantly repeat them,  fatal incident resulting in the death of one (zero in 
demonstrating our culture and values in everyday life  2018) employee. In addition, there were six (one 
at Nokia. Participants also used the World Safety Day  in 2018) work-related fatal incidents resulting 
platform to reinforce our company Life Saving Rules. in the death of six (one in 2018) contractors or 
subcontractors. Any such serious incidents while 
Addressing key risks  
carrying out work for Nokia are unacceptable. 
through training and assessments
By the end of 2019, 97% (89% in 2018) of suppliers  Lost-time incidents of our employees decreased 
carrying out high risk work had been assessed  by 64% between 2018–2019, standing at 14 
against our H&S Maturity Assessment program.  incidents in 2019 (39 in 2018). Reporting of near 
99% of the assessed suppliers met compliant  miss incidents by both employees and contractors 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 OOuurr  aapppprrooaacchh Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 77
66..00
Making change happen together
Making change 
happen  
together
We achieve the greatest positive impact through  
collaboration between industry sectors, civil society,  
customer segments, employees and other stakeholders.  
We work with customers, suppliers, partners, industries,  
academia, non-governmental organizations, cities,  
governments and civil society, who all have an important  
role to play in making positive change happen. 
As the world becomes more urbanized we must all live, work 
and cooperate with each other to create a sustainable future.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 78
6.1
Highlights
Highlights 2 000 000  1 290 
Collaboration is key. We achieve 
the greatest sustainable impact 
when we work with others who 
have a vested interest and we 
create shared value.
girls attended our STEM days 
Sustainable development is built  is the number of lives we target to improve over the period 2016 to 2025 
held on our premises with 
on each stakeholder taking their 
through our key corporate and regional community investment programs
greenlight for girls 
responsibility, not only for their 
own challenges and opportunities 
but to enable other parties to 
be more sustainable and thus 
improve lives.
206 900 Helping hands
14 959 730
our new employee volunteering 
program enabled us to support 
45 local community projects 
individuals directly benefited  
around the world with both  people indirectly benefited from 
from our community programs in 2019.  
our mobile health collaboration 
funding and people out of  
Since 2016 around 1 633 500 people  
with UNICEF in Indonesia in 2019
264 requests received from 
have benefited from the programs
our employees
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 79
6.2
Collaborating with NGOs
Collaborating  Our three key pillars of connecting 
s
s
o
the unconnected, empowering  Cr
with NGOs d 
e
R
women, and saving lives remained  h 
s
ni
n
the basis of our community  Fi
©
investment programs in 2019. 
We support programs which have a long-term impact 
and create a sustainable future platform in the 
target communities, while being aligned with the UN 
Sustainable Development goals. 
We continued some global long-term collaborations, 
but also shifted our focus from a heavily global 
approach to a more balanced local one, by focusing 
more on targeting employee engagement for 
volunteering through our Helping hands initiative, 
introduced below.
We have recently renewed our corporate community 
investment priorities, and from 2020 onwards the key 
pillars are Connecting the Unconnected, Empowering 
Diversity, and Defending our Climate. These updated 
pillars were aligned to support the most material  In 2019, we continued our long-term programs with  We finalized our five-year program with Save the 
sustainability topics in Nokia. We want to support  UNICEF in Indonesia and Kenya. In Kenya, we teamed  Children in Myanmar which aimed to improve access 
all diverse groups, so while continuing to empower  up with UNICEF and the Government of Kenya in  to and quality of preschool education for the most 
women through our programs, in the future we will  a multi-partner collaboration to bring internet  marginalized children and enhance advocacy and 
also focus on supporting persons with disabilities and  connectivity and digital learning to disadvantaged  policy engagement in the national education sector.
other forms of diversity and inclusion. The other new  Kenyan schools. In Indonesia, we have worked 
theme, Defending our Climate reflects our strong  together with UNICEF since 2017 to support the  We continued the collaboration with greenlight 
commitment to combatting climate change, allowing  development of high-impact mobile health (mhealth)  for girls (g4g), who provide STEM based education 
us to collaborate with environmental NGOs as well. programs that save lives.  programs for young girls. We held in total five joint 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 80
6.2
Collaborating with NGOs
g4g-Nokia events and joined two larger g4g events,  investment programs was continued for 2019. Our  83% of Nokia’s community investment contributions  
where 255 of our employees together with g4g  university donations program was also included again  were aligned to the three thematic priorities
professionals showed 1290 girls the fun in STEM  as part of total CCI impact.
43%
through interactive workshops. More information on 
our global programs online. In 2019, we invested EUR 2.3 million in communities 
17% 4
around the world, representing a 65% decrease in 
In April 2019 we launched Helping hands, our  contributions from 2018. The decrease is largely  1  Connecting the unconnected 43%
employee engagement community volunteering  due to budget reductions in our regional programs  2  Saving lives 22%
1
3
program which allows us to support 45 locally based  and 84% of the contributions were provided as cash,  3  Empowering women 18%
community programs that are close to the hearts  15% as employee time and a minimal share as in- 4  None of the above 17%
of our employees. The projects cover a total of  kind non-cash resources. The key regional (India and  18%
30 countries where they mobilize hundreds of our  China) contributions covered 19% of the total spend,  2
employees. Each project is done in collaboration  corporate 36%, university donations 32% and the 
22%
with a trusted NGO and is aligned with our overall  remaining 12% came from local markets.
CCI themes. For more information on Helping hands 
and all our community-based programs in 2019 see  83% of the global and key regional contributions 
our website. supported our three themes. Most contributions 
in 2019 were classified under the Connecting 
Our Season’s Greetings campaign from 2018–2019  the Unconnected theme. In 2019, our programs 
saw three employee-voted programs receive funding  supported over 23 500 people to develop new skills 
for work in 2019. The 3 programs were the Red Cross  or personal effectiveness, improved the quality of life 
Disaster Relief Fund which supported the victims of  or wellbeing of over 20 000 people, and improved 
Cyclone Idai in Mozambique, Oxfam Refugee Crisis  the quality of and access to healthcare for over 
Appeal helping Rohingya people in refugee camps in  21 900 people in developing countries.
Bangladesh, and Plan International’s Digital Gender 
Volunteering
Divide program, working in Uganda and Ethiopia 
to build up young people’s work-related skills and  Our volunteering guidelines and supplemental 
capacities. For more on the activities enabled by this  standard operating procedure (SOP) provide support 
funding, visit our website. to our employees on charitable sponsorships and 
donations. All employees are allowed two days 
Our total CCI impact
per year from their paid working time to engage 
Our collaboration with Corporate Citizenship  in volunteering work. In 2019, our employees 
and London Benchmark Group (LBG) on impact  contributed around 9 600 hours of volunteering in 
measurement and data analysis of our community  paid working time, down from 18 500 in 2018. 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 81
6.2
Collaborating with NGOs
Engaging with our communities  
The introduction of Helping hands projects in 2019  We have recently renewed 
has shown a significant increase in the number of  on the ground
our corporate community 
NGO partnerships that have volunteering in paid- Our Location Development (LD) is the global program 
working time opportunities for our employees.  that aims for every location to be recognized locally  investment priorities, and from 
We introduced our Helping hands employee  as Employer of Choice and Hub of Innovation. LD 
2020 onwards the key pillars are 
engagement volunteering program on a global  covers location specific improvement actions. Locally, 
level, which will hopefully provide a more systematic  volunteers from each internal organization team up  Connecting the Unconnected, 
approach and some financial support for smaller  to make it happen. The location head is the project 
Empowering Diversity, and 
local community programs. In 2019, Helping hands  leader, and reports forecasted location improvement 
mobilized approximately 200 employee volunteers,  projects into the location development dashboard.  Defending our Climate.”
who contributed in total around 1 300 hours of  The program focuses on local attractiveness, local 
volunteering in paid working time. best employee experience and engagement, ensuring 
one Nokia culture across business groups and across 
For example, as part of our community investment  functions locally. 
programs in India, we continued Smartpur, our 
project to digitalize villages, our support for  Volunteers in our locations around the world carry 
education for out-of-school children in migrant  out innumerable acts of kindness throughout 
communities, and work with WWF to contribute  the year, providing the basics for those in critical 
to the rejuvenation, restoration and further  need: food, clothing, and refurbishing shelters. 
conservation of two wetlands. Many provide next-level aid through education and 
professional training, helping those to break the cycle 
In China, among other initiatives, we worked with  of poverty. Our Location Development again actively 
Junior Achievement (JA) on the final competition  supported our Corporate Community Investment 
of Technology Innovation Relay in Middle Schools  approach both through Helping hands projects and 
of Sichuan Province in our Chengdu R&D Center as  through other local volunteering activities globally. In 
the year’s culmination of our community work there.  2019 we saw some 360 local humanitarian projects 
Students submitted innovation suggestions based  supported by more than 3 700 employees. The 
on careful observation and in-depth consideration  reported number of volunteering hours was around 
of practical problems in life and their care for society  11 000, reaching 29 000 beneficiaries.
and the well-being of people. In China, we also 
continued our collaboration for the 9th year with 
Zhonggu Charity on the Internet Classroom against 
Poverty program, where we built internet classrooms 
and donated second-hand computers to schools in 
remote, underdeveloped villages. Read more.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 82
6.3 
Working with governmental and multilateral organizations
Working with  We also work with industry 
partners, policy makers, 
governmental 
international and multilateral 
and multilateral 
organizations, civil society and 
organizations academia, to help transform 
towards a digital economy and 
society. Digitalization will play an 
increasing role in enabling all 17 
Sustainable Development Goals.
Our approach to governments
We contribute to policy debates fostering a 
connected society and the adoption of new 
technologies around the world. We do not participate 
in the political or electoral process through direct 
donations to political groups. 
Our guidelines for dealing with government officials 
always apply, regardless of the employee’s role and 
the purpose or frequency of interaction. They also 
apply for interactions with employees of state-owned 
companies and other governmental customers. The 
basic guidance for interaction with a government 
official is laid down in our Code of Conduct.
striving for economic and societal development on  Cooperation in standardization
Industry cooperation
the national, regional and global levels, such as World  We participate in industry organization activities 
We have broad and deep interaction and  Economic Forum (WEF), GSMA, and Digital Europe.  to develop standards for digitalization and 
collaboration with many key industry bodies that are  Read more on our website. sustainability, especially related to 5G. We collaborate 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 83
6.3 
Working with governmental and multilateral organizations
with other companies and actively participate in  United Nations Broadband Commission We have broad and 
many standardization fora on several topics such  As UN Broadband Commissioner, our President and 
deep interaction and 
as energy efficient telecommunications networks,  CEO Rajeev Suri actively engaged in the Broadband 
circular product and supply chain, science-based  Commission session in Davos on how to connect  collaboration with many  
emission reduction target setting for the ICT sector,  the remaining unconnected and advance the UN 
key industry bodies that are 
lawful interception in telecommunication network,  Sustainable Development Goals through technology. 
and other regulatory aspects.  striving for developments in the 
European Union – African Union  
economy and society at national, 
On reducing energy consumption, we also contribute  Digital Economy Task Force
to the update of the EU Code of Conduct on Energy  We took an active membership role in the EU-AU  regional and global level.”
Consumption of Broadband Equipment. As a new  DETF to drive cooperation between both continents 
topic in 2019, we joined the standardization work on  in the digital space. Four priority themes included 
the ethical use of Artificial Intelligence. universal access to affordable broadband, better 
digital skills for all citizens, digitally enabled 
A snapshot of our activities in 2019 entrepreneurship, and adoption of eServices.
World Economic Forum World Summit on the Information Society and  AI solutions. Additionally, our representative was 
As member of the WEF Digital Communications  ITU Telecom World 2019 the co-rapporteur in the public sector for a report 
Governors Group, our President and CEO Rajeev Suri  We join important fora of global exchanges on  on investment and policy recommendations for 
is driving a 5G and next generation networks project.  connectivity and sustainability. The World Summit  trustworthy AI.
In November 2019, he was nominated as Vice- on the Information Society (WSIS) Forum represents 
Chair of the WEF Digital Communications Steering  the world's largest annual gathering of the ICT for 
Committee. In Argentina, we lead the Infrastructure  development community. We participated and spoke 
group as part of WEF's Internet for All Initiative  at the event. In September 2019, we also sponsored 
together with the Secretary of ICT. the ITU Telecom World event in Budapest, Hungary, 
and contributed to the discussions there.
European Round Table of Industrialists
In 2019, Chair of Nokia Board of Directors Risto  European Commission High Level  
Siilasmaa hosted an ERT plenary session in Finland.  Expert Group on AI
The ERT brings together chief executives and  As a participant of the AI HLEG we have helped 
chairpersons from major multinational companies  create guidelines for trustworthy artificial 
of European parentage covering a wide range of  intelligence, providing a European framework for 
industrial and technological sectors. ethical, law-abiding, and robust deployment of 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 84
6.4
Collaboration with universities, cities and other industries
Collaboration  We work with a broad range of 
technologies, AI, advanced materials and Industrial  programs in Belgium, Canada, China, Germany, Italy, 
academic institutions in areas  IoT. As well as delivering breakthrough technologies,  the UK, and the USA.
with universities,  
this network also provides access to cutting-edge 
such as collaborative research,  Working with cities
expertise to build our talent pipeline. Some highlights 
cities and other 
training programs, innovation  from this program in 2019 include: We continued our work with cities and communities 
•  we created a new battery design for the 5G world  to drive digitalization and smart development 
industries events, talent development and  with our research partners at AMBER, Trinity  that will provide sustainable living for citizens and 
College Dublin sustainable development for businesses. In 2019 
continuous learning. Our University 
•  within 12 months of its launch, our research  we announced cooperation with, for example, 
Donations Program also provides  center with Cambridge University has become  cities in Canada, Czech Republic, Israel, Japan, the 
the nucleus of mobile, wearable and ubiquitous  United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom and the 
the opportunity to work with 
systems research in the UK ecosystem United States. We provided solutions and platforms, 
universities to further scientific  •  we implemented a smart lighting pilot in Antwerp  for example, for disaster communications and 
with IMEC preparedness, public safety, environmental sensing, 
exploration, develop talent, and 
•  the Secure and Private IOT initiative at CyLab,  and security. Read more information here.
share and create knowledge.  Carnegie Mellon University is now well established 
with an exciting research agenda We also enhanced our Smart Home offering and 
added new products and features to our whole-home 
For more examples of recent outcomes and  WiFi portfolio to enhance the consumer experience. 
We balance our long-term research between  more information about the program please visit  Read more online.
the technology and human-focused scientific  our website.
research. For instance, while developing new 
technologies for connected robots, we study the  Our University Donations Program aims to sponsor 
intersections of technology and human needs using  high quality research in areas that are close to 
a multidisciplinary approach. our business interests, such as those relating to 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) and future 6G, or indirectly, 
Through its Distinguished Academic Partner program,  such as with other sectors where ICT and digital 
Nokia Bell Labs fosters intensive collaboration with  communications will play a key role. In 2019, we 
the best and brightest minds from the world’s top  contributed EUR 730 000 and equipment to 18 
universities and academic organizations to drive a  universities across the world for innovation projects. 
vision of future human needs. We have created a  See online for examples of some of the work done 
global network of world-leading partners delivering  under these donation programs. The programs 
disruptive innovation in technologies such as 5G  supported by our university donations included 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 85
7.0
Key data and reporting principles
Key data and  
reporting principles
The sustainability data presented in the following pages covers Nokia Group, 
covering the calendar year 2019 and where available, trend data since year 
2016. Before the data tables we describe the data reporting principles.
Data surrounds us, it is part of who we are  
and what we do. It helps us make decisions.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 86
7.1
Data reporting principles
Data  
Scope and boundaries tools, and emission factors. Below we explain key  with environmental reporting methodology in 2019. 
The sustainability data presented in this report  information from the Handbook. All environmental  Subleased areas, covering 6% of the total site area, 
reporting 
covers Nokia Group, including Networks business,  data is presented in rounded numbers. Year-on-year  are not covered in reporting from 2019 onwards. Also 
Nokia Software, Nokia Technologies and Group  comparison calculations for all environmental data  intensity factors used for estimating missing facility 
principles 
Common and Other. The report contains limited  are done with non-rounded values. data were changed in 2019. Previously water and 
information on our undersea cables business, Alcatel  waste estimations were done based on employee 
Resource utilization
Submarine Networks (ASN), and our antenna systems  headcount, but from 2019 onwards estimations are 
business, Radio Frequency Systems (RFS). Both ASN  Energy data covers stationary and mobile sources  done based on facility area (m2). 
and RFS are reported in Group Common and Other.  combustion of fuels and consumption of electricity, 
Data covers the calendar year 2019 and where  heat, and cooling in facility operations, as well as  Waste generated at our facilities is handled directly 
available, trend data since year 2016. Information  combustion of fuels in the marine fleet. Water data  by vendors, by landlord vendors and local authorities. 
dating back to 2003 is available on our website. covers withdrawal of water from municipal sources  The level of accuracy varies, and we aim to report the 
in facility operations and the share of recycled water,  most accurate data. Where specific weights are not 
Newly acquired companies will be included in  which is recycled both for sanitary purposes and for  available, to ensure maximum coverage we employ 
the reporting scope when they have been legally  irrigation. Waste generation covers hazardous and  estimation and extrapolation methods. Utilized waste 
consolidated and integrated into Nokia systems.  nonhazardous waste generated in facility operations.  includes waste that has been either reused, recycled, 
Exceptions to the reporting scope for certain  In addition, we separately report packaging waste,  or the energy from it has been utilized. Non-utilized 
indicators are specified in data table notes. When  which is reused in our distribution hubs operated  waste has been either sent to a landfill or incinerated 
adjustments have been made compared to earlier  by service providers, and the amount of equipment  without energy recovery. Composting of biowaste is 
reports, they are specified in data table notes.  collected at the end-of-life. recorded under recycling. The definitions for what is 
reported under hazardous and non-hazardous waste 
Assurance
Energy, water, and waste consumption data is typically  have been made on a global level to keep corporate 
Our selected indicators have been assured  collected from facility-level responders, obtained  reporting simple. For example, all discarded batteries 
by an independent auditor of Nokia,  from invoices or metered data. For facilities with no  and electric and electronical waste (WEEE) are 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy. The indicator selection  data availability, usage of 2019 data is estimated  reported globally under hazardous waste, although 
is done based on our materiality analysis, target  employing annual intensity factors based on kWh/m2  only different sub-categories of WEEE are defined 
setting and specific stakeholder needs. Please see  (electricity and natural gas), m3/m2 (water) and kg/ hazardous in different countries. The actual waste 
more information on Independent Practitioner’s  m2 (waste), as calculated from the reporting sites,  treatment is always done according to local legal 
Assurance Report on page 107. thereby accounting for 100% of Nokia facilities. In  requirements. Reported waste data is rounded to 
2019, these estimation procedures accounted for  hundreds of metrics tons. We ensure the total waste 
Environmental data
less than 5% of electricity and natural gas usage,  amount rounds correctly and summed sub-metrics 
We have an internal document Environmental Data  less than 15% of waste generation and less than  match the total. This might lead to small rounding 
Handbook, where we document, for example, data  15% of water withdrawal, when compared to total  exceptions with the sub-metrics. 
boundaries, data collection methodologies, used  withdrawal, respectively. There are two changes 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 87
7.1
Data reporting principles
Our carbon footprint groups of greenhouse gases related to the Kyoto  are calculated by using emission factors published by 
Our approach to measuring greenhouse gas  Protocol: Carbon dioxide (CO2), Hydrofluorocarbons  United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
emissions follows the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol  (HFCs), Methane (CH4), Nitrous oxide (N2O), 
(www.ghgprotocol.org) developed by the World  Perfluorocarbons (PFCs), Sulphur hexafluoride  Direct CO2e emissions from our mobile fleet are 
Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business  (SF6). CO2 equivalent (CO2e) is the universal unit  tracked by obtaining information from country-
Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). We  of measurement to indicate the global warming  specific leasing suppliers, which are consolidated into 
use the following three standards:  potential (GWP) of each of the six greenhouse gases,  one system. Emissions calculation is based on actual 
•  The Greenhouse Gas Protocol, A Corporate  expressed in terms of the GWP of one unit of CO2. driven mileage and official CO2 emission value per 
accounting and reporting standard km of each car make and model. Applicable emission 
Operational boundaries  
•  GHG Protocol, Scope 2 guidance, An Amendment  factors are sourced from car manufacturers. As an 
to the GHG Protocol corporate standard and emission calculation exception, in the USA emissions are calculated based 
•  Corporate value chain (Scope 3), Accounting  We use the operational control approach for  on driven mileages and actual fuel consumption. In the 
and reporting standard, Supplement to the  setting organizational boundaries for our GHG  case that the distance travelled is not available from 
GHG Protocol corporate accounting and  emissions inventory. We use emission factors  the leasing supplier, the budgeted annual mileage 
reporting standard. available at the end of the reporting year. From  in the leasing contract is used for calculation. Direct 
2018 reporting onwards we follow the GHG Protocol  CO2e emissions from our marine fleet are calculated 
The GHG Protocol defines three scopes of CO2e  recommendation to use IPCC 5th Assessment  based on the fuel type and fuel usage of marine 
emissions: Report (AR5) GWP100 values. These values do not  vessels. Alcatel Submarine Networks maintains a listing 
•  Scope 1 – direct emissions, from sources owned or  include climate-carbon feedbacks. Some emission  of all owned vessels with associated fuel consumption. 
controlled by the company. factor data sources still use GWP100 values from  All GHG estimation procedures are based on individual 
•  Scope 2 – indirect emissions, from the  AR4 as a data source of their emission factors. The  vessel assessments.
consumption of purchased electricity, heat,  expectation is that all data sources will start to 
and/or steam. As per GHG Protocol Scope 2  use AR5 values in the coming years. Where we use  Scope 2 emissions
Guidance - An amendment to the GHG Protocol  emission factors developed by the International  Indirect CO2e emissions include emissions from 
Corporate Standard, published in 2015, we report  Energy Agency, OECD/IEA, the emission calculations  purchased electricity, heating, and cooling. As 
both location-based and market-based Scope 2  have been prepared by Nokia and do not necessarily  per GHG Protocol definitions, the location-based 
emissions from 2014 onwards. reflect the views of the International Energy Agency. accounting method quantifies scope 2 GHG 
•  Scope 3 – indirect emissions, as a consequence of  emissions based on average energy generation 
the activities of the company, but from sources  Scope 1 emissions emission factors for defined locations, including local, 
not owned or controlled by the company. Direct CO2e emissions from Nokia facilities include  subnational, or national boundaries. In our case, 
GHG emissions resulting from the combustion of  location-based emission factors are obtained from 
Greenhouse gases
oil and gas within Nokia facilities, along with minor  EPA eGrid for the USA and for all the other countries 
We report the emissions as CO2e as per GHG  direct releases of GHGs associated with refrigerant  we use IEA Emission factors developed by the 
Protocol’s guidance. GHG Protocol is including six  leakage from facilities’ cooling systems. Emissions  International Energy Agency, OECD/IEA.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 88
7.1
Data reporting principles
The market-based accounting method quantifies  1.  Purchased goods and services: emissions are  and estimated by using the GHG Protocol Scope 
Scope 2 GHG emissions based on the emissions  reported based on data collected with CDP  3 Evaluator tool. 
emitted by the generators from which the reporter  Climate Survey from Nokia’s biggest suppliers,  3.  Fuel and energy related activities not included 
contractually purchases electricity bundled with  representing 55% of total purchase spend in  in Scope 1 and 2: not presently being assessed, 
instruments, or unbundled instruments on their  2019 (46% in 2018). In 2019 we used a hybrid  because emissions are by calculation less than 
own. In our case, applicable market-based residual  method, using emissions allocated for Nokia by  0.1% of total Scope 3 emissions.
emission factors are employed for sites located in  the suppliers and also intensity based (GHG/€)  4.  Upstream transportation and distribution: Data 
Europe (obtained from the Association of Issuing  allocation, where allocated emissions were not  includes emissions from inbound and outbound 
Bodies (AIB)), the United States and Canada (obtained  available or allocation was not reliable based on  logistics. Data is based on the top 19 (19 in 2018) 
from Green-e). Those sites that purchase certified  different internal quality measures. Collected  logistics supply partners (LSP) delivery data 
renewable electricity are assigned an emission  data is then multiplied to cover 100% of spend.  (tonne-km) and transportation mode. Reporting 
factor of zero based on the quantity of green energy  In 2019 calculation we included only suppliers’  is done with real weight, by using EPA’s CO2e 
employed. If supplier-specific emission factors are not  Scope 1+2 emissions, not Scope 3 emissions,  emission factors. Upstream emissions include 
available, location-based emission factors are applied. which were reported only by a small share of  emissions from transportation paid by Nokia.
respondents. Suppliers providing transportation  5.  Waste generated in operations: not assessed 
GHG emissions associated with purchased  services for products are excluded as “emissions  because emissions are by calculation less than 
steam and heat are calculated employing the  from transportation and distribution” are  0.1% of total Scope 3 emissions.
applicable EPA emission factor, which is based  reported in a separate Scope 3 category. 2019  6.  Business travel: emissions are reported for 
on the assumption that natural gas was used to  disclosure is based on the latest CDP data  business air travel, which has the biggest 
fuel a boiler exhibiting an efficiency of 80%. GHG  representing suppliers’ year 2018 emissions. We  impact out of business travel modes. Travel 
emissions associated with purchased chilled water  recognize that this emission category includes  information is obtained from our assigned 
and cooling are calculated employing the same  a lot of uncertainty, as suppliers have different  Travel Agencies. Supplied data includes distance 
country emissions factors as electricity, based on an  qualities in their own reporting and in allocating  travelled, delineated by flight distance ranges 
assumed efficiency of 100%. Emissions avoided due  emissions to Nokia, and due to the extrapolation  and cabin class. Data from travel agencies 
to the purchase of renewable energy are verified  Nokia does for data to represent 100% of  is consolidated in a system which is used to 
utilizing Guarantees of Origin (GOs) and Green  Nokia spend. calculate emissions from air travel. Emissions 
Tariffs in Europe, as well as International Renewable  2.  Capital goods: the relevance of emissions from  factors are obtained from EPA.
Energy Certificates (I-REC) in China.  this category to be included in the Scope 3  7.  Employee commuting: We conducted an 
inventory is assessed each year, as capital goods  employee commuting survey in 2018. Survey 
Scope 3 emissions purchases vary from year to year. The threshold  results are a representative sample from several 
For relevant Scope 3 categories the calculation  for inclusion is 0.5% of total Scope 1+2+3  countries. Those results are extrapolated to 
methodology for estimating emissions is described.  emissions. Emissions from capital goods are  represent commuting of all employees for 
For non-relevant Scope 3 categories, an explanation  based on financial data on property, plant, and  2018-2019 emissions. 2016–2017 emissions are 
is provided.  equipment additions during the reporting year  reported based on a worldwide survey conducted 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 89
7.1
Data reporting principles
at former Alcatel Lucent in December 2015.  Earlier, the IEA’s latest four-year world average  Hiring and attrition rates are calculated against 
Since no employee commuting survey had been  CO2 emission factors were.  the average at month-end permanent headcounts. 
conducted for the combined Nokia company, the  12. End-of-life treatment of sold products: not  Number of new employee hires includes “Hire, 
results of the previous survey were extrapolated,  considered relevant. Based on an LCA done  Rehire & Convert from Contractor/External 
based on 2016–2017 Nokia headcount. by Nokia for a typical Nokia mobile network  transactions activity” and excludes merger and 
8.  Upstream leased assets: not presently being  product (urban base station site in Europe),  acquisition activity. Employees with permanent 
assessed as leased vehicles and facilities are  the use phase accounts for over 84% of global  contracts include internal employees not 
presently assessed in Scope 1 emissions. warming potential, production (supply chain and  having data indicating employee is on a fixed-
9.  Downstream transportation and distribution:  own operations) for 14%, logistics for 2% and  term contract or a trainee. The definition of 
not presently being assessed as the share of  end-of-life treatment rounds to 0%. End-of-life  Line Manager is a manager with one or more 
transportation and distribution paid by the  treatment emissions are not significant either in  subordinates. Nokia’s executive management 
customers is so small that emissions of this  other Nokia product categories. board is the Group Leadership team. Senior 
category were below 0.5% of total Scope 3  13. Downstream leased assets: not presently being  management is defined to have job grade 13+ and 
emissions. assessed because emissions are by calculation  leadership 12+.
10. Processing of sold products: not considered  less than 0.1% of total Scope 3 emissions. 
relevant because processing is not required for  14. Franchises: not applicable, as Nokia does not  Training and education data is obtained from 
sold Nokia products. have franchises. the NokiaEDU department. Training provided for 
11. Use of sold products: The calculation formula  15. Investments: not applicable, as this category  externals is not included in the employee-related 
is following: Σ [total lifetime expected uses of  is designed primarily for private financial  numbers but reported separately. One training 
products (hours) x number of products sold in  institutions. day includes seven training hours. The average 
reporting period x product power consumption  number of all training hours per employee also 
(kW) x emission factor for electricity (kg CO2e/ Reported emission data is rounded to hundred  includes training arranged by Business Groups or 
kWh)]. Data covers products from Nokia’s  metric tons. We ensure the total Scope 1, 2 and 3  external parties, and training records approved by a 
Network business groups. Product use time  amount is rounded correctly. This might lead to small  Line Manager.
varies between 6 and 15 years, depending on  rounding exceptions with the sub-metrics.
the products. Energy use calculations are based  Mobility data is obtained from the HR department’s 
Social data
on product group specific standards, e.g. by  databases and includes long-term assignments. 
ETSI, wherever standards have been published.  Year-end headcount is as published in financial  Occupational health and safety data is obtained 
The objective is to have a product coverage  reporting. Some personal and transactional job  from the Health, Safety, Security and Environment 
above 80%; in 2019 we are above 90%.  related detail data is however not included in  (HSSE) department. The indicator name defines, 
Calculations are so far based on assumption  Nokia’s central HR databases. In 2019, the number  whether the data covers Nokia employees and 
that all products are powered by grid electricity.  of employees whose individual detail data was not  or contractors and sub-contractors. Cut-off day 
Since 2018, we have been using the IEA’s latest  tracked centrally was 5 375 in 2019 (5 374 in 2018,   of incident reporting is in early January. There 
world average CO2 equivalent emission factor.  3 055 in 2017 and 1 669 in 2016). can be some cases, especially from contractors, 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 90
7.1
Data reporting principles
reported after the cut-off day. Nokia’s HSSE  smelter information is reported through the Conflict 
organization puts most effort on prevention of  Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT), consolidated 
critical and fatal incidents and we realize lost- to the Master Template and compared against 
time incidents data may not be as accurate as the  Responsible Mineral Initiative’s audit program lists.
aforementioned data.
Community investments include contributions as 
cash, value of time and value of in-kind. In 2016 
–2017 cash has represented minimum 95% of 
the total contributions, around 90% in 2018 and 
84% in 2019. The number of beneficiaries includes 
beneficiaries from corporate and key regional 
programs. Related to monetary contributions, since 
2017 we have also been able to track part of local 
programs in addition to global and regional ones.
Ethics data
Data on reported concerns and investigations 
are obtained from the Business Integrity Group 
as recorded in the Case Management Tools, and 
included to the best of the team’s knowledge.
Supply chain data
Data on audits and supplier assessments are 
obtained from Procurement Quality Office. The 
EcoVadis platform is utilized in metrics related to 
EcoVadis assessments and the CDP platform related 
to climate change management. Conflict-free 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 91
7.2
Environmental data
2016 2017 2018 2019
Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Year-on-year  2019   Notes
Environmental   2018–20192 data assured
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
data
Total GHG Scope 1 (Direct emissions from facilities and mobile sources)  189 200 143 500 134 500 125 000 -7% 3
(metric tons CO2e)
Emissions from Nokia facilities
Emissions of GHGs from fuel combustion in facilities   34 000 33 600 29 000 20 800 -28% 4
(stationary and mobile sources)
Emissions from Hydro-Fluoro-Carbon (HFC) refrigerants 1 000 400 600 300 -46%
Emissions from Nokia fleet
Emissions from fuel combustion in car fleet 36 300 34 300 32 000 29 600 -8%
Emissions from fuel combustion in marine fleet 117 900 75 200 72 900 74 300 2%
GHG Scope 2 (Indirect emissions from purchased electricity and heat),  465 700 446 900 364 900 327 200 -10% 5
Market-based (metric tons CO2e)
Emissions from purchased electricity 451 700 423 400 347 300 311 300 -10%
Emissions from purchased cooling 3 300 12 000 7 900 8 200 5%
Emissions from purchased heating 10 700 11 500 9 700 7 700 -21%
GHG Scope 2 (Indirect emissions from purchased electricity and heat),  519 400 482 800 436 900 421 900 -3% 5
Location-based (metric tons CO2e)
Emissions from purchased electricity 505 400 459 300 419 400 406 000 -3%
Emissions from purchased cooling 3 300 12 000 7 900 8 200 5%
Emissions from purchased heating 10 700 11 500 9 700 7 700 -21%
Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, Market-based (metric tons CO2e) 654 900 590 400 499 400 452 200 -9% 5
Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, Location-based (metric tons CO2e) 708 600 626 300 571 400 546 900 -4% 5
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 92
77..22
Environmental data
2016 2017 2018 2019
Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Year-on-year  2019   Notes
Environmental   2018–20192 data assured
GHG Scope 3, Indirect emissions (metric tons CO2e) 45 601 000 42 660 700 44 673 500 39 276 200 -12%
data
Emissions from purchased goods and services 1 725 900 1 428 500 5 284 000 3 063 000 -42% 6,7
Emissions from upstream transportation and distribution 268 400 298 500 384 300 303 600 -21% 6
Emissions from capital goods 408 700 499 900 398 200 417 000 5%
Emissions from business air travel 113 300 98 000 81 500 71 700 -12% 8
Emissions from employee commuting 154 700 135 800 118 400 110 900 -6% 9
Emissions from the use of sold products 42 930 000 40 200 000 38 410 000 35 310 000 -8% 6, 10
Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions, Market-based 46 255 900 43 251 100 45 172 900 39 728 400 -12% 5
Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions, Location-based 46 309 600 43 287 000 45 244 900 39 823 100 -12% 5
GHG intensities and miscellaneous GHG information
Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions per net sales (€ million), Market-based 28 26 22 19 -12%
Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions per net sales (€ million), Location-based 30 27 25 23 -7%
Car fleet CO2e/vehicle km 139 139 135 129 -5%
Emissions avoided due to purchased renewable electricity 100 300 90 000 129 700 145 900 12%
Biologically sequestered carbon 0 0 0 0 11
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 93
7.2
Environmental data
2016 2017 2018 2019
Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Year-on-year  2019   Notes
Environmental   2018–20192 data assured
Other air emissions (metric tons)
data
Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS), as ODP 0.01 0.00 0.02 <0.01 -82%
Criteria air pollutants 53.7 54.3 63.5 36.1 -43%
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) emissions 1.4 1.4 1.6 1.0 -41% 12
NO 26.3 26.0 30.9 18.1 -41%
x
SO 2.4 4.3 3.7 0.8 -77%
x
Total Particulate Matter (PM) emissions 2.1 2.2 2.6 1.4 -45%
Other criteria air contaminants 21.4 20.4 24.8 14.8 -40%
Energy consumption
Energy consumption in Nokia facilities (GWh) (1 GWh = 3 600 GJ)
Electricity, total 1 091 1 039 1 005 961 -4%
Heating, total 47 51 43 34 -21%
Cooling, total 6 24 17 27 60%
Fossil gas, total 138 154 141 111 -21%
Fossil oil, total 17 17 11 2 -79%
Biofuel, total 3 0 0 0
Facilities' energy, total (GWh) 1 325 1 285 1 217 1 135 -7%
Direct energy 180 170 153 113 -26%
Indirect energy 1 145 1 115 1 064 1 021 -4%
Renewable energy 213 209 269 302 12%
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 94
7.2
Environmental data
2016 2017 2018 2019
Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Year-on-year  2019   Notes
Environmental   2018–20192 data assured
Renewable electricity  213 209 269 302 12%
data
Renewable electricity share of total electricity (%) 19% 20% 27% 31% 5 pp
Total energy per net sales (MWh/€ million) 56 56 54 49 -10%
Energy consumption in Nokia fleet (GWh) 13
Marine fleet (Fossil oil use) 450 286 278 285 2%
Energy consumption outside of Nokia (GWh)
Energy consumption of the sold products 81 770 77 760 78 090 71 790 -8% 6, 10
Water 
Total water withdrawal (thousands m3) 2 681 2 305 1 791 1 737 -3% 14
Total water withdrawal per employee (m3) 24 23 18 18 3% 15
Water withdrawal by source (%)
Municipal water supply 100% 100% 100% 100% 0 pp
Recycled/reused water (thousands m3) 23 26 20 17 -19%
Recycling/reuse % of total withdrawal 0.9% 1.1% 1.1% 1.0% 0 pp
Total water use (thousands m3) 2 703 2 331 1 811 1 753 -3%
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 95
7.2
Environmental data
2016 2017 2018 2019
Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Year-on-year  2019   Notes
Environmental   2018–20192 data assured
Waste and recycling
data
Waste and recycling within Nokia (metric tons)   
Total waste 28 400 15 000 13 600 8 000 -41% 16
Reuse 2 200 1 500 200 200 10% 16
Recycle 20 100 8 200 6 000 3 300 -45% 16
Energy recovery 3 300 2 300 400 400 -4% 16
Landfill 2 800 3 000 7 100 4 100 -42% 16
Incineration without energy recovery 0 0 0 0 0% 16
Total waste per employee (kg) 254 143 136 84 -38% 15, 16
Total non-hazardous waste 24 800 13 000 13 000 7 500 -42% 16
Reuse 2 200 1  500 200 200 3% 16
Recycle 16 700 6 400 5 400 2 900 -47% 16
Energy recovery 3 200 2 300 400 400 -3% 16
Landfill 2 700 2 800 7 000 4 100 -42% 16
Incineration without energy recovery 0 0 0 0 0% 16
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 96
7.2
Environmental data
2016 2017 2018 2019
Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Year-on-year  2019   Notes
Environmental   2018–20192 data assured
Total hazardous waste 3 600 2 000 600 500 -24% 16
data
Reuse <100 <50 <50 <50 5562% 16
Recycle 3 400 1 800 600 400 -29% 16
Energy recovery <100 <50 <50 <50 -11% 16
Landfill <100 200 <50 <50 50% 16
Incineration without energy recovery 0 0 0 0 0% 16
Hazardous waste by types
Electronic waste from facilities 3 300 1 800 600 400 -25% 16
Other hazardous waste 300 200 <100 <100 -18% 16
Utilization rate % 90% 80% 48% 49% 1 pp
Product end-of-life treatment (metric tons) 6
Weight of equipment returned from customers for recycling 2 450 2 580 4 100 4 000 -3%
Weight of equipment returned from customers incinerated with  140 120 160 330 104%
energy recovery
Weight of equipment returned from customers sent to landfill 70 20 20 30 36%
Number of returned equipment items reused (no. of items) 85 800 68 000 56 100 56 300 0%
Weight of packaging materials reused in distribution hubs (metric tons) 2 300 3 700 4 200 3 200 -25% 6, 17
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 97
7.2
Environmental data
Notes
1.   Nokia Group values are including Nokia Group  11.  Biologically sequestered carbon (i.e. carbon dioxide 
Continuing operations, i.e. excluding Discontinued  emission from burning biomass/biofuels) and 
operations refering to the sale of the Devices and  emissions from fermentation are not relevant for 
Services business in 2014 and the sale of the HERE  Nokia as we do not burn or ferment biomass or 
business in 2015. All supply chain management data,  biofuels on-site. We used biogas in fuel cells in one of 
with the exception of data on the share of conflict-free  our offices during 2016.
smelters, covers only Nokia's Networks segment.  12. The source of VOC emissions is fuel combustion. 
2.   Year-over-year change is expressed as percentage  No significant quantities of VOC from solvents and 
change (%) when the indicator value is in general  halogenated hydrocarbon, so these emissions are not 
number format. When the indicator value is in  relevant for Nokia and therefore not consolidated.
percentage format, the change is expressed as  13.  Energy consumption is presented only for the marine 
percentage points (pp). fleet, as energy consumption data from Nokia's vehicle 
3.   "Emissions of GHGs from manufacturing, R&D and  fleet is not available.
product development" and "Emissions from fire  14.  No significant quantities of heavy metals discharges 
suppression system losses" are not reported from  into water. The indicator is not relevant to Nokia and 
2018 onwards, since those are not material emissions  therefore not consolidated.
for Nokia.  15.  Years 2016–2018: Based on average headcount 
4.   Includes CO2e from all GHGs (CO2, CH₄ and N₂O). calculated from monthly site-specific headcount 
5.   Nokia uses internally market-based (not location- statistics from facilities database. This calculation 
based) values for example in target setting. If only one  procedure results in a different total headcount than 
value is given without further information, it refers to  the total headcount as of December 31 (disclosed 
the market-based one. in the Social indicators section of the report). Year 
6.   Data covers Nokia's Networks business. 2019: based on total headcount reported in financial 
7.   We used a hybrid method, using emissions allocated  reporting. 
for Nokia by the suppliers and also intensity based  16.  Due to the changes in Nokia's waste estimation 
(GHG/€) allocation. See the chapter on Data reporting  methodology, year-over-year (2017–2018 and 
principles for more details. 2018–2019) figures are not directly comparable.
8.   2017 data includes Nokia Group but not Comptel.  17.  2016 data is available only for distribution hubs, which 
9.   Based on total headcount reported in financial  were part of Nokia before Alcatel Lucent acquisition, 
reporting.  however excluding Nokia Technologies, which does 
10.  Until 2017, the world average IEA emission factor used  not have significant distribution hubs. 2017 and 2018 
includes GWP only from CO2, not other greenhouse  data includes more hubs than previously. 2019 data 
gases. For 2017–2019 measured data covered all  includes all hubs.
product lines across Nokia's Networks business. 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 98
7.3
Social, ethics, and management systems data
2016 2017 2018 2019
Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Year-on-year   2019   Notes
Social,   2018–20192 data assured
Employment
ethics, and 
Number of employees, year-end situation 100 875 102 761 101 203 94 723 -6%
management  Share of employees with full-time contract 99% 99% 99% 99% 0 pp
Share of employees with permanent contracts 97% 98% 96% 97% 1 pp
systems data
Number of new employee hires 8 310 9 430 8 849 4 493 -49%
Rate of new employee hires, % 8% 10% 10% 5% -5 pp
Female share of new hires 21% 24% 23% 24% 1 pp
Total number of leavers 10 749 10 033 9 998 11 211 12%
Total attrition rate 11% 10% 11% 13% 2 pp
Attrition rate of voluntary leavers 6% 6% 5% 6% 1 pp
Percentage of open positions filled by internal candidates 42% 59% 51% 49% -2 pp
Average length of service (in years)  11 11 11 11 0%
Number of long-term expatriates worldwide 477 397 334 180 -46%
Diversity & Equal Opportunity
Share of women within workforce 22% 22% 22% 22% 0 pp
Share of female line managers  17% 17% 16% 16% 0 pp
Share of women within senior management  14% 13% 13% 13% 0 pp
Share of women within leadership  16% 15% 15% 15% 0 pp
Share of women on the executive management board 17% 13% 14% 22% 8 pp
Share of women in the Board of Directors 25%   30%   40%   40%   0 pp
(2 of 8) (3 of 10) (4 of 10)  (4 of 10)
Number of nationalities in the executive management board  8 (of 12) 8 (of 15) 8 (of 14) 10 (of 18) 25%
Share of non-Finnish in the executive management board  92% 93% 93% 83% -10 pp
Average age of employees at year-end 40 41 41 41 0%
Number of nationalities within workforce   -  - 166 166 0% 3
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 99
7.3
Social, ethics, and management systems data
2016 2017 2018 2019
Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Year-on-year   2019   Notes
Social,   2018–20192 data assured
Training & Education
ethics, and 
Total amount of training days provided by NokiaEDU to  249 100 234 300 309 400 242 800 -22%
employees
management 
Total amount of training days provided by NokiaEDU   111 000 119 800 110 000 95 800 -13%
to customers and suppliers
systems data
Average number of all training hours per employee 19 16 34 34 0%
Number of attendees in corporate leadership programs  - 3 526 3 862 3 191 -17%
Training costs of employee by NokiaEDU, € million 54 49 29 29 -3%
Percentage of employees that completed a performance  90% 94% 99% 99% 0 pp 4
evaluation
Workplace Relations & Employee Engagement
Share of employees responding to the engagement survey 20% 21% 31% 35% 4 pp 5
Employee engagement (percentage of favorability towards the  76% 82% 80% 78% -1 pp 5
company)
Occupational Health & Safety
Near miss incidents reported (including contractors) 303 417 454 362 -20%
Lost-time incidents of employees  57 41 39 14 -64%
Work-related fatal incidents involving employees 0 0 0 1
Work-related fatal incidents involving contractors or   7 5 1 6 500%
sub-contractors
Community investments
Total value of contributions (EUR million) 5.02 6.84 6.53 2.26 -65%
Number of direct beneficiaries 868 300 254 100 304 200 206 900 -32%
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 100
7.3
Social, ethics, and management systems data
2016 2017 2018 2019
Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Year-on-year   2019   Notes
Social,   2018–20192 data assured
Ethics
ethics, and 
Total number of concerns reported 637 678 887 994 12%
management  Conflict of Interest 34 55 55 69 25%
Controllership 119 71 74 88 19%
systems data
Dealing with Government Officials 3 2 0 1
Fair Competition 2 5 9 2 -78%
Fair Employment (all HR related) 200 231 336 416 24%
Guidance 120 141 186 164 -12%
Human Rights 0 2 2 1 -50%
Improper Payments 12 11 13 11 -15%
Intellectual Property & Confidential Information 51 31 59 54 -8% 6
Privacy 8 0 8 7 -13% 7
Trade Compliance 0 6 5 5 0%
Wellbeing, Health, Safety and Environment 60 23 24 27 13%
Working with Suppliers 25 40 58 64 10%
Other 3 60 58 85 47%
Number of investigations by the Ethics & Compliance Office 228 257 248 289 17%
Number of allegations substantiated with "cause found"   86 127 92 106 15%
after investigation
Number of employees given a verbal counselling   11 13 9 10 11%
related to Code of Conduct
Number of employees given a written warning on   40 45 16 30 88%
grounds of violation of Code of Conduct
Number of employees dismissed on grounds   17 47 24 32 33%
of a violation of the Code of Conduct
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 101
7.3
Social, ethics, and management systems data
2016 2017 2018 2019
Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Year-on-year   2019   Notes
Social,   2018–20192 data assured
Share of employees who have completed the annual training   - 86% 95% 97% 2 pp 8
ethics, and  on ethical business practises (Ethical Business Training), %
Management systems
management 
ISO 14001 certified environmental management system,   39% 52% 57% 56% -1 pp 9, 10
percentage sites covered
systems data
OHSAS 18001 certified occupational health and   39% 46% 56% 54% -2 pp 9, 10
safety management system, percentage sites covered
ISO 9001 certified quality management system,   51% 61% 68% 63% -5 pp 9, 10
percentage sites covered
ISO 14001 certified environmental management system,    -  - 83% 85% 2 pp 10, 11
percentage employees covered
OHSAS 18001 certified occupational health and    -  - 78% 79% 1 pp 10, 11
safety management system, percentage employees covered
ISO 9001 certified quality management system,    -  - 93% 93% 0 pp 10, 11
percentage employees covered
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 102
7.3
Social, ethics, and management systems data
Social,  
Notes
N/A means this metric is not applicable for that scope. "-"  7.  In 2016, the category was called Health, Safety & 
ethics, and  means we do not have data available for that particular  Labor Conditions. 
year or scope. 8.   Nokia acquired Alcatel-Lucent in 2016, and there 
was no new ethical business training for legacy Nokia 
management 
1.   Nokia Group values are including Nokia Group  employees in 2016. 90% of the former Alcatel-Lucent 
Continuing operations, i.e. excluding Discontinued  employees completed Nokia's ethical business training 
systems data operations refering to the sale of the Devices and  in 2016.
Services business in 2014 and the sale of the HERE  9.  Nokia acquired Alcatel-Lucent in 2016, and the 
business in 2015. All supply chain management data,  approach to certification of the two companies was 
with the exception of data on the share of conflict-free  very different in 2016. Nokia took the approach of 
smelters, covers only Nokia's networks segment.  implementing global management systems and 
2.   Year-on-year change is expressed as percentage  certifying, under one certificate, almost all locations 
change (%) when the indicator value is in general  to the management system standard. Former 
number format. When the indicator value is in  Alcatel Lucent held multisite certificates for these 
percentage format, the change is expressed as  management system standards but did not cover all 
percentage points (pp). locations within those certifications. The management 
3.  In 2019, nationality data covers 86% of the total  systems were merged and all current Nokia business 
employee headcount. operations and processes are in line with globally 
4.  From 2017 onwards this process is called Annual  defined standards and processes. In addition to large 
Development Review. offices, a portion of our headcount is distributed at 
5.   In 2016 Nokia switched away from the annual  multiple locations such as small sales, project, and 
Employee Engagement Survey (EES) towards a  field offices in customer premises, and in the majority 
more focused approach called Culture Cohesion  of these facilities we have very little to no control over 
Tracker (CCT). The CCT was  deployed  five t imes i n  the building or space. 
 2016, and t wice d uring 2017 and 2018, and once in  10. Scope is Nokia's Networks business (Comptel included 
2019. In 2016, we used an average favorability of  for 2017 data). Multiple buildings on the same site are 
all CCT engagement questions as an indication of  counted as one site. Excludes buildings classified as 
our Employee Engagement favorability towards the  carparks, restaurants and warehouses. Covers year- 
company. From 2017 onwards, we followed favorability  end situation or as close to year-end as good quality 
based on average of the following two target  data available. 
questions: “Overall, as a company, Nokia is heading  11. Nokia acquired Alcatel Lucent in 2016, and there was 
in the right direction” and “Overall, Nokia’s culture  no comparable data available for 2016 and 2017 to 
is heading in the right direction.” Due to Nokia’s  calculate the percentage of employees covered by the 
commitment to protect employee anonymity during  certification.
the electronic survey process, we do not know whether 
each CCT round had unique respondents. In 2019 
we reached an a  verage o f a pproximately 35% of the 
employee population. 
6.  Includes also category: Guidance-Investigation.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 103
7.4
Supply chain management data
2016 2017 2018 2019
Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Year-on-year   2019   Notes
Supply chain  2018–20192 data assured
Number of Corporate responsibility (CR) on-site audits  45 72 75 45 -40%
management  (focused on labor conditions and environment) against Nokia 
Supplier Requirements and SA8000
data Closure percentage of non-conformities identified at   - 58% 52% 52% 0%
CR-audits, within audit closure target time
Number of on-site system audits against Nokia Supplier  39 47 38 46 21%
Requirements
Cumulative number of valid Health & Safety Maturity  382 975 1 406 1674 19%
assessments
Number of suppliers assessed on corporate responsibility  306 274 251 241 -4%
in EcoVadis Sustainable Supply Management platform
Percentage of active suppliers rated “satisfactory” or above   70% 71% 74% 74% 0
on their assessment of sustainability by EcoVadis
Number of suppliers assessed on their climate change   243 292 314 404 29%
impact based on their CDP reporting for Nokia
Number of suppliers that set GHG emission   127 153 187 234 25%
reduction targets (in CDP)
Number of suppliers participating in Nokia   355 328 393 255 -35% 3
sustainability workshops and webinars
Number of management-level supplier employees  522 549 606 360 -41% 3
participating in Nokia sustainability workshops and webinars
Share of smelters that have been validated as conflict-free or  84% 83% 84% 82% -2 pp
are active in the validation process (out of known smelters in 
Nokia’s supply chain), %
Notes
1.  Nokia Group values are including Nokia Group  2.   Year-on-year change is expressed as percentage  2016 and 2017 incorrectly covered only supplier and 
Continuing operations, i.e. excluding Discontinued  change (%) when the indicator value is in general  management-level supplier employee participation 
operations refering to the sale of the Devices and  number format. When the indicator value is in  to workshops, not including webinars. For 2018, the 
Services business in 2014 and the sale of the HERE  percentage format, the change is expressed as  number of suppliers partipating in Nokia sustainability 
business in 2015. All supply chain management data,  percentage points (pp). workshops and webinars did not include webinars 
with the exception of data on the share of conflict-free  3.   In the 2019 report, we have corrected the numbers  either. These numbers have been updated in the 2019 
smelters, covers anyhow only Networks segment. for 2016–2018. In our 2018 report, data reported for  report, covering now both workshop and webinar 
participation. 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 104
7.5
Financial data
2016 2017 2018 2019
Financial data Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 Nokia Group1 2019  
Financial  data assured2
Net sales (EUR million) 23 614 23 147 22 563 23 315
data
Operating profit/loss (EUR million) -1 100 16 -59 485
R&D expenses (EUR million) 4 997 4 916 4 620 4 411
Notes
1.  Values are including Nokia Group Continuing 
operations, i.e. excluding Discontinued operations 
refering to the sale of the Devices and Services 
business in 2014 and the sale of the HERE business 
in 2015.
2.  Financial indicators are included in the audited 
financial statements. Please see Auditor's Report from 
page 214 onwards in our Annual Report; Nokia in 2019.
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 105
8.0
Independent practitioner's assurance report
Independent  
practitioner’s  
assurance 
report
Our key sustainability indicators have been assured by an 
independent auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy. 
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 106
8.1
Independent practitioner's assurance report
Independent  To the Management of Nokia Corporation
•  Renewable electricity amount (GWh) and portion  Improving people’s lives indicators
We have been engaged by the Management of Nokia  of total electricity consumption (%)  •  Number of subscriptions Nokia’s radio networks 
practitioner’s 
Corporation (hereinafter also “the Company”) to  •  Water withdrawal in facilities (m3) and change  customers provided service for
perform a limited assurance engagement on selected  to 2018 (%) •  Number of lives improved through corporate and 
assurance 
Nokia Group’s sustainability information for the  •  Waste amount within Nokia by treatment type  key regional community investment programs
reporting period 1 January 2019 to 31 December  (metric tons) and utilization rate (%)
report  2019 as set out in Nokia’s People & Planet Report  •  Energy savings achieved in 2019 due to  Supplier indicators
2019 on the Company’s website (hereinafter “the  network modernization •  Number of forced labor non-compliance instances 
Selected sustainability information”). •  Voluntary product takeback from customers:  found in supplier audits
Weight by treatment type (metric tons) and  •  Share of suppliers delivering high-risk activity 
Selected sustainability information
number of returned equipment reused/  assessed by using Nokia Health & Safety Maturity 
The scope of our work was limited to assurance over  refurbished Assessment Process and share of assessed suppliers 
the information summarised below. The information  meeting “H&S compliant supplier”-status (%)
covers Nokia Group (Continuing operations), as  Social indicators •  Share of smelters that have been validated as 
indicated in the People & Planet Report 2019. We  •  Number of fatal work related incidents involving  conflict-free or are active in the validation process 
have not been engaged to provide assurance on  employees and number of fatal work related  (out of known smelters in Nokia’s supply chain) (%) 
any information relating to prior reporting periods  incidents involving contractors and subcontractors  •  Share of suppliers who have full visibility to 
or to any other information in the People & Planet  •  Share of employees who have completed the  smelters in our supply chain (%)
Report 2019. annual training on ethical business practices  •  Number of suppliers that set GHG emission 
(Ethical Business Training) (%) reduction targets (in CDP)
Environmental indicators •  Number of Compliance Controls Framework  •  Number of system audits against Nokia 
•  Scope 1 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions,  reviews Supplier Requirements
by sources (metric tons CO2e) •  Number of concerns received as alleged violations  •  Number of corporate responsibility on-site audits 
•  Scope 2 GHG emissions, market based and  of our anti-bribery policies, involving 3rd parties,  (focused on labor conditions and environment) 
location based (metric tons CO2e)  and the number of such concerns substantiated against Nokia Supplier Requirements and SA8000, 
•  Combined Scope 1+2 GHG emissions:  •  Share of women within leadership (%) and closure percentage of non-conformities (%) 
2019 emissions and progress against 2030  •  Number of managers trained on inclusive  •  Number of suppliers assessed on Corporate 
Science-based target leadership best practices Responsibility in EcoVadis Sustainable Supply 
•  Scope 3 GHG emissions: use of sold products  •  Share of high-risk projects with impact assessment  Management platform and share of suppliers with a 
(metric tons CO2e). 2019 emissions and progress  completed, and share of those projects meeting  satisfactory performance level (score ≥45/100) (%)
against 2030 Science-based target. our minimum non-negotiable requirements (%) •  Share of cases coming to Human Rights Due 
•  Energy consumption within Nokia, by types of  Diligence (HRDD) process resolved as “go”, “no go” 
energy (GWh) and change to 2018 (%) and “go with conditions” (%)  
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 107
8.1
Independent practitioner's assurance report
Management’s responsibility  the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our  •  Testing the accuracy and completeness of the 
The Management of Nokia Corporation is responsible  limited assurance engagement in accordance with the  information from original documents and systems 
for preparing the Selected sustainability information  International Standard on Assurance Engagements  on a sample basis
in accordance with the reporting criteria as set out in  (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) “Assurance Engagements  •  Testing the consolidation of information and 
the Company’s own documented standards and GHG  Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial  performing recalculations on a sample basis.
Protocol (hereinafter “the Reporting criteria”). The  Information”. That standard requires that we plan 
Limited assurance conclusion 
Management of Nokia Corporation is also responsible  and perform the engagement to obtain limited 
for such internal control as the management  assurance about whether the Selected sustainability  Based on the procedures we have performed and 
determines is necessary to enable the preparation of  information is free from material misstatement. the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come 
Selected sustainability information that is free from  to our attention that causes us to believe that Nokia 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence- Corporation’s Selected sustainability information 
gathering procedures are more limited than for a  for the reporting period ended 31 December 2019 
Practitioner’s independence  
reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore  is not properly prepared, in all material respects, in 
and quality control less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable  accordance with the Reporting criteria.
We have complied with the independence and  assurance engagement. An assurance engagement  When reading our assurance report, the inherent 
other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for  involves performing procedures to obtain evidence  limitations to the accuracy and completeness of 
Professional Accountants issued by the International  about the amounts and other disclosures in the  sustainability information should be taken into 
Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is  Selected sustainability information. The procedures  consideration.
founded on fundamental principles of integrity,  selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement, 
objectivity, professional competence and due care,  including an assessment of the risks of material  Our assurance report has been prepared in 
confidentiality and professional behaviour. misstatement of the Selected sustainability  accordance with the terms of our engagement. We do 
information. not accept, or assume responsibility to anyone else, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy applies International  except to Nokia Corporation for our work, for this 
Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly  Our work consisted of, amongst others, the following  report, or for the conclusions that we have reached.
maintains a comprehensive system of quality control  procedures: 
including documented policies and procedures  •  Interviewing senior management of the Company; Helsinki 3 April 2020
regarding compliance with ethical requirements,  •  Visiting one site in Finland 
professional standards and applicable legal and  •  Conducting a web conference with one site in India PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy
regulatory requirements. •  Interviewing employees responsible for collecting 
and reporting the Selected sustainability  Pasi Karppinen
Practitioner’s responsibility 
information at the group level as well as at the  Authorised Public Accountant (KHT)
Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance  site level
conclusion on the Selected sustainability information  •  Assessing how group employees apply the reporting  Sirpa Juutinen
based on the procedures we have performed and  standards and procedures of the Company Partner, Sustainability & Climate Change
Nokia People & Planet Report 2019 Our approach Connectivity Environment Integrity People Together Key data Assurance 108
Nokia Head Office 
Karakaari 7
FI 02610 Espoo, Finland 
FINLAND 
Tel. +358 (0) 10 44 88 000 
Fax +358 (0) 10 44 81 002
www.nokia.com