
ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
STRATEGIC GROWTH AND OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE
2017 ANNUAL REPORT
AN S&P 500 COMPANY
“CLUSTERS ARE  GEOGRAPHIC CONCENTRATIONS OF 
INTERCONNECTED COMPANIES AND INSTITUTIONS IN A 
PARTICULAR FIELD. … CLUSTERS AFFECT COMPETITION  
IN THREE BROAD WAYS:
FIRST, BY INCREASING THE PRODUCTIVITY OF COMPANIES  
BASED IN THE AREA;
SECOND, BY DRIVING THE DIRECTION AND PACE OF INNOVATION, 
WHICH UNDERPINS FUTURE PRODUCTIVITY GROWTH; AND 
THIRD, BY STIMULATING THE FORMATION OF NEW BUSINESSES, 
WHICH EXPANDS AND STRENGTHENS THE CLUSTER ITSELF.”
MICHAEL E. PORTER
1998 
BISHOP WILLIAM LAWRENCE UNIVERSITY  
PROFESSOR, HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL
Source: “Clusters and the New Economics of Competition,”  
Harvard Business Review, November–December 1998 Issue.
P
A
20TH ANNIVERSARY   S
S
ON THE NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE I
O
N
THIS YEAR, I HAD THE RARE OPPORTUNITY to see the company I founded with Dr. Jerry Sudarsky reach 
its 20th anniversary as a New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) listed company. It has been remarkable to me 
to reflect on the incredible transformation Alexandria has undergone from when we founded the company 
in 1994 to our position today as an industry-leading REIT. We founded Alexandria as a garage startup with 
a strategic business plan, $19 million in Series A capital, and a vision to create a new kind of real estate 
company uniquely focused on serving the life science industry. We named the company after Alexandria, 
Egypt, the scientific capital of the ancient world, renowned for its iconic lighthouse whose beacon today  
still evokes the noble pursuit of scientific advancement and revolutionary breakthrough discoveries.
In 1997, just three years after Alexandria’s inception, we took the company public on the NYSE.  
With about 10 employees and just 15 properties at the time of our initial public offering, we never 
dreamed our initial vision and business plan would evolve into an S&P 500® company, with over  
$1 billion in total revenues and a nearly $18 billion total market capitalization, that continues to shape 
and influence industries, and help make the life-changing work of today’s innovators possible. It is our 
people, passion, and purpose that have made all of these historical milestones conceivable for Alexandria.
Our exceptional growth over the last 24 years was catalyzed by the bold strategic decision executed 
Joel S. Marcus
during 2004–2006 to shift our focus from acquiring single assets to pursuing our urban cluster campus  Chairman of the Board,
strategy in Cambridge, Mission Bay, and New York City. This crucial decision preceded today’s mega  Chief Executive Officer &  
trend of urbanization to foster innovation and collaboration. Our successful execution of the strategy  Founder
has greatly contributed to the company’s superior results and exceptional total shareholder return (TSR) 
of nearly 1,350% since the company’s IPO in 1997, assuming reinvestment of dividends—outperforming 
various indices, including the MSCI US REIT (555% TSR) and the S&P 500 (363% TSR), over the same 
time period. In addition to resulting in superior TSR, the strategy positioned the company as the leader 
in developing collaborative life science and technology ecosystems to foster the innovation needed to 
advance human health, overcome hunger, and improve the quality of people’s lives.
These tremendous successes are directly attributable to the collective dedication, passion, and 
operational excellence of our best-in-class team. In May 2017, I was thankful to be able to acknowledge my 
deep appreciation for each and every individual who makes up our talented Alexandria team by bringing 
all of our employees together to celebrate an extraordinary milestone in Alexandria’s rich history—our 
20th anniversary as an NYSE company. Fittingly, we gathered in New York City, where we toured our 
flagship campus, the Alexandria Center® for Life Science – New York City, and rang The Opening Bell® at 
the NYSE. I was truly honored to be able to share the momentous occasion with our entire team, as our 
people are, and always have been, Alexandria’s most important and valuable asset.
During this commemoration of our company’s 20th anniversary as an NYSE-listed REIT, we had 
the unique privilege of hearing renowned author and business strategist, Jim Collins, give the keynote 
speech on the tangible frameworks for understanding why organizations and leaders succeed, which was 
followed by an extensive workshop he and I conducted for the entire Alexandria team. Jim has garnered 
a deep understanding of Alexandria’s business and what makes us successful, and he highlights his 
thoughts in the following testimonial:
	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT	 1
COMPANY RETREAT CELEBRATING ALEXANDRIA’S 20TH ANNIVERSARY ON THE NYSE BEST-IN-CLASS, UNIQUE URBAN 
Speakers Pictured Below (left to right) OFFICE REIT
Alexandria is the Industry Leader in 
Unique Collaborative Life Science 
and Technology Campuses in Urban 
Innovation Clusters.
1994
$19M
Series A Capital
4
Properties1
Jim Collins  Mike “Coach K” Krzyzewski 
313K
Renowned Author & Business Strategist Head Men's Basketball Coach at Duke University &  
Head Coach of the U.S. Basketball Men's Senior  RSF1
Joel S. Marcus  National Team
Chairman of the Board,  
1996
Chief Executive Officer & Founder
$75M/$28M
Debt/Equity
12
“ In reaching its 20th anniversary as an NYSE company, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. has 
achieved the three outputs that define a great company: Superior Results, Distinctive Impact, and   Properties2
Lasting Endurance. Alexandria’s success flows from disciplined focus on what it can be the best  
1.0M
in the world at, disciplined insight into what drives its economic engine, and disciplined people  
passionate about the company’s purpose. As with any great company, this impressive run happened   RSF2
not in one step, but as a cumulative effort—decision by decision, city by city, location by location,  
19973
cluster by cluster—like turning a giant heavy flywheel. Throughout, Alexandria has built a leadership 
culture infused with the personal humility to continually learn, combined with the professional will  
$155M
to do whatever it takes to enhance the success of its customers, and, through them, change the  
world through innovation.” IPO
15
We also had the distinct pleasure of hearing from a great team leader, Mike “Coach K” Krzyzewski, 
Properties
head coach of men’s basketball at Duke University and head coach of the U.S. men’s national basketball 
team. Coach K spoke to our Alexandria team about leadership, teamwork, and commitment to excellence,  1.5M
all of which are essential to enhancing our culture of mutual respect and to achieving our common goals. RSF
It has been a tremendous honor and privilege to have built and led a pioneering, best-in-class company 
with a unique mission and business model that continue to set us apart from all other office REITs and  20174
give us great confidence for the future. To aid in our mission-critical efforts, we have continually sought 
ways to reinforce our differentiated business model. We founded Alexandria Venture Investments to  $17.9B
invest in promising technologies that positively affect the lives of patients; created a thought leadership 
Total Market Cap
platform to convene our world-class global network to drive progress; and initiated our corporate 
213
responsibility program to support environmental initiatives and an array of non-profit organizations.  
I am incredibly thankful for our committed and talented team—our Alexandria family—without whom  Properties
we could not have accomplished such meaningful endeavors and extraordinary growth. We are all aligned  22.0M
in purpose and will continue to build the future of life-changing innovation through strategic growth  
RSF5
and operational excellence.
The 2017 Annual Report celebrates Alexandria’s 20th anniversary as an NYSE-listed REIT and  
honors the backbone of our continued growth and success—our people, our passion, and our purpose.
With sincere gratitude,
1.	 As	of	December	31,	1994.
2.	 As	of	December	31,	1996.
JOEL S. MARCUS 3.	 As	of	Alexandria’s	IPO	(May	27,	1997).
CHAIRMAN	OF	THE	BOARD,	 4.	 As	of	December	31,	2017.
CHIEF	EXECUTIVE	OFFICER	&		 5.	 22.0M	RSF	of	operating	properties,	including	
FOUNDER 1.7M	RSF	of	development	and	redevelopment	
of	new	Class	A	properties	currently	undergoing	
construction.
2	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT
Alexandria foresaw today’s 
mega trend of urbanization 
fostering innovation and 
collaboration and made 
the crucial early decisions 
to pursue its urban cluster 
campus strategy in Mission 
Bay, New York City, and 
Cambridge.
	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT	 3
MISSION BAY/SOMA, SAN FRANCISCO
20
0  4
4	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT
MISSION BAY/SOMA, SAN FRANCISCO
OPERATING AND DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
20
1.  1700 OWENS STREET
2.  1500 OWENS STREET
3.  510 TOWNSEND STREET 
4.  88 BLUXOME STREET
5.  505 BRANNAN STREET  1  7
6.  455 MISSION BAY BOULEVARD SOUTH
7.  1455 & 1515 THIRD STREET
8.  1655 THIRD STREET
9.  1715 THIRD STREET
10.  409 & 499 ILLINOIS STREET
	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT	 5
NEW YORK CITY
20
0  5
6	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT
NEW YORK CITY
OPERATING AND DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
20
ALEXANDRIA CENTER® FOR LIFE SCIENCE – NEW YORK CITY
1.  450 EAST 29TH STREET, EAST TOWER
2.  430 EAST 29TH STREET, WEST TOWER
3.  420 EAST 29TH STREET, NORTH TOWER
 1  7
	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT	 7
CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS
20
0  6
8	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT
CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS
OPERATING AND DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
20
1.  ALEXANDRIA  2.  ALEXANDRIA CENTER® AT  ALEXANDRIA CENTER® AT 
  TECHNOLOGY SQUARE®   ONE KENDALL SQUARE KENDALL SQUARE
  100 TECHNOLOGY SQUARE   BUILDING 100 3.  225 BINNEY STREET
  200 TECHNOLOGY SQUARE   BUILDING 200 4.  300 THIRD STREET
  300 TECHNOLOGY SQUARE   BUILDING 300 5.  100 BINNEY STREET  1  7
  400 TECHNOLOGY SQUARE   BUILDING 400 6.  75/125 BINNEY STREET
  500 TECHNOLOGY SQUARE   BUILDING 500 7.  50 BINNEY STREET
  600 TECHNOLOGY SQUARE   BUILDING 600/700 8.  215 FIRST STREET
  700 TECHNOLOGY SQUARE   BUILDING 1400 9.  60 BINNEY STREET
  BUILDING 1800 10. 161 FIRST STREET
  BUILDING 2000 11. 150 SECOND STREET
  399 BINNEY STREET 12. 11 HURLEY STREET
  325 BINNEY STREET
	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT	 9
 “A  lexandria has achieved  
the three outputs that  
define a great company:  
Superior Results, 
Distinctive Impact, and 
Lasting Endurance.”
JIM COLLINS
RENOWNED AUTHOR &  
BUSINESS STRATEGIST
10	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT
L
E
Joel S. Marcus, alongside wife, Barbara Marcus,  T
T
and members of the company’s board of  
E
directors and long-tenured executive  R
management team, ring The Opening Bell® to   T
celebrate the company’s 20th anniversary   O
as an NYSE-listed REIT.  S
T
A
K
E
H
O
L
D
E
R
S
	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT	 11
ALEXANDRIA’S SOLID PERFORMANCE (MAY 27, 1997 – DECEMBER 31, 2017)1 $1.1  
ALEXANDRIA’S SOLID PERFORMANCE (MAY 27, 19971 – DECEMBER 31, 2017)
B
Alexandria 1,349%
Walmart 825% SURPASSED $1.0B IN TOTAL  
REVENUES FOR THE FIRST TIME  
IN COMPANY HISTORY
Microsoft 712%
$17.9
Berkshire Hathaway 592%
B
MSCI US REIT Index 555%
Cisco 507% TOTAL SHAREHOLDER 
TOTAL MARKET CAPITALIZATION  
RETURN COMPARISON
AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017
Nasdaq 490%
$155
Russell 2000 433%
M
S&P 500 363%
Coca-
120%
Cola RAISED AT 1997 IPO
0% 300% 600% 900% 1,200% 1,500%
Source: Bloomberg. Assumes reinvestment of dividends.
1.  Alexandria’s IPO priced at $20.00 per share.
Source:	Bloomberg.	Assumes	reinvestment	of	dividends.
1.	 Alexandria’s	IPO	priced,	on	May	27,	1997,	at	$20.00	per	share.
ALEXANDRIA’S STRONG PER SHARE GROWTH
Net	Asset	Value2 Funds	From	Operations3 Common	Stock	Dividend
+44 +25 +20
% % %
$125
$6.02 $3.45
$2.88
$4.80
$87
2014 2017 2014 2017 2014 2017
2.	 Represents	average	net	asset	value	estimates	from	Bank	of	America	Merrill	Lynch,	Barclays	Capital	Inc.,		
Citigroup	Global	Markets	Inc.,	Evercore	ISI,	Green	Street	Advisors,	Inc,	J.P.	Morgan	Securities	LLC,	and	UBS	Securities	LLC.
3.	 Represents	funds	from	operations	per	share	–	diluted,	as	adjusted.
12	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT
LETTER TO 
STAKEHOLDERS
FROM MULTIPLE PERSPECTIVES, 2017—our 20th anniversary as an NYSE-listed company—
was an extraordinary year for Alexandria. Our sustained operational excellence, our rigorous 
strategic growth initiatives, and our well-managed business strategy, each led by the talented 
individuals who make up our highly experienced team, enabled us to exceed expectations for 
another outstanding year of operating and financial performance.
  At Alexandria, our mission to advance human health, overcome global hunger, and 
improve the quality of people’s lives motivates all of us each and every day. It has shaped 
our differentiated and multifaceted business model and continues to fuel our commitment 
to building the future of life-changing innovation. Our mission is also the unifying basis 
of the company’s four core verticals—real estate, venture investments, thought leadership, 
and corporate responsibility—through which we create collaborative campuses and support 
vibrant ecosystems that enable the world’s most innovative companies to develop scientific 
Pictured left to right:
and technological breakthroughs that benefit humankind.
Joel S. Marcus
  We are incredibly proud of the many significant milestones we achieved throughout  Chairman of the Board,
Chief Executive Officer & 
this truly momentous year for Alexandria. Notably, in March 2017, we were extremely  Founder
honored to be added to the S&P 500® index, alongside many of the leading companies  Dean A. Shigenaga
Executive Vice President,
in the United States. This important recognition directly reflects our best-in-class team’s  Chief Financial Officer & 
Treasurer
proven track record. Additionally, in February 2017, S&P Global Ratings (S&P) upgraded 
our corporate credit rating to BBB/Stable from BBB-/Positive, reinforcing that we are on 
target to improve our credit profile.
  Since our initial public offering (IPO) on May 27, 1997, our unique business model 
has continued to deepen our competitive advantage and distinguish us from all other office 
REITs. For 20 years, we have also maintained our primary business objective of maximizing 
	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT	 13
long-term asset value and total shareholder return (TSR).  from our core operating asset base generating growth in 
Alexandria’s TSR, assuming reinvestment of dividends,  total revenues, net operating income, and cash flows; (2) 
from our IPO through December 31, 2017, was nearly  disciplined allocation of capital to the development and 
1,350%, significantly outperforming various indices,  redevelopment of highly leased new Class A properties 
including the MSCI US REIT (555% TSR) and the   in urban innovation cluster locations; and (3) continued 
S&P 500 (363% TSR), over the same time period. strengthening of our credit profile and balance sheet. 
The year marked the first time in the company’s  We met these goals for 2017, extending our impressive 
24-year history that our total revenues broke the  performance in recent years. During the three years 
$1 billion mark to exceed $1.1 billion for the year  ended December 31, 2017, the Alexandria team’s 
ended December 31, 2017. This record-breaking  execution of our business model resulted in exceptional 
milestone was accompanied by a strong total market  per share growth in NAV of 44%; FFO, as adjusted, of 
capitalization approximating $18 billion at the end of  25%; and common stock dividend of 20%. We are very 
2017. Independently, each figure represents a significant  proud of these consistent accomplishments.
accomplishment to be proud of; collectively, they are a 
gratifying position for a company that began as a garage  DIFFERENTIATED AND MULTIFACETED BUSINESS 
startup with $19 million in Series A capital. MODEL: FIRST MOVER IN DEVELOPING URBAN 
Alexandria also excelled in our industry-leading  LIFE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY CLUSTERS
sustainability initiatives and programming in 2017,  Founded on the belief that innovative companies are 
which directly benefit our tenants, employees, and  most successful when positioned in the epicenter of 
communities, as well as create long-term value for  the world’s top ecosystems and in close proximity to 
our shareholders. Congratulations are in order to the  world-renowned academic institutions, cutting-edge 
Alexandria team for the outstanding list of achievements  scientific and managerial talent, and sophisticated risk 
in the environmental, social, and governance (ESG)  capital, Alexandria has been successfully utilizing 
realms. The list of our notable ESG honors includes  Harvard Business School Professor Michael E. Porter’s 
(1) receiving the prestigious “Green Star” designation  cluster theory as a critical element of our unique 
from the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark  business model. Early on, recognizing the importance 
(GRESB) in recognition of our strong ESG policies,  of this trend of urbanization fostering innovation and 
practices, and performance; (2) being the first real estate  collaboration, Alexandria made the crucial decisions to 
company to be named a Fitwel Champion and to receive  pursue our urban cluster campus strategy as the first 
Fitwel certifications for promoting the highest levels of  mover in Mission Bay (2004), New York City (2005), 
occupant comfort in existing buildings; (3) earning the  and Cambridge (2006). These visionary decisions were 
world’s first WELL certification for a newly constructed  the catalyst for Alexandria’s shift from our initial 
laboratory space at Alexandria LaunchLabs® in New York  business model focused on single-asset acquisitions 
City; and (4) receiving Nareit’s 2017 Leader in the Light  to our unique focus today on collaborative life science 
Sustainability Award in the “Most Innovative” category. and technology campuses that enable and inspire the 
We are also very pleased to report 2017 as the  world’s most brilliant minds to create life-changing 
second-highest annual leasing volume in the company’s  scientific and technological breakthroughs in AAA 
history. We completed a total of 216 leases aggregating  innovation cluster locations. These key locations have 
4.6 million rentable square feet (RSF), demonstrating the  intrinsically strong demand from highly innovative 
Alexandria team’s ability to successfully execute during  entities for Alexandria’s Class A properties. They are 
a period of historic high demand with constrained  also characterized by high barriers to entry for new 
supply of Class A space in our key urban innovation  landlords, high barriers to exit for tenants, and a limited 
clusters. This impressive statistic affirms our unique  supply of existing and future Class A space.
brand recognition as the leading and trusted partner to  We manage our properties in these important 
world-class life science and technology companies. locations through fully integrated regional teams 
Alexandria remains focused on our multiyear  that boast unsurpassed real estate, life science, and 
strategy to deliver substantial achievements toward  technology expertise. Alexandria additionally supports 
per share growth in net asset value (NAV); funds from  our urban cluster ecosystems by providing strategic risk 
operations (FFO), as adjusted; and common stock  capital to transformative life science and technology 
dividend, which resulted in significant shareholder  companies through our venture capital arm, Alexandria 
value. As part of this strategy, our overarching goals in  Venture Investments.
2017 included (1) delivery of solid operating performance  Our differentiated and multifaceted business model 
14	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT
enables us to draw upon our key relationships across the  modalities, including first-time U.S. approvals of three 
real estate, life science, and technology industries, which  distinct cell therapies (two CAR-T immunotherapies, 
help us identify and attract new, innovative, and leading  Novartis’s Kymriah and Gilead/Kite’s Yescarta, and 
tenants, as well as source additional value-creation  Spark’s Luxterna), as well as the first cancer treatment 
real estate projects. These advantages afforded by our  based on the genetic characteristics of the disease—not 
unique business model provide Alexandria with a stable  the tumor’s location (Merck’s Keytruda). Of the 46 new 
and focused, yet multifaceted platform of internal and  molecular entities approved, 78% were approved in the 
external growth that delivers higher occupancy levels,  United States before receiving approval in any other 
longer lease terms, higher rental income, higher returns,  country, 33% were first-in-class drugs, and 43% were 
and greater long-term asset value. received by Alexandria tenants.
LIFE SCIENCE SECTOR FUNDAMENTALS   Third Pillar
DRIVE STRONG DEMAND AND HIGH-QUALITY  Private philanthropic foundations continue to be an 
TENANT BASE important source of funding for biomedical R&D. In 
The life science industry experienced another  2016, the life science industry received $33.1 billion from 
momentous year driving strong demand for  health-related charitable giving to support far-reaching 
Alexandria’s life science and technology campuses  collaborations and research programs with important 
in our core urban innovation cluster locations. Five  goals and broad inquiries into human disease.
fundamental pillars have positively contributed 
to this robust industry environment: (1) increased  Fourth Pillar
National Institutes of Health (NIH) funding, (2) a  Positively influencing the industry and driving demand  
favorable U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)  for Alexandria’s urban innovation clusters is the strong 
regulatory environment, (3) increased medical research  U.S. venture capital environment, which includes 
philanthropy, (4) strong life science venture capital  several new funds raised by life science venture capital 
investment, and (5) record levels of biopharmaceutical  firms, to support future company formation. In 2017, 
research and development (R&D) spending. venture capital investment into life science companies 
reached $20 billion, exceeding the $15 billion in annual 
First Pillar funding in 2016. This record-setting investment pace 
The NIH provides a major source of funding for basic  reflects the high quality of new scientific discoveries 
life science research that catalyzes the discovery and  and modalities, as well as an increase in downstream 
development of new therapies and cures at research  opportunity provided by biopharmaceutical companies’ 
universities and non-profit institutions. For fiscal year  ever-increasing reliance on earlier-stage biotechnology 
2017, the NIH received a boost of $2 billion to increase  companies to fuel their pipelines.
its budget to $34.1 billion, which, until the current 
year, marked the largest annual increase in the past  Fifth Pillar
decade. With strong bipartisan support from House of  Finally, the life science industry continues to invest 
Representatives and Senate appropriations committees,  heavily in R&D as large biopharmaceutical companies 
Congress has again approved a new record-breaking  seek to bolster their pipelines and acquire new assets. 
$3 billion increase in NIH spending for fiscal year 2018,  With global biopharmaceutical R&D expenditure 
bringing the agency’s total budget to $37.1 billion. expected to exceed $200 billion by 2022, this funding 
will continue to be a key driver for Alexandria as 
Second Pillar biopharmaceutical companies rely more heavily 
Under the leadership of its newly appointed commissioner,  on external innovation to enhance their pipelines. 
Dr. Scott Gottlieb, the FDA had a banner year in 2017  Externally sourced drugs now account for nearly 75% 
with a renewed commitment to bringing innovative  of novel therapeutics registered with the FDA and over 
medicines to patients as quickly and efficiently as  50% of biopharma’s revenue. This strong trend further 
possible. The FDA has significantly expedited its review  attracts companies to Alexandria’s urban innovation 
process for new drug approvals, with a 52% reduction  clusters, which promote collaboration between 
in average review time, from an average of 21 months  multinational biopharmaceutical companies and highly 
in 2008 to approximately 10 months in 2015. Not only  innovative early- and growth-stage biotechnology 
did 2017 mark a record-breaking year with 46 new drug  companies in close proximity to world-class academic 
approvals, it also touted approvals for novel biologic  and research institutions.
	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT	 15
The increasing cross-pollination of life science and  strong and consistent cash same property net operating 
technology has created new opportunities for innovators  income growth of 5% include (1) 3% growth from 
to leverage digital platforms, artificial intelligence, and  average contractual annual rent escalations, (2) 1%–3% 
big data, as well as to focus on disease prevention and  growth from solid rental rate increases on lease renewals 
diagnostics, to optimize clinical trials and clinical- and re-leasing of space, including early lease renewals, 
decision making, to improve patient outcomes, and to  and (3) stability from our 10-year average occupancy 
reduce healthcare costs. We have seen an increase in  of 95%. It is important to highlight that we also have 
industry convergence in our cluster locations with the  a tenant retention rate of over 80%, which represents 
moves of world-class technology companies, including  another industry-leading statistic.
IBM Watson Health, Facebook, and Verily, into our   On top of having started 2017 with minimal 
Class A properties, where many leading technology  contractual lease expirations, as well as high occupancy 
entities have partnered with our life science tenants,  of 96.6% and a highly leased value-creation pipeline of 
such as Biogen, Celgene, Novartis, Pfizer, and Sanofi. development and redevelopment projects, Alexandria 
These positive industry fundamentals continued  also achieved our second-highest year of leasing volume. 
in 2017 to attract strong demand for Alexandria’s  We executed a total of 216 leases aggregating 4.6 million 
urban innovation clusters from some of the world’s  RSF, including 1.1 million RSF related to new Class A 
most innovative life science and technology entities.  properties undergoing development and redevelopment. 
Our high-quality and diverse tenant roster, with 55%  The limited supply of Class A space in AAA locations 
of our annual rental revenue as of December 31, 2017,  and the strong demand from innovative life science and 
generated from tenants that are either investment  technology entities drove rental rate increases of 25.1% 
grade or have a market capitalization or a valuation  and 12.7% (cash basis) for lease renewals and re-leasing 
greater than $10 billion, drives strong and quality cash  of space aggregating 2.5 million RSF in 2017, and our 
flows for Alexandria. We are very proud of this REIT  favorable triple net lease structure with contractual annual 
industry-leading statistic, which is a true testament to  rent escalations drove solid growth in annual cash flows.
the expertise of Alexandria’s Science & Technology team  As of December 31, 2017, 97% of our leases 
in identifying key industry trends and underwriting  were triple net leases, which require tenants to 
leading life science and technology entities. pay substantially all real estate taxes, insurance, 
utilities, common area expenses, and other operating 
INTERNAL GROWTH: CONTINUING STRONG  expenses (including increases thereto) in addition to 
DEMAND DRIVES STRONG GROWTH   base rent. Additionally, 95% of our leases contained 
IN CASH FLOWS  contractual annual rent escalations that were either 
Alexandria delivered another year of very strong internal  fixed or based on a consumer price index or another 
growth in 2017 driven by our operational excellence and  index, and approximately 94% of our leases provided 
our focus on Class A properties clustered in life science  for the recapture of certain capital expenditures. 
and technology campuses in AAA locations, as well as the  These additional key attributes of our favorable lease 
robust demand from highly innovative, diversified, and  structure, combined with the 55% of our annual 
high-quality tenants for our properties and collaborative  rental revenue generated from tenants that are either 
campuses. Real estate market fundamentals remain  investment grade or have a market capitalization or a 
solid in our key urban innovation cluster submarkets,  valuation greater than $10 billion and the 80% of our 
which continues to drive demand and limit the supply  total annual rental revenue from Class A properties 
of existing and near-term deliveries of Class A space,  in AAA locations, drive high-quality, stable, and 
favorable rental rate trends, high occupancy levels, and  increasing cash flows for Alexandria.
continued asset valuation strength. In addition to the solid demand for tenancy in our 
Marking a first in company history, Alexandria’s  buildings and our favorable lease structure, our ability 
total revenues surpassed $1 billion, aggregating   to strategically partner with tenants in a way that is 
$1.1 billion in 2017, up 22.4% over 2016. solutions focused and distinctive in the real estate 
Alexandria’s same property cash net operating  industry is a testament to Alexandria’s operational 
income growth was 6.8% for 2017, exceeding our  excellence. Alexandria provides tenants with mission-
strong 10-year average cash same property net  critical facilities that enable their success, but we go 
operating income growth of 5%, which has consistently  beyond providing world-class infrastructure with 
outperformed the average for office REITs over the same  top-tier services and creative amenities that serve 
10-year period. In a typical year, the key drivers of our  as intrinsically collaborative environments for our 
16	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT
tenants. We bring to bear our entire operating platform,  venture-backed biotechnology entities. We are proud to 
including our highly experienced management and  strategically partner with such innovative tenants and 
underwriting teams, to help us understand our tenants’  to provide them with vibrant ecosystems to ignite and 
businesses, their real estate needs, and the trends and  accelerate their pursuit in our shared mission to advance 
opportunities within their industries. human health, overcome global hunger, and improve the 
All these operational initiatives translate to  quality of people’s lives.
Alexandria’s strong 2017 EBITDA margin at 68%. Our  As of December 31, 2017, Alexandria has 2.3 million 
differentiated business model will continue to reap for  RSF under construction and pre-construction that 
the company the benefits of solid fundamentals in the  are highly leased at 85% on average and expected to 
real estate, life science, and technology industries in our  generate very strong initial cash yield averaging 6.9% 
urban innovation clusters and drive our solid internal  on our total investment. Alexandria also holds another 
growth outlook for 2018, as exemplified by our guidance  7.5 million square feet of future pipeline projects, which, 
for cash same property net operating income growth  together with our 2.3 million RSF under construction 
of a range from 9.0% to 11.0% and our cash rental rate  and pre-construction, will allow Alexandria the 
growth on leasing activity of a range from 7.5% to 10.5%.  opportunity to double revenues in the next five years.
EXTERNAL GROWTH: STRONG GROWTH AND  AWARD-WINNING, STRATEGIC ACQUISITION 
HIGHLY LEASED PIPELINE OF NEW CLASS A  OF CAMPUS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN KEY 
PROPERTIES IN AAA LOCATIONS INNOVATION CLUSTER SUBMARKET
The Alexandria team continues to successfully deliver  In November 2017, Alexandria closed on a strategic  
on our visible, multiyear, highly leased value-creation  joint venture transaction to acquire Menlo Gateway, a  
pipeline of Class A development and redevelopment  772,983 RSF iconic campus, now 100% leased to 
projects in AAA urban innovation cluster locations,  Facebook, in our Greater Stanford submarket of  
where we expect to achieve solid investment returns. San Francisco. A two-phased world-class development 
We are very pleased to report we have an impressive  project of Class A office/technology space, Menlo 
track record spanning the past 10 years of prudently  Gateway represents a significant and strategic growth 
managing Alexandria’s value-creation pipeline, which  opportunity for Alexandria in the Greater Stanford 
continues to enable the generation of strong returns.  submarket. The first phase of development, comprising 
Through the pre-leasing of 6.3 million RSF on average  251,995 RSF, has been completed, with Facebook having 
of new Class A properties since January 1, 2008, prior  commenced occupancy just prior to our acquisition. 
to the commencement of vertical construction, we have  The second phase of the project, a two-building Class A 
successfully mitigated risk. In the same 10-year period,  office development aggregating 520,988 RSF, is currently 
tenants that are either investment grade or have a  under construction and expected to deliver during the 
market capitalization or a valuation greater than   fourth quarter of 2019. The office/technology facilities, 
$10 billion contributed 81% of Alexandria’s annual rental  located within a vibrant campus that includes a signature 
revenue generated from ground-up development projects.  hotel, ample outdoor space, and a state-of-the-art fitness 
In addition, over the past decade, our highly experienced  center, will feature floor-to-ceiling windows with views 
team has on average beat our target delivery dates by  of the San Francisco Bay and surrounding foothills, 
two months, completing projects on average 4.2% under  as well as collaborative and open workspaces with an 
budget and exceeding our original return expectations. outdoor terrace. This dynamic campus environment was 
Today, Alexandria remains in the unique position   purposely designed to foster creativity and innovation 
of holding land parcels in very attractive locations  and help attract and retain the world’s best talent.
within key centers of innovation, which provide us   Anchored by world-renowned Stanford University, 
with the ability to meet the demand for mission-critical  which features some of the brightest and best science 
real estate by highly innovative tenants. In 2017, we   and engineering talent, and by technology giants, 
completed six development projects aggregating   such as Amazon, Google, Microsoft, and Tesla, 
1.4 million RSF, on time, at an average initial cash yield  which dominate large blocks of space, the cluster’s 
of 7.1%. These dynamic and collaborative spaces were  attractiveness to cutting-edge biotechnology and 
delivered to high-quality life science and technology  technology entities continues to grow, resulting in 
companies, including Bristol-Myers Squibb, Celgene,  constrained supply for Class A space. With Menlo 
Facebook, Illumina, Juno Therapeutics, Pinterest, Stripe,  Gateway, a key expansion to Facebook’s existing and 
Vertex Pharmaceuticals, and several very high-quality  planned corporate headquarters campus ultimately 
	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT	 17
comprising more than 5 million square feet, Alexandria  common stock dividend. During 2017, we issued  
is expanding the depth and breadth of our tenant  $1 billion in unsecured senior notes payable at a 
relationships, enabling our continued future growth,  weighted-average interest rate of 3.7% and tenure of  
and solidifying the company as the dominant owner  9 years. The pricing of 10-year fixed-rate unsecured 
of life science and technology campuses in the Greater  senior notes remains attractive in the very low 4%  
Stanford cluster. range today and reflects the significant improvement 
We are proud to report that, on a combined  in our credit profile over the last two years. We also 
basis, this two-phase Facebook lease was the largest  raised over $1.5 billion through a follow-on, forward 
lease signed in the San Francisco Bay Area in 2017.  equity sales agreements, and at-the-market common 
Additionally, the project was awarded “Development   stock offerings in 2017. Net proceeds were used to fund 
of the Year” by NAIOP San Francisco. These new   growth through the ground-up construction of new 
Class A properties at Menlo Gateway with high-quality  Class A properties, to acquire value-creation real estate, 
tenancy drive meaningful NAV and earnings growth  to repay outstanding secured construction loans, and 
for Alexandria. The initial stabilized yield on our total  to reduce unhedged variable-rate debt to 1% of total 
investment for the project is very attractive at 6.9% and  debt at the end of 2017. Our highly experienced team 
6.3% (cash basis). remains very disciplined with the allocation of capital 
to key submarkets in AAA innovation cluster locations, 
DISCIPLINED ALLOCATION OF CAPITAL AND  including Cambridge, Mission Bay/SoMa, South San 
PRUDENT MANAGEMENT OF BALANCE SHEET  Francisco, Greater Stanford, Manhattan, Torrey Pines, 
Alexandria’s balance sheet is in an excellent position of  University Town Center, and Lake Union. During 
strength and flexibility. In February 2018, S&P improved  2017, we completed six new Class A buildings through 
its outlook on the company to BBB/Positive, reflecting its  ground-up development aggregating over 1.4 million 
anticipation of further ratings upside and its expectation  RSF. These recently delivered value-creation projects 
that Alexandria will continue to outperform office  generated a very attractive average initial cash yield of 
peers during 2018 with long-term positive fundamentals  7.1% and incremental annual net operating income of 
underlying the life science industry. This latest upgrade  $86 million and contributed, along with strong same 
in our credit rating came just one year after a previous  property net operating income growth, to our solid 9.3% 
S&P upgrade to BBB/Stable. growth in FFO, as adjusted, per diluted share in 2017.
We ended 2017 with the strongest key credit metrics  Our board of directors continues to support a 
in the history of the company, which should continue to  policy of sharing our growth in cash flows with our 
provide a relative cost-of-capital advantage to support  shareholders while also retaining significant cash 
strategic long-term growth. For 2017, we exceeded our  flows for reinvestment. During 2017, we increased 
balance sheet leverage goal at 5.5x based upon net debt  our annual common stock dividend by 7% to $3.45 
to adjusted EBITDA, and our fixed-charge coverage  per common share. Our FFO payout ratio remains 
ratio was very solid at 4.2x, both annualized for the  very attractive at 61% as of the fourth quarter of 2017 
fourth quarter of 2017, which reflect our continued  and supports our outlook for 2018 to reinvest from 
commitment to improve our credit profile and long- $140 million to $180 million in net cash provided by 
term cost of capital. operating activities after dividends. In our outlook for 
The strength and quality of our cash flows from  the future, we anticipate that significant growth in  
our asset base of Class A properties and an industry- cash flows will continue to support solid growth in  
leading tenant roster provide us access to efficient and  our dividends per common share.
diverse sources of capital. The strength of our balance 
sheet and the $2 billion in liquidity as of December 31,  STRATEGIC VENTURE INVESTMENTS
2017, affords us flexibility in executing our strategic  Alexandria Venture Investments, the company’s 
growth initiatives. Institutional demand for our  strategic venture capital arm representing our 
high-quality asset base, tenant roster, and cash flows  venture investments core vertical, focuses on novel, 
remains strong and reflects the long-term, high-value  breakthrough discoveries in biopharma, diagnostics, 
nature of our unique collaborative life science and  research tools, agtech, and technology. Based on our 
technology campuses. experience and in-depth understanding of the life 
We are very pleased with our disciplined strategy  science and technology industries, our long-term 
and solid execution as they relate to long-term capital  relationships with leading investors, and our world-
to fund per share growth in FFO, as adjusted, NAV, and  class scientific advisory network, Alexandria Venture 
18	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT
Investments is uniquely positioned to fund seed-,  focused on the economics of healthcare with the goal 
early-, and growth-stage companies and to have a  of inspiring new ways of addressing the urgent need 
meaningful impact on the growth of emerging entities  to transform our healthcare system and to ensure the 
focused on developing life-changing scientific and  future economic stability of our nation.
technological breakthroughs to improve human health  To date, through the powerful collective voice 
and quality of life. of our Alexandria Summit community, we have 
Alexandria was recognized by Silicon Valley Bank  catalyzed actionable, transformative discussions and 
as the most active early-stage life science investor by  collaborations that will continue to help drive the 
deal volume in 2016–2017, a status that is a tribute to  discovery and development of novel, cost-effective 
the breadth and quality of our deal flow. With a venture  therapies that will save lives, manage and cure disease, 
book value of almost $525 million, or only 3.7% of  and significantly reduce the economic burden of 
our gross assets, across more than 250 holdings, our  disease on society.
robust venture activity enables us to track the pulse 
of innovation at the earliest stages. In addition to the  COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY: 
noteworthy financial returns generated through this  SUSTAINABILITY & PHILANTHROPY
unique business unit, our venture activity provides  As part of our commitment to making a positive impact 
invaluable strategic insights, which enable us to stay  on the world, Alexandria’s corporate responsibility 
at the cutting-edge of innovation and industry trends,  core vertical focuses, among other key topics, on 
to strengthen our unparalleled network across the life  sustainability and philanthropy. The Alexandria team 
science industry, and to recruit and retain the highest- is committed to building the future of life-changing 
quality tenant base. innovation and fostering a brighter and better tomorrow 
for the communities in which we live and work.
IMPACTFUL THOUGHT LEADERSHIP AND 
PATIENT ENGAGEMENT DRIVE DEVELOPMENT  Sustainability
OF INNOVATIVE THERAPIES THAT ADVANCE  We are very proud of the recognition we received in 2017 
HUMAN HEALTH for Alexandria’s programming and accomplishments 
A critical part of supporting our mission, Alexandria’s  across the ESG dimensions of sustainability. Our mission 
strategic thought leadership core vertical aims to  as it relates to sustainability is to make a positive and 
further enable innovation in life science and improve  meaningful impact on the health, safety, and well-being 
the lives of patients around the world. We convene  of our tenants, employees, shareholders, as well as on 
our world-class network for unique and interactive  the communities in which we live and work.
programming, including our groundbreaking  Overseen by the Alexandria Sustainability 
Alexandria Summit® series, to create meaningful  Committee, we put sustainability into action by creating 
opportunities for collaboration that will help shape  environmentally responsible, highly dynamic, and 
the future of healthcare. collaborative urban campuses designed to enhance our 
Entering our eighth year, the Alexandria Summit  tenants’ ability to successfully recruit and retain world-
continues to provide a neutral platform for our global  class talent, promote health and wellness, and inspire 
life science, technology, and agtech network—a  productivity, efficiency, creativity, and success.
diverse group of visionary stakeholders from across  During 2017, in recognition of our strong ESG 
the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agribusiness,  policies, practices, and performance Alexandria earned 
technology, medical, academic, venture capital, private  a prestigious “Green Star” designation from GRESB. 
equity, philanthropic, patient advocacy, and government  Our 2017 GRESB score exceeded that of the U.S. listed 
communities—to gather around critical topics in global  REIT average and also the global GRESB average. Key 
healthcare, agriculture, and the environment. programming and accomplishments that drove this 
In 2017, we hosted two Alexandria Summit events— recognition include:
Innovate Ag 2017 and Healthcare Economics 2017. 
Recognizing the critical intersection of healthcare,  •  Targeting and delivering a minimum of LEED® Gold 
agriculture, and the environment, we focused our  on all new ground-up construction projects, with 
inaugural agtech-centered summit on addressing the  approximately 49% of our total annual rental revenue 
mission-critical, immense challenges of feeding, fueling,  that will be generated from LEED certified projects 
and clothing a rapidly growing world population. Later  upon completion of 12 projects in progress as of 
in the year, we convened our second Alexandria Summit  December 31, 2017;
	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT	 19
•  Continuously improving efficiency and reducing our  organizations in 2017. We were excited and proud to 
impact on the environment, including our 86 energy  launch a new key initiative this year, Operation CARE, 
optimization projects implemented in 2015 and 2016,  which leverages the company’s resources, people, 
which reduced greenhouse gas pollution in 2017 from  network, and expertise to provide mission-critical 
our buildings by 4.7%, more than twice the global  support and resources to leading-edge non-profit 
GRESB average of 2.2%; and organizations doing groundbreaking work in medical 
•  Implementing cutting-edge water conservation  research, STEM education, military support services, 
technologies, such as installing greywater systems;  and local communities.
capturing steam condensate for use in cooling towers  During 2016–2017, Alexandria partnered with 
and irrigation; and implementing waste management,  the Navy SEAL Foundation as Dinner Chair for the 
recycling, and composting programs. foundation’s Ninth Annual Benefit Dinner in New 
York City. The entire Alexandria team was deployed to 
Additionally, Alexandria achieved the top score of all  raise important funds for the foundation’s impactful 
U.S. companies in the GRESB Health & Well-being Module.  programs, which provide support and assistance to 
Highlights of our award-winning program include: the Naval Special Warfare (NSW) community and 
its families. Each year, the Navy SEAL Foundation 
•  Being the first real estate company to become a Fitwel  serves over 9,000 active-duty NSW personnel and 
Champion and to receive Fitwel certifications for  their families, as well as post-9/11 SEAL and Special 
promoting the highest levels of occupant comfort in  Warfare Combatant-craft Crewman veterans, providing 
our existing buildings; programs designed to improve health and welfare, 
•  Earning the world’s first WELL certification for  build and enhance resiliency, empower and educate 
a newly constructed laboratory space, located at  families, and provide critical support during times of 
Alexandria LaunchLabs® in New York City; and illness, injury, and loss.
•  Providing a highly competitive benefits package  In September 2017, Alexandria continued to 
and a healthy workplace and employee experience,  enhance our critical support of the U.S. military with the 
including fitness centers or incentives, healthy meal  development of an 8,000 RSF new headquarters space 
and snack options, retirement benefits and planning,  for The Honor Foundation in San Diego, in partnership 
paid time off for volunteering activities, and an  with the Navy SEAL Foundation. The Honor Foundation, 
employee assistance program to meet and exceed the  a unique transition institute created exclusively for Navy 
health, well-being, and financial needs and goals of  SEALs and the U.S. Special Operations community, will 
our talented employees and their families. use its new headquarters to house transition programs 
tailored for the U.S. Special Operations community and 
As a result of all the above achievements,  also offer co-working spaces for SEAL entrepreneurs, 
Alexandria was awarded Nareit’s 2017 Leader in the  executive coaching office hours, industry mentorship 
Light Sustainability Award in the “Most Innovative”  opportunities, and other special business networking 
category. As demand for healthy and highly amenitized  events for the Special Operators in transition.
building services and programming continues to grow,  Another key 2017 Operation CARE highlight was 
Alexandria’s best-in-class approach to health and  the noteworthy participation from 37 members of the 
wellness will continue to be a driver of our enduring  Alexandria team in the New York City Marathon. All 
success. Alexandria now has 3.1 million RSF of buildings  37 employees completed the 2017 marathon benefiting 
that have earned or are pursuing healthy building  Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC). 
certifications, and we expect to continue to increase that  Together with MSKCC, we raised substantial funds to 
number as part of our significant efforts to prioritize  help support critical oncology research and patient 
health and wellness and to reduce the environmental  care. The marathon was a truly inspirational event 
effects of our buildings. that brought together team members, friends, and 
family to support and celebrate our impressive group 
Philanthropy  of Alexandria runners while raising funds for a cause 
2017 was a year of unprecedented impact by  that touches us all.
Alexandria’s philanthropy and volunteerism programs.  Alexandria’s philanthropy and volunteerism efforts 
Through our strategic corporate philanthropy, relentless  are fundamental to fulfilling our mission to advance 
fundraising, and robust volunteerism, Alexandria  human health, overcome global hunger, and improve 
provided support to over 175 innovative non-profit  the quality of people’s lives.
20	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT
ALEXANDRIA’S
2017 SIGNIFICANT HONORS 
& RECOGNITIONS
“SOCIETY IS DEMANDING THAT COMPANIES, BOTH 
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE, SERVE A SOCIAL PURPOSE. 
TO PROSPER OVER TIME, EVERY COMPANY MUST 
NOT ONLY DELIVER FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, 
BUT ALSO SHOW HOW IT MAKES A POSITIVE 
CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY.”
LARRY FINK
CHAIRMAN & CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
BLACKROCK, INC.
JOEL S. MARCUS JENNIFER J. BANKS  
Chairman, CEO &  EVP, General Counsel & 
Founder Corporate Secretary
DANIEL J. RYAN   EMILY M. SHERIDAN  
EVP, Regional Market  SVP, Strategic 
Director – San Diego &   Programming & 
Strategic Operations Philanthropy
PEOPLE
SUSTAINABILITY REAL ESTATE
ARE: Highest 
Achievement in  GB: 50 and 60  
Sustainability  Binney Street
Innovation
ARE: #1 Health  
& Well-being   ARE: 6 LEED®  SF: Menlo SF: 249, 259, and 269
Company in   Certifications Gateway East Grand Avenue
the U.S.
DEVELOPMENT OF THE YEAR
NYC: Alexandria  SD: Encouraging 
LaunchLabs® at the  More Sustainable  SD: 3033   SD: 10290  
Alexandria Center®  Commuting   Science Park Road Campus Point Drive
for Life Science – NYC Options
WORLD’S FIRST WELL
CERTIFIED LABORATORY
SD & SF:  
California’s   ARE: Founding Member 
RTP: 2525   RTP: 2525  
Highest   of Fitwel Leadership 
East NC Highway 54 East NC Highway 54
Environmental   Advisory Board
Honor
  2017 ANNUAL REPORT  21
BEST-IN-CLASS, LONG-TENURED TEAM WITH  define a great company: Superior Results, Distinctive 
DEEP EXPERTISE AND EXPERIENCE Impact, and Lasting Endurance.” Continuing to achieve 
Our people are Alexandria’s most important asset,  these three outputs is key to Alexandria’s success.
and we are deeply thankful for our dedicated team  Strong macro real estate and life science 
of employees and their commitment toward the  fundamentals, combined with our highly experienced 
operational excellence that has directly contributed to  and talented team’s dedication to our noble mission, 
Alexandria’s strong performance in 2017 as well as to  continue to drive our company’s stellar performance. 
our success since the founding of the company in 1994.  We also continue to make meaningful investments 
Since then, our experienced team has continued to  toward cultivating a unique culture defined by 
bring an impressive and diverse breadth of knowledge,  our sense of purpose and opportunities to grow, 
understanding, and expertise in real estate, life  collaborate, and be inspired.
science, and technology. Thank you to our pioneering tenants who are 
Alexandria’s executive and senior management  discovering and developing technological breakthroughs 
teams consist of 37 individuals averaging more than  to benefit humankind; to our shareholders for your 
23 years of real estate experience, including 12 years  continued support and belief in our differentiated 
with Alexandria. Our executive management team  business; and to our passionate, creative, and driven 
alone averages 18 years of experience with Alexandria.  team, which works hard each and every day to ensure 
From the company’s development of high-quality,  our future is bright.
sustainable real estate, to our ongoing cultivation of  We are excited about what the future holds and we 
collaborative environments with desirable amenities and  are well positioned for strong growth ahead.
community events, the Alexandria team is recognized 
for its excellence in our niche and industry. Alexandria’s  Sincerely,
highly experienced management team includes regional 
market directors who lead the company’s fully integrated 
regional teams with expertise in design, leasing and asset 
management, construction and development, laboratory 
JOEL S. MARCUS  DEAN A. SHIGENAGA 
operations, accounting and finance, and sustainability. CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD,   EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, 
The Alexandria team’s proven track record has  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER &  CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER & 
FOUNDER TREASURER
contributed to each of its members’ leading reputations 
and longstanding relationships with key major real 
estate, life science, and technology industry stakeholders 
within their respective urban innovation clusters. In 
turn, these key relationships, along with our expertise, 
experience, and reputation, provide Alexandria with 
significant competitive advantages in continuing to 
attract new business opportunities.
OUR FUTURE IS BRIGHT
As we look forward in 2018 and beyond, we remain 
unwavering in our focus on building the future of 
life-changing innovation through strong operational 
excellence and sustained strategic growth, and we are 
as committed as ever to supporting the life science 
and technology industries in pursuit of advancing 
human health.
Over the past few years, our team has had the 
unique opportunity to work with renowned author and 
business strategist Jim Collins in examining tangible 
frameworks for understanding why organizations and 
leaders succeed. In garnering a deep understanding of 
our business and what makes us successful, Jim has 
shared, “Alexandria has achieved the three outputs that 
22	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT
P
E
O
P
L
E
PE PLE
	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT	 23
“Alexandria’s Greater Boston team 
is passionate about operational 
GREATER	BOSTON
excellence. We know that so 
many of our tenants are pursuing 
life-changing innovations for the  
benefit of patients and society. 
Their work inspires our purpose: 
designing, building, and operating 
great workplaces so that our 
tenants can be successful.”
THOMAS J. ANDREWS
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT 
REGIONAL MARKET DIRECTOR –  
GREATER BOSTON
“The Alexandria New York City 
team was established to lead the 
mission-critical, multidisciplinary 
work of creating a world-class  
cluster. This significant effort 
continues through the team’s 
unmatched operation of our 
flagship campus, the Alexandria 
Center® for Life Science – New 
York City; hosting our world-
renowned thought leadership 
programs, which include 
Alexandria Summits and 
Alexandria Pharma Days; and 
catalyzing and nurturing early-
stage companies through unique 
offerings such as Alexandria 
LaunchLabs®, the Alexandria 
Seed Capital Platform, and our 
strategic venture investments.”
NEW	YORK	CITY
JOHN H. CUNNINGHAM
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT
REGIONAL MARKET DIRECTOR –  
NEW YORK CITY
24	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT 	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT	 25
“Disruption. Determination. 
Delivery. Alexandria’s  
San Diego region has a tightly 
knit, highly engaged team 
made up of creative pioneers 
who passionately tackle the 
status quo. Our hard work is 
matched by our camaraderie 
and commitment to Alexandria’s 
important mission.”
DANIEL J. RYAN
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT
REGIONAL MARKET DIRECTOR – SAN DIEGO & 
STRATEGIC OPERATIONS
SAN	DIEGO
26	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT 	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT	 27
P
U
R
P
SAN	FRANCISCO O
S
E
“We have a great opportunity to 
pursue with passion our noblest 
aspirations at Alexandria and 
PURP SE
to fulfill our company’s mission 
as a trusted partner to life-
changing innovators. I’m proud 
of our San Francisco team for 
their continued dedication to 
our mission and the successful 
growth of our thriving cluster.”
STEPHEN A. RICHARDSON
CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER &  
REGIONAL MARKET DIRECTOR –  
SAN FRANCISCO 
28	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT 	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT	 29
REAL ESTATE
GREATER	BOSTON
 
IN GREATER BOSTON, Alexandria is one of the largest owners 
and operators of life science and technology campuses, with 
6.4 million RSF in the cluster’s key submarkets, which include 
Cambridge, Longwood Medical Area, and Route 128. Alexandria’s 
most significant presence in Greater Boston is in Cambridge’s 
Kendall Square, which is home to three of our most prominent 
life science and technology campuses—Alexandria Technology 
Square®, Alexandria Center® at Kendall Square, and Alexandria 
Center® at One Kendall Square.
100 Binney Street is a 432,931 RSF 
development project located in the heart of 
Alexandria's Cambridge submarket of Greater 
Boston. The Class A building was delivered in 
2017 to anchor tenant Bristol-Myers Squibb 
Company, a global biopharmaceutical company 
whose mission is to discover, develop, and 
deliver innovative medicines that help patients 
prevail over serious diseases, and Facebook, 
Inc., one of the world's largest technology-
related companies. In early 2018, the balance of 
the building was delivered to four high-quality, 
venture-backed entrepreneurial life science 
companies, including Foghorn Therapeutics, 
Inc., Sigilon Therapeutics, Inc., Tango 
Therapeutics, Inc., and TCR2 Therapeutics, Inc.
30	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT 	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT	 31
REAL ESTATE
S	 AN	FRANCISCO
IN SAN FRANCISCO, Alexandria has expanded its asset base of 
world-class campuses to 5.6 million RSF in the Bay Area’s most 
vibrant life science and technology submarkets of Mission Bay/
SoMa, South San Francisco, and Greater Stanford. Alexandria’s 
San Francisco urban cluster is nearly 100% leased to some of the 
world’s most innovative companies and includes a solid pipeline  
of current and future development projects.
213 East Grand Avenue is a 300,930 RSF 
development project in the South San Francisco 
submarket of Alexandria's San Francisco 
cluster for Merck & Co., Inc.’s new West Coast 
research headquarters. The multidisciplinary 
research facility is expected to deliver in  
2019 and will accommodate more than  
300 scientists and support research spanning 
exploratory biology through early clinical 
development. The Class A building will 
feature an open atmosphere that encourages 
collaboration and teamwork and will have a 
large auditorium to provide space for nearby 
academics, scientists, and entrepreneurs to 
convene and engage in scientific dialogue.
32	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT 	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT	 33
REAL ESTATE
S	 AN	DIEGO
IN SAN DIEGO, Alexandria is the preeminent developer of life 
science and technology campuses at the forefront of sustainability 
and creativity. With more than 50 properties across 4.3 million 
RSF in the cluster’s primary life science submarkets of Torrey 
Pines, University Town Center, Sorrento Mesa, and Sorrento 
Valley, Alexandria is well positioned for continued growth on  
its signature campuses.
3215 Merryfield Row is a 170,523 RSF 
development project that was delivered to 
Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated in 2017. 
The Class A building is located at Alexandria’s 
dynamic ARE Spectrum campus in our Torrey 
Pines submarket of San Diego. Vertex is a 
global biotechnology company that invests in 
scientific innovation to create transformative 
medicines for people with serious and life-
threatening diseases. In addition to clinical 
development programs in cystic fibrosis, the 
company has more than a dozen ongoing 
research programs focused on the underlying 
mechanisms of other serious diseases.
34	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT 	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT	 35
REAL ESTATE
S	 EATTLE
IN SEATTLE, Alexandria primarily locates its Class A buildings 
in the heart of the vibrant Lake Union submarket, which is one 
of the country’s fastest-growing life science and technology 
submarkets. Today, Alexandria’s Seattle operating asset base 
comprises more than 1.0 million RSF of office/laboratory space 
clustered in urban innovation campuses.
400 Dexter Avenue North is a 290,111 RSF 
development project in our Lake Union 
submarket of Alexandria's Seattle cluster 
delivered in 2017 to Juno Therapeutics, Inc., 
a biopharmaceutical company developing 
innovative cellular immunotherapies for the 
treatment of cancer. The new headquarters 
features state-of-the-art office/laboratory 
space, iconic views of Lake Union, and The 
Collective, a dynamic club with unique 
amenities designed to bring Seattle’s top-tier 
entrepreneurs and creatives together in an 
energizing environment.
36	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT 	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT	 37
VENTURE	INVESTMENTS SUPPORTING	COMPANIES	
IN	TRANSFORMING		
ALEXANDRIA VENTURE INVESTMENTS, founded 
in 1996, is the company’s strategic venture capital arm. 
THE	LIVES	OF	PATIENTS
Alexandria Venture Investments focuses on novel, 
breakthrough discoveries in biopharma, diagnostics, 
research tools, agtech, and technology. Based on its  SEVEN LIQUIDITY EVENTS IN 2017: FIVE IPOs AND TWO M&As
experience and in-depth understanding of the life science 
and technology industries, its long-term relationships  
with leading investors, and its world-class scientific 
33
advisory network, Alexandria Venture Investments  
is uniquely positioned to fund seed-, early-, and   IPO EXITS BETWEEN 
2013 AND 2017 $288m IPO Acquired by Sucampo 
growth-stage companies.
1 Denali	Therapeutics	Inc.	is	developing	 Vtesse	Inc.	is	a	rare	disease	 Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
#  treatments	for	neurodegenerative	 company	dedicated	to	developing	
diseases	that	utilize	recent	scientific	 drugs	for	patients	suffering	from	
insights	in	genetics,	biology,	and	 underserved	diseases.
translational	medicine.
MOST ACTIVE EARLY-STAGE 
BIOPHARMA INVESTOR BY 
DEAL VOLUME IN 2016–2017
140
+ “Denali	brings	together	dedicated	and	passionate	 “Vtesse	was	founded	in	2015	to	rapidly	translate	basic	
SILICON VALLEY BANK 
scientists,	drug	developers,	collaborators,	and	 research	from	the	National	Institutes	of	Health	into	
“ TRENDS IN HEALTHCARE  
DIRECT PRIVATE 
INVESTMENTS AND EXITS 2018” investors	to	combat	neurodegenerative	diseases,	 a	safe	and	effective	therapeutic	to	treat	patients	
INVESTMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT 2018 which	collectively	represent	one	of	the	largest	medical	 with	Niemann-Pick	type	C	disease,	a	devastating	
needs	of	our	time.	We	discover	and	develop	medicines	 rare	disease.	Niemann-Pick	type	C	has	no	approved	
$523
M designed	to	improve	the	lives	of	patients	suffering	from	 treatment	and	is	always	fatal,	with	the	majority	
these	debilitating	diseases.” of	afflicted	children	dying	before	age	20.	Vtesse	
10
TOTAL BOOK VALUE developed	and	implemented	a	clinical	development	
RYAN J. WATTS, PhD
strategy	leading	to	the	successful	enrollment	of	a	
CO-FOUNDER, PRESIDENT &  
M&A EXITS BETWEEN  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER,  Phase	3	clinical	trial.”
2013 AND 2017 DENALI THERAPEUTICS INC. 
BERNARDUS N. MACHIELSE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER,  
PRESIDENT & DIRECTOR,  
VTESSE, INC.
As of December 31, 2017.
38	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT 	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT	 39
THOUGHT	LEADERSHIP		
&	PATIENT	ENGAGEMENT
ALEXANDRIA CONVENES its world-class global network for unique  Alexandria Summit – Healthcare 
and interactive programming, including the Alexandria Summit®,  Economics 2017: Keynote: 
Alzheimer's, One of Our Biggest 
to create opportunities for collaboration and patient engagement 
Global Healthcare Challenges
that will shape the future of healthcare. The Alexandria 
Summit brings together a diverse group of visionary partners  Speakers Pictured Above  
(left to right)
and key stakeholders from the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, 
agribusiness, technology, medical, academic, venture capital,  Ryan J. Watts, PhD  
private equity, philanthropic, patient advocacy, and government  Co-Founder, President &  
Chief Executive Officer,  
communities. Through its powerful collective voice, the 
Denali Therapeutics Inc.
Alexandria Summit drives forward actionable meeting outcomes 
that address the most critical global healthcare, agricultural, and  Greg O'Brien  
Alexandria Summit – Healthcare Economics 
Journalist and Author,  
environmental challenges facing society. 2017: Keynote: Regulation & Innovation  
On Pluto: Inside the Mind of 
in Healthcare: A Discussion with the  
Alzheimer's
FDA Commissioner
Lynne Zydowsky, PhD  
Speakers Pictured (left to right)
President & Co-Founder, 
Alexandria Summit –  
Alexandria Summit;  
Healthcare Economics 2017   George D. Demetri, MD  
Chief Science Advisor to the 
Focused on healthcare economics, Alexandria  Quick Family Chair in Medical Oncology &  
CEO, Alexandria Real Estate  
gathered a diverse group of world-class visionary   Senior Vice President for Experimental 
Equities, Inc.⁄Alexandria  
stakeholders to inspire new ways of addressing  Therapeutics, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute; 
Venture Investments
the urgent need to transform the healthcare  Associate Director for Clinical Sciences,  
system, drive human health, and ensure the   Dana-Farber/Harvard Cancer Center
economic stability of our nation at its most 
recent Alexandria Summit held at the Alexandria  Commissioner Scott Gottlieb, MD 
Center® for Life Science – New York City. Commissioner, U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration 
40	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT 	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT	 41
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
S  USTAINABILITY
ALEXANDRIA’S SUSTAINABILITY MISSION is to make a positive  
and meaningful impact on the health, safety, and well-being  
of our tenants, shareholders, employees, and the communities 
in which we live and work. We aim to be one of the most 
environmentally innovative, socially responsible, and economically 
strong companies in the world.
ALEXANDRIA’S 2017 SIGNIFICANT  
SUSTAINABILITY HONORS & RECOGNITIONS
Alexandria LaunchLabs® at the Alexandria 
Center® for Life Science – New York City 
has been certified as the world’s first WELL 
laboratory, achieving Gold-level recognition 
from the International WELL Building Institute. 
WELL helps optimize and build in strategies 
WORLD’S FIRST WELL around the seven categories of WELL 
CERTIFIED LABORATORY
certification: air, water, nourishment, light, 
fitness, comfort, and mind. Alexandria pursues 
WELL certification on a case-by-case basis for 
ARE: Highest Achievement  ARE: #1 Health &   ARE: 6 LEED®  NYC: Alexandria  SD: Encouraging   SD & SF: California’s Highest  ARE: Founding Member  select new development projects.
in Sustainability Innovation Well-being Company   Certifications LaunchLabs® at the  More Sustainable  Environmental Honor of Fitwel Leadership 
in the U.S. Alexandria Center® for  Commuting Options Advisory Board
Life Science – NYC
42	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT 	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT	 43
“ALEXANDRIA’S TREMENDOUS 
SUPPORT OF THE NAVY 
SEAL FOUNDATION HAS A 
SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON 
THE HEALTH AND WELFARE 
OF THE WARRIORS AND  CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
THEIR FAMILIES. THEIR  P  HILANTHROPY
CONTRIBUTIONS WILL HELP 
FUND THE FOUNDATION’S 
PROGRAMMING, ENSURING 
THAT THE NAVAL SPECIAL 
WARFARE COMMUNITY AND 
THEIR FAMILIES RECEIVE  
THE BEST RESOURCES AND 
CARE POSSIBLE.”
GARRY J. BONELLI 
RETIRED REAR ADMIRAL (SEAL) 
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD, 
NAVY SEAL FOUNDATION
ALEXANDRIA’S PHILANTHROPY AND VOLUNTEERISM PROGRAM, 
Operation CARE, leverages Alexandria’s resources, people, and 
expertise to provide mission-critical support and resources to 
leading-edge non-profit organizations doing groundbreaking 
work in medical research, STEM education, military support 
services, and local communities. Through these efforts, Alexandria 
had a record-breaking 2017, helping drive the development of 
breakthrough technologies and therapies in support of its mission 
to advance human health, overcome global hunger, and improve 
the quality of people’s lives.
Supporting the Navy SEAL Foundation
In 2017, Alexandria was honored to chair the 
Navy SEAL Foundation’s Ninth Annual Benefit 
Dinner in New York City. Alexandria partnered 
with the Navy SEAL Foundation and more than 
1,900 patriots, partners, loyal supporters, and 
friends to recognize the courage, dedication, 
and sacrifice of the U.S. Navy SEALs, the Naval 
Special Warfare community, and their families.
44	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT 	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT	 45
ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC. (NYSE:ARE), an S&P 500® company, is an  Alexandria®, Lighthouse Design® logo, Building 
urban office real estate investment trust uniquely focused on collaborative  the Future of Life-Changing Innovation™, 
LaunchLabs®, Alexandria Center®, Alexandria 
life science and technology campuses in AAA innovation cluster locations, 
Technology Square®, and Alexandria Summit® 
with a total market capitalization of $17.9 billion and an asset base in North 
are trademarks of Alexandria Real Estate 
America of 29.6 million SF as of December 31, 2017. The asset base in North  Equities, Inc. All other company names, 
America includes 22.0 million RSF of operating properties, including 1.7  trademarks, and logos referenced herein are 
million RSF of development and redevelopment of new Class A properties  the property of their respective owners.
currently undergoing construction. Additionally, the asset base in North 
America includes 7.6 million SF of future development projects, including 1.6 
million SF of near-term projects undergoing marketing for lease and pre-
construction activities and 3.8 million SF of intermediate-term development 
projects. Founded in 1994, Alexandria pioneered this niche and has since 
established a significant market presence in key locations, including Greater 
Boston, San Francisco, New York City, San Diego, Seattle, Maryland, and 
Research Triangle Park. Alexandria has a longstanding and proven track 
record of developing Class A properties clustered in urban life science 
and technology campuses that provide its innovative tenants with highly 
dynamic and collaborative environments that enhance their ability to 
successfully recruit and retain world-class talent and inspire productivity, 
efficiency, creativity, and success. Alexandria also provides strategic risk 
capital to transformative life science and technology companies through 
its venture capital arm. We believe our unique business model and diligent 
underwriting ensure a high-quality and diverse tenant base that results in 
higher occupancy levels, longer lease terms, higher rental income, higher 
returns, and greater long-term asset value. For additional information on 
Alexandria, please visit www.are.com.
SAFE HARBOR: This document includes “forward-looking statements” within the 
meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 
21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking 
statements include, without limitation, statements regarding our 2018 earnings per 
share attributable to Alexandria’s common stockholders – diluted, 2018 funds from 
operations per share attributable to Alexandria’s common stockholders – diluted, 
net operating income, and our projected sources and uses of capital. You can 
identify the forward-looking statements by their use of forward-looking words, 
such as “forecast,” “guidance,” “projects,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “believes,” 
“expects,” “intends,” “may,” “plans,” “seeks,” “should,” or “will,” or the negative of 
those words or similar words. These forward-looking statements are based on our 
current expectations, beliefs, projections, future plans and strategies, anticipated 
events or trends, and similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical 
facts, as well as a number of assumptions concerning future events. There can be 
no assurance that actual results will not be materially higher or lower than these 
expectations. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, 
and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially 
from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might 
cause such a difference include, without limitation, our failure to obtain capital 
(debt, construction financing, and/or equity) or refinance debt maturities, increased 
interest rates and operating costs, adverse economic or real estate developments in 
our markets, our failure to successfully place into service and lease any properties 
undergoing development or redevelopment and our existing space held for future 
development or redevelopment (including new properties acquired for that 
purpose), our failure to successfully operate or lease acquired properties, decreased 
rental rates, increased vacancy rates or failure to renew or replace expiring 
leases, defaults on or non-renewal of leases by tenants, adverse general and local 
economic conditions, an unfavorable capital market environment, decreased 
leasing activity or lease renewals, and other risks and uncertainties detailed in 
our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Accordingly, you 
are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. 
All forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this report, and unless 
otherwise stated, we assume no obligation to update this information and expressly 
disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether 
as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. For more discussion 
relating to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially 
from those anticipated in our forward-looking statements, and risks to our business 
in general, please refer to our SEC filings, including our most recent annual report on 
Form 10-K and any subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
46	 2017	ANNUAL	REPORT

ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
2017 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
ALEXANDRIA’S SOLID PERFORMANCE (MAY 27, 1997 – DECEMBER 31, 2017)1 $1.1  
ALEXANDRIA’S SOLID PERFORMANCE (MAY 27, 19971 – DECEMBER 31, 2017)
B
Alexandria 1,349%
Walmart 825% SURPASSED $1.0B IN TOTAL  
REVENUES FOR THE FIRST TIME  
IN COMPANY HISTORY
Microsoft 712%
$17.9
Berkshire Hathaway 592%
B
MSCI US REIT Index 555%
Cisco 507% TOTAL SHAREHOLDER 
TOTAL MARKET CAPITALIZATION  
RETURN COMPARISON
AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017
Nasdaq 490%
$155
Russell 2000 433%
M
S&P 500 363%
Coca-
120%
Cola RAISED AT 1997 IPO
0% 300% 600% 900% 1,200% 1,500%
Source: Bloomberg. Assumes reinvestment of dividends.
1.  Alexandria’s IPO priced at $20.00 per share.
Source: Bloomberg. Assumes reinvestment of dividends.
1.  Alexandria’s IPO priced, on May 27, 1997, at $20.00 per share.
ALEXANDRIA’S STRONG PER SHARE GROWTH
Net Asset Value2 Funds From Operations3 Common Stock Dividend
+44 +25 +20
% % %
$125
$6.02 $3.45
$2.88
$4.80
$87
2014 2017 2014 2017 2014 2017
2.  Represents average net asset value estimates from Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Barclays Capital Inc.,  
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Evercore ISI, Green Street Advisors, Inc, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, and UBS Securities LLC.
3.  Represents funds from operations per share – diluted, as adjusted.
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 
Commission file number 1-12993
ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Maryland 95-4502084
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)
385 East Colorado Boulevard, Suite 299, Pasadena, California 91101
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code)
(626)578-0777
(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code) 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of Each Class Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
Common Stock, $.01 par value per share New York Stock Exchange
7.00% Series D Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock New York Stock Exchange
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes       No 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes       No 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the 
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 
days. Yes       No 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be 
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and 
post such files).    Yes     No  
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of 
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K, or any amendment to this Form 10-K. 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or emerging growth 
company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the 
Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer  Accelerated filer 
Non-accelerated filer     (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) Smaller reporting company 
Emerging growth company 
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised 
financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes    No 
The aggregate market value of the shares of Common Stock held by non-affiliates of registrant was approximately $11.1 billion based on the closing price for such 
shares on the New York Stock Exchange on June 30, 2017.
As of January 16, 2018, 101,238,857 shares of common stock were outstanding.
Documents Incorporated by Reference
Part III of this annual report on Form 10-K incorporates certain information by reference from the registrant’s definitive proxy statement to be filed within 120 days of the 
end of the fiscal year covered by this annual report on Form 10-K in connection with the registrant’s annual meeting of stockholders to be held on or about May 22, 2018.
INDEX TO FORM 10-K
ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
PART I Page
ITEM 1. BUSINESS 1
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 7
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 38
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 39
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 69
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 69
PART II
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, 
AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 70
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  71
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  73
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  118
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  120
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 120
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 120
ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 122
PART III
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 122
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 122
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND 
RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  122
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR 
INDEPENDENCE 122
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES  122
PART IV
ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 123
GLOSSARY
  The following abbreviations or acronyms that may be used in this document 
shall have the adjacent meanings set forth below:
ASU Accounting Standards Update
ATM At the Market
BBA British Bankers’ Association
BPS Basis Points
CIP Construction in Progress
EPS Earnings per Share
FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board
FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
GAAP U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
HVAC Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning
IASB International Accounting Standards Board
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards
IRS Internal Revenue Service
JV Joint Venture
LEED® Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design
LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate
Nareit National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts
NAV Net Asset Value
NYSE New York Stock Exchange
REIT Real Estate Investment Trust
RSF Rentable Square Feet/Foot
SEC Securities and Exchange Commission
SF Square Feet/Foot
SoMa South of Market submarket of San Francisco
U.S. United States
VIE Variable Interest Entity
PART I 
Certain information and statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K, including, without limitation, statements 
containing the words “forecast,” “guidance,” “projects,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “plans,” 
“seeks,” “should,” or “will,” or the negative of these words or similar words, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the 
meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as 
amended. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties regarding events, conditions, and financial trends that 
may affect our future plans of operations, business strategy, results of operations, and financial position. A number of important factors 
could cause actual results to differ materially from those included within or contemplated by the forward-looking statements, 
including, but not limited to, the description of risks and uncertainties in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this annual report on Form 10-K. 
Additional information regarding risk factors that may affect us is included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this annual report on Form 10-K. Readers of our annual report on Form 10-K 
should also read our SEC and other publicly filed documents for further discussion regarding such factors.
As used in this annual report on Form 10-K, references to the “Company,” “Alexandria,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to 
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with 
the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes under Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
Overview
We are a Maryland corporation, formed in October 1994, that has elected to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax 
purposes. We are an S&P 500® company and an urban office REIT uniquely focused on collaborative life science and technology 
campuses in AAA innovation cluster locations. We consider AAA locations to be highly desirable for tenancy by life science and 
technology entities because of their close proximity to concentrations of specialized skills, knowledge, institutions, and related 
businesses. Such locations are generally characterized by high barriers to entry for new landlords, high barriers to exit for tenants, and 
a limited supply of available space. Founded in 1994, Alexandria pioneered this niche and has since established a significant market 
presence in key locations, including Greater Boston, San Francisco, New York City, San Diego, Seattle, Maryland, and Research 
Triangle Park.
Alexandria develops dynamic urban cluster campuses and vibrant ecosystems that enable and inspire the world’s most 
brilliant minds and innovative companies to create life-changing scientific and technological breakthroughs. We believe in the utmost 
professionalism, humility, and teamwork. Alexandria manages its properties through fully integrated regional teams with unparalleled 
real estate, life science, and technology expertise. Our tenants include multinational pharmaceutical companies; public and private 
biotechnology companies; life science product, service, and medical device companies; digital health, and technology companies; 
academic and medical research institutions; U.S. government research agencies; non-profit companies; and venture capital firms. 
Alexandria has a longstanding and proven track record of developing Class A properties clustered in urban life science and technology 
campuses that provide its innovative tenants with highly dynamic and collaborative environments that enhance their ability to 
successfully recruit and retain world-class talent and inspire productivity, efficiency, creativity, and success. Alexandria also provides 
strategic risk capital to transformative life science and technology companies through its venture capital arm. We believe our unique 
business model and diligent underwriting ensure a high-quality and diverse tenant base that results in higher occupancy levels, longer 
lease terms, higher rental income, higher returns, and greater long-term asset value. 
As of December 31, 2017, Alexandria’s total market capitalization was $17.9 billion and our asset base in North America 
consisted of 29.6 million SF. The asset base in North America includes 22.0 million RSF of operating properties, including 1.7 million 
RSF of development and redevelopment of new Class A properties currently undergoing construction. These operating properties and 
development projects include eight properties that are held by consolidated real estate joint ventures and three properties that are held 
by unconsolidated real estate joint ventures. The occupancy percentage of our operating properties in North America was 96.8% as of 
December 31, 2017. Our 10-year average occupancy rate of operating properties as of December 31, 2017, was 95%. Investment-
grade or large cap tenants represented 55% of our annual rental revenue in effect as of December 31, 2017. Additional information 
regarding our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures is included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and 
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this annual report on Form 10-K. Additional information regarding risk 
factors that may affect us is included in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations” in this annual report on Form 10-K.
1
1
Business objective and strategies
Our primary business objective is to maximize long-term asset value and shareholder returns based on a multifaceted 
platform of internal and external growth. A key element of our strategy is our unique focus on Class A properties clustered in urban 
campuses. These key urban campus locations are characterized by high barriers to entry for new landlords, high barriers to exit for 
tenants, and a limited supply of available space. They represent highly desirable locations for tenancy by life science and 
technology entities because of their close proximity to concentrations of specialized skills, knowledge, institutions, and related 
businesses. Our strategy also includes drawing upon our deep and broad real estate, life science, and technology relationships in 
order to identify and attract new and leading tenants and to source additional value-creation real estate.
The following chart summarizes the five-year growth in annual rental revenue in effect as of December 31, 2017, 
compared to December 31, 2012, in our key cluster submarkets:
Our tenant base is broad and diverse within the life science and technology industries and reflects our focus on regional, 
national, and international tenants with substantial financial and operational resources. For a more detailed description of our 
properties and tenants, refer to “Item 2. Properties” in this annual report on Form 10-K. We have an experienced Board of 
Directors and are led by an executive and senior management team with extensive experience in the real estate, life science, and 
technology industries.
Acquisitions
We seek to identify and acquire high-quality properties in our target cluster markets. Critical evaluation of prospective 
property acquisitions is an essential component of our acquisition strategy. When evaluating acquisition opportunities, we assess a 
full range of matters relating to the prospective property or properties, including:
•  Proximity to centers of innovation and technological advances;
•  Location of the property and our strategy in the relevant market;
•  Quality of existing and prospective tenants;
•  Condition and capacity of the building infrastructure;
•  Physical condition of the structure and common area improvements;
•  Quality and generic characteristics of the improvements;
•  Opportunities available for leasing vacant space and for re-tenanting or renewing occupied space;
•  Availability of and/or ability to add appropriate tenant amenities;
•  Availability of land for future ground-up development of new space;
•  Opportunities to redevelop existing space and generate higher rent;
•  The property’s unlevered yields; and
•  Our ability to increase the property’s long-term financial returns.
2
2
Development, pre-construction, and redevelopment
A key component of our business model is our value-creation development projects. Our development strategy is 
primarily to pursue selective projects with significant pre-leasing for which we expect to achieve appropriate investment returns 
and generally match a source of funds for this use. Our value-creation development projects focus on high-quality, generic, and 
reusable office/laboratory or tech office space to meet the real estate requirements of our diverse group of tenants.
Pre-construction activities include entitlements, permitting, design, site work, and other activities preceding 
commencement of construction of aboveground building improvements, which are focused on reducing the time required to deliver 
projects to prospective tenants. These critical activities add significant value to our future ground-up development and are required 
for the vertical construction of buildings. We normally do not commence vertical construction of new projects prior to achieving 
significant pre-leasing. 
Another key component of our business model is our value-creation redevelopment of existing office, warehouse, or shell 
space, or newly acquired properties, into high-quality, generic, and reusable space that can be leased at higher rental rates. Our 
redevelopment strategy generally includes significant pre-leasing of projects prior to the commencement of redevelopment. 
Non-real estate investments 
  We also hold equity investments in publicly traded companies, privately held entities, and limited partnerships primarily 
involved in the life science and technology industries. We invest in highly innovative entities whose focus on the development of 
therapeutic products that advance health and transform patients’ lives is aligned with the Alexandria’s purpose of making a positive 
and meaningful impact on the health, safety, and well-being of the global community. Our status as a REIT limits our ability to 
make such non-real estate investments. Therefore, we conduct, and will continue to conduct, our non-real estate investment 
activities in a manner that complies with the REIT requirements. 
Balance sheet and financial strategy
We seek to maximize balance sheet liquidity and flexibility, cash flows, and cash available for distribution to our 
stockholders through the ownership, operation, management, and selective acquisition, development, and redevelopment of office/
laboratory and tech office space, as well as the management of our balance sheet. In particular, we seek to maximize balance sheet 
liquidity and flexibility, cash flows, and cash available for distribution to our stockholders by:
•  Maintaining access to diverse sources of capital, including operating cash flows after dividends, incremental debt, 
asset sales, and other capital such as the sale of equity or joint venture capital;
•  Maintaining significant liquidity through borrowing capacity under our unsecured senior line of credit, available 
commitments under secured construction loans, marketable securities, and cash and cash equivalents;
•  Continuing to improve our credit profile;
•  Minimizing the amount of near-term debt maturities in a single year;
•  Maintaining commitment to long-term capital to fund growth;
•  Maintaining low to modest leverage;
•  Minimizing variable interest rate risk;
•  Generating high-quality, strong, and increasing operating cash flows;
•  Selectively selling real estate assets, including land parcels and non-core/“core-like” operating assets, and reinvesting 
the proceeds into our highly leased value-creation development projects;
•  Allocating capital to Class A properties located in collaborative life science and technology campuses in AAA urban 
innovation clusters;
•  Maintaining geographic diversity in urban intellectual centers of innovation;
•  Selectively acquiring high-quality office/laboratory and tech office space in our target urban innovation cluster 
submarkets at prices that enable us to realize attractive returns;
•  Selectively developing properties in our target urban innovation cluster submarkets;
•  Selectively redeveloping existing office, warehouse, or shell space, or newly acquired properties, into high-quality, 
generic, and reusable space that can be leased at higher rental rates in our target urban innovation cluster submarkets;
•  Renewing existing tenant space at higher rental rates to the extent possible;
•  Minimizing tenant improvement costs;
•  Improving investment returns through the leasing of vacant space and the replacing of existing tenants with new 
tenants at higher rental rates;
•  Actively monitoring tenant health and executing leases with high quality tenants;
•  Maintaining solid occupancy while attaining high rental rates;
3
3
•  Realizing contractual rental rate escalations; and
•  Implementing effective cost control measures, including negotiating pass-through provisions in tenant leases for 
operating expenses and certain capital expenditures. 
Competition
In general, other office/laboratory and tech office properties are located in close proximity to our properties. The amount 
of rentable space available in any market could have a material effect on our ability to rent space and on the rental rates we can 
attain for our properties. In addition, we compete for investment opportunities with other REITs, insurance companies, pension and 
investment funds, private equity entities, partnerships, developers, investment companies, owners/occupants, and foreign investors. 
Many of these entities have substantially greater financial resources than we do and may be able to invest more than we can or 
accept more risk than we are willing to accept. These entities may be less sensitive to risks with respect to the creditworthiness of a 
tenant or the overall expected returns from real estate investments. In addition, as a result of their financial resources, our 
competitors may offer more free rent concessions, lower rental rates, or higher tenant improvement allowances in order to attract 
tenants. These leasing incentives could hinder our ability to maintain or raise rents and attract or retain tenants. Competition may 
also reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities available to us or may increase the bargaining power of property 
owners seeking to sell. Competition in acquiring existing properties and land, both from institutional capital sources and from other 
REITs, has been very strong over the past several years. However, we believe we have differentiated ourselves from our 
competitors, as we are the first and only publicly traded urban office REIT to focus primarily on the office/laboratory real estate 
niche, with world-class collaborative life science and technology campuses in AAA innovation cluster locations, and we have 
many of the most important relationships in the life science and technology industries.
Financial information about our reportable segment
Refer to Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in 
this annual report on Form 10-K for information about our one reportable segment.
Regulation
General
Properties in our markets are subject to various laws, ordinances, and regulations, including regulations relating to 
common areas. We believe we have the necessary permits and approvals to operate each of our properties.
Americans with Disabilities Act
Our properties must comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the “ADA”) to the extent that 
such properties are “public accommodations” as defined by the ADA. The ADA may require removal of structural barriers to 
permit access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. We 
believe that our properties are in substantial compliance with the ADA and that we will not be required to incur substantial capital 
expenditures to address the requirements of the ADA. However, noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of 
fines or an award of damages to private litigants. The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations is an ongoing one, 
and we will continue to assess our properties and make alterations as appropriate in this respect.
Environmental matters
Under various environmental protection laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for 
contamination resulting from the presence or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances at that property and may be required to 
investigate and clean up contamination located on or emanating from that property. Such laws often impose liability without regard 
to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the contaminants, and the liability may be joint 
and several. Previous owners may have used some of our properties for industrial and other purposes, so those properties may 
contain some level of environmental contamination. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination at our 
properties may expose us to third-party liability or may materially adversely affect our ability to sell, lease, or develop the real 
estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral.
Some of our properties may have asbestos-containing building materials. Environmental laws require that asbestos-
containing building materials be properly managed and maintained and may impose fines and penalties on building owners or 
operators for failure to comply with these requirements. These laws may also allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or 
operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos-containing building materials.
4
4
In addition, some of our tenants handle hazardous substances and wastes as part of their routine operations at our 
properties. Environmental laws and regulations subject our tenants, and potentially us, to liability resulting from such activities. 
Environmental liabilities could also affect a tenant’s ability to make rental payments to us. We require our tenants to comply with 
these environmental laws and regulations and to indemnify us against any related liabilities. 
Independent environmental consultants have conducted Phase I or similar environmental site assessments on the 
properties in our portfolio. Site assessments are intended to discover and evaluate information regarding the environmental 
condition of the surveyed property and surrounding properties and do not generally include soil samplings, subsurface 
investigations, or an asbestos survey. To date, these assessments have not revealed any material environmental liability that we 
believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, or results of operations. Nevertheless, it is possible that the 
assessments on our properties have not revealed all environmental conditions, liabilities, or compliance concerns that may have 
arisen after the review was completed or may arise in the future; and future laws, ordinances, or regulations may also impose 
additional material environmental liabilities.
Insurance
We carry comprehensive liability, all-risk property, and business interruption insurance, including rental income loss 
coverage, with respect to our properties. We select policy specifications and insured limits that we believe to be appropriate given 
the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage, and industry practice. In our opinion, the properties in our portfolio are currently 
adequately insured. In addition, we have obtained earthquake insurance for certain properties located in the vicinity of known 
active earthquake zones in an amount and with deductibles we believe are commercially reasonable. We also carry environmental 
insurance and title insurance on our properties. We generally obtain our title insurance policies when we acquire the property, with 
each policy covering an amount equal to the initial purchase price of each property. Accordingly, any of our title insurance policies 
may be in an amount less than the current value of the related property. Additional information regarding risk factors that may 
affect us is included in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this annual report on Form 10-K.
Available information
Copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, including 
any amendments to the foregoing reports, are available, free of charge, through our corporate website at www.are.com as soon as is 
reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The current charters of our Board of 
Directors’ Audit, Compensation, and Nominating & Governance Committees, along with our corporate governance guidelines and 
Business Integrity Policy and Procedures for Reporting Non-Compliance (the “Business Integrity Policy”), are also available on 
our corporate website. Additionally, any amendments to, and waivers of, our Business Integrity Policy that apply to our Chief 
Executive Officer of our Chief Financial Officer will be available free of charge on our corporate website in accordance with 
applicable SEC and NYSE requirements. Written requests should be sent to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc., 
385 East Colorado Boulevard, Suite 299, Pasadena, California 91101, Attention: Investor Relations. Further, the public may also 
download these materials from the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.
Employees
As of December 31, 2017, we had 323 employees. We believe that we have good relations with our employees. We have 
adopted a Business Integrity Policy that applies to all of our employees. Its receipt and review by each employee is documented 
and verified annually.
Sustainability
  Our industry-leading sustainability initiatives and programming – which are overseen by the Alexandria Sustainability 
Committee – directly benefit our tenants, employees and communities, and create long-term value for our shareholders. We are 
proud of the recognition we received in 2017 for our programming and accomplishments across the environmental, social, and 
governance (“ESG”) dimensions of sustainability.
  Our core values have a direct and very positive effect on the success of Alexandria. Our sustainability mission is to make 
a positive and meaningful impact on the health, safety, and well-being of our tenants, shareholders, employees, and the 
communities in which we live and work.
5
5
  We put sustainability into action by creating sustainable and vibrant environments that drive success in developing 
breakthrough technologies and therapies to help cure disease, end hunger, and improve the quality of human health and the way we 
live. Our highly dynamic and collaborative urban campuses enhance our tenants’ ability to successfully recruit and retain world-
class talent, promote health and wellness, and inspire productivity, efficiency, creativity, and success.
  During 2017, Alexandria earned a prestigious “Green Star” designation from the Global Real Estate Sustainability 
Benchmark (“GRESB”), which recognizes our strong ESG policies, practices, and performance. Our 2017 GRESB score exceeded 
that of both the U.S. listed average REIT and the global GRESB average. Key drivers of our programming and accomplishments 
that drove this recognition include:
•  Targeting and delivering a minimum of LEED® Gold on all new ground-up construction projects; approximately 49% 
of our total annual rental revenue will be generated from LEED® certified projects upon completion of 12 projects 
currently in progress. 
•  Continuously improving efficiency and reducing our impact on the environment; our 86 energy optimization projects 
implemented in 2015 and 2016 reduced greenhouse gas pollution from our buildings by 4.7%, more than twice the 
global GRESB average of 2.2%.
•  Implementing cutting-edge water conservation technologies, such as installing greywater systems and capturing 
steam condensate for use in cooling towers and irrigation, and waste management, recycling, and composting 
programs.
  Additionally, Alexandria achieved the top score of all U.S. companies in the GRESB Health & Well-being Module. 
Highlights of our award-winning program include:
•  Being the first real estate company to become a Fitwel Champion, and to receive Fitwel certifications for promoting 
the highest levels of occupant comfort in existing buildings.
•  Earning the world’s first WELL® certification for a newly constructed laboratory space, at the Alexandria 
LaunchLabs® in New York City.
•  Providing a highly competitive benefits package and a healthy workplace and employee experience, including fitness 
centers and incentives, healthy dining options, paid time off for volunteering activities, and an employee assistance 
program to meet and exceed the health, well-being, and financial needs and goals of our talented employees and their 
families.
  As a result of all the above achievements, Alexandria was awarded Nareit’s 2017 Leader in the Light Sustainability Award 
– the highest achievement possible – in the “Most Innovative” category. As demand for healthy and highly amenitized building 
services and programming continues to grow, Alexandria’s best-in-class approach to health and wellness continues to be a driver of 
our long-term success. Alexandria now has 3.1 million SF of buildings that have earned or are pursuing healthy building 
certifications, and we expect to continue increasing the number of healthy building certifications. 
6
6
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 
Forward-looking statements 
The following risk factors may adversely affect our overall business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows; 
our ability to make distributions to our stockholders; our access to capital; or the market price of our common stock, as further 
described in each risk factor below. In addition to the information set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K, one should carefully 
review and consider the information contained in our other reports and periodic filings that we make with the SEC. Those risk factors 
could materially affect our overall business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows; our ability to make distributions to 
our stockholders; our access to capital; or the market price of our common stock. The risks that we describe in our public filings are 
not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently consider immaterial, 
also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
Operating factors
We may be unable to identify and complete acquisitions and successfully operate acquired properties. 
We continually evaluate the market of available properties and may acquire properties when opportunities exist. Our ability 
to acquire properties on favorable terms and successfully operate them may be exposed to the following significant risks:
•  We may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other real estate investors with significant 
capital, including both publicly traded REITs and institutional funds;
•  Even if we are able to acquire a desired property, competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase 
the purchase price or result in other less favorable terms;
•  Even if we enter into agreements for the acquisition of properties, these agreements are subject to customary conditions 
to closing, including completion of due diligence investigations to our satisfaction;
•  We may be unable to complete an acquisition because we cannot obtain debt and/or equity financing on favorable terms 
or at all;
•  We may spend more than budgeted amounts to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties;
•  We may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of operating properties 
or portfolios of properties, into our existing operations;
•  Acquired properties may be subject to reassessment, which may result in higher-than-expected property tax payments;
•  Market conditions may result in higher-than-expected vacancy rates and lower-than-expected rental rates; and
•  We may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to 
unknown liabilities, such as liabilities for the cleanup of undisclosed environmental contamination; claims by tenants, 
vendors, or other persons dealing with the former owners of the properties; and claims for indemnification by general 
partners, directors, officers, and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties.
The realization of any of the above risks could significantly and adversely affect our ability to meet our financial 
expectations, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, the 
market price of our common stock, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations.
We may suffer economic harm as a result of making unsuccessful acquisitions in new markets.
We may pursue selective acquisitions of properties in markets where we have not previously owned properties. These 
acquisitions may entail risks in addition to those we face in other acquisitions where we are familiar with the markets, such as the risk 
of not correctly anticipating conditions or trends in a new market and therefore not being able to generate profit from the acquired 
property. If this occurs, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to make distributions 
to our stockholders, and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations, and the market price of our common stock.
7
7
The acquisition of new properties or the development of new properties may give rise to difficulties in predicting revenue 
potential.
We may continue to acquire additional properties and/or land and may seek to develop our existing land holdings 
strategically as warranted by market conditions. These acquisitions and developments could fail to perform in accordance with 
expectations. If we fail to accurately estimate occupancy levels, rental rates, lease commencement dates, operating costs, or costs of 
improvements to bring an acquired property or a development property up to the standards established for our intended market 
position, the performance of the property may be below expectations. Acquired properties may have characteristics or deficiencies 
affecting their valuation or revenue potential that we have not yet discovered. We cannot assure our stockholders that the performance 
of properties acquired or developed by us will increase or be maintained under our management.
We may fail to obtain the financial results expected from development or redevelopment projects.
There are significant risks associated with development and redevelopment projects, including the possibility that:
•  We may not complete development or redevelopment projects on schedule or within budgeted amounts;
•  We may be unable to lease development or redevelopment projects on schedule or within budgeted amounts;
•  We may encounter project delays or cancellations due to unavailability of necessary construction materials;
•  We may expend funds on, and devote management’s time to, development and redevelopment projects that we may not 
complete;
•  We may abandon development or redevelopment projects after we begin to explore them, and as a result, we may lose 
deposits or fail to recover costs already incurred;
•  Market and economic conditions may deteriorate, which can result in lower-than-expected rental rates;
•  We may face higher operating costs than we anticipated for development or redevelopment projects, including insurance 
premiums, utilities, real estate taxes, and costs of complying with changes in government regulations;
•  We may face higher requirements for capital improvements than we anticipated for development or redevelopment 
projects, particularly in older structures;
•  We may be unable to proceed with development or redevelopment projects because we cannot obtain debt and/or equity 
financing on favorable terms or at all;
•  We may fail to retain tenants that have pre-leased our development or redevelopment projects if we do not complete the 
construction of these properties in a timely manner or to the tenants’ specifications;
•  Tenants that have pre-leased our development or redevelopment projects may file for bankruptcy or become insolvent, 
which may adversely affect the income produced by, and the value of, our properties or require us to change the scope of 
the project, which may potentially result in higher construction costs and lower financial returns;
•  We may encounter delays, refusals, unforeseen cost increases, and other impairments resulting from third-party litigation 
or severe weather conditions;
•  We may encounter delays or refusals in obtaining all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy, and other required 
government permits and authorizations; and
•  Development or redevelopment projects may have defects we do not discover through our inspection processes, 
including latent defects that may not reveal themselves until many years after we put a property in service.
The realization of any of the above risks could significantly and adversely affect our ability to meet our financial 
expectations, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, the 
market price of our common stock, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations.
We could default on leases for land on which some of our properties are located or held for future development.
If we default under the terms of a ground lease obligation, we may lose the ownership rights to the property subject to the 
lease. Upon expiration of a ground lease and all of its options, we may not be able to renegotiate a new lease on favorable terms, if at 
all. The loss of the ownership rights to these properties or an increase in rental expense could have a material adverse effect on our 
financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and pay distributions to 
our stockholders, as well as the market price of our common stock. Refer to “Ground Lease Obligations” in the “Sources and Uses of 
Capital” section under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this 
annual report on Form 10-K for additional information on our ground lease obligations.
8
8
We may not be able to operate properties successfully and profitably.
Our success depends in large part upon our ability to operate our properties successfully. If we are unable to do so, our 
business could be adversely affected. The ownership and operation of real estate is subject to many risks that may adversely affect our 
business and our ability to make payments to our stockholders, including the risks that:
•  Our properties may not perform as we expect;
•  We may have to lease space at rates below our expectations;
•  We may not be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms; and
•  We may underestimate the cost of improvements required to maintain or improve space to meet standards established for 
the market position intended for that property.
The realization of any of the above risks could significantly and adversely affect our ability to meet our financial 
expectations, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, the 
market price of our common stock, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations.
  We may not be able to attain the expected return on our investments in real estate joint ventures. 
As of December 31, 2017, we had several consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures in which we shared 
ownership and decision-making power with one or more parties. Our joint venture partners must agree in order for the applicable joint 
venture to take specific major actions, including budget approvals, acquisitions, sales of assets, debt financing, execution of lease 
agreements, and vendor approvals. Under these joint venture arrangements, any disagreements between us and our partners may result 
in delayed decisions. Our inability to take unilateral actions that we believe are in our best interests may result in missed opportunities 
and an ineffective allocation of resources and could have an adverse effect on the financial performance of the joint venture and our 
operating results.
We may experience increased operating costs, which may reduce profitability to the extent that we are unable to pass those 
costs on to tenants.
Our properties are subject to increases in operating expenses, including insurance, property taxes, utilities, administrative 
costs, and other costs associated with security, landscaping, and repairs and maintenance of our properties. As of December 31, 2017, 
approximately 97% of our leases (on an RSF basis) were triple net leases, requiring tenants to pay substantially all real estate taxes, 
insurance, utilities, common area expenses, and other operating expenses (including increases thereto) in addition to base rent. 
However, we cannot be certain that our tenants will be able to bear the full burden of these higher costs or that such increased costs 
will not lead them, or other prospective tenants, to seek space elsewhere. If operating expenses increase, the availability of other 
comparable space in the markets we operate in may hinder or limit our ability to increase our rents. Additionally, if operating expenses 
increase without a corresponding increase in revenues, our profitability could diminish and our ability to make distributions to our 
stockholders could be limited. 
The cost of maintaining the quality of our properties may be higher than anticipated, which can result in reduced cash 
flows and profitability.
If our properties are not as attractive to current and prospective tenants in terms of rent, services, condition, or location as 
properties owned by our competitors, we could lose tenants or suffer lower rental rates. As a result, we may, from time to time, be 
required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain the competitiveness of our properties. However, there can be no 
assurances that any such expenditures would result in higher occupancy or higher rental rates or deter existing tenants from relocating 
to properties owned by our competitors.
9
9
Our inability to renew leases or re-lease space on favorable terms as leases expire may significantly affect our business.
Our revenues are derived primarily from rental payments and reimbursement of operating expenses under our leases. If 
tenants experience a downturn in their business or other types of financial distress, they may be unable to make timely payments under 
their leases. Also, if our tenants terminate early or decide not to renew their leases, we may not be able to re-lease the space. Even if 
tenants decide to renew or lease space, the terms of renewals or new leases, including the cost of any tenant improvements, 
concessions, and lease commissions, may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. Consequently, we could generate less cash 
flows from the affected properties than expected, which could negatively impact our business. We may have to divert cash flows 
generated by other properties to meet our debt service payments, if any, or to pay other expenses related to owning the affected 
properties.
The inability of a tenant to pay us rent could adversely affect our business.
Our revenues are derived primarily from rental payments and reimbursement of operating expenses under our leases. If our 
tenants, especially significant tenants, fail to make rental payments under their leases, our financial condition, cash flows, and ability 
to make distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected.
The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant may also adversely affect the income produced by a property. If any of our 
tenants becomes a debtor in a case under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, as amended, we cannot evict that tenant solely because of its 
bankruptcy. The bankruptcy court may authorize the tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. Our claim against such a tenant for 
uncollectible future rent would be subject to a statutory limitation that might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually 
owed to us under the tenant’s lease. Any shortfall in rent payments could adversely affect our cash flows and our ability to make 
distributions to our stockholders.
We could be held liable for damages resulting from our tenants’ use of hazardous materials.
Many of our tenants engage in research and development activities that involve controlled use of hazardous materials, 
chemicals, and biological and radioactive compounds. In the event of contamination or injury from the use of these hazardous 
materials, we could be held liable for damages that result. This liability could exceed our resources and any recovery available through 
any applicable insurance coverage, which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.
Together with our tenants, we must comply with federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the use, 
manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. Failure to comply with these laws and 
regulations, or changes thereto, could adversely affect our business or our tenants’ businesses and their ability to make rental payments 
to us.
Our properties may have defects that are unknown to us.
Although we thoroughly review the physical condition of our properties before they are acquired, and as they are developed 
and redeveloped, any of our properties may have characteristics or deficiencies unknown to us that could adversely affect the 
property’s value or revenue potential.
Our properties may contain or develop harmful mold or suffer from other air quality issues, which could lead to liability 
for adverse health effects and costs to remedy the problem.
When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold may grow, particularly if the moisture 
problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Indoor 
air quality issues can also stem from inadequate ventilation, chemical contamination from indoor or outdoor sources, and other 
biological contaminants such as pollen, viruses, and bacteria. Indoor exposure to airborne toxins or irritants above certain levels may 
cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant 
mold or other airborne contaminants at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or 
remove the mold or other airborne contaminants from the affected property or increase indoor ventilation. In addition, the presence of 
significant mold or other airborne contaminants could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants, and others if 
property damage or health concerns arise.
10
10
We may not be able to obtain additional capital to further our business objectives.
Our ability to acquire, develop, or redevelop properties depends upon our ability to obtain capital. The real estate industry has 
historically experienced periods of volatile debt and equity capital markets and/or periods of extreme illiquidity. A prolonged period in 
which we cannot effectively access the public debt or equity markets may result in heavier reliance on alternative financing sources to 
undertake new investments. An inability to obtain debt or equity capital on acceptable terms could delay or prevent us from acquiring, 
financing, and completing desirable investments and could otherwise adversely affect our business. Also, the issuance of additional 
shares of capital stock or interests in subsidiaries to fund future operations could dilute the ownership of our then-existing 
stockholders. Even as liquidity returns to the market, debt and equity capital may be more expensive than in prior years.
We may not be able to sell our properties quickly to raise money.
Investments in real estate are relatively illiquid compared to other investments. Accordingly, we may not be able to sell our 
properties when we desire or at prices acceptable to us in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”), limits our ability to sell properties held for less than two years. 
These limitations on our ability to sell our properties may adversely affect our cash flows, our ability to repay debt, and our ability to 
make distributions to our stockholders.
Adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our financing ability.
Our credit ratings may affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms and pricing of any debt we may incur. 
There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. In the event that our current credit ratings are 
downgraded or removed, we would most likely incur higher borrowing costs and experience greater difficulty in obtaining additional 
financing, which in turn would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and 
liquidity.
We may not be able to refinance our debt, and/or our debt may not be assumable.
Due to the high volume of real estate debt financing in recent years, the real estate industry may require more funds to 
refinance debt maturities than are available from lenders. This potential shortage of available funds from lenders and stricter credit 
underwriting guidelines may limit our ability to refinance our debt as it matures or may adversely affect our financial condition, results 
of operations, cash flows, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, and the market price of our common stock.
We may not be able to borrow additional amounts through the issuance of unsecured bonds, under our unsecured senior 
line of credit, or through unsecured senior bank term loans.
There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to access the unsecured bond market on favorable terms. Our ability to 
borrow additional amounts through the issuance of unsecured bonds may be negatively impacted by periods of illiquidity in the bond 
market. 
Aggregate unsecured borrowings under our unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term loans require 
compliance with certain financial and non-financial covenants. Borrowings under our unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured 
senior bank term loans are funded by a group of banks. Our ability to borrow additional amounts under our unsecured senior line of 
credit and unsecured senior bank term loans may be negatively impacted by a decrease in cash flows from our properties, a default or 
cross-default under our unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term loans, non-compliance with one or more loan 
covenants, and non-performance or failure of one or more lenders under our unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank 
term loans. In addition, we may not be able to refinance or repay outstanding borrowings on our unsecured senior line of credit or 
unsecured senior bank term loans. 
Our inability to borrow additional amounts on an unsecured basis could delay us in or prevent us from acquiring, financing, 
and completing desirable investments, which could adversely affect our business; and our inability to refinance or repay amounts 
under our unsecured senior line of credit or unsecured senior bank term loans may adversely affect our cash flows, ability to make 
distributions to our stockholders, financial condition, and results of operations.
11
11
If interest rates rise, our debt service costs will increase and the value of our properties may decrease.
Our unsecured senior line of credit, unsecured senior bank term loans, and certain other borrowings bear interest at variable 
rates, and we may incur additional variable-rate debt in the future. Increases in market interest rates would increase our interest 
expense under these debt instruments and would increase the costs of refinancing existing indebtedness or obtaining new debt. 
Additionally, increases in market interest rates may result in a decrease in the value of our real estate and a decrease in the market 
price of our common stock. Accordingly, these increases could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to make 
distributions to our stockholders.
Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations.
The interest rate hedge agreements we use to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility involve risks, such as the 
risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. In addition, these arrangements may not be 
effective in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates. These risk factors may lead to failure to hedge effectively against 
changes in interest rates and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations.
Our unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term loans restrict our ability to engage in some business 
activities.
Our unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term loans contain customary negative covenants and other 
financial and operating covenants that, among other things:
•  Restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness;
•  Restrict our ability to make certain investments;
•  Restrict our ability to merge with another company;
•  Restrict our ability to make distributions to our stockholders;
•  Require us to maintain financial coverage ratios; and
•  Require us to maintain a pool of qualified unencumbered assets.
Complying with these restrictions may prevent us from engaging in certain profitable activities and constrain our ability to 
effectively allocate capital. Failure to comply with these restrictions may result in our defaulting on these and other loans, which 
would likely have a negative impact on our operations, financial condition, and ability to make distributions to our stockholders.
Our debt service obligations may have adverse consequences on our business operations.
We use debt to finance our operations, including the acquisition, development, and redevelopment of properties. Our use of 
debt may have adverse consequences, including the following:
•  Our cash flows from operations may not be sufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest;
•  We may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms, to make payments on 
our debt;
•  If we default on our debt obligations, the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties that secure those loans;
•  A foreclosure on one of our properties could create taxable income without any accompanying cash proceeds to pay the 
tax;
•  A default under a loan that has cross-default provisions may cause us to automatically default on another loan or interest 
rate hedge agreement;
•  We may not be able to refinance or extend our existing debt;
•  The terms of any refinancing or extension may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt;
•  We may be subject to a significant increase in the variable interest rates on our unsecured senior line of credit, unsecured 
senior bank term loans, and certain other borrowings, which could adversely impact our cash flows and operations; and
•  The terms of our debt obligations may require a reduction in our distributions to stockholders.
12
12
If our revenues are less than our expenses, we may have to borrow additional funds, and we may not be able to make 
distributions to our stockholders.
If our properties do not generate revenues sufficient to cover our operating expenses, including our debt service obligations 
and capital expenditures, we may have to borrow additional amounts to cover fixed costs and cash flow needs. This could adversely 
affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Factors that could adversely affect the revenues we generate from, and the 
values of, our properties include:
•  National, local, and worldwide economic conditions;
•  Competition from other properties;
•  Changes in the life science and technology industries;
•  Real estate conditions in our target markets;
•  Our ability to collect rent payments;
•  The availability of financing;
•  Changes to the financial and banking industries;
•  Changes in interest rate levels;
•  Vacancies at our properties and our ability to re-lease space;
•  Changes in tax or other regulatory laws;
•  The costs of compliance with government regulation;
•  The lack of liquidity of real estate investments; and
•  Increases in operating costs.
In addition, if a lease at a property is not a triple net lease, we will have greater exposure to increases in expenses associated 
with operating that property. Significant expenditures, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes, insurance, and maintenance costs, 
are generally fixed and do not decrease when revenues at the related property decrease.
If we fail to effectively manage our debt obligations, we could become highly leveraged, and our debt service obligations 
could increase to unsustainable levels.
Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt that we may incur. Therefore, if we fail to prudently manage 
our capital structure, we could become highly leveraged. This would result in an increase in our debt service obligations that could 
adversely affect our cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Higher leverage could also increase the risk 
of default on our debt obligations.
Market volatility may negatively affect our business. 
From time to time, the capital and credit markets experience volatility. In some cases, the markets have produced downward 
pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial and/or operating 
strength. If market disruption and volatility occur, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may 
be material, on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Market disruption and volatility may adversely affect the 
value of the companies in which we hold equity investments, and we may be required to recognize impairments or losses in our 
earnings. Disruptions, uncertainty, or volatility in the capital markets may also limit our access to capital from financial institutions on 
favorable terms, or altogether, and our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities could be adversely affected by 
causes beyond our control through extraordinary disruptions in the global economy and financial systems or through other events.
Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance would likely adversely affect the market price and 
volatility of our stock.
Our expected financial results may not be achieved, and actual results may differ materially from our expectations. This may 
be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to:
•  The status of the economy;
•  The status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital;
•  Changes in financing terms available to us;
•  Negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of tenants, including, but not limited to, their 
ability to pay rent;
•  Our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur;
13
13
•  Our ability to reinvest sale proceeds in a timely manner at rates similar to the rate at which assets are sold;
•  Regulatory approval and market acceptance of the products and technologies of tenants;
•  Liability or contract claims by or against tenants;
•  Unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future acquisitions;
•  Environmental laws affecting our properties;
•  Changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting; and
•  Other legal and operational matters, including REIT qualification and key management personnel recruitment and 
retention.
Failure to meet market expectations, particularly with respect to earnings estimates, funds from operations per share, 
operating cash flows, and revenues, would likely result in a decline and/or increased volatility in the market price of our common 
stock or other outstanding securities.
The price per share of our stock may fluctuate significantly.
The market price per share of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, including, but not 
limited to:
•  The availability and cost of debt and/or equity capital;
•  The condition of our balance sheet;
•  Actual or anticipated capital requirements;
•  The condition of the financial and banking industries;
•  Actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends;
•  The amount and timing of debt maturities and other contractual obligations;
•  Changes in our funds from operations or projections;
•  The publication of research reports and articles about us, our tenants, the real estate industry, or the life science and 
technology industries;
•  The general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other debt or equity 
securities (including securities issued by other real estate-based companies);
•  General stock and bond market conditions, including changes in interest rates on fixed-income securities, that may lead 
prospective stockholders to demand a higher annual yield from future dividends;
•  Changes in our analyst ratings;
•  Changes in our corporate credit rating or credit ratings of our debt or other securities;
•  Changes in market valuations of similar companies;
•  Adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future;
•  Additions or departures of key management personnel;
•  Actions by institutional stockholders;
•  Speculation in the press or investment community;
•  Terrorist activity adversely affecting the markets in which our securities trade, possibly increasing market volatility and 
causing the further erosion of business and consumer confidence and spending;
•  Government regulatory action and changes in tax laws;
•  The realization of any of the other risk factors included in this annual report on Form 10-K; and
•  General market and economic conditions.
Many of the factors listed above are beyond our control. These factors may cause the market price of shares of our common 
stock to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business, or prospects.
Possible future sales of shares of our common stock could adversely affect its market price.
We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of shares of our common stock or the market price of our common stock. 
Sales of substantial amounts of capital stock (including the conversion or redemption of preferred stock), or the perception that such 
sales may occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Refer to “Other Sources” in the “Sources and 
Uses of Capital” section under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in 
this annual report on Form 10-K.
14
14
We have reserved a number of shares of common stock for issuance to our directors, officers, and employees pursuant to our 
Amended and Restated 1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (sometimes referred to herein as our “equity incentive plan”). We have 
filed a registration statement with respect to the issuance of shares of our common stock pursuant to grants under our equity incentive 
plan. In addition, any shares issued under our equity incentive plan will be available for sale in the public market from time to time 
without restriction by persons who are not our “affiliates” (as defined in Rule 144 adopted under the Securities Act of 1933, as 
amended). Affiliates will be able to sell shares of our common stock subject to restrictions under Rule 144.
The conversion rights of our convertible preferred stock may be detrimental to holders of common stock.
Subject to certain conditions, we may, at our option, be able to cause some or all of our 7.00% Series D cumulative 
convertible preferred stock (“Series D Convertible Preferred Stock”) to automatically convert to common stock. Holders of our Series 
D Convertible Preferred Stock, at their option, may, at any time and from time to time, convert some or all of their outstanding shares 
to common stock. 
The conversion of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock into our common stock would dilute the ownership of our then-
existing common stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock or impair our ability to raise capital 
through the sale of additional equity securities. Any adjustments that increase the conversion rate of our Series D Convertible 
Preferred Stock would increase its dilutive effect. Further, the conversion rights by the holders of our Series D Convertible Preferred 
Stock might be triggered in situations in which we need to conserve our cash reserves, in which event, our election, under certain 
conditions, to repurchase such Series D Convertible Preferred Stock in lieu of converting it into common stock might adversely affect 
us and our stockholders.
Our distributions to stockholders may decline at any time.
We may not continue our current level of distributions to our stockholders. Our Board of Directors will determine future 
distributions based on a number of factors, including:
•  The amount of net cash provided by operating activities available for distribution;
•  Our financial condition and capital requirements;
•  Any decision to reinvest funds rather than to distribute such funds;
•  Our capital expenditures;
•  The annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code;
•  Restrictions under Maryland law; and
•  Other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant.
A reduction in distributions to stockholders may negatively impact our stock price.
Distributions on our common stock may be made in the form of cash, stock, or a combination of both.
As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income to our stockholders. Typically, we generate cash 
for distributions through our operations, the disposition of assets, including partial interest sales, or the incurrence of additional debt. 
Our Board of Directors may determine in the future to pay dividends on our common stock in cash, in shares of our common stock, or 
in a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. For example, we may declare dividends payable in cash or stock at the 
election of each stockholder, subject to a limit on the aggregate cash that could be paid. Any such dividend would be distributed in a 
manner intended to count in full toward the satisfaction of our annual distribution requirements and to qualify for the dividends paid 
deduction. While the IRS privately has ruled that such a dividend would so qualify if certain requirements are met, no assurances can 
be provided that the IRS would not assert a contrary position in the future. Moreover, a reduction in the cash yield on our common 
stock may negatively impact our stock price.
We have certain ownership interests outside the U.S. that may subject us to risks different from or greater than those 
associated with our domestic operations.
We have three operating properties in Canada and one operating property in China. Acquisition, development, 
redevelopment, ownership, and operating activities outside the U.S. involve risks that are different from those we face with respect to 
our domestic properties and operations. These risks include, but are not limited to:
•  Adverse effects of changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies;
15
15
•  Challenges and/or taxation with respect to the repatriation of foreign earnings or repatriation of proceeds from the sale of 
one or more of our foreign investments;
•  Changes in foreign political, regulatory, and economic conditions, including nationally, regionally, and locally;
•  Challenges in managing international operations;
•  Challenges in hiring or retaining key management personnel;
•  Challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to real estate, 
corporate governance, operations, taxes, employment, and legal proceedings;
•  Differences in lending practices;
•  Differences in languages, cultures, and time zones; 
•  Changes in applicable laws and regulations in the U.S. that affect foreign operations;
•  Changes in tax and local regulations with potentially adverse tax consequences and penalties; and
•  Foreign ownership and transfer restrictions.
In addition, our foreign investments are subject to taxation in foreign jurisdictions based on local tax laws and regulations and 
on existing international tax treaties. We have invested in foreign markets under the assumption that our future earnings in each of 
those countries will be taxed at the current prevailing income tax rates. There are no guarantees that foreign governments will continue 
to honor existing tax treaties we have relied upon for our foreign investments or that the current income tax rates in those countries 
will not increase significantly, thus impacting our ability to repatriate our foreign investments and related earnings.
Investments in international markets may also subject us to risks associated with establishing effective controls and 
procedures to regulate the operations of new offices and to monitor compliance with U.S. laws and regulations, including the Foreign 
Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign laws and regulations. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar applicable anti-
corruption laws prohibit individuals and entities from offering, promising, authorizing, or providing payments or anything of value, 
directly or indirectly, to government officials in order to obtain, retain, or direct business. Failure to comply with these laws could 
subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially adversely affect our results of operations or the value of our 
international investments. In addition, if we fail to effectively manage our international operations, our overall financial condition, 
results of operations, and cash flows, and the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected.
Further, we may in the future enter into agreements with non-U.S. entities that are governed by the laws of, and are subject to 
dispute resolution rules of, another country or region. In some cases, such a country or region might not have a forum that provides us 
an effective or efficient means for resolving disputes that may arise under these agreements.
We are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with properties owned through partnerships, limited liability 
companies, and joint ventures.
Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of funds that we may invest in non-wholly owned partnerships, limited 
liability companies, or joint ventures. Partnership, limited liability company, or joint venture investments involve certain risks, 
including, but not limited to, the following:
•  Upon bankruptcy of non-wholly owned partnerships, limited liability companies, or joint venture entities, we may 
become liable for the liabilities of the partnership, limited liability company, or joint venture;
•  We may share certain approval rights over major decisions with third parties;
•  We may be required to contribute additional capital if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital 
contributions;
•  Our partners, co-members, or joint venture partners might have economic or other business interests or goals that are 
inconsistent with our business interests or goals and that could affect our ability to lease or re-lease the property, operate 
the property, or maintain our qualification as a REIT;
•  Our ability to sell the interest on advantageous terms when we so desire may be limited or restricted under the terms of 
our agreements with our partners; and
•  We may not continue to own or operate the interests or assets underlying such relationships or may need to purchase 
such interests or assets at an above-market price to continue ownership.
We generally seek to maintain control of our partnerships, limited liability companies, and joint venture investments in a 
manner sufficient to permit us to achieve our business objectives. However, we may not be able to do so, and the occurrence of one or 
more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or our ability to 
make distributions to our stockholders, or the market price of our common stock.
16
16
Market and other external factors may adversely impact the valuation of equity investments.
We hold equity investments in certain publicly traded companies, limited partnerships, and privately held entities primarily 
involved in the life science and technology industries. The valuation of these investments is affected by many external factors beyond 
our control, including, but not limited to, market prices, market conditions, the effect of healthcare reform legislation, prospects for 
favorable or unfavorable clinical trial results, new product initiatives, the manufacturing and distribution of new products, product 
safety and efficacy issues, and new collaborative agreements. Unfavorable developments with respect to any of these factors may have 
an adverse impact on the valuation of our equity investments.
Market and other external factors may negatively impact the liquidity of our equity investments.
  We make and hold investments in privately held life science and technology companies. These investments may be illiquid, 
which could impede our ability to realize the value at which these investments are carried if we are required to dispose of them. The 
lack of liquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell these investments on a timely basis and may impair the value 
of these investments. If we are required to liquidate all or a portion of these investments quickly, we may realize significantly less than 
the amounts at which we had previously valued these investments. 
We face risks associated with short-term liquid investments.
From time to time, we may have significant cash balances that we invested in a variety of short-term investments that are 
intended to preserve principal value and maintain a high degree of liquidity while providing current income. These investments may 
include (either directly or indirectly) obligations (including certificates of deposit) of banks, money market funds, treasury bank 
securities, and other short-term securities. Investments in these securities and funds are not insured against loss of principal. Under 
certain circumstances, we may be required to redeem all or part of these securities or funds at less than par value. A decline in the 
value of our investments, or a delay or suspension of our right to redeem them, may have a material adverse effect on our results of 
operations or financial condition and our ability to pay our obligations as they become due.
We could incur significant costs due to the financial condition of our insurance carriers.
We insure our properties with insurance companies we believe have good ratings at the time our policies are put into effect. 
The financial condition of one or more of the insurance companies we hold policies with may be negatively impacted, which can 
result in their inability to pay on future insurance claims. Their inability to pay future claims may have a negative impact on our 
financial results. In addition, the failure of one or more insurance companies may increase the cost of renewing our insurance policies 
or increase the cost of insuring additional properties and recently developed or redeveloped properties.
Our insurance may not adequately cover all potential losses.
If we experience a loss at any of our properties that is not covered by insurance, that exceeds our insurance policy limits, or 
that is subject to a policy deductible, we could lose the capital invested in the affected property and, possibly, future revenues from 
that property. In addition, we could continue to be obligated on any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the affected 
properties. All properties carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, and rental loss insurance with respect to our 
properties, including properties partially owned through joint ventures that are managed by our joint venture partners.
We have obtained earthquake insurance for our properties that are located in the vicinity of active earthquake zones in an 
amount and with deductibles we believe are commercially reasonable. However, a significant portion of our real estate portfolio is 
located in seismically active regions, such as San Francisco, San Diego, and Seattle, and a damaging earthquake in any of these 
regions could significantly impact multiple properties. As a result, the amount of our earthquake insurance coverage may be 
insufficient to cover our losses, and aggregate deductible amounts may be material, which could adversely affect our business, 
financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We also carry environmental insurance and have title insurance policies for 
our properties. We generally obtain our title insurance policies when we acquire a property; each policy covers an amount equal to the 
initial purchase price of each property. Accordingly, any of our title insurance policies may be in an amount less than the current value 
of the insured property.
Our tenants are also required to maintain comprehensive insurance, including liability and casualty insurance that is 
customarily obtained for similar properties. There are, however, certain types of losses that we and our tenants do not generally insure 
against because they are uninsurable or because it is not economical to insure against them. The availability of coverage against 
certain types of losses, such as from terrorism or toxic mold, has become more limited and, when available, carries a significantly 
17
17
higher cost. We cannot predict whether insurance coverage against terrorism or toxic mold will remain available for our properties 
because insurance companies may no longer offer coverage against such losses, or such coverage, if offered, may become 
prohibitively expensive. We have not had material losses from terrorism or toxic mold at any of our properties.
The loss of services of any of our senior officers could adversely affect us.
We depend upon the services and contributions of relatively few senior officers. The loss of services or contributions of any 
one of them may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and prospects. We use the extensive personal and business 
relationships that members of our management have developed over time with owners of office/laboratory and tech office properties 
and with major tenants in the life science and technology industries. We cannot assure our stockholders that our senior officers will 
remain employed with us.
Competition for skilled personnel could increase labor costs.
We compete with various other companies in attracting and retaining qualified and skilled personnel. We depend on our 
ability to attract and retain skilled management personnel who are responsible for the day-to-day operations of our company. 
Competitive pressures may require that we enhance our pay and benefits package to compete effectively for such personnel. We may 
not be able to offset such additional costs by increasing the rates we charge tenants. If there is an increase in these costs or if we fail to 
attract and retain qualified and skilled personnel, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.
Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our 
business, results of operations, financial condition, and stock price.
Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to provide a report by management on internal control over 
financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control. Changes to our business will 
necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems and processes. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or 
detect misstatement because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of 
controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and 
fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to 
implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, results of 
operations, and financial condition could be materially harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, and there could be a 
material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.
If we failed to qualify as a REIT, we would be taxed at corporate rates and would not be able to take certain deductions 
when computing our taxable income.
If, in any taxable year, we failed to qualify as a REIT:
•  We would be subject to federal and state income taxes on our taxable income at regular corporate rates;
•  We would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to our stockholders in computing taxable income;
•  We would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we lost 
qualification, unless we were entitled to relief under the Internal Revenue Code; and
•  We would no longer be required by the Internal Revenue Code to make distributions to our stockholders.
As a result of any additional tax liability, we might need to borrow funds or liquidate certain investments in order to pay the 
applicable tax. Accordingly, funds available for investment or distribution to our stockholders would be reduced for each of the years 
involved.
Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code to 
our operations and financial results, and the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. 
There are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations of these provisions. Although we believe that we have operated in a 
manner so as to qualify as a REIT, we cannot assure our stockholders that we are or will remain so qualified.
In addition, on December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was signed into law by the U.S. President. Although we are not 
aware of any provision in the final tax reform legislation or any pending tax legislation that would adversely affect our ability to 
operate as a REIT, new legislation, as well as new regulations, administrative interpretations, or court decisions may be introduced, 
18
18
enacted, or promulgated from time to time, that could change the tax laws or interpretations of the tax laws regarding qualification as a 
REIT, or the federal income tax consequences of that qualification, in a manner that is adverse to our stockholders.
We are dependent on third parties to manage the amenities at our properties. 
We retain third-party managers to manage certain amenities at our properties, such as restaurants, conference centers, 
exercise facilities, and parking garages. Our income from our properties may be adversely affected if these parties fail to provide 
quality services and amenities with respect to our properties. While we monitor the performance of these third parties, we may have 
limited recourse if we believe they are not performing adequately. In addition, these third-party managers may operate, and in some 
cases may own or invest in, properties that compete with our properties, which may result in conflicts of interest. As a result, these 
third-party managers may have made, and may in the future make, decisions that are not in our best interests.
 
We may change our business policies without stockholder approval.
Our Board of Directors determines all of our material business policies, with management’s input, including those related to 
our:
•  Status as a REIT;
•  Incurrence of debt and debt management activities;
•  Selective acquisition, disposition, development, and redevelopment activities;
•  Stockholder distributions; and
•  Other policies, as appropriate.
Our Board of Directors may amend or revise these policies at any time without a vote of our stockholders. A change in these 
policies could adversely affect our business and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.
There are limits on the ownership of our capital stock under which a stockholder may lose beneficial ownership of its 
shares and that may delay or prevent transactions that might otherwise be desired by our stockholders.
In order for a company to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% of the value of its 
outstanding stock may be owned, directly or constructively, by five or fewer individuals or entities (as set forth in the Internal 
Revenue Code) during the last half of a taxable year. Furthermore, shares of our company’s outstanding stock must be beneficially 
owned by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a shorter 
taxable year. 
In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, among other things, our charter provides for an ownership limit, 
which prohibits, with certain exceptions, direct or constructive ownership of shares of stock representing more than 9.8% of the 
combined total value of our outstanding shares of stock by any person, as defined in our charter. Our Board of Directors, in its sole 
discretion, may waive the ownership limit for any person. However, our Board of Directors may not grant such waiver if, after giving 
effect to such waiver, we would be “closely held” under Section 856(h) of the Internal Revenue Code. As a condition to waiving the 
ownership limit, our Board of Directors may require a ruling from the IRS or an opinion of counsel in order to determine our status as 
a REIT. Notwithstanding the receipt of any such ruling or opinion, our Board of Directors may impose such conditions or restrictions 
as it deems appropriate in connection with granting a waiver. 
Our charter further prohibits transferring shares of our stock if such transfer would result in our being “closely held” under 
Section 856(h) of the Internal Revenue Code or would result in shares of our stock being owned by fewer than 100 persons. 
The constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause shares of our common stock owned directly or constructively 
by a group of related individuals or entities to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. A transfer of shares to a person 
who, as a result of the transfer, violates these limits shall be void or these shares shall be exchanged for shares of excess stock and 
transferred to a trust for the benefit of one or more qualified charitable organizations designated by us. In that case, the intended 
transferee will have only a right to share, to the extent of the transferee’s original purchase price for such shares, in proceeds from the 
trust’s sale of those shares and will effectively forfeit its beneficial ownership of the shares. These ownership limits could delay, defer, 
or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for the holders of our common stock or that might 
otherwise be desired by such holders.
19
19
In addition to the ownership limit, certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may delay or prevent transactions that 
may be deemed to be desirable to our stockholders.
As authorized by Maryland law, our charter allows our Board of Directors to cause us to issue additional authorized but 
unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and to classify or reclassify unissued shares of common or preferred stock 
without any stockholder approval. Our Board of Directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could delay, defer, or prevent 
a transaction that might involve a premium price for our common stock or that might, for other reasons, be desired by our common 
stockholders, or a series of preferred stock that has a dividend preference that may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on our 
common stock.
Our charter permits the removal of a director only upon a two-thirds majority of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the 
election of directors, and our bylaws require advance notice of a stockholder’s intention to nominate directors or to present business 
for consideration by stockholders at an annual meeting of our stockholders. Our charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that 
may delay, defer, or prevent a transaction or change in control that involves a premium price for our common stock or that, for other 
reasons, may be desired by our stockholders.
Market and industry factors
We face substantial competition in our target markets. 
The significant competition for business in our target markets could have an adverse effect on our operations. We compete for 
investment opportunities with:
•  Other REITs;
•  Insurance companies;
•  Pension and investment funds;
•  Private equity entities;
•  Partnerships;
•  Developers;
•  Investment companies; 
•  Owners/occupants; and
•  Foreign investors, including sovereign wealth funds.
Many of these entities have substantially greater financial resources than we do and may be able to pay more than we can or 
accept more risk than we are willing to accept. These entities may be less sensitive to risks with respect to the creditworthiness of a 
tenant or the geographic concentration of their investments. Competition may also reduce the number of suitable investment 
opportunities available to us or may increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell.
Poor economic conditions in our markets could adversely affect our business.
Our properties are primarily located in the following markets:
•  Greater Boston;
•  San Francisco;
•  New York City;
•  San Diego;
•  Seattle;
•  Maryland; and
•  Research Triangle Park.
As a result of our geographic concentration, we depend upon the local economic and real estate conditions in these markets. 
We are, therefore, subject to increased exposure (positive or negative) to economic, tax, and other competitive factors specific to 
markets in confined geographic areas. Our operations may also be affected if too many competing properties are built in any of these 
markets. An economic downturn in any of these markets could adversely affect our operations and our ability to make distributions to 
our stockholders. We cannot assure our stockholders that these markets will continue to grow or remain favorable to the life science 
and technology industries.
20
20
Improvements to our properties are significantly more costly than improvements to traditional office space.
Many of our properties generally contain infrastructure improvements that are significantly more costly than improvements 
to other property types. Although we have historically been able to recover the additional investment in infrastructure improvements 
through higher rental rates, there is the risk that we will not be able to continue to do so in the future. Typical improvements include:
•  Reinforced concrete floors;
•  Upgraded roof loading capacity;
•  Increased floor-to-ceiling heights;
•  Heavy-duty HVAC systems;
•  Enhanced environmental control technology;
•  Significantly upgraded electrical, gas, and plumbing infrastructure; and
•  Laboratory benches.
We are dependent on the life science and technology industries, and changes within these industries may adversely impact 
our revenues from lease payments and our results of operations.
In general, our business strategy is to invest primarily in properties used by tenants in the life science and technology 
industries. Our business could be adversely affected if the life science and technology industries are impacted by an economic, 
financial, or banking crisis, or if the life science and technology industries migrate from the U.S. to other countries. Because of our 
industry focus, events within these industries may have a more pronounced effect on our results of operations and ability to make 
distributions to our stockholders than if we had more diversified investments. Also, some of our properties may be better suited for a 
particular life science or technology tenant and could require significant modification before we are able to re-lease space to another 
tenant. Generally, our properties may not be suitable for lease to traditional office tenants without significant expenditures on 
renovations.
Our ability to negotiate contractual rent escalations on future leases and to achieve increases in rental rates will depend upon 
market conditions and the demand for office/laboratory and tech office space at the time the leases are negotiated and the increases are 
proposed.
It is common for businesses in the life science and technology industries to undergo mergers or consolidations. Mergers or 
consolidations of life science and technology entities in the future could reduce the RSF requirements of our tenants and prospective 
tenants, which may adversely impact the demand for office/laboratory and tech office space and our future revenue from lease 
payments and our results of operations.
Some of our current or future tenants may include high-tech companies in their startup or growth life cycle. Fluctuations in 
market confidence vested in these companies or adverse changes in economic conditions may have a disproportionate effect on 
operations of such companies. Deteriorations in the financial conditions of our tenants may result in our inability to collect rental 
payments from them and therefore may negatively impact our results of operations. 
Our results of operations depend on our tenants’ research and development efforts and their ability to obtain funding for 
these efforts.
Our tenant base includes entities in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, life science, technology, and related 
industries; academic institutions; government institutions; and private foundations. Our tenants base their research and development 
budgets on several factors, including the need to develop new products, the availability of government and other funding, competition, 
and the general availability of resources.
Research and development budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, research priorities, general economic 
conditions, institutional and government budgetary limitations, and mergers and consolidations of entities. Our business could be 
adversely impacted by a significant decrease in research and development expenditures by either our tenants or the life science and 
technology industries.
Additionally, our tenants include research institutions whose funding is largely dependent on grants from government 
agencies, such as the National Institutes of Health, the National Science Foundation, and similar agencies or organizations. U.S. 
government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is often unpredictable. Other programs, 
21
21
such as Homeland Security or defense, could be viewed by the government as higher priorities. Additionally, proposals to reduce or 
eliminate budgetary deficits have sometimes included reduced allocations to the National Institutes of Health and other U.S. 
government agencies that fund research and development activities. Any shift away from funding of research and development or 
delays surrounding the approval of government budget proposals may adversely impact our tenants’ operations, which in turn may 
impact their demand for office/laboratory and tech office space and their ability to make lease payments to us and thus adversely 
impact our results of operations.
Our life science tenants are subject to a number of risks unique to their industry, including (i) high levels of regulation, 
(ii) failures in the safety and efficacy of their products, (iii) significant funding requirements for product research and 
development, and (iv) changes in technology, patent expiration, and intellectual property protection. These risks, including the 
following, may adversely affect their ability to make rental payments to us or satisfy their other lease obligations and consequently 
may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and stock price.
High levels of regulation
•  Some of our tenants develop and manufacture drugs that require regulatory approval, including approval from the U.S. 
Food and Drug Administration, prior to being made, marketed, sold, and used. The regulatory approval process to 
manufacture and market drugs is costly, typically takes several years, requires validation through clinical trials and the 
use of substantial resources, and is often unpredictable. A tenant may fail to obtain or may experience significant delays 
in obtaining these approvals. Even if the tenant obtains regulatory approvals, marketed products will be subject to 
ongoing regulatory review and potential loss of approvals.
•  The ability of some of our tenants to commercialize any future products successfully will depend in part on the coverage 
and reimbursement levels set by government authorities, private health insurers, and other third-party payers. 
Additionally, reimbursements may decrease in the future.
Failures in the safety and efficacy of their products
•  Some of our tenants developing potential products may find that their products are not effective, or even are harmful, 
when tested in humans.
•  Some of our tenants depend upon the commercial success of certain products. Even if a product made by a tenant is 
successfully developed and proven safe and effective in human clinical trials, and the requisite regulatory approvals are 
obtained, subsequent discovery of safety issues with these products could cause product liability events, additional 
regulatory scrutiny and requirements for additional labeling, loss of approval, withdrawal of products from the market, 
and the imposition of fines or criminal penalties.
•  A drug made by a tenant may not be well accepted by doctors and patients, or may be less effective or accepted than a 
competitor’s drug, even if it is successfully developed.
•  The negative results of safety signals arising from the clinical trials of the competitors of our tenants may prompt 
regulatory agencies to take actions that may adversely affect the clinical trials or products of our tenants.
Significant funding requirements for product research and development
•  Some of our tenants require significant funding to develop and commercialize their products and technologies, which 
funding must be obtained from venture capital firms; private investors; the public markets; companies in the life science 
industry; or federal, state, and local governments. Such funding may become unavailable or difficult to obtain. The 
ability of each tenant to raise capital will depend on its financial and operating condition, viability of their products, and 
the overall condition of the financial, banking, and economic environment, as well as government budget policies.
•  Even with sufficient funding, some of our tenants may not be able to discover or identify potential drug targets in 
humans, or potential drugs for use in humans, or to create tools or technologies that are commercially useful in the 
discovery or identification of potential drug targets or drugs.
•  Some of our tenants may not be able to successfully manufacture their drugs economically, even if such drugs are proven 
through human clinical trials to be safe and effective in humans.
•  Marketed products also face commercialization risk, and tenants may never realize projected levels of product utilization 
or revenues.
•  Negative news regarding the products, the clinical trials, or other business developments of our tenants may cause their 
stock price or credit profile to deteriorate.
22
22
Changes in technology, patent expiration, and intellectual property protection
•  Our tenants sell products and services in an industry that is characterized by rapid and significant technological changes, 
frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements, evolving industry standards, and uncertainty over the 
implementation of new healthcare reform legislation, which may cause them to lose competitive positions and adversely 
affect their operations.
•  Some of our tenants and their licensors require patent, copyright, or trade secret protection to develop, make, market, and 
sell their products and technologies. A tenant may be unable to commercialize its products or technologies if patents 
covering such products or technologies are not issued or are successfully challenged, narrowed, invalidated, or 
circumvented by third parties, or if the tenant fails to obtain licenses to the discoveries of third parties necessary to 
commercialize its products or technologies.
•  Many of our tenants depend upon patents to provide exclusive marketing rights for their products. As their product 
patents expire, competitors of these tenants may be able to legally produce and market products similar to those products 
of our tenants, which could have a material adverse effect on their sales and results of operations.
We cannot assure our stockholders that our life science industry tenants will be able to develop, make, market, or sell their 
products and technologies due to the risks inherent in the life science industry. Any life science industry tenant that is unable to avoid, 
or sufficiently mitigate, the risks described above may have difficulty making rental payments to us or satisfying their other lease 
obligations to us. Such risks may also decrease the credit quality of our life science industry tenants or cause us to expend more funds 
and resources on the space leased by these tenants than we originally anticipated. The increased burden on our resources due to 
adverse developments relating to our life science industry tenants may cause us to achieve lower-than-expected yields on the space 
leased by these tenants. Negative news relating to our more significant life science industry tenants may also adversely impact our 
stock price.
Our technology industry tenants are subject to a number of risks unique to their industry, including (i) an uncertain 
regulatory environment, (ii) rapid technological changes, (iii) a dependency on the maintenance and security of the Internet 
infrastructure, (iv) significant funding requirements for product research and development, and (v) inadequate intellectual 
property protections. These risks may adversely affect their ability to make rental payments to us or satisfy their other lease 
obligations, which in turn may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and stock price.
Uncertain regulatory environment
•  Laws and regulations governing the Internet, e-commerce, electronic devices, and other services are evolving. Existing 
and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of our technology industry tenants. These laws and regulations 
may cover, among other areas, taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, mobile 
communications, business licensing, and consumer protection.
Rapid technological changes
•  The technology industry is characterized by rapid changes in customer requirements and preferences, frequent new 
product and service introductions, and the emergence of new industry standards and practices. A failure to respond in a 
timely manner to these market conditions could materially impair the operations of our technology industry tenants.
Dependency on the maintenance and security of the Internet infrastructure
•  Some of our tenants depend on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet by users of their products and services, as 
well as access to mobile networks. Internet service providers and mobile network operators may be able to block, 
degrade, or charge additional fees to these tenants or users.
•  The Internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, outages and other delays. These outages and delays, 
as well as problems caused by cyber attacks and computer malware, viruses, worms, and similar programs, may 
materially affect the ability of our technology industry tenants to conduct business.
•  Security breaches or network attacks may delay or interrupt the services provided by our tenants and could harm their 
reputations or subject them to significant liability.
23
23
Significant funding requirements for product research and development
•  Some of our tenants require significant funding to develop and commercialize their products and technologies, which 
funding must be obtained from venture capital firms; private investors; the public markets; companies in the technology 
industry; or federal, state, and local governments. Such funding may become unavailable or difficult to obtain. The 
ability of each tenant to raise capital will depend on its financial and operating condition, viability of their products, and 
the overall condition of the financial, banking, governmental budget policies, and economic environment.
•  Even with sufficient funding, some of our tenants may not be able to discover or identify potential customers or may not 
be able to create tools or technologies that are commercially useful.
•  Some of our tenants may not be able to successfully manufacture their products economically.
•  Marketed products also face commercialization risk, and some of our tenants may never realize projected levels of 
product utilization or revenues.
•  Negative news regarding the products or other business developments of our tenants may cause their stock price or credit 
profile to deteriorate.
Inadequate intellectual property protections
•  The products and services provided by some of our tenants are subject to the threat of piracy and unauthorized copying, 
and inadequate intellectual property laws and other inadequate protections could prevent them from enforcing or 
defending their proprietary technologies. These tenants may also face legal risks arising out of user-generated content. 
•  Trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress, and trade secret protection is very expensive to maintain and 
may require our technology industry tenants to incur significant costs to protect their intellectual property rights. 
We cannot assure our stockholders that our technology industry tenants will be able to develop, make, market, or sell their 
products and services due to the risks inherent in the technology industry. Any technology industry tenant that is unable to avoid, or 
sufficiently mitigate, the risks described above may have difficulty making rental payments to us or satisfying their other lease 
obligations to us. Such risks may also decrease the credit quality of our technology industry tenants or cause us to expend more funds 
and resources on the space leased by these tenants than we originally anticipated. The increased burden on our resources due to 
adverse developments relating to our technology industry tenants may cause us to achieve lower-than-expected yields on the space 
leased by these tenants. Negative news relating to our more significant technology industry tenants may also adversely impact our 
stock price.
Government factors
  Negative impact on economic growth resulting from the combination of federal income tax policy, debt policy, and 
government spending may adversely affect our results of operations.
Global macroeconomic conditions affect our tenants’ businesses. Instability in the banking and government sectors of the 
U.S. and/or the negative impact on economic growth resulting from the combination of government tax policy, debt policy, and 
government spending, may have an adverse effect on the overall economic growth and our future revenue growth and profitability. 
Volatile, negative, or uncertain economic conditions could undermine business confidence in our significant markets or in other 
markets and cause our tenants to reduce or defer their spending, which would negatively affect our business. Growth in the markets 
we serve could be at a slow rate or could stagnate or contract in each case for an extended period of time. Differing economic 
conditions and patterns of economic growth and contraction in the geographic regions in which we operate and the industries we 
serve may in the future affect demand for our services. Our revenues and profitability are derived from our tenants in North 
America, some of which derive significant revenues from their international operations. Ongoing economic volatility and 
uncertainty affects our business in a number of other ways, including making it more difficult to accurately forecast client demand 
beyond the short term and to effectively build our revenue and spending plans. Economic volatility and uncertainty are particularly 
challenging because it may take some time for the effects and resulting changes in demand patterns to manifest themselves in our 
business and results of operations. Changing demand patterns from economic volatility and uncertainty could have a significant 
negative impact on our results of operations. These risks may impact our overall liquidity, our borrowing costs, or the market price 
of our common stock.
24
24
Failure of the U.S. federal government to manage its fiscal matters or to raise or further suspend the debt ceiling, and 
changes in the amount of federal debt, may negatively impact the economic environment and adversely impact our results of 
operations.
The Budget Control Act of 2011 provided for a reduction of $1.1 trillion of U.S. federal government discretionary 
spending over the succeeding decade (later extended through 2023) through a series of automatic, across-the-board spending cuts 
known as sequestration. Sequestration went into effect on March 1, 2013, and will remain in effect in the absence of further 
legislative action.
The U.S. federal government has established a limit on the level of federal debt that the U.S. federal government can have 
outstanding, often referred to as the debt ceiling. The U.S. Congress has authority to raise or suspend the debt ceiling and to 
approve the funding of U.S. federal government operations within the debt ceiling, and has done both frequently in the past, often 
on a relatively short-term basis.  Most recently, following a three-day partial shutdown of the U.S. federal government in January 
2018, the U.S. Congress extended the government funding deadline to February 8, 2018.  If not further extended, another partial 
government shutdown could occur in early February 2018. Additionally, the Treasury Department estimates that the current debt 
ceiling will be exhausted in or before April 2018 without further increasing or suspending the debt ceiling. Absent an increase in, 
or further suspensions to, the debt ceiling, the U.S. federal government may partially or completely shut down and/or default on its 
existing loans as a result of reaching the debt ceiling. If legislation increasing the debt ceiling is not enacted, as needed, and the 
debt ceiling is reached, the federal government may stop or delay making payments on its obligations. A failure by the U.S. 
Congress to raise the debt limit to the extent necessary would increase the risk of default by the U.S. on its obligations, the risk of a 
lowering of the credit rating of the U.S. federal government, as well as the risk of other economic dislocations. If the U.S. 
government fails to complete its budget process, another federal government shutdown may result.  Such a failure or the perceived 
risk of such a failure, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on the financial markets and economic conditions in the 
U.S. and throughout the world.
An inability of the U.S. federal government to manage its fiscal matters, reduce the duration and scope of sequestration, 
or manage its debt may result in the loss of economic confidence domestically and globally, reduce investment spending, increase 
borrowing costs, impact availability and cost of capital, and significantly reduce economic activity. Furthermore, a failure by the 
U.S. federal government to enact appropriate fiscal legislation may significantly impact the national and global economic and 
financial environment and affect our business and the businesses of our tenants. If economic conditions severely deteriorate as a 
result of government fiscal gridlock, our tenants’ operations could be adversely affected, which could adversely impact our 
financial condition and results of operations. These risks may also impact our overall liquidity, our borrowing costs, or the market 
price of our common stock.
Monetary policy actions by the U.S. Federal Reserve could adversely impact our financial condition and our ability to 
make distributions to our stockholders.
The U.S. Federal Reserve has been gradually increasing the target range for the federal funds rate. In December 2016, 
March 2017, and June 2017, the U.S. Federal Reserve increased the federal funds rate to a range from 0.5% to 0.75%, from 0.75% 
to 1.00%, and from 1.00% to 1.25%, respectively, and announced its intention to continue to raise the federal funds rate over time. 
In December 2017, the U.S. Federal Reserve increased the federal funds rate to a range from 1.25% to 1.50%. The continuing 
increase in targeted federal funds rate will likely result in an increase in market interest rates, which may increase our interest 
expense under our unhedged variable-rate borrowings and the costs of refinancing existing indebtedness or obtaining new debt. In 
addition, increases in market interest rates may result in a decrease in the value of our real estate and a decrease in the market price 
of our common stock. Increases in market interest rates may also adversely affect the securities markets generally, which could 
reduce the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. Any such unfavorable changes to our 
borrowing costs and stock price could significantly impact our ability to raise new debt and equity capital going forward.
25
25
Recent changes to the U.S. tax laws could have a significant negative impact on the overall economy, our tenants, and 
our business. 
On December 20, 2017, the House of Representatives and the Senate passed a reconciled version of a tax reform bill, and 
the President signed the tax reform bill into law on December 22, 2017 (the “Tax Reform Legislation”). Among other things, the 
Tax Reform Legislation:
•  Reduces the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% (including with respect to our taxable REIT subsidiaries);
•  Reduces the rate of U.S. federal withholding tax on distributions made to non-U.S. shareholders by a REIT that are 
attributable to gains from the sale or exchange of U.S. real property interests from 35% to 21%;
•  Allows an immediate 100% deduction of the cost of certain capital asset investments (generally excluding real estate 
assets), subject to a phase-down of the deduction percentage over time; 
•  Changes the recovery periods for certain real property and building improvements (for example, to 15 years for 
qualified improvement property under the modified accelerated cost recovery system, and to 30 years (previously 40 
years) for residential real property and 20 years (previously 40 years) for qualified improvement property under the 
alternative depreciation system); 
•  Restricts the deductibility of interest expense by businesses (generally, to 30% of the business’ adjusted taxable 
income) except, among others, real property businesses electing out of such restriction; generally, we expect our 
business to qualify as such a real property business, but businesses conducted by our taxable REIT subsidiaries may 
not qualify, and we have not yet determined whether we will make such an election; 
•  Requires the use of the less favorable alternative depreciation system to depreciate real property in the event a real 
property business elects to avoid the interest deduction restriction above;
•  Restricts the benefits of like-kind exchanges that defer capital gains for tax purposes to exchanges of real property;
•  Permanently repeals the “technical termination” rule for partnerships, meaning sales or exchanges of the interests in a 
partnership will be less likely to, among other things, terminate the taxable year of, and restart the depreciable lives 
of assets held by, such partnership for tax purposes; 
•  Requires accrual method taxpayers to take certain amounts in income no later than the taxable year in which such 
income is taken into account as revenue in an applicable financial statement prepared under GAAP, which, with 
respect to certain leases, could accelerate the inclusion of rental income;
•  Eliminates the corporate alternative minimum tax;
•  Implements a one-time deemed repatriation tax on corporate profits (at a rate of 15.5% on cash assets and 8% on 
noncash assets) held offshore, which profits are not taken into account for purposes of the REIT gross income tests; 
•  Reduces the highest marginal income tax rate for individuals to 37% from 39.6% (excluding, in each case, the 3.8% 
Medicare tax on net investment income);
•  Generally allows a deduction for individuals equal to 20% of certain income from pass-through entities, including 
ordinary dividends distributed by a REIT (excluding capital gain dividends and qualified dividend income), generally 
resulting in a maximum effective federal income tax rate applicable to such dividends of 29.6% compared to 37% 
(excluding, in each case, the 3.8% Medicare tax on net investment income); and 
•  Limits certain deductions for individuals, including deductions for state and local income taxes, and eliminates 
deductions for miscellaneous itemized deductions (including certain investment expenses).
  Many of the provisions in the Tax Reform Legislation, in particular those affecting individual taxpayers, expire in seven 
years (at the end of 2025). 
  As a result of the changes to U.S. federal tax laws implemented by the Tax Reform Legislation, our taxable income and 
the amount of distributions to our stockholders required in order to maintain our REIT status, and our relative tax advantage as a 
REIT, may significantly change. As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income to our shareholders 
annually. 
  The Tax Reform Legislation is a far-reaching and complex revision to the U.S. federal income tax laws with disparate 
and, in some cases, countervailing impacts on different categories of taxpayers and industries, and will require subsequent 
rulemaking and interpretation in a number of areas. The long-term impact of the Tax Reform Legislation on the overall economy, 
government revenues, our tenants, us, and the real estate industry cannot be reliably predicted at this early stage of the new law’s 
implementation. Furthermore, the Tax Reform Legislation may negatively impact certain of our tenants’ operating results, financial 
condition, and future business plans. The Tax Reform Legislation may also result in reduced government revenues, and therefore 
reduced government spending, which may negatively impact some of our tenants that rely on government funding. There can be no 
assurance that the Tax Reform Legislation will not negatively impact our operating results, financial condition, and future business 
operations.
26
26
  Actual and anticipated changes to the regulations of the healthcare system may have a negative impact on the pricing 
of drugs, the cost of healthcare coverage, and the reimbursement of healthcare services and products.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration and comparable agencies in other jurisdictions directly regulate many critical 
activities of life science, technology, and healthcare industries, including the conduct of preclinical and clinical studies, product 
manufacturing, advertising and promotion, product distribution, adverse event reporting, and product risk management. In both 
domestic and foreign markets, sales of products depend in part on the availability and amount of reimbursement by third-party 
payers, including governments and private health plans. Governments may regulate coverage, reimbursement, and pricing of 
products to control cost or affect utilization of products. Private health plans may also seek to manage cost and utilization by 
implementing coverage and reimbursement limitations. Substantial uncertainty exists regarding the reimbursement by third-party 
payers of newly approved healthcare products. The U.S. and foreign governments regularly consider reform measures that affect 
healthcare coverage and costs. Such reforms may include changes to the coverage and reimbursement of healthcare services and 
products. In particular, there have been recent judicial and Congressional challenges to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care 
Act of 2010, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “ACA”), which could have an 
impact on coverage and reimbursement for healthcare terms and services covered by plans authorized by the ACA. During 2017 
several attempts were made to amend the ACA; however, no amendment proposal gained the 50-vote support from the U.S. Senate 
needed to pass a repeal bill. As a result, in October 2017, The U.S. President issued an Executive Order “Promoting Healthcare 
Choice and Competition Across the United States.” We do not know how our tenants will be affected (if at all) by this new 
executive order. Government and other regulatory oversight and future regulatory and government interference with the healthcare 
systems may adversely impact our tenants’ businesses and our business.
U.S. government tenants may not receive anticipated appropriations, which could hinder their ability to pay us.
U.S. government tenants are subject to government funding. If one or more of our U.S. government tenants fail to receive 
anticipated appropriations, we may not be able to collect rental amounts due to us. A significant reduction in federal government 
spending, particularly a sudden decrease due to the recent tax reform or to a sequestration process, such as occurred in recent years, 
could also adversely affect the ability of these tenants to fulfill lease obligations or decrease the likelihood that they will renew 
their leases with us. In addition, recent budgetary pressures have resulted in, and may continue to result in, reduced allocations to 
government agencies that fund research and development activities, such as the National Institutes of Health (“NIH”). For 
example, the NIH budget has been, and may continue to be, significantly impacted by the sequestration provisions of the Budget 
Control Act of 2011, which became effective on March 1, 2013. Past proposals to reduce budget deficits have included reduced 
NIH and other research and development budgets. Any shift away from the funding of research and development or delays 
surrounding the approval of government budget proposals may cause our tenants to default on rental payments or delay or forgo 
leasing our rental space, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In addition, 
defaults under leases with U.S. government tenants are governed by federal statute and not by state eviction or rent deficiency 
laws. As of December 31, 2017, leases with U.S. government tenants at our properties accounted for approximately 1.6% of our 
aggregate annual rental revenue in effect as of December 31, 2017.
Some of our tenants may be subject to increasing government price controls and other healthcare cost-containment 
measures.
Government healthcare cost-containment measures can significantly affect our tenants’ revenue and profitability. In many 
countries outside the U.S., government agencies strictly control, directly or indirectly, the prices at which our pharmaceutical 
industry tenants’ products are sold. In a number of European Union (“EU”) Member States, the pricing and/or reimbursement of 
prescription pharmaceuticals are subject to governmental control, and legislators, policymakers and healthcare insurance funds 
continue to propose and implement cost-containing measures to keep healthcare costs down, due in part to the attention being paid 
to healthcare cost containment and other austerity measures in the EU. In the U.S., our pharmaceutical industry tenants are subject 
to substantial pricing pressures from state Medicaid programs, private insurance programs, and pharmacy benefit managers. In 
addition, many state legislative proposals could further negatively affect pricing and/or reimbursement for our pharmaceutical 
industry tenants’ products. Also, the pricing environment for pharmaceuticals continues to be in the political spotlight in the U.S. 
Pharmaceutical and medical device product pricing is subject to enhanced government and public scrutiny and calls for reform. 
Some states have implemented, and other states are considering, pharmaceutical price controls or patient access constraints under 
the Medicaid program, and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their 
populations who are not Medicaid-eligible. We anticipate that pricing pressures from both governments and private payers inside 
and outside the U.S. will become more severe over time.
27
27
Changes in U.S. federal government funding for the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), U.S. National 
Institutes of Health (NIH) and other government agencies could hinder their ability to hire and retain key leadership and other 
personnel, properly administer drug innovation, or prevent new products and services from being developed or commercialized 
by our life science tenants, which could negatively impact our business.
The ability of the FDA to review and approve new products can be affected by a variety of factors, including budget and 
funding levels, the ability to hire and retain key personnel, and statutory, regulatory, and policy changes. Average review times at 
the agency have fluctuated in recent years as a result. In addition, government funding of the NIH and other government agencies 
that fund research and development activities is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable.
The ability of the FDA, the NIH, and other government agencies to properly administer their functions is highly 
dependent on the levels of government funding and the ability to fill key leadership appointments, among various factors. Delays 
in filling or replacing key positions could significantly impact the ability of the FDA, the NIH, and other agencies to fulfill their 
functions and could greatly impact healthcare and the drug industry.
In December 2016, the 21st Century Cures Act was signed into law. This new legislation is designed to advance medical 
innovation and empower the FDA with the authority to directly hire positions related to drug and device development and review. 
In the past, the FDA was often unable to offer key leadership candidates (including scientists) competitive compensation packages 
as compared to those offered by private industry. The 21st Century Cures Act is designed to streamline the agency’s hiring process 
and enable the FDA to compete for leadership talent by expanding the narrow ranges that are provided in the existing 
compensation structures.
However, any future government proposals to reduce or eliminate budgetary deficits may include reduced allocations to 
the FDA, the NIH, and other related government agencies. These budgetary pressures may result in a reduced ability by the FDA 
and NIH to perform their respective roles; and may have a related impact on academic institutions and research laboratories whose 
funding is fully or partially dependent on both the level and timing of funding from government sources.
Disruptions at the FDA and other agencies may also slow the time necessary for new drugs and devices to be reviewed 
and/or approved by necessary government agencies and the healthcare and drug industries’ ability to deliver new products to the 
market in a timely manner, which would adversely affect our tenants’ operating results and business. Interruptions to the function 
of the FDA and other government agencies could adversely affect the demand for office/laboratory space and significantly impact 
our operating results and our business.
Changes in laws and regulations that control drug pricing for government programs may adversely impact our 
operating results and our business.
The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) is the federal agency within the U.S. Department of Health and 
Human Services that administers the Medicare program and works in partnership with state governments to administer Medicaid. 
The Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 that went into effect on January 1, 2006 (which also made changes to the public Part C 
Medicare health plan program), explicitly prohibits government entities from directly negotiating drug prices with manufacturers. 
Recently, there has been significant public outcry against price increases viewed to be unfair and unwarranted. President Trump has 
endorsed having government programs such as Medicare bid and negotiate the price of drugs directly with drug companies. 
Currently, the outcome of potential reforms and changes to government negotiation/regulation to drug pricing is unknown. 
Changes in policy that limit prices may reduce the financial incentives for the research and development efforts that lead to discovery 
and production of new therapies and solutions to life-threatening conditions. Negative impacts of new policies could adversely affect 
our tenants’ businesses, including life science and technology companies, which may reduce the demand for office/laboratory space 
and negatively impact our operating results and our business.
28
28
The enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) will 
subject us to substantial additional federal regulation, and we cannot predict the effect of such regulation on our business, 
results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition.
There are significant corporate governance- and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that 
have required, and continue to require, the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas. For example, the Dodd-
Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called 
“golden parachute” payments. Our efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result 
in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities. In addition, provisions of the 
Dodd-Frank Act that directly affect other participants in the real estate and capital markets, such as banks, investment funds, and 
interest rate hedge providers, could have indirect, but material, impacts on our business that cannot now be predicted. Given the 
uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by various regulatory 
agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is unclear. The 
changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of business activities, require changes to certain business 
practices, or otherwise adversely affect our business.
The ongoing implementation of derivatives regulations could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks 
associated with our business.
Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act regulates derivatives transactions, which include certain instruments that we use in our 
risk management activities.  It remains impossible at this time to predict the full effects on our hedging activities of the derivatives-
related provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and rules of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) and SEC 
thereunder, or the timing of such effects.  While the CFTC has implemented most of its derivatives-related regulations under the 
Dodd-Frank Act, it has not yet adopted certain of those regulations.  In addition, CFTC chairman J. Christopher Giancarlo has 
stated his view that certain existing CFTC regulations for swaps should be revised, including, without limitation, certain CFTC 
rules pertaining to swaps that are traded on swap execution facilities.  The impact of any future new or revised CFTC derivatives 
regulations, or new or revised CFTC interpretations of existing regulations, is unknown, but they could result in, among other 
things, increases in the costs to us of swaps and other derivatives contracts, and decreases in the number and/or creditworthiness of 
available hedge counterparties.  Further, at this time the SEC’s regulations for security-based swaps have generally not yet been 
implemented and their potential impact on our ability to hedge risks cannot yet be known.  
In addition, we may enter into hedging transactions with counterparties based in the European Union, Canada or other 
jurisdictions which, like the U.S., are in the process of implementing regulations for derivatives.  Non-U.S. regulations may apply 
to such derivatives transactions.  The potential impact of such non-U.S. regulations is not fully known and may include, among 
other things, increased costs for our hedging transactions.
Global factors
  A global financial crisis, high structural unemployment levels, and other events or circumstances beyond our control may 
adversely affect our industry, business, results of operations, contractual commitments, and access to capital.
What began initially in 2007 and 2008 as a “subprime” mortgage crisis turned into an extraordinary U.S. and worldwide 
structural economic and financial crisis, coupled with the rapid decline of the consumer economy. From 2008 through 2010, 
significant concerns over energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, and a 
declining real estate market in the U.S. contributed to increased volatility, diminished expectations for the economy and the markets, 
and high levels of structural unemployment by historical standards. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices and fluctuating 
business and consumer confidence, precipitated a steep economic decline. From 2011 through 2017, the U.S. economy showed 
significant signs of improvement, but other economies around the world, including Latin America, continue to demonstrate sluggish, 
stagnant, or slowing growth. Further, severe financial and structural strains on the banking and financial systems have led to 
significant lack of trust and confidence in the global credit and financial system. Consumers and money managers have liquidated and 
may liquidate equity investments, and consumers and banks have held and may hold cash and other lower-risk investments, which has 
resulted in significant and, in some cases, catastrophic declines in the equity capitalization of companies and failures of financial 
institutions. Although U.S. bank earnings and liquidity are on the rebound, the potential of significant future bank credit losses creates 
uncertainty for the lending outlook.
29
29
  Further downgrades of the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating and an economic crisis in Europe could negatively 
impact our liquidity, financial condition, and earnings.
Previous U.S. debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns, together with sovereign debt conditions in Europe, have increased the 
possibility of additional downgrades of sovereign credit ratings and economic slowdowns. There is no guarantee that future debt 
ceiling or federal spending legislation will not fail. 
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. from “AAA” to “AA+” in 
August 2011. Although Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services maintains a stable outlook on the U.S. credit rating, further fiscal 
impasses within the federal government may result in future downgrades. The impact of any further downgrades to the U.S. 
government’s sovereign credit rating, or its perceived creditworthiness, is inherently unpredictable and could adversely affect the U.S. 
and global financial markets and economic conditions. 
In addition, certain European nations experienced in the recent past varying degrees of financial stress, including Greece, 
Ireland, Italy, Portugal, and Spain. Although these economies are continuing to recover or have already gone through a gradual 
recovery, we do not know whether the economic growth will be slowed by the prospect of Brexit or whether the prior sovereign 
financial difficulties within the European Union governments will reemerge with a higher degree of negative impact to the financial 
markets. Market concerns over the direct and indirect exposure of European banks and insurers to these European Union peripheral 
nations have resulted in a widening of credit spreads and increased costs of funding for some European financial institutions. There 
can be no assurance that government or other measures to aid economic recovery will be effective. 
These developments, and concerns over the U.S. government’s fiscal policies in general, could cause interest rates and 
borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. In addition, the 
lowered credit rating could create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which may exert downward pressure on the market price 
of our common stock. Continued adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial 
condition, and results of operations.
Financial volatility and geopolitical instability outside of the U.S. may adversely impact the U.S. and global economies.
Several emerging-market economies, including Venezuela and Brazil, continue to experience financial, economic trouble and 
political uncertainties. In addition, there have been heightened security concerns stemming from North Korea’s nuclear weapons and 
ballistic missile capabilities and uncertainty regarding North Korea’s actions and possible responses from the international community. 
More recent concerns over North Korea’s nuclear and ballistic missile testing programs, hostile and threatened actions by North Korea 
against South Korea and the U.S., and relations between the U.S. and North Korea, have created a global security issue that may 
adversely affect international business and economic conditions. It is not possible to predict whether this economic and political 
instability will extend beyond local regional economies and negatively impact the developed economies around the world, including 
the U.S. If these macroeconomic and political issues are not managed appropriately, they could lead to currency, sovereign debt, or 
banking crises and other financial turmoil and uncertainty. Continued adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse 
effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
We are subject to risks from potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies.
We have properties and operations in countries where the U.S. dollar is not the local currency, and we thus are subject to 
international currency risk from the potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the local currency. In 
particular, a significant decrease or volatility in the value of the Canadian dollar or other currencies in countries where we may have 
an investment could materially affect our results of operations. We may attempt to mitigate such effects by borrowing in the local 
foreign currency in which we invest. Any international currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates may not 
qualify under gross income tests that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a REIT.
Changes in the method of determining LIBOR, or the replacement of LIBOR with an alternative reference rate, may 
adversely affect interest expense related to outstanding debt.
We hold certain instruments in our debt profile in which interest rates move in direct relation to LIBOR, depending on our 
selection of borrowing options. Beginning in 2008, concerns have been raised that some of the member banks surveyed by the BBA in 
connection with the calculation of daily LIBOR across a range of maturities and currencies may have underreported, overreported, or 
otherwise manipulated the interbank lending rate applicable to them in order to profit on their derivatives positions or to avoid an 
appearance of capital insufficiency or adverse reputational or other consequences that might have resulted from reporting interbank 
30
30
lending rates higher than those they actually submitted. A number of BBA member banks have entered into settlements with a number 
of their regulators and law enforcement agencies with respect to alleged manipulation of LIBOR, and investigations have been 
instigated by regulators and government authorities in various jurisdictions. Other member banks may also enter into such settlements 
with, or have proceedings brought by, their regulators or law enforcement agencies in the future. If manipulation of LIBOR occurred, 
it may have resulted in LIBOR having been artificially lower (or higher) than it would otherwise have been. Any such manipulation 
could have occurred over a substantial period of time.
On September 28, 2012, British regulators published a report on the review of LIBOR. The report concluded that LIBOR 
should be retained as a benchmark but recommended a comprehensive reform of LIBOR, including replacing the BBA with a new 
independent administrator of LIBOR. Based on this report, final rules for the regulation and supervision of LIBOR by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (“FCA”) were published and came into effect on April 2, 2013 (the “FCA Rules”). In particular, the FCA Rules 
include requirements that (i) an independent LIBOR administrator monitor and survey LIBOR submissions to identify breaches of 
practice standards and/or potentially manipulative behavior, and (ii) firms submitting data to LIBOR establish and maintain a clear 
conflict-of-interest policy and appropriate systems and controls. In response, ICE Benchmark Administration Limited (“IBA”) was 
appointed as the independent LIBOR administrator, effective in early 2014. It is not possible to predict the effect of the FCA Rules, 
any changes in the methods pursuant to which LIBOR is determined, the administration of LIBOR by IBA, and any other reforms to 
LIBOR that will be enacted in the United Kingdom and elsewhere. In addition, any changes announced by the FCA, the BBA, IBA, or 
any other successor governance or oversight body, or future changes adopted by such body, in the method pursuant to which LIBOR is 
determined, as well as manipulative practices or the cessation thereof, may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in 
reported LIBOR, which could have an adverse impact on the level of the index. Fluctuation or discontinuation of LIBOR would affect 
our interest expense and earnings and the fair value of certain of our financial instruments. We rely on interest rate hedge agreements 
to mitigate our exposure to such interest rate risk on a portion of our debt obligations. However, there is no assurance these 
arrangements will be effective in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates.
In addition, in November 2014, the U.S. Federal Reserve established a working group composed of large U.S. financial 
institutions, the Alternative Reference Rates Committee (“ARRC”), to identify a set of alternative interest reference rates to LIBOR. 
In a May 2016 interim report, the ARRC narrowed its choice to two LIBOR alternatives. The first choice is the Overnight Bank 
Funding Rate (“OBFR”), which consists of domestic and foreign unsecured borrowing in U.S. dollars. The U.S. Federal Reserve has 
been calculating and publishing the OBFR since March 2016. The second alternative rate to LIBOR is the Treasury General Collateral 
rate, which is composed of repo transactions secured by treasuries or other assets accepted as collateral by the majority of 
intermediaries in the repo market. 
  On July 27, 2017, the FCA announced that it would phase out LIBOR as a benchmark by the end of 2021. It is unclear 
whether new methods of calculating LIBOR will be established such that it continues to exist after 2021. The U.S. Federal Reserve, in 
conjunction with the ARRC, is considering replacing U.S. dollar LIBOR with a newly created index called the Broad Treasury 
Financing Rate, calculated with a broad set of short-term repurchase agreements backed by treasury securities. If LIBOR ceases to 
exist, we may need to negotiate the credit agreements with our lenders that utilize LIBOR as a factor in determining the interest rate 
based on a new standard that is established, if any. The transition to an alternative rate will require careful and deliberate consideration 
and implementation so as to not disrupt the stability of financial markets. There is no guarantee that a transition from LIBOR to an 
alternative will not result in financial market disruptions, significant increases in benchmark rates, or borrowing costs to borrowers.
New rules from the SEC that govern money market funds may significantly impact the volatility of LIBOR interest rates.
On July 23, 2014, the SEC adopted rules to make structural and operational reforms to address risks of investor runs in 
money market funds. These changes affect prime money market funds, which invest in corporate debt securities, differently than they 
do government money market funds, which invest in securities that are collateralized solely by government securities. The rules 
require a floating net asset value for institutional prime money market funds and also allow the funds to impose liquidity fees and 
redemption gates to further prevent large-scale investor runs. The rules provided for a two-year transition period that expired on 
October 15, 2016. In anticipation of this change, a substantial amount of assets across the broader market previously invested in prime 
money market funds had been moved to government money market funds, causing a reduction in the availability of bank unsecured 
funding for European and non-U.S. banks. Government money market funds are not available to foreign banks for their dollar-funding 
needs. As the transition deadline neared and passed, a supply-and-demand mismatch for dollar funds emerged from foreign banks, 
causing LIBOR to increase significantly. There can be no assurance that LIBOR will stabilize subsequent to the transition period for 
these new regulations or whether there will be continued pressure on LIBOR or significant volatility in LIBOR. Any volatility in 
LIBOR would affect our interest expense and earnings and the fair value of certain of our financial instruments. We rely on interest 
rate hedge agreements to mitigate our exposure to such interest rate risk on a portion of our debt obligations. However, there is no 
assurance these arrangements will be effective in reducing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates.
31
31
Adoption of the Basel III standards and other regulatory standards affecting financial institutions may negatively impact 
our access to financing or affect the terms of our future financing arrangements. 
In response to various financial crises and the volatility of financial markets, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
(the “Basel Committee”) adopted the Basel III regulatory capital framework (“Basel III” or the “Basel III Standards”). The final 
package of Basel III reforms was approved by the G20 leaders in November 2010. In January 2013, the Basel Committee agreed to 
delay implementation of the Basel III Standards and expanded the scope of assets permitted to be included in certain banks’ liquidity 
measurements. U.S. banking regulators have elected to implement substantially all of the Basel III Standards, with implementation of 
Basel III commencing in 2014 and scheduled to be incrementally implemented through 2019.
Since approving the Basel III Standards, U.S. regulators have also issued rules that impose upon the most systemically 
significant banking organizations in the U.S. supplementary leverage ratio standards (the “SLR Standards”) more stringent than those 
of the Basel III Standards. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board has adopted a final rule that establishes a methodology to identify 
whether a U.S. bank holding company is a global systemically important banking organization (“GSIB”). Any firm identified as a 
GSIB would be subject to a risk-based capital surcharge that is calibrated based on its systemic risk profile. Under the final rule, the 
capital surcharge began phasing in on January 1, 2016, and will become fully effective on January 1, 2019.
On September 3, 2014, U.S. banking regulators issued a final rule to implement the Basel Committee’s liquidity coverage 
ratio (the “LCR”) in the U.S. (the “LCR Final Rule”). The LCR is intended to promote the short-term resilience of internationally 
active banking organizations to improve the banking industry’s ability to absorb shocks arising from idiosyncratic or market stress, 
and to improve the measurement and management of liquidity risk. The LCR Final Rule contains requirements that are in certain 
respects more stringent than the Basel Committee’s LCR. The LCR measures an institution’s high-quality liquid assets against its net 
cash outflows. Under the LCR Final Rule, the LCR began phasing in on January 1, 2015, at 80%, with full implementation beginning 
on January 1, 2017.
  U.S. regulators have also issued and proposed rules that impose additional restrictions on the business activities of financial 
institutions, including their trading and investment activities. For example, in December 2013, U.S. regulators adopted a final rule 
implementing a section of the Dodd-Frank Act that has become known as the “Volcker Rule.” The Volcker Rule generally prohibits 
certain U.S. and foreign financial institutions from investing in or sponsoring “covered funds,” which include private equity funds or 
hedge funds and certain other proprietary activities. The effects of the Volcker Rule are uncertain, but it is in any event likely to curtail 
various banking activities, which in turn could result in uncertainties in the financial markets.
The implementation of the Basel III Standards, the SLR Standards, the GSIB capital surcharge, the LCR Final Rule, the 
Volcker Rule, and other similar rules and regulations could cause an increase in capital requirements for, and place other financial 
constraints on, both U.S. and foreign financial institutions from which we borrow, which may negatively impact our access to 
financing or affect the terms of our future financing arrangements.
  Significant developments stemming from the recent U.S. presidential election or the U.K.’s referendum on membership in 
the EU could have a material adverse effect on us. 
On January 20, 2017, Mr. Donald J. Trump was inaugurated as the president of the United States. As a presidential candidate, 
President Trump expressed apprehension toward existing trade agreements, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement 
(NAFTA), and raised the possibility of imposing significant increases on tariffs on goods imported into the United States, particularly 
from China and Mexico. President Trump has also spearheaded significant efforts to repeal and replace the ACA, and government 
negotiation/regulation of drug prices paid by government programs. Any changes in U.S. social, political, regulatory and economic 
conditions or laws and policies governing the health care system and drug prices, foreign trade, manufacturing, and development and 
investment in the territories and countries where we or our tenants operate could adversely affect our operating results and our 
business.
 
  According to a consensus of all U.S. government intelligence agencies, state-sponsored Russian operatives interfered with the
recent U.S. presidential election of 2016. In May 2017, a special counsel was appointed to investigate this matter and to determine 
whether the Trump campaign or any individuals associated with such campaign colluded with the Russians. The mandate of the 
special counsel allows this investigation to scrutinize other areas that may be related to the Russian interference. At least four 
Congressional committees are also investigating this matter and have interviewed witnesses in both open and closed sessions in order 
to determine the extent of the Russian meddling in the U.S. election, the vulnerability of the U.S. election system to future attacks by 
Russian or other state operatives, and the extent, if any, to which President Trump and his campaign colluded with the Russian 
32
32
government in order to mislead the American electorate. As these investigations proceed and the facts become clearer to the American 
people and the capital markets, it is uncertain the extent to which this will affect economic conditions or distract Congress from other 
endeavors.
Additionally, on June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum and voted in favor of leaving the EU. The U.K. government 
initiated the official EU withdrawal process on 29 March 2017, and expects to complete the exit from EU by the end of March 2019. 
This decision has created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the U.K. and the EU, and this uncertainty may last for 
years. Our business could be affected during this period of uncertainty, and perhaps longer, by the impact of the U.K. referendum. In 
addition, our business could be negatively affected by new trade agreements between the U.K. and other countries, including the U.S., 
and by the possible imposition of trade or other regulatory barriers in the U.K.. These possible negative impacts, and others resulting 
from the U.K.’s actual or threatened withdrawal from the EU, may adversely affect our operating results and our tenants’ businesses.
Other factors
Changes in laws, regulations, and financial accounting standards may adversely affect our reported results of operations.
As a response, in large part, to perceived abuses and deficiencies in current regulations believed to have caused or 
exacerbated the recent global financial crisis, legislative, regulatory, and accounting standard-setting bodies around the world are 
engaged in an intensive, wide-ranging examination and rewriting of the laws, regulations, and accounting standards that have 
constituted the basic playing field of global and domestic business for several decades. In many jurisdictions, including the U.S., the 
legislative and regulatory response has included the extensive reorganization of existing regulatory and rule-making agencies and 
organizations, and the establishment of new agencies with broad powers. This reorganization has disturbed longstanding regulatory 
and industry relationships and established procedures.
The rule-making and administrative efforts have focused principally on the areas perceived as having contributed to the 
financial crisis, including banking, investment banking, securities regulation, and real estate finance, with spillover impacts on many 
other areas. These initiatives have created a degree of uncertainty regarding the basic rules governing the real estate industry, and 
many other businesses, that is unprecedented in the U.S. at least since the wave of lawmaking, regulatory reform, and government 
reorganization that followed the Great Depression.
The global financial crisis and the aggressive reaction of the government and accounting profession thereto have occurred 
against a backdrop of increasing globalization and internationalization of financial and securities regulation that began prior to the 
recent financial crisis. As a result of this ongoing trend, financial and investment activities previously regulated almost exclusively at a 
local or national level are increasingly being regulated, or at least coordinated, on an international basis, with national rule-making and 
standard-setting groups relinquishing varying degrees of local and national control to achieve more uniform regulation and reduce the 
ability of market participants to engage in regulatory arbitrage between jurisdictions. This globalization trend has continued, arguably 
with an increased sense of urgency and importance, since the financial crisis.
This high degree of regulatory uncertainty, coupled with considerable additional uncertainty regarding the underlying 
condition and prospects of global, domestic, and local economies, has created a business environment that makes business planning 
and projections even more uncertain than is ordinarily the case for businesses in the financial and real estate sectors.
In the commercial real estate sector in which we operate, the uncertainties posed by various initiatives of accounting 
standard-setting authorities to fundamentally rewrite major bodies of accounting literature constitute a significant source of 
uncertainty as to the basic rules of business engagement. Changes in accounting standards and requirements, including the potential 
requirement that U.S. public companies prepare financial statements in accordance with international accounting standards, proposed 
lease standards, and the adoption of accounting standards likely to require the increased use of “fair value” measures, may have a 
significant effect on our financial results and on the results of our tenants, which would in turn have a secondary impact on us. New 
accounting pronouncements and interpretations of existing pronouncements are likely to continue to occur at an accelerated pace as a 
result of recent Congressional and regulatory actions and continuing efforts by the accounting profession itself to reform and 
modernize its principles and procedures.
Although we have not been as directly affected by the wave of new legislation and regulation as banks and investment banks, 
we may also be adversely affected by new or amended laws or regulations; by changes in federal, state, or foreign tax laws and 
regulations; and by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. In the U.S., the financial crisis and 
continuing economic slowdown prompted a variety of legislative, regulatory, and accounting profession responses.
33
33
The federal legislative response culminated in the enactment on July 21, 2010, of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act 
contains far-reaching provisions that substantially revise, or provide for the revision of, longstanding, fundamental rules governing the 
banking and investment banking industries and provide for the broad restructuring of the regulatory authorities in these areas. The 
Dodd-Frank Act has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, profound changes in the ground rules for financial business 
activities in the U.S.
To a large degree, the impacts of the legislative, regulatory, and accounting reforms to date are still not clear. Many of the 
provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates and will require extensive rule 
making by regulatory authorities. While we do not currently expect the Dodd-Frank Act to have a significant impact on our business 
activities, the Dodd-Frank Act’s impact on us may not be known for an extended period of time. The Dodd-Frank Act, including 
current and future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, along with other legislative and regulatory 
proposals directed at the financial or real estate industry or affecting taxation that are proposed or pending in the U.S. Congress, may 
limit our revenues, impose fees or taxes on us, and/or intensify the regulatory framework within which we operate in ways that are not 
currently identifiable. The Dodd-Frank Act also has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, substantial changes and 
dislocations in the banking industry and the financial services sector in ways that could have significant effects on, for example, the 
availability and pricing of unsecured credit, commercial mortgage credit, and derivatives, such as interest rate swaps, which are 
important aspects of our business. Accordingly, new laws, regulations, and accounting standards, as well as changes to, or new 
interpretations of, currently accepted accounting practices in the real estate industry, may adversely affect our results of operations.
We may incur significant costs if we fail to comply with laws or if laws change.
Our properties are subject to many federal, state, and local regulatory requirements and to state and local fire, life-safety, and 
other requirements. If we do not comply with all of these requirements, we may have to pay fines to government authorities or damage 
awards to private litigants. We do not know whether these requirements will change or whether new requirements will be imposed. 
Changes in these regulatory requirements could require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures. These expenditures could 
have an adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.
We may incur significant costs in complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws.
Under the ADA, places of public accommodation and/or commercial facilities must meet federal requirements related to 
access and use by disabled persons. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures at our properties to comply with this 
law. In addition, non-compliance could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants.
A number of additional federal, state, and local laws and regulations exist regarding access by disabled persons. These 
regulations may require modifications to our properties or may affect future renovations. These expenditures may have an adverse 
impact on overall returns on our investments.
We may incur significant costs in complying with environmental laws.
Federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations may require us, as a current or prior owner or operator of real 
estate, to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products released at or from any of our properties. The 
cost of investigating and cleaning up contamination could be substantial and could exceed the amount of any insurance coverage 
available to us. In addition, the presence of contamination, or the failure to properly clean it up, may adversely affect our ability to 
lease or sell an affected property, or to borrow funds using that property as collateral.
Under environmental laws and regulations, we may have to pay government entities or third parties for property damage and 
for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by those parties relating to contaminated properties regardless of whether we knew of or 
caused the contamination. Even if more than one party was responsible for the contamination, we may be held responsible for all of 
the cleanup costs. In addition, third parties may sue us for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination, or jointly 
responsible parties may contest their responsibility or be financially unable to pay their share of such costs.
Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance, and removal of asbestos-containing materials. These laws may 
impose fines and penalties on us for the release of asbestos-containing materials and may allow third parties to seek recovery from us 
for personal injury from exposure to asbestos fibers. We have detected asbestos-containing materials at some of our properties, but we 
do not expect that they will result in material environmental costs or liabilities for us.
34
34
Environmental laws and regulations also require the removal or upgrading of certain underground storage tanks and regulate:
•  The discharge of stormwater, wastewater, and any water pollutants;
•  The emission of air pollutants;
•  The generation, management, and disposal of hazardous or toxic chemicals, substances, or wastes; and
•  Workplace health and safety.
Many of our tenants routinely handle hazardous substances and wastes as part of their operations at our properties. 
Environmental laws and regulations subject our tenants, and potentially us, to liability resulting from these activities. Environmental 
liabilities could also affect a tenant’s ability to make rental payments to us. We require our tenants to comply with these environmental 
laws and regulations and to indemnify us against any related liabilities.
Independent environmental consultants have conducted Phase I or similar environmental assessments at our properties. We 
intend to use consultants to conduct similar environmental assessments on our future acquisitions. This type of assessment generally 
includes a site inspection, interviews, and a public records review, but no subsurface sampling. These assessments and certain 
additional investigations of our properties have not to date revealed any environmental liability that we believe would have a material 
adverse effect on our business, assets, or results of operations.
Additional investigations have included, as appropriate:
•  Asbestos surveys;
•  Radon surveys;
•  Lead-based paint surveys;
•  Mold surveys;
•  Additional public records review;
•  Subsurface sampling; and
•  Other testing.
Nevertheless, it is possible that the assessments on our current properties have not revealed, and that assessments on future 
acquisitions will not reveal, all environmental liabilities. Consequently, there may be material environmental liabilities of which we 
are unaware that may result in substantial costs to us or our tenants and that could have a material adverse effect on our business.
Changes in U.S. accounting standards may adversely impact us.
The regulatory boards and government agencies that determine financial accounting standards and disclosures in the U.S., 
including the FASB and the IASB (collectively, the “Boards”) and the SEC, continually change and update the financial accounting 
standards we must follow. 
In February 2016, the Boards issued an ASU, which changes certain aspects of accounting for leases for both lessees and 
lessors. Since February 2016, several additional ASUs have been issued to clarify implementation issues. The final update is effective 
on January 1, 2019. We are still evaluating the impact of this standard on our financial condition or results of operations, which in turn 
could also significantly impact the market price of our common stock. Such potential impacts include, without limitation:
•  Significant changes to our balance sheet relating to the recognition of operating leases as assets or liabilities based on 
existing lease terms and whether we are the lessor or lessee;
•  Significant changes in the timing of revenue recognition (related to lease arrangements in which we are the lessor) or 
expense recognition (related to the lease arrangements in which we are the lessee), stemming from the potential 
classification of financing or sales-type leases under the new ASU, for leases that are classified as operating leases under 
the current accounting standards; and
•  Significant fluctuations in our reported results of operations, including fluctuations in our expenses related to amortization 
of new lease-related assets and/or liabilities and assumed interest costs with leases.
  In addition, the new accounting update could make leasing/re-leasing of our space less attractive to our potential and current 
tenants, which could reduce overall occupancy of our properties. Under the current guidance, our tenants do not reflect operating 
leases with us as a liability on their balance sheets, but only provide a disclosure of future minimum payments associated with the 
operating lease in the footnotes to their financial statements. The new lease standard will require that lessees record on the balance 
35
35
sheets their rights and obligations pertaining to operating leases with a term of over 12 months. Changes in lease accounting standards 
could potentially impact the structure and terms of future leases since our tenants may seek to limit lease terms to avoid recognizing 
lease obligations in their financial statements. The new rules may also make lease renewal options less attractive because, under 
certain circumstances, the rules will require a tenant to assume that a renewal right will be exercised and accrue a liability relating to 
the longer lease term. Shorter lease terms and a reduction in RSF leased may lead to reduction in occupancy rates and decline in rental 
revenue, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations.
  Furthermore, in January 2016, the FASB issued an ASU that amended the accounting for certain equity investments. The 
update became effective for us on January 1, 2018. The core principle of the amendment involves the measurement of equity 
investments at fair value and the recognition of changes in fair value of those investments during each reporting period in net income. 
This amendment is expected to increase the volatility of our earnings for reporting periods subsequent to December 31, 2017, as 
unrealized gains or losses on our equity investments, as well as impairments deemed not to be other than temporary under the previous 
guidance, will be immediately recognized in net income. The increased volatility of our earnings could adversely affect investors and 
analysts’ ability to form reliable expectations of our future performance, which could negatively impact analysts’ “buy,” “sell” or 
“hold” recommendations for our common stock. Therefore, our share price could be negatively affected by causes beyond our control. 
  In May 2014, the FASB issued an ASU on recognition of revenue arising from contracts with customers, as well as an ASU 
recognition of gains and losses from the transfer of nonfinancial assets in contracts with noncustomers. The updates became effective 
for us on January 1, 2018. The core principle underlying the revenue recognition ASU is that an entity will recognize revenue to 
represent the transfer of goods and services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be 
entitled in such exchange. This will require entities to identify contractual performance obligations and determine whether revenue 
should be recognized at a point in time or over time, based on when control of goods and services transfers to a customer. The core 
principle of the financial instrument ASU involves the measurement of equity investments at fair value and the recognition of changes 
in fair value of those investments during each reporting period in net income.
  Any difficulties in the implementation of changes in accounting principles, including the ability to modify our accounting 
systems and to update our policies, procedures, information systems, and internal controls over financial reporting, could result in 
materially inaccurate financial statements, which in turn could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting 
obligations. The adoption of new accounting standards could also affect the calculation of our debt covenants. We cannot be assured 
that we will be able to work with our lenders to amend our debt covenants in response to changes in accounting standards.
Changes in the system for establishing U.S. accounting standards may result in adverse fluctuations in our reported asset 
and liability values and earnings and may materially and adversely affect our reported results of operations.
Accounting for public companies in the U.S. has historically been conducted in accordance with GAAP as established by the 
FASB, an independent body whose standards are recognized by the SEC as authoritative for U.S. publicly held companies. The IASB 
is a London-based independent board established in 2001 and charged with the development of IFRS. IFRS generally reflects 
accounting practices that prevail in Europe and in developed nations in other parts of the world.
IFRS differs in material respects from GAAP. Among other things, IFRS has historically relied more on “fair value” models 
of accounting for assets and liabilities than GAAP. “Fair value” models are based on periodic revaluation of assets and liabilities, often 
resulting in fluctuations in such values as compared to GAAP, which relies more frequently on historical cost as the basis for asset and 
liability valuation.
The SEC released a final report on its IFRS work plan, which indicates the SEC still needs to analyze and consider whether 
IFRS should be incorporated into the U.S. financial reporting system. It is unclear at this time how and when the SEC will propose 
that GAAP and IFRS be harmonized if the decision to incorporate is adopted. In addition, incorporating a new method of accounting 
and adopting IFRS will be a complex undertaking. We may need to develop new systems and controls based on the principles of IFRS. 
Since these are new endeavors, and the precise requirements of the pronouncements ultimately adopted are not now known, the 
magnitude of costs associated with this conversion is uncertain.
We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of IFRS on our financial condition and results of operations. Such 
evaluation cannot be completed, however, without more clarity regarding the specific proposed standards that will be adopted. Until 
there is more certainty with respect to the standards to be adopted, prospective investors should consider that our conversion to IFRS 
could have a material adverse impact on our reported results of operations.
36
36
Changes in financial accounting standards may adversely impact our compliance with financial debt covenants.
Our unsecured senior notes payable contain financial covenants that are calculated based on GAAP at the date the 
instruments were issued. However, certain debt agreements, including those related to our unsecured senior line of credit and 
unsecured senior bank term loans, contain financial covenants whose calculations are based on current GAAP, which is subject to 
future changes. Our unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term loan agreements provide that our financial debt 
covenants be renegotiated in good faith to preserve the original intent of the existing financial covenant when such covenant is 
affected by an accounting standard change. For those debt agreements that require the renegotiation of financial covenants upon 
changes in accounting standards, there is no assurance that we will be successful in such negotiations or that the renegotiated 
covenants will not be more restrictive to us.
We face possible risks associated with the physical effects of climate change.
We cannot predict the rate at which climate change will progress. However, the physical effects of climate change could have 
a material adverse effect on our properties, operations, and business. For example, most of our properties are located along the east 
and west coasts of the U.S. To the extent that climate change impacts changes in weather patterns, our markets could experience 
increases in storm intensity and rising sea levels. Over time, these conditions could result in declining demand for space at our 
properties or in our inability to operate the buildings at all. Climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by 
increasing the cost of, or decreasing the availability of, property insurance on terms we find acceptable, by increasing the cost of 
energy, and by increasing the cost of snow removal at our properties. There can be no assurance that climate change will not have a 
material adverse effect on our properties, operations, or business.
Extreme weather or natural disasters may cause property damage or disrupt business, which could harm our business and 
operating results.
We have properties located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather and natural disasters, including, but not limited 
to, earthquakes, winds, floods, hurricanes, and fires. Such conditions may damage our properties, disrupt our operations, and adversely 
impact our tenants’ operations. There can be no assurance that such conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our 
properties, operations, or business.
Terrorist attacks may have an adverse impact on our business and operating results and could decrease the value of our 
assets.
Terrorist attacks such as those that took place on September 11, 2001, could have a material adverse impact on our business, 
our operating results, and the market price of our common stock. Future terrorist attacks may result in declining economic activity, 
which could reduce the demand for, and the value of, our properties. To the extent that future terrorist attacks impact our tenants, their 
businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to honor their lease obligations.
Our business and operations would suffer in the event of information technology system failures.
Despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures, and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our 
internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer 
viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, and telecommunications failures. Any system failure 
or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. We may also incur 
additional significant costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions.
37
37
Security breaches through cyber attacks, cyber intrusions, or other methods could disrupt our information technology 
networks and related systems.
Risks associated with security breaches, whether through cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusions over the Internet, malware, 
computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, or other methods, against persons inside our organization, persons with access to systems 
inside our organization, the U.S. government, financial markets or institutions, or major businesses, including tenants, could disrupt or 
disable networks and related systems, other critical infrastructures, and the normal operation of business. The risk of a security breach 
or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments, and cyber 
terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity, and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the 
world have increased. Due to the fast pace and unpredictability of cyber threats, long-term implementation plans designed to address 
cybersecurity risks become obsolete quickly. The SEC has recently shared its concern over the rise in cases of cyber attacks where 
information was stolen by hackers to gain market advantage. As a consequence, it is critical that entities not only meet SEC 
expectations in the cybersecurity arena, but also invest in a program to become secure, vigilant, and resilient in the face of emerging 
cybersecurity risks. Even if we are not targeted directly, cyber attacks on the U.S. government, financial markets, financial institutions, 
or other major businesses, including tenants, could disrupt our normal business operations and networks, which in turn may have a 
material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
Information technology networks and related systems are essential to the operation of our business and our ability to perform 
day-to-day operations, including managing our building systems. They also may be critical to the operations of certain of our tenants 
and our service providers. Although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of networks and related 
systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance 
that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or 
damaging. Even the most well-protected information, networks, systems, and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the 
techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in 
some cases are designed not to be detected and in fact may not be detected. While we have not been a target of a cyber attack or cyber 
intrusion, it is possible we may be unable to anticipate or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventive measures. A 
security breach or other significant disruption involving our information technology networks and related systems could:
•  Disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our 
tenants;
•  Result in misstated financial reports, violations of loan covenants, missed reporting deadlines, and/or missed permitting 
deadlines;
•  Result in our inability to properly monitor our compliance with the rules and regulations regarding our qualification as a 
REIT;
•  Result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation, or release of, proprietary, confidential, 
sensitive, or otherwise valuable information of ours or others, which others could use to compete against us or for 
disruptive, destructive, or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes;
•  Result in our inability to maintain the building systems relied upon by our tenants for the efficient use of their leased 
space;
•  Require significant management attention and resources to remedy any damages that result;
•  Subject us to claims for breach of contract, damages, credits, penalties, or termination of leases or other agreements; or
•  Damage our reputation among our tenants and investors generally.
Any or all of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash 
flows. 
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
  None.
38
38
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
General
As of December 31, 2017, we had 213 properties in North America containing approximately 22.0 million RSF of operating 
properties and development and redevelopment of new Class A properties (under construction or pre-construction), including eight 
properties that are held by consolidated real estate joint ventures and three properties that are held by unconsolidated real estate joint 
ventures. See our definitions of annual rental revenue and operating statistics in the “Non-GAAP Measures” section under “Item 7. 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this annual report on Form 10-K for a 
description of the basis used to compute the aforementioned measures. The occupancy percentage of our operating properties in North 
America was 96.8% as of December 31, 2017. The exteriors of our properties typically resemble traditional office properties, but the 
interior infrastructures are designed to accommodate the needs of life science and technology tenants. These improvements typically 
are generic rather than specific to a particular tenant. As a result, we believe that the improvements have long-term value and utility 
and are usable by a wide range of tenants. Improvements to our properties typically include:
•  Reinforced concrete floors;
•  Upgraded roof loading capacity;
•  Increased floor-to-ceiling heights;
•  Heavy-duty HVAC systems;
•  Enhanced environmental control technology;
•  Significantly upgraded electrical, gas, and plumbing infrastructure; and
•  Laboratory benches.
As of December 31, 2017, we held a fee simple interest in each of our properties, with the exception of 27 properties in North 
America that accounted for approximately 13% of our total number of properties. Of the 27 properties, we held 16 properties in the 
Greater Boston market, six properties in the San Francisco market, two properties in the New York City market, one property in the 
Maryland market, and two properties in the Research Triangle Park market pursuant to ground leasehold interests. As of December 31, 
2017, our asset base also included one land parcel in North America which we held pursuant to a ground leasehold interest. Refer to 
further discussion in our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in “Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules” 
in this annual report on Form 10-K.
As of December 31, 2017, we had 668 leases with a total of 510 tenants, and 104, or 49%, of our 213 properties were single-
tenant properties. Leases in our multi-tenant buildings typically have initial terms of five to 10 years, while leases in our single-tenant 
buildings typically have initial terms of 10 to 20 years. As of December 31, 2017:
•  Investment-grade or large cap tenants represented 55% of our total annual rental revenue;
•  Approximately 97% of our leases (on an RSF basis) were triple net leases, which require tenants to pay substantially all 
real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, common area expenses, and other operating expenses (including increases thereto) 
in addition to base rent;
•  Approximately 95% of our leases (on an RSF basis) contained effective annual rent escalations that were either fixed 
(generally ranging from 3% to 3.5%) or indexed based on a consumer price index or other index; and
•  Approximately 94% of our leases (on an RSF basis) provided for the recapture of capital expenditures (such as HVAC 
systems maintenance and/or replacement, roof replacement, and parking lot resurfacing) that we believe would typically 
be borne by the landlord in traditional office leases.
Our leases also typically give us the right to review and approve tenant alterations to the property. Generally, tenant-installed 
improvements to the properties are reusable generic improvements and remain our property after termination of the lease at our 
election. However, we are permitted under the terms of most of our leases to require that the tenant, at its expense, remove certain 
non-generic improvements and restore the premises to their original condition.
39
39
Locations of properties
The locations of our properties are diversified among a number of life science and technology cluster markets. The following 
table sets forth the total RSF, number of properties, and annual rental revenue in effect as of December 31, 2017, of our properties in 
North America by market (dollars in thousands, except per RSF amounts):
RSF Annual Rental Revenue
Number of
Market Operating Development Redevelopment Total % of Total Properties Total % of Total per RSF
Greater Boston 6,135,551 255,155 59,173 6,449,879 29% 54 $ 356,178 38% $ 61.05
San Francisco 4,604,736 1,020,918 — 5,625,654 26 39 216,765 23 49.37
New York City 727,674 — — 727,674 3 2 63,325 7 87.20
San Diego 4,107,487 — 163,648 4,271,135 19 53 151,871 16 39.12
Seattle 1,037,920 — — 1,037,920 5 11 48,720 5 48.03
Maryland 2,079,450 — 45,039 2,124,489 10 29 51,931 6 26.23
Research Triangle Park 1,043,726 — 175,000 1,218,726 6 16 26,544 3 25.93
Canada 256,967 — — 256,967 1 3 6,652 1 26.00
Non-cluster markets 268,689 — — 268,689 1 6 5,394 1 25.60
North America 20,262,200 1,276,073 442,860 21,981,133 100% 213 $ 927,380 100% $ 48.01
Refer to the “Non-GAAP Measures” section under Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information.
Summary of occupancy percentages in North America
  The following table sets forth the occupancy percentages for our operating properties and our properties under redevelopment 
in each of our North America markets as of the following dates:
  Operating Properties Operating and Redevelopment Properties
Market 12/31/17 12/31/16 12/31/15 12/31/17 12/31/16 12/31/15
Greater Boston 96.6% 96.2% 96.5% 95.7% 96.2% 95.2%
San Francisco 99.6 99.9 100.0 99.6 99.9 100.0
New York City 99.8 97.3 99.7 99.8 97.3 99.7
San Diego 94.5 94.3 96.4 90.9 90.4 82.3
Seattle 97.7 97.6 99.6 97.7 97.6 99.6
Maryland 95.2 95.8 96.0 93.2 95.8 96.0
Research Triangle Park 98.1 99.0 97.6 84.0 99.0 97.6
Subtotal 97.0 96.7 97.4 94.9 95.8 93.8
Canada 99.6 99.2 99.3 99.6 99.2 99.3
Non-cluster markets 78.4 87.7 80.0 78.4 87.7 80.0
North America 96.8% 96.6% 97.2% 94.7% 95.7% 93.7%
40
40
Top 20 Tenants
84% of Top 20 Annual Rental Revenue from Investment-Grade or Large Cap Tenants
Our properties are leased to a high-quality and diverse group of tenants, with no individual tenant accounting for more than 3.7% 
of our annual rental revenue in effect as of December 31, 2017. The following table sets forth information regarding leases with our 20 
largest tenants in North America based upon annual rental revenue in effect as of December 31, 2017 (dollars in thousands):
Percentage of 
Annual  Aggregate  Investment-Grade Ratings
Remaining Lease  Aggregate  Rental  Annual Rental 
Tenant Term in Years (1) RSF Revenue(1) Revenue(1) Moody’s S&P
1 Illumina, Inc. 12.6 891,495 $ 34,736 3.7% — BBB
2 Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Ltd. 12.3 386,111 30,522 3.3 A1 A-
3 Eli Lilly and Company 11.9 469,266 29,335 3.2 A2 AA-
4 Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 9.9 460,050 28,800 3.1 A2 A+
5 Novartis AG 8.9 377,831 28,630 3.1 Aa3 AA-
6 Sanofi 10.2 388,242 24,821 2.7  A1  AA
7 Uber Technologies, Inc. 74.9 (2) 422,980 22,150 2.4 (3) (3)
8 New York University 12.7 209,224 20,718 2.2 Aa2 AA-
9 bluebird bio, Inc. 9.1 262,261 20,086 2.2 — —
10 Stripe, Inc. 9.8 295,333 17,822 1.9 — —
11 Roche 4.1 343,861 17,597 1.9 A1 AA
12 Amgen Inc. 6.3 407,369 16,838 1.8 Baa1 A
13 Massachusetts Institute of Technology 7.5 256,126 16,729 1.8 Aaa AAA
14 Celgene Corporation 5.7 360,014 15,271 1.6  Baa2  BBB+
15 United States Government 7.6 264,358 15,018 1.6 Aaa AA+
16 FibroGen, Inc. 5.9 234,249 14,198 1.5 — —
17 Juno Therapeutics, Inc. 11.3 266,794 13,815 1.5 — —
18 Biogen Inc.  10.8 305,212 13,278 1.4  Baa1  A-
19 Facebook, Inc. 11.8 382,883 12,718 (4) 1.4 (3) (3)
20 Pinterest, Inc. 15.2 148,146 12,015 1.3 (3) (3)
Total/weighted average 13.4 (2) 7,131,805 $ 405,097 43.6%
(1)  Based on aggregate annual rental revenue in effect as of December 31, 2017.
(2)  Represents a ground lease with Uber Technologies, Inc. at 1455 and 1515 Third Street in our Mission Bay/SoMa submarket. Excluding the ground lease, the weighted-average remaining lease 
term for our top 20 tenants is 9.9 years as of December 31, 2017.
(3)  Tenant with market capitalization (public or private) greater than $10 billion as of December 31, 2017.
(4)  Includes annual rental revenue based upon our 21% equity interest as of December 31, 2017, in the 251,995 RSF Phase I property of our Menlo Gateway joint venture. Our equity interest in 
this project will increase to 49% by the first quarter of 2019.
41
41
 
Cash Flows from High-Quality, Diversified, and Innovative Tenants
Annual Rental Revenue from Investment-Grade or Large Cap Tenants
A REIT Industry-Leading Tenant Roster
55%
Tenant Mix
(1)
Percentage of ARE’s Annual Rental Revenue
(1)  Represents annual rental revenue in effect as of December 31, 2017. 
(2)  Leading technology entities represent investment-grade or large cap (public or private) entities.
42
42
High-Quality Cash Flows from Class A Properties in AAA Locations
Class A Properties in 
AAA Locations AAA Locations
80%
of ARE’s
(1)
Annual Rental Revenue
(1)
Percentage of ARE’s Annual Rental Revenue
Solid Demand for Class A Properties
in AAA Locations Drives Solid Occupancy
Solid Historical
Occupancy across Key Locations
Occupancy(2)
95%
Over 10 Years
Occupancy of Operating Properties
as of December 31, 2017
(1)  Represents annual rental revenue in effect as of December 31, 2017. 
(2)  Average occupancy of operating properties in North America as of each December 31 for the last 10 years.
43
43
% %
dnt 1 0 96 000005 3 6 44008 00007
e g anpme 98. 100. 99.94. 100.100.100.100.100.98. 60. 95. 81.74.100.100.87. 100.100.100.100.95.
g no
Percenta OperatiRedevel
y 
nc % %
a
Occup erating 98.1 100.0 99.994.6 100.0100.0100.0100.0100.098.5 60.3 95.6 100.074.4100.0100.093.9 100.0100.0100.0100.096.6
p
O
2 8 76 212503 8 8 97970 39578
AnnualRentalRevenue 134,31 13,27 86,6048,45 10,5313,777,433,7362318,74 2,78 10,47 10,983,903,141,1629,69 1,54642,764,95356,17
$ $
mber ofperties 9 1 710 2122135 1 8 311114 211454
NuPro
1 2 51 048999 9 2 72001 65909
3 1 37 605402 0 8 19379 44557
6 2 67 256535 7 8 68329 80768
s): Total 2,081, 305, 1,181,808, 234,225,99,54,25,5,016, 210, 343, 317,144,82,26,914, 155,91,60,307,6,449,
d
n
a
s
u
o
s in th opment — — —— —————— — — 59,173———59,173 ————59,173
ollar devel
7 (d RSF Re
1
20 ent 155 — —000 —————155 — — ————— ————155
1,  pm 91, 64, 55, 55,
3 o 1 2 2
er  vel 44 44
mb De
e
c
e 6 2 51 048994 9 2 42008 65901
of D ating 90,47 05,21 81,6344,77 34,2625,5099,6554,5425,3061,37 10,70 43,88 58,4444,8982,3326,2755,81 55,8491,0460,7507,6535,55
s as  Oper 1,9 3 1,16 22 4,7 2 3 21 8 1 36,1
e
rti
roperty listing The following table provides certain information about our prope Market / Submarket / Addressreater BostonCambridge/Inner Suburbs®Alexandria Center at Kendall Square50, 60, 75/125, and 100 Binney Street, 161 and 215 First Street, 150 Second Street,300 Third Street, and 11 Hurley Street225 Binney Street (consolidated joint venture – 30% ownership)®Alexandria Technology Square100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, and 700 Technology Square® Alexandria Centerat One Kendall SquareOne Kendall Square – Buildings 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600/700, 1400, 1800, 2000,and 399 Binney Street480 and 500 Arsenal Street640 Memorial Drive780 and 790 Memorial Drive167 Sidney Street and 99 Erie Street79/96 13th Street (Charlestown Navy Yard)Cambridge/Inner SuburbsLongwood Medical Area360 Longwood Avenue (unconsolidated joint venture – 27.5% ownership)Route 128Alexandria Park at 1283 and 6/8 Preston Court, 29, 35, and 44 Hartwell Avenue, 35 and 45/47 WigginsAvenue, and 60 Westview Street225, 266, and 275 Second Avenue19 Presidential Way100 Beaver Street285 Bear Hill RoadRoute 128Route 495111 and 130 Forbes Boulevard20 Walkup Drive30 Bearfoot RoadRoute 495Greater Boston
P G
  
% %
dnt 000000000 04 000001 0 00000006 8 8
e g anpme 100.100.100.100.100.100.100.100.100. 100.97. 100.100.100.100.100.99. 100. 100.100.100.100.100.100.100.99. 99. 99.
g no
Percenta OperatiRedevel
y 
nc % %
a
Occup erating 100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0 100.097.4 100.0100.0100.0100.0100.099.1 100.0 100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.099.6 99.8 99.8
p
O
402312350 88 590910 5 57591355 5 5
AnnualRentalRevenue 28,5822,1517,823,8112,207,7110,8912,01115,19 16,8328,12 7,756,615,344,473,4172,57 4,01 4,874,253,888,002,211,7529,00216,76 63,32 63,32
$ $
mber ofperties 2211111110 57 3112120 3 111111939 2 2
NuPro
903087063 97 555078 3 08440434 4 4
683796440 93 789650 8 00430745 7 7
093432310 20 863981 9 02660056 6 6
Total 455,422,295,232,210,158,157,148,2,080, 907,619, 186,155,136,107,103,2,217, 772, 195,99,91,77,60,32,1,328,5,625, 727, 727,
nt ————————— —— —————— — ———————— — —
e
m
p
o
el
v
e
d
F Re
S
R
nt ————————— 30— —————30 88 ——————8818 — —
e 9 9 9 99
m 9, 9, 0, 0,0,
p 9 9 2 22
o 4 4 5 50
vel 1, 45 45
e
D
903087063 97 555078 5 08440456 4 4
ating 55,0622,9895,3332,4710,3958,2657,3448,1480,00 07,3619,03 86,8755,6836,3907,9603,8517,17 51,99 95,0099,2091,6477,6360,0032,0707,5504,73 27,67 27,67
per 442221112,0 46 111111,7 2 1 84,6 7 7
O
n.
o
mati
or
nf
Property listing (continued) Market / Submarket / AddressSan FranciscoMission Bay/SoMa409 and 499 Illinois Street (consolidated joint venture – 60% ownership)1455 and 1515 Third Street510 Townsend Street88 Bluxome Street455 Mission Bay Boulevard South1500 Owens Street (consolidated joint venture – 50.1% ownership)1700 Owens Street505 Brannan Street (consolidated joint venture – 99.7% ownership)Mission Bay/SoMaSouth San Francisco213, 249, 259, 269, and 279 East Grand Avenue®Alexandria Technology Center – Gateway600, 630, 650, 681, 701, 901, and 951 Gateway Boulevard400 and 450 East Jamie Court and 201 Haskins Way500 Forbes Boulevard7000 Shoreline Court341 and 343 Oyster Point Boulevard849 Mitten RoadSouth San FranciscoGreater Stanford(1)Menlo Gateway (unconsolidated joint venture)100 Independence Drive and 125 and 135 Constitution Drive960 Industrial Road2425 Garcia Avenue/2400/2450 Bayshore Parkway3165 Porter Drive1450 Page Mill Road3350 West Bayshore Road2625/2627/2631 Hanover StreetGreater StanfordSan Francisco New York CityManhattan®Alexandria Center for Life Science430 and 450 East 29th StreetNew York City (1)    Refer to the “Acquisitions: Menlo Gateway” section within this Item 2 for additional i
e g andpment 100.0% 76.4 100.0 88.9 100.0100.092.6 100.0 95.6 100.0 100.0—100.0 91.0 100.069.0 100.0100.0100.092.7 92.848.272.3 100.090.9% % by the 
Occupancy Percentag OperatineratingRedevelo 100.0% 76.4 100.0 88.9 100.0100.092.6 100.0 95.6 100.0 100.0N/A100.0 98.3 100.069.0 100.0100.0100.092.7 92.848.272.3 100.094.5% pected to increase to 49.9
p x
O 7, is e
1
0
AnnualRentalRevenue $17,352 11,506 9,401 8,878 4,8273,40955,373 28,738 32,236 2,774 3,419—10,036 77,203 3,9502,057 2,6812,43199312,112 3,0221,1894,211 2,972$151,871 December 31, 2
Number ofProperties 3 3 3 4 1115 6 3 1 314 18 23 2119 6410 153 of 35.9% as of 
461 993 082 751 556506349 687 799 510 398648963 005 970812 392244817235 655111766 780135 nterest 
Total 336, 294, 236, 223, 116,72,1,280, 792, 798, 71, 140,163,241, 2,209, 138,105, 102,66,33,447, 121,103,224, 109,4,271, nership i
w
o
nitial 
development — — — — ——— — — — —163,648— 163,648 —— ———— ——— —163,648 nture. TIAA’s i
RSF Re oint ve
ment — — — — ——— — — — ——— — —— ———— ——— —— n this j
op % i
vel 4.1 46 46
e 6
D of 
ating 36,461 94,993 36,082 23,751 16,55672,50680,349 92,687 98,799 71,510 40,398—41,963 45,357 38,97005,812 02,39266,24433,81747,235 21,65503,11124,766 09,78007,487 hip interest 
Oper 3 2 2 2 1 1,2 7 7 1 2 2,0 11 1 4 112 14,1 wners
o
n 
Property listing (continued) Market / Submarket / AddressSan DiegoTorrey PinesARE Spectrum3215 Merryfield Row and 3013 and 3033 Science Park RoadARE Torrey Ridge10578, 10614, and 10628 Science Center DriveARE Sunrise10931/10933 and 10975 North Torrey Pines Road, 3010 Science Park Road, and10996 Torreyana RoadARE Nautilus3530 and 3550 John Hopkins Court and 3535 and 3565 General Atomics Court3545 Cray Court11119 North Torrey Pines RoadTorrey PinesUniversity Town Center5200 Illumina WayCampus Pointe by Alexandria10290 and 10300 Campus Point Drive and 4110 Campus Point Court (consolidated joint venture – 55% ownership)9880 Campus Point DriveARE Towne Centre9363, 9373, and 9393 Towne Centre Drive(1)9625 Towne Centre Drive (consolidated joint venture)ARE Esplanade4755, 4757, and 4767 Nexus Center Drive and 4796 Executive DriveUniversity Town CenterSorrento Mesa5810/5820 and 6138/6150 Nancy Ridge DriveARE Portola6175, 6225, and 6275 Nancy Ridge Drive 10121 and 10151 Barnes Canyon Road7330 Carroll Road5871 Oberlin DriveSorrento MesaSorrento Valley11025, 11035, 11045, 11055, 11065, and 11075 Roselle Street3985, 4025, 4031, and 4045 Sorrento Valley BoulevardSorrento ValleyI-15 Corridor13112 Evening Creek DriveSan Diego (1)   This property is owned by a consolidated real estate joint venture. As of December 31, 2017, we hold aend of the second quarter of 2018 as TIAA contributes additional amounts to fund future construction.
% %
dnt 00600006 0877 3500000—1 1 0 0005 0 02
e g anpme 98.100.95.100.100.100.100.98. 100.71.87.97. 88.87.100.100.100.100.100. 88. 91. 100. 100.100.100.95. 100. 100.93.
g no
Percenta OperatiRedevel
y 
nc % %
a
Occup erating 98.0100.095.6100.0100.0100.0100.098.6 100.071.887.797.7 100.087.5100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0—92.6 91.1 100.0 100.0100.0100.095.5 100.0 100.095.2
p
O
38516249 9210 6511069—8 3 8 2216 9 81
AnnualRentalRevenue 14,808,748,214,846,191,841,1245,76 1,831,112,9548,72 13,173,061,682,232,312,391,32 26,18 8,09 6,27 1,471,081,1918,11 2,48 5,1351,93
$ $
mber ofperties 12111118 12311 6122111115 4 5 11112 1 129
NuPro
19824510 6400 819392507 1 7 4002 4 69
16088095 4272 018065867 0 3 5054 8 88
13740794 7749 254768117 4 1 1096 8 14
Total 290,203,168,117,115,30,27,953, 47,36,84,1,037, 386,131,90,86,71,63,49,49,928, 377, 237, 63,50,27,755, 191, 248,2,124,
opment ———————— ———— 45,039———————45,039 — — ———— — —45,039
el
v
e
d
F Re
S
R
nt ———————— ———— ————————— — — ———— — ——
e
m
p
o
vel 47 47
e
D
19824510 6400 919392508 1 7 4002 4 60
ating 90,1103,3668,7017,4815,0830,7027,9953,45 47,7436,7284,4737,92 41,1631,5190,4886,7071,6663,8549,1849,1683,73 77,40 37,13 63,1550,0027,9555,64 91,88 48,1879,45
per 22111 9 1,0 31 8 3 2 7 1 22,0
O
2
2
d 
n
a
0, 
2
9, 
1
d 
Property listing (continued) Market / Submarket / AddressSeattleLake Union400 Dexter Avenue North1201 and 1208 Eastlake Avenue East1616 Eastlake Avenue East1551 Eastlake Avenue East199 East Blaine Street219 Terry Avenue North1600 Fairview Avenue EastLake UnionElliott Bay3000/3018 Western Avenue410 West Harrison Street and 410 Elliott Avenue WestElliott BaySeattle MarylandRockville9800, 9900, and 9920 Medical Center Drive1330 Piccard Drive1500 and 1550 East Gude Drive14920 and 15010 Broschart Road1405 Research Boulevard5 Research Place12301 Parklawn Drive5 Research CourtRockvilleGaithersburg®Alexandria Technology Center – Gaithersburg I9 West Watkins Mill Road and 910, 930, and 940 Clopper Road®Alexandria Technology Center – Gaithersburg II708 Quince Orchard Road, 1300 Quince Orchard Boulevard, anFirstfield Road401 Professional Drive950 Wind River Lane620 Professional DriveGaithersburgBeltsville8000/9000/10000 Virginia Manor RoadNorthern Virginia14225 Newbrook DriveMaryland
% %
dnt 0 — 02 700000000 6 4 7
e g anpme 91. 100.99. 97.100.100.100.100.100.100.100.84. 99. 78. 94.
g no
Percenta OperatiRedevel
y 
nc % %
a
Occup erating 91.0 N/A 100.099.2 97.7100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.098.1 99.6 78.4 96.8
p
O
8 — 70 760498694 2 4 0
AnnualRentalRevenue 3,38 4,603,36 1,783,153,681,641,372,14855326,54 6,65 5,39 927,38
$ $
Number ofProperties 3 1 13 1111111116 3 6 213
0 0 77 066657026 7 9 3
7 0 17 029594222 6 8 3
8 0 46 069935117 9 6 1
Total 186, 175, 158,135, 100,96,82,81,77,61,32,30,1,218, 256, 268, 1,981,
2
elopment — 175,000 —— ————————175,000 — — 442,860
v
e
d
F Re
S
R
nt — — —— ————————— — — 73
e 0
m 6,
p 7
o 2
vel 1, 48 48
e
D
0 — 77 066657026 7 9 0
ating 86,87 58,4135,67 00,0096,6282,9981,9577,3961,5432,1230,1243,72 56,96 68,68 62,20
per 1 11 1 1,0 2 2 0,2
O 2
ess ark
ddr e P
A gl
ket /  Trian
ar h 
Property listing (continued) Market / SubmResearch Triangle ParkResearch Triangle Park®Alexandria Technology Center – Alston100, 800, and 801 Capitola Drive®Alexandria Center for AgTech – RTP5 Laboratory Drive108/110/112/114 TW Alexander Drive®Alexandria Innovation Center – Researc7010, 7020, and 7030 Kit Creek Road6 Davis Drive7 Triangle Drive2525 East NC Highway 54407 Davis Drive601 Keystone Park Drive6040 George Watts Hill Drive5 Triangle Drive6101 Quadrangle DriveResearch Triangle Park Canada Non-cluster markets Total – North America
Leasing Activity
•  Executed a total of 216 leases, with a weighted-average lease term of 7.9 years, for 4,569,182 RSF, including 1,118,816 
RSF related to our development and redevelopment projects during the year ended December 31, 2017; solid leasing 
activity in light of minimal contractual lease expirations at the beginning of 2017, and a highly leased value-creation 
pipeline; and 
•  Achieved rental rate increases of 25.1% and 12.7% (cash basis) for lease renewals and re-leasing of space aggregating 
2,525,099 RSF (included in the 4,569,182 RSF above) during the year ended December 31, 2017.
  Approximately 69% of the 216 leases executed during the year ended December 31, 2017, did not include concessions for 
free rent. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we granted tenant concessions/free rent averaging 2.5 months with respect to the 
4,569,182 RSF leased.
 
  The following chart presents renewed/re-leased space and development/redevelopment/previously vacant space leased for the 
years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015:
Lease structure
Our Same Properties net operating income and Same Properties net operating income (cash basis) increases for the year 
ended December 31, 2017, of 3.1% and 6.8%, respectively, benefited significantly from strong market fundamentals. The limited 
supply of Class A space in AAA locations and strong demand from innovative tenants drove rental rate increases of 25.1% and 12.7% 
(cash basis) on 2.5 million renewed/re-leased RSF, while a favorable triple net lease structure with contractual annual rent escalations 
resulted in both a consistent Same Properties operating margin of 70% and occupancy of 96% across our 166 Same Properties 
aggregating 14,414,434 RSF. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 97% of our leases (on an RSF basis) were triple net leases, 
which require tenants to pay substantially all real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, common area expenses, and other operating 
expenses (including increases thereto) in addition to base rent. Additionally, approximately 95% of our leases (on an RSF basis) 
contained contractual annual rent escalations that were either fixed or based on a consumer price index or another index, and 
approximately 94% of our leases (on an RSF basis) provided for the recapture of certain capital expenditures. 
49
49
The following table summarizes our leasing activity at our properties for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016:
Year Ended December 31,
2017 2016
Including Including 
Straight-Line Rent Cash Basis Straight-Line Rent Cash Basis
(Dollars are per RSF)
Leasing activity:
Renewed/re-leased space(1)        
Rental rate changes 25.1% 12.7% 27.6% 12.0%
New rates $ 51.05 $ 47.99 $ 48.60 $ 45.83
Expiring rates $ 40.80 $ 42.60 $ 38.09 $ 40.92
Rentable square footage 2,525,099 2,129,608
Tenant improvements/leasing commissions $ 18.74 $ 15.69
Average lease term 6.2 years 5.5 years
Developed/redeveloped/previously vacant space leased
New rates $ 47.56 (2) $ 42.93 (2) $ 50.24 $ 38.72
Rentable square footage 2,044,083 1,260,459
Tenant improvements/leasing commissions $ 9.83 $ 12.42
Average lease term 10.1 years 32.6 years (3)
Leasing activity summary (totals):
New rates $ 49.49 $ 45.72 $ 49.21 $ 43.19
Rentable square footage 4,569,182 (4) 3,390,067
Tenant improvements/leasing commissions $ 14.75 $ 14.48
Average lease term 7.9 years 15.6 years
Lease expirations(1)
Expiring rates $ 39.99 $ 41.71 $ 36.70 $ 39.32
Rentable square footage 2,919,259 2,484,169
Leasing activity includes 100% of results for properties in which we have an investment in North America. Refer to the “Non-GAAP Measures” section in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion 
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this annual report on Form 10-K for a description of the basis used to compute the measures above.
(1)  Excludes 25 month-to-month leases aggregating 37,006 RSF and 20 month-to-month leases aggregating 31,207 RSF as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
(2)  New rental rates include 100% of the RSF and rates for the 520,988 RSF lease executed for the Phase II development project of our Menlo Gateway joint venture. Adjusting for 
our 21% ownership of the Menlo Gateway joint venture, our weighted-average new rental rates were $38.84 and $35.70 (cash basis) per RSF for the year ended December 31, 
2017.
(3)  2016 information includes the 75-year ground lease with Uber Technologies, Inc. at 1455 and 1515 Third Street in our Mission Bay/SoMa submarket. The average lease term, 
excluding this ground lease, was 10.7 years.
(4)  During the year ended December 31, 2017, we granted tenant concessions/free rent averaging 2.5 months with respect to the 4,569,182 RSF leased. Approximately 69% of 
the leases executed during the year ended December 31, 2017, did not include concessions for free rent. 
50
50
Summary of contractual lease expirations
 
  The following table summarizes information with respect to the contractual lease expirations at our properties as of December 
31, 2017:
Percentage of Annual Rental Revenue Percentage of Total
Year Number of Leases RSF Occupied RSF (per RSF)(1) Annual Rental Revenue
(2)
2018 98 1,282,567 6.6% $ 41.57 5.8%
2019 85 1,349,444 6.9% $ 40.34 5.9%
2020 102 1,682,954 8.6% $ 38.27 7.0%
2021 88 1,741,892 8.9% $ 41.83 7.9%
2022 81 1,429,544 7.3% $ 45.13 7.0%
2023 50 1,855,662 9.5% $ 43.13 8.7%
2024 32 1,402,704 7.2% $ 48.47 7.4%
2025 22 698,697 3.6% $ 47.72 3.6%
2026 17 729,295 3.7% $ 44.38 3.5%
2027 24 1,834,072 9.4% $ 44.39 8.8%
Thereafter 44 5,564,341 28.3% $ 57.55 34.4%
(1)  Represents amounts in effect as of December 31, 2017.
(2)  Excludes 25 month-to-month leases aggregating 37,006 RSF as of December 31, 2017.
  The following tables present information by market with respect to our 2018 and 2019 contractual lease expirations in North 
America as of December 31, 2017:
2018 Contractual Lease Expirations Annual Rental 
Negotiating/ Targeted for Remaining Revenue
Market Leased Anticipating Redevelopment Expiring Leases Total(1) (per RSF)(2)
Greater Boston 37,850 73,516 — 187,598 298,964 $ 58.03
San Francisco 32,488 — 345,811 (3) 66,903 445,202 35.32
New York City 15,517 3,827 — 12,184 31,528  N/A
(4)
San Diego 19,870 — 71,510 227,503 318,883 34.54
Seattle 2,468 — — 6,272 8,740 52.56
Maryland 5,104 2,951 — 36,265 44,320 19.39
Research Triangle Park 3,088 18,833 — 38,399 60,320 26.29
Canada — — — 63,465 63,465 19.38
Non-cluster markets — — — 11,145 11,145 26.02
Total 116,385 99,127 417,321 649,734 1,282,567 $ 41.57
Percentage of expiring leases 9% 8% 33% 50% 100%
2019 Contractual Lease Expirations Annual Rental 
Negotiating/ Targeted for Remaining Revenue
Market Leased Anticipating Redevelopment Expiring Leases Total (per RSF)(2)
Greater Boston 16,188 76,463 — 262,186 354,837 $ 50.85
San Francisco 24,612 — — 155,604 180,216 43.12
New York City — — — 32,399 32,399  N/A
(5)
San Diego 17,415 — 44,034 253,901 315,350 31.55
Seattle 1,283 — — 212,010 213,293 43.67
Maryland — — — 156,089 156,089 26.05
Research Triangle Park — — — 40,235 40,235 20.25
Canada — — — 6,562 6,562 22.16
Non-cluster markets — — — 50,463 50,463 22.25
Total 59,498 76,463 44,034 1,169,449 1,349,444 $ 40.34
Percentage of expiring leases 4% 6% 3% 87% 100%
 
(1)  Excludes 25 month-to-month leases aggregating 37,006 RSF as of December 31, 2017.
(2)  Represents amounts in effect as of December 31, 2017.
(3)  Includes 195,000 RSF expiring during the three months ending March 31, 2018, at 960 Industrial Road, a recently acquired property located in our Greater Stanford submarket, and 23,840 
RSF expiring during the three months ending March 31, 2018 at 201 Haskins Way, a recently acquired property in our South San Francisco submarket. We are pursuing entitlements 
aggregating 500,000 RSF for a multi-building development at 960 Industrial Road and entitlements aggregating 280,000 RSF at 201 Haskins Way. Also includes 126,971 RSF of office 
space targeted for redevelopment into office/laboratory space upon expiration of the existing lease during the three months ending September 30, 2018 at 681 Gateway Boulevard in our 
South San Francisco submarket. Concurrent with our redevelopment, we anticipate expanding 681 Gateway Boulevard by an additional 15,000-30,000 RSF and expect initial occupancy in 
2019. 
(4)  Represents 71,510 RSF that expired in January 2018 at 9880 Campus Point Drive in our University Town Center submarket. We expect to demolish the existing R&D building and develop 
a 98,000 RSF Class A office/laboratory property.
(5)  Represents 44,034 RSF expiring in January 2019 at 4110 Campus Point Court, a recently acquired property in our University Town Center submarket, which we expect to redevelop into 
tech office or office/laboratory space.
51
51
Investments in real estate
  A key component of our business model is our disciplined allocation of capital to the development and redevelopment of new 
Class A properties located in collaborative life science and technology campuses in AAA urban innovation clusters. These projects are 
focused on providing high-quality, generic, and reusable spaces that meet the real estate requirements of, and are reusable by, a wide 
range of tenants. Upon completion, each value-creation project is expected to generate a significant increase in rental income, net 
operating income, and cash flows. Our development and redevelopment projects are generally in locations that are highly desirable to 
high-quality entities, which we believe results in higher occupancy levels, longer lease terms, higher rental income, higher returns, and 
greater long-term asset values. Our pre-construction activities are undertaken in order to get the property ready for its intended use and 
include entitlements, permitting, design, site work, and other activities preceding commencement of construction of aboveground 
building improvements. Our investments in real estate consisted of the following as of December 31, 2017 (dollars in thousands):
Square Feet
Investments in
Real Estate Consolidated Unconsolidated(1) Total
Investments in real estate:
Rental properties $ 11,092,815 19,799,496 462,704 20,262,200
Development and redevelopment projects of new Class A properties:
Undergoing construction – target delivery in 2018 – 2020
Development projects 310,825 755,085 520,988 1,276,073
Redevelopment projects 72,282 442,860 — 442,860
1,197,945 520,988 1,718,933
20,997,441 983,692 21,981,133
Near-term projects undergoing marketing and pre-construction;
target delivery in 2019 and 2020 163,764 1,015,000 580,000 1,595,000
Intermediate-term development projects 408,347 3,798,961 — 3,798,961
Future development projects 96,112 2,639,437 — 2,639,437
Portion of developable square feet that will replace existing RSF 
included in rental properties(2) N/A (451,310) — (451,310)
7,002,088 580,000 7,582,088
Gross investments in real estate 12,144,145 27,999,529 $ 1,563,692 29,563,221
Less: accumulated depreciation (1,875,810)
Net investments in real estate – North America 10,268,335
Net investments in real estate – Asia 29,684
Investments in real estate $ 10,298,019
(1)   Our share of the cost basis associated with unconsolidated square feet is classified in investments in unconsolidated real estate joint ventures in our consolidated balance sheets.
(2)  Refer to footnotes 5, 7, and 8 in the “Summary of Pipeline” section within this Item 2. 
52
52
Acquisitions Our real estate asset acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2017, consisted of the following (dollars in thousands): Square FootageDate ofNumber ofPurchaseDevelopment/FuturePropertySubmarket/MarketPurchasePropertiesOccupancyPriceOperatingRedevelopmentDevelopment Nine months ended September 30, 2017 acquisitions: 325 Binney StreetCambridge/Greater Boston3/29/17—N/A——208,965$80,250 266 and 275 Second AvenueRoute 128/Greater Boston7/11/172100%144,58459,173—71,000 Mission Bay/SoMa/San Francisco88 Bluxome Street1/10/171100%232,470—1,070,925130,000 201 Haskins WaySouth San Francisco/San Francisco9/11/171100%23,840—280,00033,000 Greater Stanford/San Francisco960 Industrial Road5/17/171100%195,000—500,00064,959 825 and 835 Industrial RoadGreater Stanford/San Francisco6/1/17—N/A——530,00085,000 (1)Greater Stanford/San Francisco6/1/171100%77,634——85,3001450 Page Mill Road 3050 Callan Road and Vista WateridgeTorrey Pines/Sorrento Mesa/San Diego3/24/17—N/A——229,0008,250 9900 Medical Center DriveRockville/Maryland8/4/171N/A—45,039—6,700 5 Laboratory DriveResearch Triangle Park/RTP5/25/171N/A—175,000—8,750 8673,528279,2122,818,890573,209 Fourth quarter of 2017 acquisitions:(2)South San Francisco/San Francisco12/19/17190.6%170,862——76,000701 Gateway Boulevard (3)Menlo Gateway (unconsolidated JV)Greater Stanford/San Francisco11/27/173100%251,995520,988—59,936 (4)4110 Campus Point Court (55% interest)University Town Center/San Diego12/28/171100%44,034——10,450 5466,891520,988—146,386 800,2002,818,890$719,595 We expect to provide total estimated costs at completion and related yields of development and redevelopment projects in the future. 1)  Technology office building, subject to a 51-year ground lease, located in Stanford Research Park, a collaborative business community that supports innovative companies in their research and development pursuits. This recently constructed building is 100% leased to Infosys Limited for 12 years, and we expect initial stabilized yields of 7.3% and 5.8% (cash basis).® – Gateway campus. The property is 90.6% leased as of December 31, 2017, to multiple tenants with minimal near-term lease expirations, and we expect initial stabilized yields of 7.2% and 6.3% 2) Office building located within our Alexandria Technology Center(cash basis) upon lease-up of the existing vacant office space. In addition, the property provides future opportunities to enhance our returns through the conversion of existing office space to office/laboratory space through redevelopment, and development of a new building. 3) See below within this Item 2 for additional information on our acquisition in this real estate joint venture. 4) Represents a 55% interest in a real estate joint venture with TIAA, which owns a property that expands our Campus Pointe by Alexandria campus. The joint venture leased the existing 44,034 RSF property back to the seller for one year, after which the joint venture may consider options to redevelop the existing property into tech office or office/laboratory space.  53 53
  ( ( ((
Acquisitions (continued) Square Footage Date ofNumber ofAnticipatedDevelopment/FuturePropertySubmarket/MarketPurchasePropertiesUseOccupancyPurchase PriceOperatingRedevelopmentDevelopment First quarter of 2018 acquisitions under purchase agreement/letter of intent: Mission Bay/SoMa/N/A2Office100%——$37,8001455 and 1515 Third Street N/A(1)San Francisco(acquisition of remaining 49% interest)(2)1655 and 1715 Third StreetMission Bay/SoMa/February2OfficeN/A—580,000—31,000(2)(10% interest in unconsolidated JV)San Francisco2018 (3)Greater Stanford/San Francisco1/25/184Office/lab77%165,81131,687—136,0002100-2400 Geng Road (4)Sorrento Mesa/San Diego1/5/184Office/lab100%316,531—50,000148,6509965-9995 Summers Ridge Road 2Q18—Office or labN/A——120,00017,000Pending | San Diego March 20181Office/lab31%24,84654,485—5,000Pending | Maryland 507,188666,172170,000375,450 Additional projected acquisitions295,000 - 395,000 2018 Guidance range$670,000 - $770,000 1) The first installment of $18.9 million related to our November 2016 acquisition was paid during the three months ended June 30, 2017, the second installment of $18.9 million was paid in January 2018, and we expect the final installment to be paid during the first half of 2018.2) Represents a 10% interest in a joint venture with Uber and the Golden State Warriors expected to be formed in February 2018. The joint venture is developing two office buildings aggregating 580,000 RSF, adjacent to the Golden State Warriors arena, which are 100% leased to Uber. Our initial equity contribution of $31.0 million will be funded at formation of the joint venture, and the project will transfer from pre-construction to under construction, with initial occupancy expected in 2019.3) Four-building office campus on 11 acres with 14 in-place leases with a weighted-average remaining lease term of three years. We are evaluating options for the conversion of existing office space into office/laboratory space through redevelopment. We expect to provide total estimated costs at completion and related yields in the future.4) A campus, with on-site amenities, consisting of four operating properties aggregating 316,531 RSF. The property also includes a future development opportunity for an additional 50,000 RSF building. The properties are 100% leased as of December 31, 2017, to Quidel Corporation and Abbott Laboratories, for aggregate terms of 15 years. We expect initial stabilized yields of 8.2% and 6.3% (cash basis) with an opportunity to enhance our initial return through future development. 5454
( ( ( (
e.
ur
nt
e
v
nt venture.eway joint 
oiat
way jnlo G
ee
atM
of our Menlo GPhase II of our 5555 55
hase II ect for 
or Pproj
nt project fvelopment 
mede
pe 
oh
e develng for t
uisitions: Menlo GatewayAcquisitions: Menlo Gateway  (1) Includes our share of investment in real estate joint venture working capital. (1) Includes our share of investment in real estate joint venture working capital.(2) The joint venture is in process of obtaining non-recourse construction financing for th (2) The joint venture is in process of obtaining non-recourse construction financi
q
c
A  
  
Real estate asset sales Our real estate asset sales completed during the year ended December 31, 2017, consisted of the following (dollars in thousands): Net Operating Net Operating IncomeContractual(1)(1)Income(Cash Basis)Sales PriceGainProperty/Market/SubmarketDate of SaleRSF $65,701$14,106360 Longwood Avenue/Greater Boston/Longwood Medical Area7/6/17203,090$4,313$4,168 9625 Towne Centre Drive/San Diego/University Town Center 12/19/17163,648N/AN/A13,470N/A(2)(sale of partial interest) Campus Point Drive, Development Rights/San Diego/University Town Center 12/19/17318,383N/AN/A12,895N/A(3)(sale of 45% interest) 6146 Nancy Ridge Drive/San Diego/Sorrento Mesa1/6/1721,940N/AN/A3,000270 (4)5/17/1790,000N/AN/A7,9371111401/1413 Research Boulevard/Maryland/Rockville Operating property in China11/27/17300,184$36539211,167—$ $$14,487114,170 1) Represents annualized amounts for the quarter ended prior to the date of sale. Net operating income (cash basis) excludes straight-line rent and amortization of acquired below-market leases.2) In December 2017, we entered into a joint venture agreement to sell to TIAA a 49.9% interest in 9625 Towne Centre Drive, a 163,648 RSF redevelopment project undergoing construction in our University Town Center submarket, which is 100% leased to Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Ltd. We received an initial contribution of $13.5 million from TIAA for a 35.9% initial ownership interest as of December 31, 2017, and expect TIAA’s ownership interest to increase to 49.9% by the end of the three months ending June 30, 2018 through additional capital contributions to fund construction. 3) In connection with the agreement to sell a 45% partial interest in 10290 Campus Point Drive to TIAA in 2016, we also agreed to sell to TIAA a 45% partial interest in the related development rights aggregating 318,383 RSF in our Campus Pointe by Alexandria campus at a sales price of $90 per SF. The sale of the development rights was contingent upon the completion of certain entitlement milestones. Upon completion of the entitlement milestones, we completed the 45% partial interest sale of the related development rights in December 2017.4) Joint venture with a distinguished retail real estate developer for the development of a 90,000 RSF retail shopping center, with remaining construction costs to be funded from a $25.0 million non-recourse secured construction loan. 56 56
(( ( (
7
5
7 7
5 5
8.
0
0
2
1, 8.
ary 200
nu1, 
e Jaary 
cu
nn
nd-up developmentp development mencement of vertical construction siment of vertical construction since Ja
agement of groument of ground-u ased percentage at comercentage at commence
ciplined manned manage Represents pre-leesents pre-leased p
Discipli  Repr
s
Di
 
8
  5
8
5
on projects in process.n projects in process.n projects in process.
®12 LEED certificati®3 WELLcertificatio®8 Fitwel certificatio
of of of 
n n n 
ooo
etietieti
plplpl
mmm
ooo
ccc
n n n 
ooo
ppp
UUU
1) 2) 3) 
(((
a
505 Brannan Street, Phase I505 Brannan Street, Phase I505 Brannan Street, Phase I505 Brannan Street, Phase I505 Brannan Street, Phase I505 Brannan Street, Phase I505 Brannan Street, Phase I505 Brannan Street, Phase I San Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMa 148,146 RSF148,146 RSF148,146 RSF148,146 RSF148,146 RSF148,146 RSF148,146 RSF148,146 RSF Pinterest, Inc.Pinterest, Inc.Pinterest, Inc.Pinterest, Inc.Pinterest, Inc.Pinterest, Inc.Pinterest, Inc.Pinterest, Inc. 400 Dexter Avenue North400 Dexter Avenue North400 Dexter Avenue North400 Dexter Avenue North400 Dexter Avenue North400 Dexter Avenue North400 Dexter Avenue North400 Dexter Avenue North Seattle/Lake UnionSeattle/Lake UnionSeattle/Lake UnionSeattle/Lake UnionSeattle/Lake UnionSeattle/Lake UnionSeattle/Lake UnionSeattle/Lake Union 290,111 RSF290,111 RSF290,111 RSF290,111 RSF290,111 RSF290,111 RSF290,111 RSF290,111 RSF Juno Therapeutics, Inc.Juno Therapeutics, Inc.Juno Therapeutics, Inc.Juno Therapeutics, Inc.Juno Therapeutics, Inc.Juno Therapeutics, Inc.Juno Therapeutics, Inc.Juno Therapeutics, Inc.ClubCorp Holdings, Inc.ClubCorp Holdings, Inc.ClubCorp Holdings, Inc.ClubCorp Holdings, Inc.ClubCorp Holdings, Inc.ClubCorp Holdings, Inc.ClubCorp Holdings, Inc.ClubCorp Holdings, Inc.
7.
1
0
al growth – value-creation development and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2017 deliveriesrowth – value-creation development and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2017 deliveriesowth – value-creation development and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2017 deliveriesowth – value-creation development and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2017 deliveriesowth – value-creation development and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2017 deliveriesowth – value-creation development and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2017 deliveriesowth – value-creation development and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2017 deliveriesowth – value-creation development and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2017 deliveries 100 Binney Street510 Townsend Street100 Binney Street510 Townsend Street100 Binney Street510 Townsend Street100 Binney Street510 Townsend Street100 Binney Street510 Townsend Street100 Binney Street510 Townsend Street100 Binney Street510 Townsend Street100 Binney Street510 Townsend Street Greater Boston/CambridgeSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaGreater Boston/CambridgeSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaGreater Boston/CambridgeSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaGreater Boston/CambridgeSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaGreater Boston/CambridgeSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaGreater Boston/CambridgeSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaGreater Boston/CambridgeSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaGreater Boston/CambridgeSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMa 341,776 RSF295,333 RSF341,776 RSF295,333 RSF341,776 RSF295,333 RSF341,776 RSF341,776 RSF295,333 RSF341,776 RSF295,333 RSF341,776 RSF295,333 RSF295,333 RSF341,776 RSF295,333 RSF Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyBristol-Myers Squibb CompanyBristol-Myers Squibb CompanyBristol-Myers Squibb CompanyBristol-Myers Squibb CompanyBristol-Myers Squibb CompanyBristol-Myers Squibb CompanyBristol-Myers Squibb CompanyStripe, Inc.Stripe, Inc.Stripe, Inc.Stripe, Inc.Stripe, Inc.Stripe, Inc.Stripe, Inc.Stripe, Inc.Facebook, Inc.Facebook, Inc.Facebook, Inc.Facebook, Inc.Facebook, Inc.Facebook, Inc.Facebook, Inc.Facebook, Inc. ARE Spectrum5200 Illumina Way, Parking StructureARE Spectrum5200 Illumina Way, Parking StructureARE Spectrum5200 Illumina Way, Parking StructureARE Spectrum5200 Illumina Way, Parking StructureARE Spectrum5200 Illumina Way, Parking StructureARE Spectrum5200 Illumina Way, Parking StructureARE Spectrum5200 Illumina Way, Parking StructureARE Spectrum5200 Illumina Way, Parking Structure San Diego/Torrey PinesSan Diego/University Town CenterSan Diego/Torrey PinesSan Diego/University Town CenterSan Diego/Torrey PinesSan Diego/University Town CenterSan Diego/Torrey PinesSan Diego/University Town CenterSan Diego/Torrey PinesSan Diego/University Town CenterSan Diego/Torrey PinesSan Diego/University Town CenterSan Diego/Torrey PinesSan Diego/University Town CenterSan Diego/Torrey PinesSan Diego/University Town Center 336,461 RSFN/A336,461 RSFN/A336,461 RSFN/A336,461 RSFN/A336,461 RSFN/A336,461 RSF336,461 RSFN/AN/A336,461 RSFN/A The Medicines CompanyThe Medicines CompanyThe Medicines CompanyThe Medicines CompanyThe Medicines CompanyThe Medicines CompanyThe Medicines CompanyThe Medicines CompanyCelgene CorporationCelgene CorporationCelgene CorporationCelgene CorporationCelgene CorporationCelgene CorporationCelgene CorporationCelgene CorporationIllumina, Inc.Illumina, Inc.Illumina, Inc.Illumina, Inc.Illumina, Inc.Illumina, Inc.Illumina, Inc.Illumina, Inc.Wellspring Biosciences LLCWellspring Biosciences LLCWellspring Biosciences LLCWellspring Biosciences LLCWellspring Biosciences LLCWellspring Biosciences LLCWellspring Biosciences LLCWellspring Biosciences LLCVertex Pharmaceuticals IncorporatedVertex Pharmaceuticals IncorporatedVertex Pharmaceuticals IncorporatedVertex Pharmaceuticals IncorporatedVertex Pharmaceuticals IncorporatedVertex Pharmaceuticals IncorporatedVertex Pharmaceuticals IncorporatedVertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated RSF represents the cumulative RSF placed into service as of December 31, 2017, including RSF that have been placed into service prior to January 1, 2RSF represents the cumulative RSF placed into service as of December 31, 2017, including RSF that have been placed into service prior to January 1, 2017.RSF represents the cumulative RSF placed into service as of December 31, 2017, including RSF that have been placed into service prior to January 1, 2017.RSF represents the cumulative RSF placed into service as of December 31, 2017, including RSF that have been placed into service prior to January 1, 2017.RSF represents the cumulative RSF placed into service as of December 31, 2017, including RSF that have been placed into service prior to January 1, 2017.RSF represents the cumulative RSF placed into service as of December 31, 2017, including RSF that have been placed into service prior to January 1, 2017.RSF represents the cumulative RSF placed into service as of December 31, 2017, including RSF that have been placed into service prior to January 1, 2017.RSF represents the cumulative RSF placed into service as of December 31, 2017, including RSF that have been placed into service prior to January 1, 2017. 5959595959595959 59
ExternExternal gxternal grxternal grxternal grxternal grxternal grxternal gr
EEEEEE
dollars in  ered Yields InitialStabilizedCash Basis 7.4% 7.5% 7.2% 6.2% 7.0% 7.1%
1, 2017 ( Unlev InitialStabilized 8.2% 7.9% 8.5% 6.4% 7.0% 7.0%
3
cember  vestment 439,000 226,000 140,000 277,000 60,000 223,000
De In $ $ $ $ $ $
ed  oject 1 3 6 1 1
ar end Total Pr RSF 432,93 295,33 148,14 336,46 N/A 290,11
e
y
he  ed % % % % % %
ng t Leas 100 100 100 98 100 100
ri
u
d 6 3 6 1 A 1 7
ervice  Total 341,77 295,33 148,14 336,46 N/ 290,11 1,411,82
s
o 
ntinued) placed int 4Q17 — 295,333 148,146 170,523 — 31,215 645,217
s: 2017 deliveries (co w Class A properties  RSF in Service Placed into Service 2Q173Q17 ——341,776 ——— ——— 631,664— —N/A— 6—17,620 231,664359,396 60 60
ropertie nt of ne 1Q17 31,33 241,27 272,61
p e
Class A  velopm Prior to1/1/17 — — — 102,938 — — 102,938
e
w  d
nt of ne nt and re DateDelivered 9/21/17 10/31/17 10/10/17 Various 5/15/17 Various
e e
m m
develop develop OurOwnershipInterest 100% 100% 99.7% 100% 100% 100%
re n 
d  o
an ati
nt  cre
e -
m e
op alu go/
External growth – value-creation devel The following table presents vhousands): Property/Market/Submarket Consolidated development projects 100 Binney Street/Greater Boston/Cambridge 510 Townsend Street/San Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMa 505 Brannan Street, Phase I/San Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMa ARE Spectrum/San Diego/Torrey Pines 5200 Illumina Way, Parking Structure/San DieUniversity Town Center 400 Dexter Avenue North/Seattle/Lake Union Total
 t
ndergoing marketing and pre-ng marketing and pre-oing marketing and pre-rgoing marketing and pre-dergoing marketing and pre-ng marketing and pre-oing marketing and pre-rgoing marketing and pre-dergoing marketing and pre- 1655 and 1715 Third Street1655 and 1715 Third Street1655 and 1715 Third Street1655 and 1715 Third Street1655 and 1715 Third Street1655 and 1715 Third Street1655 and 1715 Third Street1655 and 1715 Third Street1655 and 1715 Third StreetSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMa580,000 RSF580,000 RSF580,000 RSF580,000 RSF580,000 RSF580,000 RSF580,000 RSF580,000 RSF580,000 RSF Uber Technologies, Inc.Uber Technologies, Inc.Uber Technologies, Inc.Uber Technologies, Inc.Uber Technologies, Inc.Uber Technologies, Inc.Uber Technologies, Inc.Uber Technologies, Inc.Uber Technologies, Inc. 681 Gateway Boulevard681 Gateway Boulevard681 Gateway Boulevard681 Gateway Boulevard681 Gateway Boulevard681 Gateway Boulevard681 Gateway Boulevard681 Gateway Boulevard681 Gateway BoulevardSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San Francisco126,971 RSF126,971 RSF126,971 RSF126,971 RSF126,971 RSF126,971 RSF126,971 RSF126,971 RSF126,971 RSFMulti-Tenant/MarketingMulti-Tenant/MarketingMulti-Tenant/MarketingMulti-Tenant/MarketingMulti-Tenant/MarketingMulti-Tenant/MarketingMulti-Tenant/MarketingMulti-Tenant/MarketingMulti-Tenant/Marketing
Development and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2018 – 2020 deliveries (projects undergoing construction and near-term projects uDevelopment and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2018 – 2020 deliveries (projects undergoing construction and near-term projects undergoiDevelopment and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2018 – 2020 deliveries (projects undergoing construction and near-term projects undergDevelopment and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2018 – 2020 deliveries (projects undergoing construction and near-term projects undeDevelopment and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2018 – 2020 deliveries (projects undergoing construction and near-term projects unDevelopment and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2018 – 2020 deliveries (projects undergoing construction and near-term projects undergoiDevelopment and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2018 – 2020 deliveries (projects undergoing construction and near-term projects undergDevelopment and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2018 – 2020 deliveries (projects undergoing construction and near-term projects undeDevelopment and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2018 – 2020 deliveries (projects undergoing construction and near-term projects unconstruction)construction)construction)construction)construction)construction)construction)construction)construction) 100 Binney Street399 Binney Street266 and 275 Second Avenue100 Binney Street399 Binney Street266 and 275 Second Avenue100 Binney Street399 Binney Street266 and 275 Second Avenue100 Binney Street399 Binney Street266 and 275 Second Avenue100 Binney Street399 Binney Street266 and 275 Second Avenue100 Binney Street399 Binney Street266 and 275 Second Avenue100 Binney Street399 Binney Street266 and 275 Second Avenue100 Binney Street399 Binney Street266 and 275 Second Avenue100 Binney Street399 Binney Street266 and 275 Second AvenueGreater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/Route 128Greater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/Route 128Greater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/Route 128Greater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/Route 128Greater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/Route 128Greater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/Route 128Greater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/Route 128Greater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/Route 128Greater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/Route 12891,155 RSF164,000 RSF59,173 RSF91,155 RSF164,000 RSF91,155 RSF91,155 RSF164,000 RSF59,173 RSF59,173 RSF164,000 RSF59,173 RSF91,155 RSF164,000 RSF59,173 RSF91,155 RSF164,000 RSF59,173 RSF91,155 RSF164,000 RSF59,173 RSF91,155 RSF164,000 RSF59,173 RSF91,155 RSF164,000 RSF59,173 RSFFoghorn Therapeutics, Inc.Rubius Therapeutics, Inc.Rubius Therapeutics, Inc.Rubius Therapeutics, Inc.Foghorn Therapeutics, Inc.Rubius Therapeutics, Inc.Foghorn Therapeutics, Inc.Rubius Therapeutics, Inc.Foghorn Therapeutics, Inc.Foghorn Therapeutics, Inc.Foghorn Therapeutics, Inc.Foghorn Therapeutics, Inc.Foghorn Therapeutics, Inc.Foghorn Therapeutics, Inc.Rubius Therapeutics, Inc.Rubius Therapeutics, Inc.Rubius Therapeutics, Inc.Rubius Therapeutics, Inc.Visterra, Inc.Visterra, Inc.Visterra, Inc.Visterra, Inc.Visterra, Inc.Sigilon Therapeutics, Inc.Relay Therapeutics, Inc. Relay Therapeutics, Inc. Relay Therapeutics, Inc. Sigilon Therapeutics, Inc.Relay Therapeutics, Inc. Sigilon Therapeutics, Inc.Relay Therapeutics, Inc. Sigilon Therapeutics, Inc.Sigilon Therapeutics, Inc.Visterra, Inc.Visterra, Inc.Visterra, Inc.Visterra, Inc.Sigilon Therapeutics, Inc.Sigilon Therapeutics, Inc.Sigilon Therapeutics, Inc.Sigilon Therapeutics, Inc.Relay Therapeutics, Inc. Relay Therapeutics, Inc. Relay Therapeutics, Inc. Relay Therapeutics, Inc. MarketingMarketingMarketingMarketingMarketingTango Therapeutics, Inc.Celsius Therapeutics, Inc.Tango Therapeutics, Inc.Celsius Therapeutics, Inc.Celsius Therapeutics, Inc.Celsius Therapeutics, Inc.Tango Therapeutics, Inc.Celsius Therapeutics, Inc.Tango Therapeutics, Inc.Tango Therapeutics, Inc.MarketingMarketingMarketingMarketingTango Therapeutics, Inc.Tango Therapeutics, Inc.Tango Therapeutics, Inc.Tango Therapeutics, Inc.Celsius Therapeutics, Inc.Celsius Therapeutics, Inc.Celsius Therapeutics, Inc.Celsius Therapeutics, Inc.22222TCR Therapeutics, Inc.MarketingTCR Therapeutics, Inc.Marketing Therapeutics, Inc.Marketing Therapeutics, Inc.MarketingTCR Therapeutics, Inc.MarketingTCRTCR2222TCRTCRTCRTCR Therapeutics, Inc.Marketing Therapeutics, Inc.Marketing Therapeutics, Inc.Marketing Therapeutics, Inc.Marketing 213 East Grand Avenue279 East Grand Avenue201 Haskins Way213 East Grand Avenue279 East Grand Avenue201 Haskins Way213 East Grand Avenue279 East Grand Avenue201 Haskins Way213 East Grand Avenue279 East Grand Avenue201 Haskins Way213 East Grand Avenue279 East Grand Avenue201 Haskins Way213 East Grand Avenue279 East Grand Avenue201 Haskins Way213 East Grand Avenue279 East Grand Avenue201 Haskins Way213 East Grand Avenue279 East Grand Avenue201 Haskins Way213 East Grand Avenue279 East Grand Avenue201 Haskins WaySan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San FranciscoSan Francisco/South San Francisco300,930 RSF199,000 RSF280,000 RSF300,930 RSF199,000 RSF280,000 RSF300,930 RSF199,000 RSF280,000 RSF300,930 RSF199,000 RSF280,000 RSF300,930 RSF199,000 RSF280,000 RSF300,930 RSF199,000 RSF300,930 RSF300,930 RSF199,000 RSF280,000 RSF280,000 RSF199,000 RSF280,000 RSF300,930 RSF199,000 RSF280,000 RSFMerck & Co., Inc.Multi-TenantMarketingMerck & Co., Inc.Multi-TenantMarketingMerck & Co., Inc.Multi-TenantMarketingMerck & Co., Inc.Multi-TenantMarketingMerck & Co., Inc.Multi-TenantMarketingMerck & Co., Inc.Multi-TenantMerck & Co., Inc.Merck & Co., Inc.Multi-TenantMarketingMarketingMulti-TenantMarketingMerck & Co., Inc.Multi-TenantMarketing 616161616161616161 61
P
P T
Development and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2018 – 2020 deliveries (projects undergoing construction and near-term projects undergoing marketing and pre-Development and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2018 – 2020 deliveries (projects undergoing construction and near-term projects undergoing marketing and pre-Development and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2018 – 2020 deliveries (projects undergoing construction and near-term projects undergoing marketing and pre-Development and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2018 – 2020 deliveries (projects undergoing construction and near-term projects undergoing marketing and pre-construction) (continued)construction) (continued)construction) (continued)construction) (continued)Development and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2018 – 2020 deliveries (projects undergoing construction and near-term projects undergoing marketing and pre-Development and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2018 – 2020 deliveries (projects undergoing construction and near-term projects undergoing marketing and pre-Development and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2018 – 2020 deliveries (projects undergoing construction and near-term projects undergoing marketing and pre-Development and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2018 – 2020 deliveries (projects undergoing construction and near-term projects undergoing marketing and pre-construction) (continued)construction) (continued)construction) (continued)construction) (continued)Menlo Gateway825 and 835 Industrial Road9625 Towne Centre DriveMenlo Gateway825 and 835 Industrial Road9625 Towne Centre DriveMenlo Gateway825 and 835 Industrial Road9625 Towne Centre DriveMenlo Gateway825 and 835 Industrial Road9625 Towne Centre Drive San Francisco/Greater StanfordSan Francisco/Greater StanfordSan Diego/University Town CenterSan Francisco/Greater StanfordSan Francisco/Greater StanfordSan Diego/University Town CenterSan Francisco/Greater StanfordSan Francisco/Greater StanfordSan Diego/University Town CenterSan Francisco/Greater StanfordSan Francisco/Greater StanfordSan Diego/University Town CenterMenlo Gateway825 and 835 Industrial Road9625 Towne Centre DriveMenlo Gateway825 and 835 Industrial Road9625 Towne Centre DriveMenlo Gateway825 and 835 Industrial Road9625 Towne Centre DriveMenlo Gateway825 and 835 Industrial Road9625 Towne Centre Drive San Francisco/Greater StanfordSan Francisco/Greater StanfordSan Diego/University Town CenterSan Francisco/Greater StanfordSan Francisco/Greater StanfordSan Diego/University Town CenterSan Francisco/Greater StanfordSan Francisco/Greater StanfordSan Diego/University Town CenterSan Francisco/Greater StanfordSan Francisco/Greater StanfordSan Diego/University Town Center520,988 RSF530,000 RSF163,648 RSF520,988 RSF530,000 RSF163,648 RSF520,988 RSF530,000 RSF163,648 RSF520,988 RSF530,000 RSF163,648 RSF 520,988 RSF530,000 RSF163,648 RSF520,988 RSF520,988 RSF530,000 RSF163,648 RSF530,000 RSF163,648 RSF520,988 RSF530,000 RSF163,648 RSFTakeda PharmaceuticalTakeda PharmaceuticalTakeda PharmaceuticalTakeda PharmaceuticalFacebook, Inc.MarketingFacebook, Inc.MarketingFacebook, Inc.MarketingFacebook, Inc.MarketingCompany Ltd.Company Ltd.Company Ltd.Company Ltd.Takeda PharmaceuticalTakeda PharmaceuticalTakeda PharmaceuticalTakeda PharmaceuticalFacebook, Inc.MarketingFacebook, Inc.MarketingFacebook, Inc.MarketingFacebook, Inc.MarketingCompany Ltd.Company Ltd.Company Ltd.Company Ltd. 9880 Campus Point Drive1818 Fairview Avenue East9900 Medical Center Drive5 Laboratory Drive9880 Campus Point Drive1818 Fairview Avenue East9900 Medical Center Drive5 Laboratory Drive9880 Campus Point Drive1818 Fairview Avenue East9900 Medical Center Drive5 Laboratory Drive9880 Campus Point Drive1818 Fairview Avenue East9900 Medical Center Drive5 Laboratory Drive San Diego/University Town CenterSeattle/Lake UnionMaryland/RockvilleResearch Triangle Park/RTSan Diego/University Town CenterSeattle/Lake UnionMaryland/RockvilleResearch Triangle Park/RTPSan Diego/University Town CenterSeattle/Lake UnionMaryland/RockvilleResearch Triangle Park/RTPSan Diego/University Town CenterSeattle/Lake UnionMaryland/RockvilleResearch Triangle Park/RTP9880 Campus Point Drive1818 Fairview Avenue East9900 Medical Center Drive5 Laboratory Drive9880 Campus Point Drive1818 Fairview Avenue East9900 Medical Center Drive5 Laboratory Drive9880 Campus Point Drive1818 Fairview Avenue East9900 Medical Center Drive5 Laboratory Drive9880 Campus Point Drive1818 Fairview Avenue East9900 Medical Center Drive5 Laboratory Drive San Diego/University Town CenterSeattle/Lake UnionMaryland/RockvilleResearch Triangle Park/RSan Diego/University Town CenterSeattle/Lake UnionMaryland/RockvilleResearch Triangle Park/RTPSan Diego/University Town CenterSeattle/Lake UnionMaryland/RockvilleResearch Triangle Park/RTPSan Diego/University Town CenterSeattle/Lake UnionMaryland/RockvilleResearch Triangle Park/RTP71,510 RSF71,510 RSF205,000 RSF71,510 RSF205,000 RSF45,039 RSF175,000 RSF205,000 RSF45,039 RSF175,000 RSF45,039 RSF175,000 RSF71,510 RSF205,000 RSF45,039 RSF175,000 RSF 71,510 RSF205,000 RSF45,039 RSF175,000 RSF71,510 RSF205,000 RSF45,039 RSF175,000 RSF71,510 RSF205,000 RSF45,039 RSF175,000 RSF71,510 RSF205,000 RSF45,039 RSF175,000 RSFMarketingMarketingMulti-TenantMarketingMulti-TenantMarketingMulti-TenantMulti-TenantMarketingMulti-TenantMarketingMulti-TenantMarketingMulti-TenantMarketingMulti-Tenant MarketingMulti-TenantMarketingMulti-TenantMarketingMulti-TenantMarketingMulti-TenantMarketingMulti-TenantMarketingMulti-TenantMarketingMulti-TenantMarketingMulti-Tenant 626262626262626262
g 
Development and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2018 – 2020 deliveries (projects undergoing construction and near-term projects undergoing marketing and pre-construction) (continued)  The following table sets forth a summary of our development and redevelopment of new Class A properties projected to be delivered in 2018 through 2020, as of December 31, 2017: (1)OurProject RSFPercentageOccupancyProjectOwnershipProperty/Market/SubmarketIn ServiceCIPTotalLeasedNegotiatingTotalInitialStabilizedStartInterestConsolidated developments under construction100 Binney Street/Greater Boston/Cambridge100%341,77691,155432,931100%—%100%3Q153Q171Q18399 Binney Street/Greater Boston/Cambridge100%—164,000164,00075%—%75%4Q174Q182019213 East Grand Avenue/San Francisco/South San Francisco100%—300,930300,930100%—%100%2Q171Q192019279 East Grand Avenue/San Francisco/South San Francisco100%—199,000199,000—%52%52%4Q1720192020341,776755,0851,096,86178%10%88% Consolidated redevelopments under construction266 and 275 Second Avenue/Greater Boston/Route 128100%144,58459,173203,75784%—%84%3Q172Q1820189900 Medical Center Drive/Maryland/Rockville100%—45,03945,039—%—%—%3Q172Q1820185 Laboratory Drive/Research Triangle Park/RTP100%—175,000175,00015%24%39%2Q173Q182019(2)—163,648163,648100%—%100%3Q154Q1820189625 Towne Centre Drive/San Diego/University Town Center50.1%144,584442,860587,44461%8%69%486,3601,197,9451,684,305 Unconsolidated joint venture development under construction(3)Menlo Gateway/San Francisco/Greater Stanford251,995520,988772,983100%—%100%4Q174Q194Q19738,3551,718,9332,457,288 Unconsolidated joint venture development under pre-construction(4)(4)1655 and 1715 Third Street/San Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMa10%—580,000580,000100%—%100%1Q1820192019Total738,3552,298,9333,037,28885%4%89% Near-term development projects undergoing marketing and pre-construction 1818 Fairview Avenue East/Seattle/Lake Union100%—205,000205,000TBD2019TBDTBDTBD825 and 835 Industrial Road/San Francisco/Greater Stanford100%—530,000530,000TBD201 Haskins Way/San Francisco/South San Francisco100%—280,000280,000—1,015,0001,015,000 Near-term redevelopment projects undergoing marketing and pre-construction(5)(5)681 Gateway Boulevard/San Francisco/South San Francisco100%126,971—126,971—%35%35%4Q182019TBD(6)9880 Campus Point Drive/San Diego/University Town Center100%71,510—71,510TBD198,481—198,481Near-term projects undergoing marketing and pre-construction 198,4811,595,0001,793,481(includes 1655 and 1715 Third Street)Total936,8363,313,9334,250,769 (1) Initial occupancy dates are subject to leasing and/or market conditions. Stabilized occupancy may vary depending on single tenancy versus multi-tenancy. (2) Refer to “Dispositions” in the section above within this Item 2 for additional information on our partial interest sale at 9625 Towne Centre Drive. (3) Refer to “Acquisitions: Menlo Gateway” in the section above within this Item 2 for additional information on our acquisition at Menlo Gateway.(4) Refer to “Acquisitions” in the section above within this Item 2 for additional information.(5) The building is 100% occupied through September 2018, after which we expect to redevelop the building from office to office/laboratory space and expand by an additional 15,000 to 30,000 RSF. We have a letter of intent for a lease under negotiation aggregatin45,000 RSF, or 35% of the project.(6) This building is 100% occupied through January 2018, after which we expect to demolish the existing R&D building and develop a 98,000 RSF Class A office/laboratory property. We expect initial stabilized yields for our entire Campus Pointe by Alexandria campus to be in the low 7% range.  63 63
d d
ar-term projects undergoing marketing and pre- d to be delivered in 2018 through 2020, as of December 31,  Unlevered Yields Cost to Total atInitialInitial StabilizeCompleteCompletionStabilized(Cash Basis) $55,207$439,0008.2%7.4% 88,228174,0007.3%6.7% 157,197260,0007.2%6.4% TBDTBDTBDTBD TBDTBD $16,554$89,0008.4%7.1% 6,66114,3008.4%8.4% 49,75262,5007.7%7.6%(1)52,89393,0007.0%7.0% 125,860258,800 TBDTBD CompleteUnlevered Yields Total atInitialInitial StabilizeARE FundingCompletionStabilized(Cash Basis) $215,329$430,0006.9%6.3%(3)40,50078,0007.8%6.0% 255,829508,000 TBDTBD TBDTBD ditional information on our partial interest sale at 9625 Towne Centre Drive.
Development and redevelopment of new Class A properties: 2018 – 2020 deliveries (projects undergoing construction and neconstruction) (continued)  The following table sets forth a summary of our development and redevelopment of new Class A properties projecte2017 (dollars in thousands): OurOwnershipInterestProperty/Market/SubmarketIn ServiceCIP Consolidated developments under construction 100 Binney Street/Greater Boston/Cambridge100%$302,933$80,860 399 Binney Street/Greater Boston/Cambridge100%—85,772 213 East Grand Avenue/San Francisco/South San Francisco100%—102,803 279 East Grand Avenue/San Francisco/South San Francisco100%—41,390 $302,933$310,825 Consolidated redevelopments under construction 266 and 275 Second Avenue/Greater Boston/Route 128100%$60,658$11,788 9900 Medical Center Drive/Maryland/Rockville100%—7,639 5 Laboratory Drive/Research Triangle Park/RTP100%—12,748(1)—40,1079625 Towne Centre Drive/San Diego/University Town Center50.1% 60,65872,282 Total$363,591$383,107 Cost to OurOwnershipConstructionInterestProperty/Market/SubmarketIn ServiceCIPLoan Unconsolidated joint venture development under construction and pre-construction (2)Menlo Gateway/San Francisco/Greater Stanford$49,053$41,395$124,223(3)(3)(3)37,5001655 and 1715 Third Street/San Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMa10% 49,05341,395161,723 Consolidated developments/redevelopments under construction363,591383,107— $Total$412,644$424,502161,723 (1) We expect to receive contributions from our joint venture partner of $30.7 million to fund construction. Refer to “Dispositions” in the section above within this Item 2 for ad(2) Refer to “Acquisitions: Menlo Gateway” in the section above within this Item 2 for additional information on our acquisition at Menlo Gateway.(3) Refer to “Acquisitions” in the section above within this Item 2 for additional information. 6464
e
ce
® ® ® ® ® ® ® ® ® ® ® 960 Industrial RoadAlexandria Centerfor Life Scien960 Industrial RoadAlexandria Centerfor Life Science960 Industrial RoadAlexandria Centerfor Life Science960 Industrial RoadAlexandria Centerfor Life Science960 Industrial RoadAlexandria Centerfor Life Science960 Industrial RoadAlexandria Centerfor Life Scienc960 Industrial RoadAlexandria Centerfor Life Science960 Industrial RoadAlexandria Centerfor Life Science960 Industrial RoadAlexandria Centerfor Life Science960 Industrial RoadAlexandria Centerfor Life Science960 Industrial RoadAlexandria Centerfor Life Science San Francisco/Greater StanfordNew York City/ManhattanSan Francisco/Greater StanfordNew York City/ManhattanSan Francisco/Greater StanfordNew York City/ManhattanSan Francisco/Greater StanfordNew York City/ManhattanSan Francisco/Greater StanfordNew York City/ManhattanSan Francisco/Greater StanfordNew York City/ManhattanSan Francisco/Greater StanfordNew York City/ManhattanSan Francisco/Greater StanfordNew York City/ManhattanSan Francisco/Greater StanfordNew York City/ManhattanSan Francisco/Greater StanfordNew York City/ManhattanSan Francisco/Greater StanfordNew York City/Manhattan 500,000 RSF420,000 RSF500,000 RSF420,000 RSF500,000 RSF420,000 RSF500,000 RSF420,000 RSF500,000 RSF420,000 RSF500,000 RSF420,000 RSF500,000 RSF420,000 RSF500,000 RSF420,000 RSF500,000 RSF420,000 RSF500,000 RSF420,000 RSF500,000 RSF420,000 RSF 165/1166 Eastlake Avenue East9800 Medical Center Drive1165/1166 Eastlake Avenue East9800 Medical Center Drive1165/1166 Eastlake Avenue East9800 Medical Center Drive1165/1166 Eastlake Avenue East9800 Medical Center Drive1165/1166 Eastlake Avenue East9800 Medical Center Drive1165/1166 Eastlake Avenue East9800 Medical Center Drive1165/1166 Eastlake Avenue East9800 Medical Center Drive1165/1166 Eastlake Avenue East9800 Medical Center Drive1165/1166 Eastlake Avenue East9800 Medical Center Drive1165/1166 Eastlake Avenue East9800 Medical Center Drive165/1166 Eastlake Avenue East9800 Medical Center Drive Seattle/Lake UnionMaryland/RockvilleSeattle/Lake UnionMaryland/RockvilleSeattle/Lake UnionMaryland/RockvilleSeattle/Lake UnionMaryland/RockvilleMaryland/RockvilleSeattle/Lake UnionMaryland/RockvilleSeattle/Lake UnionMaryland/RockvilleSeattle/Lake UnionMaryland/RockvilleSeattle/Lake UnionMaryland/RockvilleSeattle/Lake UnionMaryland/RockvilleSeattle/Lake UnionMaryland/RockvilleSeattle/Lake Union 106,000 RSF180,000 RSF106,000 RSF180,000 RSF106,000 RSF180,000 RSF106,000 RSF180,000 RSF106,000 RSF180,000 RSF106,000 RSF180,000 RSF106,000 RSF180,000 RSF106,000 RSF180,000 RSF106,000 RSF180,000 RSF106,000 RSF180,000 RSF106,000 RSF180,000 RSF
Development of new Class A properties: intermediate-term development projectsevelopment of new Class A properties: intermediate-term development projectsDevelopment of new Class A properties: intermediate-term development projectsDevelopment of new Class A properties: intermediate-term development projectsDevelopment of new Class A properties: intermediate-term development projectsDevelopment of new Class A properties: intermediate-term development projectsDevelopment of new Class A properties: intermediate-term development projectsDevelopment of new Class A properties: intermediate-term development projectsDevelopment of new Class A properties: intermediate-term development projectsDevelopment of new Class A properties: intermediate-term development projectsevelopment of new Class A properties: intermediate-term development projects 325 Binney Street88 Bluxome Street505 Brannan Street, Phase II325 Binney Street88 Bluxome Street505 Brannan Street, Phase II325 Binney Street88 Bluxome Street505 Brannan Street, Phase II325 Binney Street88 Bluxome Street505 Brannan Street, Phase II325 Binney Street88 Bluxome Street505 Brannan Street, Phase II325 Binney Street88 Bluxome Street505 Brannan Street, Phase II325 Binney Street88 Bluxome Street505 Brannan Street, Phase II325 Binney Street88 Bluxome Street505 Brannan Street, Phase II325 Binney Street88 Bluxome Street505 Brannan Street, Phase II325 Binney Street88 Bluxome Street505 Brannan Street, Phase II325 Binney Street88 Bluxome Street505 Brannan Street, Phase II San Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaSan Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaGreater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/CambridgeGreater Boston/Cambridge 208,965 RSF1,070,925 RSF165,000 RSF165,000 RSF1,070,925 RSF165,000 RSF208,965 RSF1,070,925 RSF165,000 RSF208,965 RSF1,070,925 RSF208,965 RSF208,965 RSF1,070,925 RSF165,000 RSF208,965 RSF1,070,925 RSF165,000 RSF208,965 RSF1,070,925 RSF165,000 RSF208,965 RSF1,070,925 RSF165,000 RSF208,965 RSF1,070,925 RSF165,000 RSF208,965 RSF1,070,925 RSF165,000 RSF208,965 RSF1,070,925 RSF165,000 RSF 5200 Illumina WayCampus Point Drive1150 Eastlake Avenue East1ayCampus Point Drive1150 Eastlake Avenue East1150 Eastlake Avenue East5200 Illumina WayCampus Point Drive1150 Eastlake Avenue East5200 Illumina WayCampus Point Drive1150 Eastlake Avenue East5200 Illumina WayCampus Point Drive1150 Eastlake Avenue East5200 Illumina WayCampus Point Drive1150 Eastlake Avenue East5200 Illumina WayCampus Point Drive1150 Eastlake Avenue East5200 Illumina W5200 Illumina WayCampus Point Drive1150 Eastlake Avenue East5200 Illumina WayCampus Point Drive5200 Illumina WayCampus Point Drive1150 Eastlake Avenue East5200 Illumina WayCampus Point Drive1150 Eastlake Avenue East1 Town CenterSan Diego/University Town CenterSeattle/Lake UnionSan Diego/University Town CenterSeattle/Lake UnionSeattle/Lake UnionSan Diego/University Town CenterSan Diego/University Town CenterSeattle/Lake UnionSan Diego/University San Diego/University Town CenterSan Diego/University Town CenterSan Diego/University Town CenterSan Diego/University Town CenterSeattle/Lake UnionSan Diego/University Town CenterSan Diego/University Town CenterSeattle/Lake UnionSan Diego/University Town CenterSan Diego/University Town CenterSeattle/Lake UnionSan Diego/University Town CenterSan Diego/University Town CenterSeattle/Lake UnionSan Diego/University Town CenterSan Diego/University Town CenterSeattle/Lake UnionSan Diego/University Town CenterSan Diego/University Town CenterSeattle/Lake UnionSan Diego/University Town CenterSan Diego/University Town CenterSan Diego/University Town CenterSeattle/Lake Union 386,044 RSF318,383 RSF260,000 RSF318,383 RSF260,000 RSF260,000 RSF386,044 RSF318,383 RSF260,000 RSF386,044 RSF386,044 RSF318,383 RSF386,044 RSF318,383 RSF260,000 RSF386,044 RSF318,383 RSF260,000 RSF386,044 RSF318,383 RSF260,000 RSF386,044 RSF318,383 RSF260,000 RSF386,044 RSF318,383 RSF260,000 RSF386,044 RSF318,383 RSF260,000 RSF386,044 RSF318,383 RSF260,000 RSF 6565656565656565656565 65
DD
nds): (1)Total 91,15559,173164,000 208,965183,644 100,000221,9551,028,892 300,930199,000520,988 530,000580,000280,000— 1,070,925165,000500,000 90,00095,6204,332,463 420,000420,000 d to develop two 
usa gree
dollars in tho FutureDevelopment ——— —— 100,000221,955321,955 ——— ———— ——— 90,00095,620185,620 —— development, we a
17 ( quare 
Summary of pipeline  The following table summarizes the key information for all our development and redevelopment projects in North America as of December 31, 20 Square Footage Development Projects Near-Term ProjectsOurUndergoing MarketingIntermediate-TermUndergoingOwnershipand Pre-ConstructionDevelopmentConstructionInterestBook ValueProperty/Submarket Greater BostonUndergoing construction100 Binney Street/Cambridge100%$80,86091,155——266 and 275 Second Avenue/Route 128100%11,78859,173——®—399 Binney Street (Alexandria Center at One Kendall Square)100%85,772164,000—Intermediate-term development325 Binney Street/Cambridge100%87,251——208,965(2)50 Rogers Street/Cambridge100%6,466——183,644Future development projects®Alexandria Technology Square/Cambridge100%7,787———Other future projects100%7,612———287,536314,328—392,609San FranciscoUndergoing construction213 East Grand Avenue/South San Francisco100%102,803300,930———279 East Grand Avenue/South San Francisco100%41,390199,000—(3)Menlo Gateway/Greater Stanford49%—520,988——Near-term projects undergoing marketing and pre-construction825 and 835 Industrial Road/Greater Stanford100%92,160—530,000—(4)1655 and 1715 Third Street/Mission Bay/SoMa10%——580,000—201 Haskins Way/South San Francisco100%39,122—280,000—(5) (6)681 Gateway Boulevard/South San Francisco100%————Intermediate-term development88 Bluxome Street/Mission Bay/SoMa100%162,334——1,070,925(7) 505 Brannan Street, Phase II/Mission Bay/SoMa99.7%14,988——165,000960 Industrial Road/Greater Stanford100%69,255——500,000(8) Future development projectsEast Grand Avenue/South San Francisco100%5,988———Other future projects100%228———528,2681,020,9181,390,0001,735,925New York City® Alexandria Centerfor Life Science/Manhattan100%———420,000$———420,000 (1) Total pipeline SF represents operating RSF targeted for near-term and intermediate-term development plus incremental developable SF. ®(2) Represents a multifamily residential development with approximately 130-140 units (adjacent to 161 First Street). As part of our successful efforts to increase the entitlements on our Alexandria Center at Kendall Smultifamily residential projects, one of which was previously completed and sold. We expect to commence construction of this project in 2018, and we are in negotiations for a potential sale.(3) Refer to “Acquisitions: Menlo Gateway” in the section above within this Item 2 for additional information on our acquisition at Menlo Gateway.(4) Refer to “Acquisitions” in the section above within this Item 2 for additional information.(5) The near-term development project undergoing entitlements for 280,000 RSF will replace the existing 23,840 RSF of operating property. (6) Refer to the “Summary of Contractual Lease Expirations” section under “Properties” within this Item 2 for additional information on our near-term redevelopment opportunities.(7) The intermediate-term development project undergoing entitlements for 1,070,925 developable SF will replace the existing 232,470 RSF operating property.(8) The intermediate-term development project undergoing entitlements for 500,000 RSF will replace the existing 195,000 RSF operating property. 6666
8 43 050 0 000 9 0 09 0 0225 1
4 48 097 0 000 3 0 03 0 0660 3
(1)al 63,6 86,018,3 63,059,890,9 05,0 60,006,071,0 45,0 80,0 61,086,0 75,0 00,076,251,271,7 52,3
Tot 1 33 121,2 2 215 1 2 1 1,0 1,25 9,7
Futurevelopment — —— 163,000259,895422,895 — ——— — — 61,00061,000 — 1,000,00076,2621,076,262571,705 2,639,437
e
D
m
otage nt Projects mediate-Tervelopment — 386,044318,383 ——704,427 — 260,000106,000366,000 — 180,000 —180,000 — ———— 3,798,961
Fo me erDe
quare  evelop Int
S D Term Projectsoing Marketinge-Construction — —— ——— 205,000 ——205,000 — — —— — ———— 1,595,000
ear-dergd Pr
Nnn
Ua
8 —— ——8 — ——— 9 — —9 0 ——0— 3
4 4 3 3 0 0 3
rgoingruction 163,6 163,6 45,0 45,0 175,0 175,0 1,718,9 Drive.
UndeConst Centre 
ne  7 7
w 6 6
To
Summary of pipeline (continued) OurOwnershipProperty/SubmarketInterestBook Value San DiegoUndergoing construction(2)9625 Towne Centre Drive/University Town Center50.1%$40,107Intermediate-term development5200 Illumina Way/University Town Center100%11,562Campus Point Drive/University Town Center55%14,890Future development projectsVista Wateridge/Sorrento Mesa100%3,971Other future projects100%30,295100,825SeattleNear-term projects undergoing marketing and pre-construction1818 Fairview Avenue East/Lake Union100%32,482Intermediate-term development1150 Eastlake Avenue East/Lake Union100%19,2691165/1166 Eastlake Avenue East/Lake Union100%15,11566,866MarylandUndergoing construction9900 Medical Center Drive/Rockville100%7,639Intermediate-term development9800 Medical Center Drive/Rockville100%7,217Future development projectsOther future projects100%4,03518,891Research Triangle ParkUndergoing construction5 Laboratory Drive/Research Triangle Park100%12,748Future development projects6 Davis Drive/Research Triangle Park100%16,671Other future projects100%4,14933,568Non-cluster markets – other future projects100%15,376 $1,051,330 1) Total pipeline SF represents operating RSF plus incremental SF targeted for near-term and intermediate-term development.2) Refer to “Dispositions” in the section above within this Item 2 for additional information on our partial interest sale at 9625 
((
Summary of capital expenditures
  Our construction spending for the year ended December 31, 2017, consisted of the following (in thousands):
Construction Spending Year Ended December 31, 2017
Additions to real estate – consolidated projects $ 893,685
Investments in unconsolidated real estate joint ventures 17,876
Construction spending (cash basis)(1) 911,561
Decrease in accrued construction (11,034)
Construction spending $ 900,527
(1)  Includes revenue-enhancing projects and non-revenue-enhancing capital expenditures.
  The following table summarizes the total projected construction spending for the year ending December 31, 2018, which 
includes interest, property taxes, insurance, payroll, and other indirect project costs (in thousands):
Year Ending
Projected Construction Spending December 31, 2018
Development and redevelopment projects $ 814,000
Investments in unconsolidated real estate joint ventures 149,000
Contributions from noncontrolling interests (consolidated real estate joint ventures) (37,000)
Generic laboratory infrastructure/building improvement projects 153,000 (1)
Non-revenue-enhancing capital expenditures and tenant improvements 21,000
Total projected construction spending 1,100,000
Guidance range $ 1,050,000 – $1,150,000
(1)   Includes $25 million to $30 million of projected construction spending related to the demolition of the existing R&D building and development of a new 98,000 RSF Class A office/
laboratory property at 9880 Campus Point Drive in our University Town Center submarket. 
Non-revenue-enhancing capital expenditures, tenant improvements, and leasing costs
  The tables below show the average per RSF of property-related non-revenue-enhancing capital expenditures, tenant 
improvements, and leasing costs, excluding capital expenditures and tenant improvements that are recoverable from tenants, revenue-
enhancing, or related to properties that have undergone redevelopment (dollars in thousands, except per RSF amounts):
Year Ended December 31, 2017
Non-Revenue-Enhancing Capital Expenditures, Tenant  Recent Average 
Improvements, and Leasing Costs(1) Amount RSF Per RSF per RSF(2)
Non-revenue-enhancing capital expenditures $ 7,900 19,156,245 $ 0.41 $ 0.46
Tenant improvements and leasing costs:
Re-tenanted space $ 17,437 688,722 $ 25.32 $ 18.47
Renewal space 29,884 1,836,377 16.27 10.89
Total tenant improvements and leasing costs/weighted average $ 47,321 2,525,099 $ 18.74 (3) $ 13.20
(1)  Excludes amounts that are recoverable from tenants, revenue-enhancing, or related to properties that have undergone redevelopment.
(2)  Represents the average for the five years ended December 31, 2017.
(3)  Includes approximately $12.3 million, or $16.92 per RSF, of leasing commissions related to lease renewals and re-leasing space for seven leases in our Greater Boston and San Francisco 
markets with a weighted-average lease term of 10 years and rental rate increases of 33.3% and 19.4% (cash basis).
We expect our capital expenditures, tenant improvements, and leasing costs (excluding capital expenditures and tenant 
improvements that are recoverable from tenants, revenue-enhancing, or related to properties that undergo redevelopment) on a per 
RSF basis in 2018 to be approximately similar to the amounts shown in the preceding table.
68
68
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
To our knowledge, no legal proceedings are pending against us, other than routine actions and administrative proceedings, 
substantially all of which are expected to be covered by liability insurance and which, in the aggregate, are not expected to have a 
material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
69
69
PART II
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND 
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
  Our common stock is traded on the NYSE under the symbol “ARE.” On January 16, 2018, the last reported sales price per 
share of our common stock was $124.93, and there were 372 holders of record of our common stock (excluding beneficial owners 
whose shares are held in the name of Cede & Co.). The following table sets forth the quarterly high and low trading prices per 
share of our common stock as reported on the NYSE and the distributions declared by us with respect to our common stock for 
each such period (distributions were paid in the quarter following the quarter in which the distribution was declared):
2017 2016
Fourth Third Second First Fourth Third Second First
Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter
High $134.37 $123.89 $122.28 $120.96 $114.02 $114.67 $103.60 $91.25
Low $118.42 $116.20 $109.85 $106.89 $101.51 $100.53 $89.43 $70.69
Per share
distribution $0.90 $0.86 $0.86 $0.83 $0.83 $0.80 $0.80 $0.80
  Future distributions on our common stock will be determined by, and at the discretion of, our Board of Directors and will 
depend on a number of factors, including actual cash available for distribution to our stockholders, our financial condition and 
capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, restrictions 
under Maryland law, and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant. To maintain our qualification as a REIT, we 
must make annual distributions to stockholders of at least 90% of our taxable income for the current taxable year, determined 
without regard to deductions for dividends paid and excluding any net capital gains. Under certain circumstances, we may be 
required to make distributions in excess of cash flow available for distributions to meet these distribution requirements. In such a 
case, we may borrow funds or may raise funds through the issuance of additional debt or equity capital. No dividends can be paid 
on our common stock unless we have paid full cumulative dividends on our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock. From the date of 
issuance of our preferred stock through December 31, 2017 (or April 14, 2017, the date of redemption of all of our 6.45% Series E 
cumulative redeemable preferred stock (“Series E Redeemable Preferred Stock”)), we have paid full cumulative dividends on our 
Series D Convertible Preferred Stock and Series E Redeemable Preferred Stock. We cannot assure our stockholders that we will 
make any future distributions.
  The income tax treatment of distributions on our common stock, Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, and Series E 
Redeemable Preferred Stock for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, was as follows:
Common Stock   Series D Convertible Preferred Stock Series E Redeemable Preferred Stock
  Year Ended December 31,
  2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015
Ordinary income 62.1% 25.2% 50.1% 85.3% 44.8% 54.4% 85.3% 44.8% 54.4%
Return of capital 27.2 43.9 7.9 — — — — — —
Capital gains at 25% 0.7 — 8.5 1.0 — 9.2 1.0 — 9.2
Capital gains at 20% 10.0 30.9 33.5 13.7 55.2 36.4 13.7 55.2 36.4
Total 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
Dividends declared $ 3.45 $ 3.23 $ 3.05 $ 1.75 $ 1.75 $ 1.75 $ 0.4031 $ 1.6125 $ 1.6125
  Refer to “Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters” 
of this annual report on Form 10-K for information on securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans.
70
70
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
  The following table should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing 
elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. Refer to “Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.”
Year Ended December 31,
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Operating Data:
Revenues:
Rental $ 863,181 $ 673,820 $ 608,824 $ 544,153 $ 467,764
Tenant recoveries 259,144 223,655 209,063 173,480 150,095
Other income 5,772 24,231 25,587 9,244 13,292
Total revenues 1,128,097 921,706 843,474 726,877 631,151
Expenses:
Rental operations 325,609 278,408 261,232 219,164 189,039
General and administrative 75,009 63,884 59,621 53,530 48,520
Interest 128,645 106,953 105,813 79,299 67,952
Depreciation and amortization 416,783 313,390 261,289 224,096 189,123
(1)
Impairment of real estate 203 209,261 23,250 51,675 —
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 3,451 3,230 189 525 1,992
Total expenses 949,700 975,126 711,394 628,289 496,626
Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated real estate JVs 15,426 (184) 1,651 554 —
Gain on sales of real estate – rental properties 270 3,715 12,426 — —
Income (loss) from continuing operations 194,093 (49,889) 146,157 99,142 134,525
(Loss) income from discontinued operations(1) — — (43) 1,233 900
Gain on sales of real estate – land parcels 111 90 — 6,403 4,824
Net income (loss) 194,204 (49,799) 146,114 106,778 140,249
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (25,111) (16,102) (1,897) (5,204) (4,032)
Net income (loss) attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities,
Inc.’s stockholders 169,093 (65,901) 144,217 101,574 136,217
Dividends on preferred stock (7,666) (20,223) (24,986) (25,698) (25,885)
Preferred stock redemption charge (11,279) (61,267) — (1,989) —
Net income attributable to unvested restricted stock awards (4,753) (3,750) (2,364) (1,774) (1,581)
 Net income (loss) attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities,
Inc.’s common stockholders $ 145,395 $ (151,141) $ 116,867 $ 72,113 $ 108,751
 Net income (loss) per share attributable to Alexandria Real Estate
Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders – basic
Continuing operations $ 1.59 $ (1.99) $ 1.63 $ 0.99 $ 1.59
Discontinued operations — — — 0.02 0.01
Net income (loss) per share $ 1.59 $ (1.99) $ 1.63 $ 1.01 $ 1.60
 Net income (loss) per share attributable to Alexandria Real Estate
Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders – diluted
Continuing operations $ 1.58 $ (1.99) $ 1.63 $ 1.01 $ 1.60
Discontinued operations — — — — —
Net income (loss) per share $ 1.58 $ (1.99) $ 1.63 $ 1.01 $ 1.60
Weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding – basic 91,546,495 76,102,617 71,528,843 71,169,694 68,038,195
Weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding – diluted 92,063,276 76,102,617 71,528,843 71,169,694 68,038,195
Dividends declared per share of common stock $ 3.45 $ 3.23 $ 3.05 $ 2.88 $ 2.61
Balance Sheet Data (at year end):
Investments in real estate $ 10,298,019 $ 9,077,972 $ 7,629,922 $ 7,108,610 $ 6,730,270
Total assets $ 12,103,953 $ 10,354,888 $ 8,881,017 $ 8,109,038 $ 7,503,965
Total debt $ 4,764,807 $ 4,164,025 $ 3,935,692 $ 3,651,581 $ 3,035,262
Total liabilities $ 5,620,784 $ 4,972,610 $ 4,587,053 $ 4,199,480 $ 3,525,024
Redeemable noncontrolling interests $ 11,509 $ 11,307 $ 14,218 $ 14,315 $ 14,444
Total equity $ 6,471,660 $ 5,370,971 $ 4,279,746 $ 3,895,243 $ 3,964,497
(1)  Refer to Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K regarding discontinued operations to 
our consolidated financial statements.
71
71
Year Ended December 31,
(Dollars in thousands, except per occupied RSF amounts) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Other Data:
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 450,325 $ 392,501 $ 342,611 $ 334,325 $ 312,727
Net cash used in investing activities $ 1,738,126 $1,496,628 $ 722,395 $ 634,829 $ 591,375
Net cash provided by financing activities $ 1,415,427 $1,105,521 $ 419,126 $ 331,312 $ 197,570
Number of properties – North America 213 199 191 184 175
RSF (including development and redevelopment projects under
construction) – North America 21,981,133 19,869,729 18,874,070 17,356,818 16,092,344
Occupancy of operating properties – North America 96.8% 96.6% 97.2% 97.0% 96.0%
Occupancy of operating and redevelopment properties – North
America 94.7% 95.7% 93.7% 96.1% 96.0%
Annual rental revenue per occupied RSF – North America $ 48.01 $ 45.15 $ 41.17 $ 38.68 $ 37.12
Reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to Alexandria’s
common stockholders to funds from operations attributable
to Alexandria’s common stockholders – diluted:
 Net income (loss) attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities,
Inc.’s common stockholders $ 145,395 $ (151,141) $ 116,867 $ 72,113 $ 108,751
Depreciation and amortization(1)  416,783 313,390 261,289 224,096 190,778
Noncontrolling share of depreciation and amortization from
consolidated real estate JVs (14,762) (9,349) (372) — —
Our share of depreciation and amortization from unconsolidated
real estate JVs 1,551 2,707 1,734 329 —
(Gain) loss on sales of real estate – rental properties (270) (3,715) (12,426) (1,838)(2) 121 (2)
Our share of gain on sales of real estate from unconsolidated real
estate JVs (14,106) — — — —
Gain on sales of real estate – land parcels (111) (90) — (6,403) (4,824)
Impairment of real estate – rental properties 203 98,194 23,250 26,975 —
Allocation to unvested restricted stock awards (2,920) — (1,758) (690) 36
Funds from operations attributable to Alexandria’s common 
stockholders – basic(3)  531,763 249,996 388,584 314,582 294,862
Effect of dilutive securities and assumed conversion:
Assumed conversion of unsecured senior convertible notes — — — — 15
Funds from operations attributable to Alexandria’s common 
stockholders – diluted(3) 531,763 249,996 388,584 314,582 294,877
Acquisition-related expenses — — — — 1,446
Non-real estate investment income — (4,361) (13,109) — —
Impairments of land parcels and non-real estate investments 8,296 113,539 — 24,700 853
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 3,451 3,230 189 525 1,992
Preferred stock redemption charge 11,279 61,267 — 1,989 —
Allocation to unvested restricted stock awards (321) (2,356) 110 (226) (35)
Funds from operations attributable to Alexandria’s common 
stockholders – diluted, as adjusted(3) $ 554,468 $ 421,315 $ 375,774 $ 341,570 $ 299,133
(1)  Includes depreciation and amortization classified in discontinued operations related to assets held for sale (for the periods prior to when such assets were designated as held for sale).
(2)  (Gain) loss on sales of real estate – rental properties recognized prior to the fourth quarter of 2014 is classified in (loss) income from discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of 
operations. 
(3)  Refer to “Funds From Operations and Funds From Operations, as Adjusted Attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s Common Stockholders” in the “Non-GAAP Measures” 
section under Item 7 in this annual report on Form 10-K.
72
72
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF 
OPERATIONS
 
  The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto under 
Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties regarding events, 
conditions, and financial trends that may affect our future plans of operations, business strategy, results of operations, and financial 
position. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those included within or contemplated by 
such forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, those described under “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this annual report on 
Form 10-K. We do not undertake any responsibility to update any of these factors or to announce publicly any revisions to any of the 
forward-looking statements contained in this or any other document, whether as a result of new information, future events, or 
otherwise.
  As used in this annual report on Form 10-K, references to the “Company,” “Alexandria,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to 
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Executive summary
Increased common stock dividend
  Common stock dividend for the year ended December 31, 2017, of $3.45 per common share, up 22 cents, or 7%, over the 
year ended December 31, 2016; continuation of our strategy to share growth in cash flows from operating activities with our 
stockholders while also retaining a significant portion for reinvestment. 
Leader in the Light award
  In November 2017, we were awarded Nareit’s 2017 “Most Innovative” Leader in the Light, the highest achievement in 
sustainability innovation for all REITs and real estate companies. 
“Green Star” designation from the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (“GRESB”)
  In September 2017, we were awarded a “Green Star” designation by GRESB and recognized as the top-ranked company in 
the U.S. in the GRESB Health & Well-being Module for our practices promoting the health, safety, and well-being of our tenants, 
employees, and partners.
20 years on the NYSE
In May 2017, we celebrated our 20th anniversary as an NYSE listed REIT. From our initial public offering in May 1997 
through December 31, 2017, we achieved a total shareholder return of 1,349%, assuming reinvestment of dividends. 
Addition to S&P 500 index
In March 2017, we achieved another significant milestone with the announcement that the S&P Dow Jones Indices added 
Alexandria to the S&P 500® index. This significant and important recognition reflects our best-in-class team’s ability to successfully 
execute our differentiated business strategy, which drives our successful operating and financial performance.
Credit rating upgrade
In February 2017, S&P Global Ratings upgraded our corporate credit rating to BBB/Stable from BBB-/Positive.
73
73
  We concluded another successful year where our best-in-class team delivered solid results and continued growth. Below are 
the key highlights:
Strong internal growth
•  Total revenues of $1.1 billion, up 22.4%, for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to $921.7 million for the year 
ended December 31, 2016;
•  Executed key leases during the year ended December 31, 2017:
RSF Leased Property Submarket Tenant
520,988 Menlo Gateway Greater Stanford Facebook, Inc.
302,626 100 and 200 Technology Square Cambridge Novartis AG
170,244 901 and 951 Gateway Boulevard South San Francisco Theravance Biopharma U.S., Inc.
163,648 9625 Towne Centre Drive University Town Center Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Ltd.
155,685 500 Forbes Boulevard South San Francisco Genentech, Inc.
153,203 455 Mission Bay Boulevard South Mission Bay/SoMa Nektar Therapeutics
130,803 100 Binney Street Cambridge Facebook, Inc.
109,780 13112 Evening Creek Drive I-15 Corridor Laboratory Corporation of America
•  Continued substantial leasing activity and strong rental rate growth, in light of minimal contractual lease expirations for 
2017, and a highly leased value-creation pipeline:
2017
Total leasing activity – RSF 4,569,182
Lease renewals and re-leasing of space:
Rental rate increases 25.1%
Rental rate increases (cash basis) 12.7%
RSF 2,525,099
•  Same property net operating income growth of 3.1% and 6.8% (cash basis) for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared 
to the year ended December 31, 2016.
Strong external growth; disciplined allocation of capital to visible, multiyear, highly leased value-creation pipeline
•  Development projects, all 100% leased and placed into service during the year ended December 31, 2017:
Property Submarket RSF Tenant
100 Binney Street Cambridge 341,776 Bristol-Myers Squibb Company; Facebook, Inc.
510 Townsend Street Mission Bay/SoMa 295,333 Stripe, Inc.
400 Dexter Avenue North Lake Union 290,111 Juno Therapeutics, Inc.; ClubCorp Holdings, Inc.
ARE Spectrum Torrey Pines 233,523 The Medicines Company; Celgene Corporation;
Wellspring Biosciences LLC; Vertex
Pharmaceuticals Incorporated
505 Brannan Street Mission Bay/SoMa 148,146 Pinterest, Inc.
5200 Illumina Way, University Town N/A Illumina, Inc.
parking structure Center
•  Significant contractual near-term growth in annual cash rents of $96 million, of which $78 million will commence through 
the fourth quarter of 2018 ($26 million in the first quarter of 2018, $31 million in the second quarter of 2018, $10 million in 
third quarter of 2018, and $11 million in the fourth quarter of 2018). This is related to development and redevelopment 
projects recently placed into service that are currently generating rental revenue.
•  80% leased on 2.3 million RSF (development and redevelopment projects undergoing construction and 580,000 RSF 
undergoing pre-construction).
74
74
Completed strategic acquisitions
  Refer to the “Acquisitions” section under Item 2 of this annual report on Form 10-K for information on our opportunistic 
acquisitions completed or under contract. 
Operating results
Year Ended December 31,
2017 2016 Change
Net income (loss) attributable to Alexandria’s common stockholders – diluted:
In Millions $ 145.4 $ (151.1) $ 296.5 N/A
Per Share $ 1.58 $ (1.99) $ 3.57 N/A
Funds from operations attributable to Alexandria’s common stockholders –
diluted, as adjusted:
In Millions $ 554.5 $ 421.3 $ 133.2 31.6%
Per Share $ 6.02 $ 5.51 $ 0.51 9.3%
 
  The operating results shown above include certain items related to corporate-level investing and financing decisions. Refer to 
the tabular presentation of these items in the “Results of Operations” section within this Item 7 for additional information.
Core operating metrics as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017; high quality revenue and cash flows
•   Percentage of annual rental revenue in effect from:
•  Investment-grade or large cap tenants: 55%
•  Class A properties in AAA locations: 80%
•  Occupancy in North America: 96.8%
•  Operating margin: 71%
•  Adjusted EBITDA margin: 68%
•  Weighted-average remaining lease term of top 20 tenants: 13.4 years
•  See “Strong Internal Growth” in the above section for information on our leasing activity, rental rate growth, total 
revenue, and same property net operating income growth.
Balance sheet management
Refer to the “Execution of capital strategy” section below within this Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10-K.
Corporate responsibility and industry leadership
•  In January 2018, Alexandria Venture Investments launched the Alexandria Seed Capital Platform, an innovative seed-
stage life science funding model and extension of Alexandria LaunchLabs, which will focus on providing seed-stage 
financing in transformative life science investments.
•  In November 2017, Joel S. Marcus, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & Founder, was elected as a member of Nareit’s 
2018 Executive Board. 
•  Refer to “Leader in the Light award” under the “Executive Summary” section earlier within this Item 7.
•  In November 2017, Alexandria LaunchLabs® - New York City was certified as the world’s first WELL laboratory, and 
achieved Gold-level recognition from the International WELL Building Institute. 
•  In November 2017, the Center for Active Design, an international nonprofit organization and operator of the Fitwel 
Certification System, appointed us to the Fitwel Leadership Advisory Board as a founding member. 
•  In January 2018, we were awarded a 2017 Governor’s Environmental and Economic Leadership Award, California’s 
highest environmental honor recognizing entities that have demonstrated exceptional leadership and made notable 
contributions to conserving precious natural resources while promoting economic growth.
•  During three months ended December 31, 2017, we obtained LEED Gold certifications for properties within our 
Alexandria Center® at Kendall Square campus at 50 and 60 Binney Street and 11 Hurley Street in our Cambridge 
submarket.
•  49% of annual rental revenue expected from LEED® certified projects upon completion of 12 in-process projects. 
75
75
Operating Summary
Same Property Net Operating Income 
(1)
Favorable Lease Structure Growth
Stable cash flows
97%
Percentage of triple 
net leases
Increasing cash flows
Percentage of leases containing 95%
annual rent escalations
Lower capex burden
Percentage of leases providing for the 94%
recapture of capital expenditures
Rental Rate Growth: 
(2)
Margins Renewed/Re-Leased Space
Adjusted EBITDA Operating
68% 71%
(1)  Percentages calculated based on RSF as of December 31, 2017.
(2)  Represents the year ended December 31, 2017.
76
76
Execution of capital strategy
During 2017, we continued to execute on many of the long-term components of our capital strategy. Some of our key 
accomplishments include the following:
2017 capital strategy
Key metrics
As of
December 31, 2017
Total market capitalization $ 17.9 billion
Liquidity $ 2.0 billion
Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA:
Quarter annualized 5.5x
Trailing 12 months 5.9x
Fixed-charge coverage ratio:
Quarter annualized 4.2x
Trailing 12 months 4.1x
Unhedged variable-rate debt as a percentage of total debt 1%
Current and future value-creation pipeline as a percentage of gross investments in real estate in North America 9%
Key capital events in 2017 (dollars in millions)
Issuances of
unsecured senior Date Maturity Date Interest Rate Face Amount Net Proceeds
notes March 2028 3.95% $425.0 $420.5
November 2025 3.45% $600.0 $593.5
$1,025.0 $1,014.0
Debt repayments
Date Debt Outstanding Borrowing
February Partial repayment of 2019 unsecured senior bank term loan(1) $200.0
November Full repayment of two secured construction loans $389.8
(1)  As a result of this debt repayment, $200 million of principal remains outstanding as of December 31, 2017. 
Real estate asset sales
Date Property/Market/Submarket Proceeds
January 6146 Nancy Ridge Drive/San Diego/Sorrento Mesa $3.0
July 360 Longwood Avenue/Greater Boston/Longwood Medical Area $38.6
November Operating property in China $11.2
December 9625 Towne Centre Drive/San Diego/University Town Center 
(sale of 49.9% interest)(1) $13.5
December Campus Point Drive, Development Rights/San Diego/University Town 
Center (sale of 45% interest)(1) $12.9
$79.2
(1)  See the “Real Estate Asset Sales” section under Item 2 of this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information. 
77
77
Issuances of equity
Date Program Number of Shares Sold Net Proceeds
March Overnight 2,100,000 $217.8
December Forward 4,755,000 $484.6
January - December ATM 4,839,101 $573.0
11,694,101 $1,275.4
Redemption of equity
Date Stock Redeemed Shares Redeemed Total Payment
April Series E Redeemable Preferred Stock 5,200,000 (1) $130.0
(1)  Represents the complete redemption of all outstanding shares of our Series E cumulative redeemable preferred stock.
2018 Capital strategy
During 2018, we intend to continue to execute our capital strategy to achieve further improvements to our credit rating, 
which will allow us to further improve our cost of capital and continue our disciplined approach to capital allocation. For further 
information, refer to the “Projected Results” section below within this Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10-K.
Consistent with 2017, our capital strategy for 2018 includes the following elements:
•  Allocate capital to Class A properties located in collaborative life science and technology campuses in AAA urban 
innovation clusters;
•  Continue to improve our credit profile;
•  Maintain access to diverse sources of capital, which include cash flows from operating activities after dividends, 
incremental debt supported by our growth in EBITDA, asset sales, joint venture capital, and other capital such as sales of 
equity;
•  Maintain commitment to long-term capital to fund growth;
•  Prudently ladder debt maturities;
•  Reduce short-term variable-rate debt
•  Prudently manage equity investments to support corporate-level investment strategies;
•  Maintain significant balance sheet liquidity; and
•  Maintain a stable and flexible balance sheet.
Given the anticipated delivery of significant incremental EBITDA from our development and redevelopment of new Class A 
properties, we expect to be able to debt fund a significant portion of construction on a leverage-neutral basis. We expect to continue to 
maintain access to a diverse source of debt, including unsecured senior notes payable, as well as secured construction loans for our 
development and redevelopment projects from time to time. We expect to continue to maintain a significant proportion of our net 
operating income unencumbered to allow for future flexibility for accessing both unsecured and secured debt markets, although we 
expect traditional secured mortgage notes payable will remain a small component of our capital structure. In addition to debt funding 
on a leverage-neutral basis, we intend to supplement our remaining capital needs with net cash flows from operating activities, after 
dividends and proceeds from asset sales, partial interests sales, and other equity capital. 
Improved cost of capital
  As part of our capital strategy to continue strengthening our credit profile, we expect to complete and place into service 
development and redevelopment projects currently under construction, which we expect will deliver significant incremental EBITDA. 
As our EBITDA grows in 2018 and beyond, this growth in EBITDA should allow us to obtain debt funding on a leverage-neutral basis 
and provide significant capital to fund our development and redevelopment projects. Additionally, the resulting improvement in our 
balance sheet leverage ratio should allow us to access diverse sources of capital, strengthen our credit profile, and reduce our cost of 
capital. In addition, we expect to continue to maintain a significant proportion of unencumbered net operating income. For the year 
ended December 31, 2017, our unencumbered net operating income as a percentage of total net operating income was 82%.
78
78
s. 
ustrie ment 
nd est
y i nv
og d i
nol cte
h e
and tec sent sel ost) Mnt
ce  pre C e
e scien below  Mix ( 0s tm
e lif ble  t  g 8esnt
h a n
n t d t a 6n vu
ed i s an en di .no
marily involv ets. The chart nt/Non-T 2Hol $1rage IAm
hips pri otal ass Tena Ave
d partners % of our t
e 3
mit 4.
nd li ately 
a m
s,  xi 79 79
ntitie ppro
e a
held  n, or  0 9 4 3
ately  millio 6 4 41 52
priv 3.3 
mpanies,  ated $52 ost) $ $
o eg C
cly traded c ments aggr e Mix ( ons)
publi nvest vat milli s 
nts  We hold investments in certain  As of December 31, 2017, our ias of December 31, 2017: Public/Pri Investments (in  Public investments: Cost basis Net unrealized gain Private investments 
e s 
m c
st sti
Inve    stati ` 
Results of operations
  We present a tabular comparison of items, whether gain or loss, that may facilitate a high-level understanding of our results 
and provide context for the disclosures included in our annual report on Form 10-K. We believe this tabular presentation promotes a 
better understanding of corporate-level decisions and activities that significantly impact comparison of our operating results from 
period to period. We also believe this tabular presentation will supplement an understanding of our disclosures and real estate 
operating results. Gain or loss on sales of real estate and impairments for held for sale assets are related to corporate-level decisions to 
dispose of real estate. Gain or loss on early extinguishment of debt and preferred stock redemption charge are related to corporate 
level financing decisions focused on our capital structure strategy. Significant gain or loss on sale of non-real estate investments is not 
related to the operating performance of our real estate as they result from strategic, corporate-level non-real estate investment 
decisions and market conditions. Impairment of non-real estate investments is not related to the operating performance of our real 
estate as they represent the write-down of a non-real estate investment when its fair value declines below carrying value due to 
changes in general market or other conditions. Significant items, whether a gain or loss, included in the tabular disclosure, for current 
periods are described in further detail within this Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10-K. Items included in net income (loss) 
attributable to Alexandria’s common stockholders (amounts are shown after deducting any amounts attributable to noncontrolling 
interests) are as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
2017 2016 2017 2016
(In millions, except per share amounts) Amount Per Share – Diluted
Gain on sales of:
Real estate(1) $ 14.5 $ 3.8 $ 0.15 $ 0.05
Non-real estate investments — 4.4 — 0.06
Impairment of:
Rental properties(2) (0.2) (98.2) — (1.29)
Land parcels(2) — (110.4) — (1.45)
Non-real estate investments(3) (8.3) (3.1) (0.09) (0.04)
Loss on early extinguishment of debt (3.5) (3.2) (0.03) (0.04)
Preferred stock redemption charge(4) (11.3) (61.3) (0.12) (0.81)
$ (8.8) $ (268.0) $ (0.09) $ (3.52)
Weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding – diluted 92.1 76.1
(1)  In 2017, we completed the sale of a 49% condominium interest at our 360 Longwood Ave unconsolidated real estate joint venture. We recognized our share of the gain aggregating 
$14.1 million in our equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate joint ventures in our consolidated statements of operations during the year ended December 31, 2017.
(2)  Refer to Note 3 – “Investments in Real Estate” under the “Sales of Real Estate Assets and Impairment Charges” section to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 of this 
annual report on Form 10-K for more information.
(3)  Non-real estate investments impairment of approximately $8.3 million relate primarily to three investments for the year ended December 31, 2017, and $3.1 million relate to one 
investment for the year ended December 31, 2016.
(4)  The preferred stock redemption charge for the year ended December 31, 2017 relates to our repurchase of 501,115 outstanding shares of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock and the 
redemption of all 5.2 million outstanding shares of our Series E Redeemable Preferred Stock. The preferred stock redemption charge for the year ended December 31, 2016 relates to our 
repurchase of 6.0 million outstanding shares of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock.
  2016 per share amounts above may not agree to funds from operations per share amounts due to the different weighted-
average shares used in each period and the impact of per share amounts allocable to unvested restricted stock awards. Refer to the 
“Non-GAAP Measures” section within this Item 7 for additional information.
80
80
Same properties
We supplement an evaluation of our results of operations with an evaluation of operating performance of certain of our 
properties, referred to as “Same Properties”. For more information on the determination of our Same Properties portfolio, refer to 
“Same Property Comparisons” in the “Non-GAAP Measures and Definitions” section within this Item 7 of this annual report on Form 
10-K. The following table presents information regarding our Same Properties as of December 31, 2017 and 2016:
December 31,
2017 2016
Percentage change in net operating income over comparable period from prior year 3.1% 4.7%
Percentage change in net operating income (cash basis) over comparable period from prior year 6.8% 6.0%
Operating margin 70% 70%
Number of Same Properties 166 159
RSF 14,414,434 13,521,141
Occupancy – current-period average 96.0% 97.1%
Occupancy – same-period prior-year average 97.2% 96.3%
  The following table reconciles the number of Same Properties to total properties for the year ended December 31, 2017:
Development – under construction Properties Redevelopment – under construction Properties
213 East Grand Avenue 1 9625 Towne Centre Drive 1
100 Binney Street 1 5 Laboratory Drive 1
399 Binney Street 1 9900 Medical Center Drive 1
279 East Grand Avenue 1
266 and 275 Second Avenue 2
Menlo Gateway 
5
(unconsolidated real estate joint venture) 3
Redevelopment – placed into service after
7
January 1, 2016 Properties
Development – placed into service after
10151 Barnes Canyon Road 1
January 1, 2016 Properties
11 Hurley Street 1
50 and 60 Binney Street 2
10290 Campus Point Drive 1
430 East 29th Street 1
3
5200 Illumina Way, Building 6 1
4796 Executive Drive 1 Acquisitions after January 1, 2016 Properties
360 Longwood Avenue  Torrey Ridge Science Center 3
(unconsolidated real estate joint venture) 1 Alexandria Center® at One Kendall Square 9
1455 and 1515 Third Street 2 88 Bluxome Street 1
505 Brannan Street 1 960 Industrial Road 1
510 Townsend Street 1 1450 Page Mill Road 1
ARE Spectrum 3 201 Haskins Way 1
400 Dexter Avenue North 1 701 Gateway Boulevard 1
14 4110 Campus Point Court 1
18
Total properties excluded from Same Properties 47
Same Properties 166
Total properties in North America as of 
December 31, 2017 213
81
81
Comparison of results for the year ended December 31, 2017, to the year ended December 31, 2016
The following table presents a comparison of the components of net operating income for our Same Properties and Non-
Same Properties for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. For a reconciliation of net 
operating income from income from continuing operations, the most directly comparable financial measure presented in accordance 
with GAAP, refer to the “Non-GAAP Measures” within this Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10-K. 
Year Ended December 31,
(Dollars in thousands) 2017 2016 $ Change % Change
Same Properties $ 613,866 $ 596,898 $ 16,968 2.8%
Non-Same Properties 249,315 76,922 172,393 224.1
Total rental 863,181 673,820 189,361 28.1
Same Properties 209,273 202,565 6,708 3.3
Non-Same Properties 49,871 21,090 28,781 136.5
Total tenant recoveries 259,144 223,655 35,489 15.9
Same Properties 447 117 330 282.1
Non-Same Properties 5,325 24,114 (18,789) (77.9)
Total other income 5,772 24,231 (18,459) (76.2)
Same Properties 823,586 799,580 24,006 3.0
Non-Same Properties 304,511 122,126 182,385 149.3
Total revenues 1,128,097 921,706 206,391 22.4
Same Properties 244,819 237,960 6,859 2.9
Non-Same Properties 80,790 40,448 40,342 99.7
Total rental operations 325,609 278,408 47,201 17.0
Same Properties 578,767 561,620 17,147 3.1
Non-Same Properties 223,721 81,678 142,043 173.9
Net operating income $ 802,488 $ 643,298 $ 159,190 24.7%
Net operating income – Same Properties $ 578,767 $ 561,620 $ 17,147 3.1%
Straight-line rent revenue and amortization of acquired below-
market leases (19,176) (37,424) 18,248 (48.8)
Net operating income – Same Properties (cash basis) $ 559,591 $ 524,196 $ 35,395 6.8%
Rental revenues
Total rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017, increased by $189.4 million, or 28.1%, to $863.2 million, 
compared to $673.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase was primarily due to an increase in rental revenues 
from our Non-Same Properties totaling $172.4 million related to 3,425,807 RSF of development and redevelopment projects placed 
into service subsequent to January 1, 2016, and 18 operating properties totaling 1,683,605 RSF acquired subsequent to January 1, 
2016. 
Rental revenues from our Same Properties for the year ended December 31, 2017, increased by $17.0 million, or 2.8%, to 
$613.9 million, compared to $596.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase was primarily due to significant 
rental rate increases on lease renewals and re-leasing of space since January 1, 2016. Refer to “Leasing” within the “Operating 
Summary” section of Item 2 of this annual report Form 10-K for additional information on our leasing activity. The increase was 
slightly offset by a decrease in rental revenue as a result of a decrease in Same Properties’ occupancy to 96.0% for the year ended 
December 31, 2017, from 97.2% for the year ended December 31, 2016. Refer to “Same Properties” in the section above within this 
Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information on the change in our Same Properties’ occupancy rates.
82
82
Tenant recoveries
Tenant recoveries for the year ended December 31, 2017, increased by $35.5 million, or 15.9%, to $259.1 million, compared 
to $223.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. This increase is relatively consistent with the increase in our rental operating 
expenses of $47.2 million, or 17.0%, as discussed under “Rental Operating Expenses” below. Same Properties’ tenant recoveries 
increased by $6.7 million, or 3.3%, primarily due to the increase in recoverable operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 
2017, as discussed below. As of December 31, 2017, 97% of our leases (on an RSF basis) were triple net leases, which require tenants 
to pay substantially all real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, common area expenses, and other operating expenses (including increases 
thereto) in addition to base rent.
Other income
Other income for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, consisted of the following (in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
2017 2016 Change
Management fee income $ 2,186 $ 418 $ 1,768
Interest and other income 2,257 6,680 (4,423)
Investment income 1,329 17,133 (15,804)
Total other income $ 5,772 $ 24,231 $ (18,459)
  Refer to Note 6 – “Investments” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 of this annual report on Form 10-K 
for more information on investment income. 
Rental operating expenses
Total rental operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2017, increased by $47.2 million, or 17.0%, to $325.6 
million, compared to $278.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. Approximately $40.3 million of the increase was due to 
an increase in rental operating expenses from our Non-Same Properties, primarily related to development and redevelopment projects 
placed into service subsequent to January 1, 2016, and 18 operating properties acquired subsequent to January 1, 2016.
Same Properties’ rental operating expenses increased by $6.9 million, or 2.9%, to $244.8 million during the year ended 
December 31, 2017, compared to the $238.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to higher repair and 
maintenance expenses as well as higher utility expenses and snow removal services resulting from a comparably colder winter. The 
increase in Same Properties’ rental operating expense was partially offset by property tax refunds during the year ended December 31, 
2017.
General and administrative expenses
General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2017, increased by $11.1 million, or 17.4%, to $75.0 
million, compared to $63.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. General and administrative expenses increased primarily 
due to the continued growth in the depth and breadth of our operations in multiple markets, including a 28.1% increase in total rental 
revenue to $863.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to $673.8 million for the same period in 2016, and a 5.1 
million RSF, or 20.7%, increase in our North America asset base subsequent to January1, 2017. Accordingly, total assets as of 
December 31, 2017 increased by 1.7 billion, or 16.9%, to $12.1 billion from $10.4 billion as of December 31, 2016. As a percentage 
of total assets, our general and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, remained consistent at 0.6% 
for both periods. 
83
83
Interest expense
Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, consisted of the following (dollars in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
Component 2017 2016 Change
Interest incurred $ 186,867 $ 159,403 $ 27,464
Capitalized interest (58,222) (52,450) (5,772)
Interest expense $ 128,645 $ 106,953 $ 21,692
Average debt balance outstanding(1) $ 4,740,081 $ 4,256,306 $ 483,775
Weighted-average annual interest rate(2) 3.9% 3.7% 0.2%
(1)  Represents the average total debt balance outstanding during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.
(2)  Represents total interest incurred divided by the average debt balance outstanding in the respective periods.
The net change in interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the year ended December 31, 
2016, resulted from the following (dollars in thousands):
Component Interest Rate(1) Effective Date Change
Increases in interest incurred due to:
Issuances of debt:
$425 million unsecured senior note payable 4.08% March 2017 $ 13,940
Secured construction loans Various Various 8,355
$350 million unsecured senior note payable 4.14% June 2016 6,160
$600 million unsecured senior note payable 3.56% November 2017 2,375
Assumption of $203 million secured note payable 3.41% November 2016 6,255
Higher average balance and interest rate on unhedged secured 
3,305
construction loans
Total increases 40,390
Decreases in interest incurred due to:
Repayments of debt:
Secured notes payable(2) Various Various (5,710)
Unsecured senior bank term loan Various Various (3,500)
Lower average notional amounts of interest rate hedge agreements in 
effect (3,325)
Amortization of deferred financing fees (215)
Other decrease in interest (176)
Total decreases (12,926)
Change in interest incurred 27,464
Increase in capitalized interest(3) (5,772)
Total change in interest expense $ 21,692
(1)  Represents the interest rate as of the end of the applicable period, plus the impact of debt premiums/discounts, interest rate hedge agreements, and deferred financing costs.
(2)  Decrease is primarily due to the repayment of four secured notes payable aggregating $270.6 million during 2016.
(3)  Increase in capitalized interest is primarily due to an increase in our highly leased development and redevelopment projects undergoing construction in our value-creation pipeline during 
the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase was also partially due to the increase in the weighted-average interest rate used for 
capitalization of interest to 3.9% in effect during the year ended December 31, 2017, from 3.7% in effect during the year ended December 31, 2016, as a result of the increase in rates 
applicable to borrowings outstanding during each respective period. 
Depreciation and amortization
Depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2017, increased by $103.4 million, or 33.0%, to 
$416.8 million, compared to $313.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase is primarily due to additional 
depreciation from development and redevelopment projects placed into service subsequent to January 1, 2016, and 18 operating 
properties acquired subsequent to January 1, 2016.
84
84
Sale of real estate assets, impairment charges, and gain on sales of real estate
Impairment of real estate recognized during the year ended December 31, 2017, of $203 thousand related to our 20,580 RSF 
property located in a non-cluster market that was classified as held for sale as of June 30, 2017, and was sold in July 2017 at no gain 
or loss.
Impairment of real estate recognized during the year ended December 31, 2016, of $209.3 million primarily related to our 
decision to monetize our real estate investments in Asia. Refer to “Sale of Real Estate Assets and Impairment Charges” in Note 3 – 
“Investments in Real Estate” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 of this annual report on Form 10-K for more 
information.
  In January 2017, we completed the sale of a vacant property at 6146 Nancy Ridge Drive located in our Sorrento Mesa 
submarket of San Diego for a sales price of $3.0 million and recognized a gain of $270 thousand. In May 2017, we recognized a gain 
of $111 thousand upon the sale of a partial interest in our land parcels at 1401/1413 Research Boulevard, located in the Rockville 
submarket of Maryland.
In July 2017, we recognized a gain of $14.1 million upon the completion of the sale of a condominium interest in our 
unconsolidated real estate joint venture property at 360 Longwood Avenue in our Longwood Medical Area submarket. This gain is 
reflected in our equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate joint ventures in our consolidated statements of operations. Refer to 
Note 4 – “Investments in Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 of this 
annual report on Form 10-K for more information. 
Loss on early extinguishment of debt
  During the year ended December 31, 2017, we repaid $200 million of our 2019 Unsecured Senior Bank Term Loan to reduce 
the total outstanding balance from $400 million to $200 million and recognized a loss of $670 thousand related to the write-off of 
unamortized loan fees. In addition, we repaid two secured construction loans aggregating $389.8 million and recognized a loss on 
early extinguishment of debt related to the write-off of unamortized loan fees of $2.8 million. 
  During the year ended December 31, 2016, we recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt related to the write-off of a 
portion of unamortized loan fees aggregating $2.4 million, upon the amendment of our unsecured senior line of credit in July 2016. 
Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2016, we completed a partial principal repayment of $200 million of our 2019 
Unsecured Senior Bank Term Loan to reduce the total outstanding balance from $600 million to $400 million, and recognized a loss 
on early extinguishment of debt of $869 thousand related to the write-off of unamortized loan fees. 
Preferred stock redemption charge
During the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we repurchased, in privately negotiated transactions, 501,115 and 6.0 
million outstanding shares, respectively, of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock and recognized preferred stock redemption 
charges of $5.8 million and $61.3 million, respectively. 
On April 14, 2017, we completed the redemption of all 5.2 million outstanding shares of our Series E Redeemable Preferred 
Stock and recognized a preferred stock redemption charge of $5.5 million. Refer to Note 15 – “Stockholders’ Equity” to our 
consolidated financial statements under Item 15 of this annual report on Form 10-K for more information. As of December 31, 2017, 
there are no remaining shares outstanding of our Series E Redeemable Preferred Stock.
85
85
Comparison of results for the year ended December 31, 2016, to the year ended December 31, 2015 
  The following table presents a comparison of the components of net operating income for our Same Properties and Non-
Same Properties for the year ended December 31, 2016, compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. For a reconciliation of net 
operating income from income from continuing operations, the most directly comparable financial measure presented in accordance 
with GAAP, refer to “Non-GAAP Measures” within this Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10-K.
Year Ended December 31,
(Dollars in thousands) 2016 2015 $ Change % Change
Same Properties $ 541,164 $ 521,954 $ 19,210 3.7%
Non-Same Properties 132,656 86,870 45,786 52.7
Total rental 673,820 608,824 64,996 10.7
Same Properties 189,270 183,885 5,385 2.9
Non-Same Properties 34,385 25,178 9,207 36.6
Total tenant recoveries 223,655 209,063 14,592 7.0
Same Properties 171 475 (304) (64.0)
Non-Same Properties 24,060 25,112 (1,052) (4.2)
Total other income 24,231 25,587 (1,356) (5.3)
Same Properties 730,605 706,314 24,291 3.4
Non-Same Properties 191,101 137,160 53,941 39.3
Total revenues 921,706 843,474 78,232 9.3
Same Properties 219,235 217,888 1,347 0.6
Non-Same Properties 59,173 43,344 15,829 36.5
Total rental operations 278,408 261,232 17,176 6.6
Same Properties 511,370 488,426 22,944 4.7
Non-Same Properties 131,928 93,816 38,112 40.6
Net operating income $ 643,298 $ 582,242 $ 61,056 10.5%
Net operating income – Same Properties $ 511,370 $ 488,426 $ 22,944 4.7%
Straight-line rent revenue and amortization of acquired
below-market leases (14,085) (19,314) 5,229 (27.1)
Net operating income – Same Properties (cash basis) $ 497,285 $ 469,112 $ 28,173 6.0%
Rental revenues
Total rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016, increased by $65.0 million, or 10.7%, to $673.8 million, 
compared to $608.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase was primarily due to rental revenues from our Non-
Same Properties totaling $45.8 million primarily due to placing into service, subsequent to January 1, 2015, highly leased 
development and redevelopment projects aggregating 3,174,458 RSF and 13 operating properties acquired subsequent to January 1, 
2015.
Rental revenues from our Same Properties for the year ended December 31, 2016, increased by $19.2 million, or 3.7%, to 
$541.2 million, compared to $522.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase was primarily due to significant 
rental rate increases on lease renewals and re-leasing of space since January 1, 2015, as well as an increase in Same Properties’ 
occupancy to 97.1% for the year ended December 31, 2016, from 96.3% for the year ended December 31, 2015.
Tenant recoveries
Tenant recoveries for the year ended December 31, 2016, increased by $14.6 million, or 7.0%, to $223.7 million, compared to 
$209.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase is relatively consistent with the increase in our rental operating 
expenses of $17.2 million, or 6.6%, as discussed under “Rental Operating Expenses” below. Same Properties’ tenant recoveries 
increased by $5.4 million, or 2.9%, primarily due to the increase in Same Properties’ occupancy, as discussed above.
86
86
Other income
Other income for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, consisted of the following (in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
2016 2015 Change
Management fee income $ 418 $ 1,667 $ (1,249)
Interest and other income 6,680 4,978 1,702
Investment income 17,133 18,942 (1,809)
Total other income $ 24,231 $ 25,587 $ (1,356)
Rental operating expenses
Total rental operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016, increased by $17.2 million, or 6.6%, to $278.4 
million, compared to $261.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. Approximately $15.8 million of the increase was due to 
an increase in rental operating expenses from our Non-Same Properties, primarily related to development and redevelopment projects 
placed into service subsequent to January 1, 2015, and 13 operating properties acquired subsequent to January 1, 2015.
Same Properties rental operating expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended 
December 31, 2015, primarily due to higher utility and repairs and maintenance expenses as a result of an increase in Same Properties’ 
occupancy from 96.3% for the year ended December 31, 2015, to 97.1% for the year ended December 31, 2016.
General and administrative expenses
General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016, increased by $4.3 million, or 7.2%, to $63.9 
million, compared to $59.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. General and administrative expenses increased primarily 
due to the continued growth in depth and breadth of our operations in multiple markets. As a percentage of total assets, our general 
and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, were consistent at 0.6% and 0.7%, respectively.
Interest expense
Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, consisted of the following (dollars in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
Component 2016 2015 Change
Interest incurred $ 159,403 $ 142,353 $ 17,050
Capitalized interest (52,450) (36,540) (15,910)
Interest expense $ 106,953 $ 105,813 $ 1,140
Average debt balance outstanding(1) $ 4,256,306 $ 4,078,381 $ 177,925
Weighted-average annual interest rate(2) 3.7% 3.5% 0.2%
(1)  Represents the average total debt balance outstanding during the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015.
(2)  Represents total interest incurred divided by the average debt balance outstanding in the respective periods.
87
87
  The net change in interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2016, compared to the year ended December 31, 
2015, resulted from the following (dollars in thousands):
Component Interest Rate(1) Effective Date Change
Increases in interest incurred due to:
Issuances of debt:
$300 million unsecured senior note payable 4.46% November 2015 $ 11,410
$350 million unsecured senior note payable 4.11% June 2016 7,780
Secured construction loans Various Various 5,860
Assumption of $203 million secured note payable 3.38% November 2016 1,120
Fluctuations in interest rate:
Interest rate hedge agreements 2,550
Variable-rate senior bank term loans 1,050
Amortization of deferred financing fees 870
Total increases 30,640
Decreases in interest incurred due to:
Repayments of debt:(2)
Secured notes payable repaid in 2016 Various Various (8,210)
Secured notes payable repaid in 2015 Various Various (3,360)
Lower average balance on unsecured line of credit (1,820)
Other decrease in interest (200)
Total decreases (13,590)
Change in interest incurred 17,050
Increase in capitalized interest(3) (15,910)
Total change in interest expense $ 1,140
(1)  Represents the interest rate as of the end of the applicable period, plus the impact of debt premiums/discounts, interest rate hedge agreements, and deferred financing costs.
(2)  Refer to Note 9 – “Secured and Unsecured Senior Debt” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 of this annual report on Form 10-K for information on debt repayments.
(3)  Increase in capitalized interest is due to increased construction activity on our highly leased development and redevelopment projects in our value-creation pipeline aggregating 1.9 
million RSF as of December 31, 2016.
Depreciation and amortization
Depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2016, increased by $52.1 million, or 19.9%, to 
$313.4 million, compared to $261.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase is primarily due to additional 
depreciation from development and redevelopment projects placed into service subsequent to January 1, 2015, and 13 operating 
properties acquired subsequent to January 1, 2015. 
Sales of real estate assets and impairment charges
Impairment of real estate recognized during the year ended December 31, 2016, of $209.3 million primarily related to our 
decision to monetize our real estate investments in Asia. Refer to “Sales of Real Estate Assets and Impairment Charges” in Note 3 – 
“Investments in Real Estate” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 of this annual report on Form 10-K for more 
information.
Loss on early extinguishment of debt
  During the year ended December 31, 2016, we recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt related to the write-off of a 
portion of unamortized loan fees totaling $2.4 million upon the amendment of our unsecured senior line of credit in July 2016. In 
addition, we completed a partial principal repayment of $200 million of our 2019 Unsecured Senior Bank Term Loan and recognized a 
loss on early extinguishment of debt of $869 thousand related to the write-off of unamortized loan fees. During the year ended 
December 31, 2015, we recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt to expense a portion of unamortized loan fees aggregating 
$189 thousand upon our $25.0 million partial principal repayment under our 2019 Unsecured Senior Bank Term Loan.
Gain on sales of real estate – rental properties
  During the year ended December 31, 2016, we recognized an aggregate gain of $3.7 million from three properties sold for a 
total consideration of $43.4 million, which included a gain of $2.4 million on the sale of a property located in our Canada market in 
North America at 7990 Enterprise Street for $13.8 million. 
88
88
Projected results
Based on our current view of existing market conditions and certain current assumptions, we present guidance for EPS 
attributable to Alexandria’s common stockholders – diluted and funds from operations per share attributable to Alexandria’s common 
stockholders – diluted, each for the year ending December 31, 2018, as set forth in the table below. The table below provides a 
reconciliation of funds from operations per share attributable to Alexandria’s common stockholders – diluted, a non-GAAP measure, 
to EPS, the most directly comparable GAAP measure, and other key assumptions and key credit metrics included in our guidance for 
the year ending December 31, 2018. 
Net Earnings per Share and Funds From Operations per Share Attributable to Alexandria’s Common Stockholders – Diluted
Earnings per share $2.04 to $2.24 (1)
Depreciation and amortization 4.45
Allocation of unvested restricted stock awards (0.04)
Funds from operations per share $6.45 to $6.65 (1)
Key Assumptions(2) 2018 Guidance
(Dollars in millions) Low High
Occupancy percentage for operating properties in North America as of December 31, 2018 96.9% 97.5%
Lease renewals and re-leasing of space:
Rental rate increases 13.0% 16.0%
Rental rate increases (cash basis) 7.5% 10.5%
Same Properties performance:
Net operating income increase 2.5% 4.5%
Net operating income increase (cash basis) 9.0% 11.0%
Straight-line rent revenue $ 92 $ 102 (3)
General and administrative expenses $ 85 $ 90
Capitalization of interest $ 55 $ 65
Interest expense $ 155 $ 165
(1)  Excludes the impact of changes in fair value for equity investments pursuant to new accounting standard effective January 1, 2018. Refer to “Financial Instruments” under the “Recent 
Accounting Pronouncements” section in Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to these consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in this annual report on Form 
10-K for additional information.
(2)  The completion of our development and redevelopment projects will result in an increase in interest expense and other project costs, because these project costs will no longer qualify for 
capitalization and will, therefore, be expensed as incurred. Our projection assumptions for Same Properties’ net operating income growth, rental rate growth, straight-line rent revenue, 
general and administrative expenses, capitalization of interest, and interest expense, are included in the tables above and are subject to a number of variables and uncertainties, including 
those discussed in Item 1A and within this Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10-K. To the extent our full-year earnings guidance is updated during the year, we will provide additional 
disclosure supporting reasons for any significant changes to such guidance.
(3)  Approximately 50% of straight-line rent revenue represents initial free rent on recently delivered and expected 2018 deliveries of new Class A properties from our development and 
redevelopment pipeline.
Key Credit Metrics 2018 Guidance
Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA – fourth quarter of 2018, annualized Less than 5.5x
Net debt and preferred stock to Adjusted EBITDA – fourth quarter of 2018, annualized Less than 5.5x
Fixed-charge coverage ratio – fourth quarter of 2018, annualized Greater than 4.0x
Value-creation pipeline as a percentage of gross investments in real estate as of December 31, 2018 8% to 12%
89
89
Consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures
  We present components of balance sheet and operating results information for the noncontrolling interests’ share of our 
consolidated real estate joint ventures and for our share of investments in unconsolidated real estate joint ventures to help investors 
estimate balance sheet and operating results information related to our partially owned entities. These amounts are estimated by 
computing, for each joint venture that we consolidate in our financial statements, the noncontrolling interest percentage of each 
financial item to arrive at the cumulative noncontrolling interest share of each component presented. In addition, for our real estate 
joint ventures that we do not control and do not consolidate, we apply our economic ownership percentage to the unconsolidated real 
estate joint ventures to arrive at our proportionate share of each component presented.
 
Consolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures
Noncontrolling 
Property/Market/Submarket Interest Share(1)
225 Binney Street/Greater Boston/Cambridge 70.0%
409 and 499 Illinois Street/San Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMa 40.0%
1500 Owens Street/San Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMa 49.9%
10290 and 10300 Campus Point Drive and 4110 Campus Point Court/San Diego/University Town Center 45.0%
9625 Towne Centre Drive/San Diego/University Town Center 49.9% (2)
Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures
Property/Market/Submarket Our Share
360 Longwood Avenue/Greater Boston/Longwood Medical Area 27.5%
Menlo Gateway/San Francisco/Greater Stanford 49.0% (3)
1401/1413 Research Boulevard/Maryland/Rockville 65.0%
(1)  In addition to the consolidated real estate joint ventures listed, various partners hold insignificant noncontrolling interests in three other properties in North America.
(2)  Refer to the “Dispositions” section under “Investments in Real Estate” within this Item 2 for additional information on our partial interest sale at 9625 Towne Centre Drive.
(3)  Refer to the “Acquisitions” section under “Investments in Real Estate” within this Item 2 for additional information on our acquisition at Menlo Gateway.
  As of December 31, 2017, our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures have the following non-recourse secured loans that 
include the following key terms (amounts represent 100% of the loan amounts at the joint venture level, dollars in thousands):
Initial  Extension Option  Remaining
Unconsolidated Joint Venture Maturity Date Maturity Date(1) Interest Rate(2) Debt Balance(3) Commitments
360 Longwood Avenue 9/1/22 9/1/24 3.54% $ 94,040 $ 17,000 (4)
1401/1413 Research Boulevard 5/17/20 7/1/20 4.42% 5,972 18,488
Menlo Gateway, Phase I 3/1/19 3/3/20 4.66% 111,015 38,926
$ 211,027 $ 74,414
(1)  Reflects extension options that exist, which may be subject to certain conditions.
(2)   Represents interest rate, including interest expense and amortization of loan fees and discount/premium.
(3)  Represents outstanding principal, net of unamortized deferred financing costs and discount/premium.
(4)   The remaining loan commitment balance excludes an earn-out advance provision that allows for incremental borrowings up to $48.0 million, subject to certain conditions.
90
90
  The following tables present information related to the operating results and financial positions of our consolidated and 
unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (in thousands):
Noncontrolling Interest Share of  Our Share of Unconsolidated
Consolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures(1) Real Estate Joint Ventures
December 31, 2017 December 31, 2017
Three Months Ended Year Ended Three Months Ended Year Ended
Total revenues $ 13,790 $ 54,812 $ 1,471 $ 7,320
Rental operations (4,080) (15,852) (405) (2,599)
9,710 38,960 1,066 4,721
General and administrative (19) (145) (26) (66)
Interest — — (232) (1,784)
Depreciation and amortization (3,777) (14,762) (432) (1,551)
Gain on sale of real estate — — — 14,106
$ 5,914 $ 24,053 $ 376 $ 15,426
December 31, 2017
Noncontrolling Interest Our Share of 
Share of Consolidated Unconsolidated 
Real Estate JVs Real Estate JVs
Investments in real estate $ 507,207 $ 149,466
Cash and cash equivalents 19,047 6,440
Restricted cash — 1,420
Other assets 31,966 11,529
Secured notes payable — (53,482)
Other liabilities (24,717) (4,755)
Redeemable noncontrolling interests (11,509) —
$ 521,994 $ 110,618
  For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we distributed $22.4 million and $18.0 million, respectively, to our 
consolidated real estate joint venture partners. The increase is primarily related to the distributions to real estate joint ventures formed 
with TIAA in during 2016. Refer to “Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows” and Note 3 – “Investments in Real Estate” to our 
consolidated financial statements under Item 15 of this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information.
91
91
Liquidity
Net Debt and Preferred Stock to Adjusted 
(1) (1)
Net Debt to Adjusted EBITDA EBITDA
(1) (2)
Fixed-Charge Coverage Ratio Liquidity
$2.0B
(In millions)
Availability under our $1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit $ 1,600
Remaining construction loan commitment 25
Available-for-sale equity securities, at fair value 109
Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 277
$ 2,011
(1)  Quarter annualized.
(2)  As of December 31, 2017.
  We expect to meet certain long-term liquidity requirements, such as requirements for development, redevelopment, other 
construction projects, capital improvements, tenant improvements, property acquisitions, leasing costs, non-revenue-enhancing 
capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, distributions to noncontrolling interests, repurchase/redemption of preferred stock, 
and dividends through net cash provided by operating activities, periodic asset sales, strategic real estate joint venture capital, and 
long-term secured and unsecured indebtedness, including borrowings under our $1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit, 
unsecured senior bank term loans, and the issuance of additional debt and/or equity securities.
We expect to continue meeting our short-term liquidity and capital requirements, as further detailed in this section, 
generally through our working capital and net cash provided by operating activities. We believe that the net cash provided by 
operating activities will continue to be sufficient to enable us to make the distributions necessary to continue qualifying as a REIT.
92
92
Over the next several years, our balance sheet, capital structure, and liquidity objectives are as follows:
•  Retain positive cash flows from operating activities after payment of dividends and distributions to noncontrolling 
interests for investment in development and redevelopment projects and/or acquisitions;
•  Improve credit profile and long-term cost of capital;
•  Maintain diverse sources of capital, including sources from net cash provided by operating activities, unsecured debt, 
secured debt, selective asset sales, partial interests sales, preferred stock, and common stock;
•  Maintain commitment to long-term capital to fund growth;
•  Maintain prudent laddering of debt maturities;
•  Maintain solid credit metrics; 
•  Maintain significant balance sheet liquidity;
•  Mitigate unhedged variable-rate debt exposure through the reduction of short-term and medium-term variable-rate 
bank debt;
•  Maintain a large unencumbered asset pool to provide financial flexibility;
•  Fund preferred stock and common stock dividends and distributions to noncontrolling interests from net cash 
provided by operating activities;
•  Manage a disciplined level of value-creation projects as a percentage of our gross investments in real estate; and
•  Maintain high levels of pre-leasing and percentage leased in value-creation projects.
  The following table presents the availability under our $1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit, secured construction 
loan, available-for-sale equity securities, and cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash as of December 31, 2017 (dollars in 
thousands):
Remaining
Stated  Aggregate Outstanding Commitments/
Description Rate Commitments Balance Liquidity
$1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit L+1.00% $ 1,650,000 $ 50,000 $ 1,600,000
50 and 60 Binney Street/Greater Boston secured construction loan L+1.50% 350,000 325,319 24,681
$ 2,000,000 $ 375,319 1,624,681
Available-for-sale equity securities, at fair value 109,511
Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 277,186
Total liquidity $ 2,011,378
  Refer to Note 9 – “Secured and Unsecured Senior Debt” to our consolidated financial statement under Item 15 of this annual 
report on Form 10-K for a discussion of our secured construction loans. 
Cash and cash equivalents
As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, we had $254.4 million and $125.0 million, respectively, of cash and cash equivalents. 
We expect existing cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operating activities, proceeds from asset sales, borrowings under our 
$1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit, secured construction loan borrowings, issuances of unsecured notes payable, and 
issuances of common stock to continue to be sufficient to fund our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and 
financing activities, such as regular quarterly dividends, distributions to noncontrolling interests, scheduled debt repayments, and 
certain capital expenditures, including expenditures related to construction activities.
Restricted cash
Restricted cash consisted of the following as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands):
December 31,
2017 2016
 
Funds held in trust under the terms of certain secured notes payable $ 12,301 $ 7,387
Funds held in escrow related to construction projects and investing activities 4,546 4,541
Other 5,958 4,406
Total $ 22,805 $ 16,334
93
93
Cash flows
We report and analyze our cash flows based on operating activities, investing activities, and financing activities. The 
following table summarizes changes in our cash flows (in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
2017 2016 Change
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 450,325 $ 392,501 $ 57,824
Net cash used in investing activities $ (1,738,126) $ (1,496,628) $ (241,498)
Net cash provided by financing activities $ 1,415,427 $ 1,105,521 $ 309,906
Operating activities
Cash flows provided by operating activities are primarily dependent upon the occupancy level of our asset base, the rental 
rates of our leases, the collectability of rent and recovery of operating expenses from our tenants, the timing of completion of 
development and redevelopment projects, and the timing of acquisitions and dispositions of operating properties. Net cash provided by 
operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2017, increased to $450.3 million, compared to $392.5 million for the year ended 
December 31, 2016. This increase was primarily attributable to (i) cash flows generated from our highly leased development and 
redevelopment projects recently placed into service, (ii) income-producing acquisitions since January 1, 2016, and (iii) increases in 
rental rates on lease renewals and re-leasing of space since January 1, 2016.
Investing activities
Cash flows used in investing activities for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, consisted of the following (in 
thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
 
2017 2016 Change
 
Proceeds from sales of real estate $ 15,432 $ 123,081 $ (107,649)
Additions to real estate (893,685) (821,690) (71,995)
Purchase of real estate (675,584) (737,900) 62,316
Deposits for investing activities (3,300) (450) (2,850)
Additions to investments (171,881) (102,284) (69,597)
Sales of investments 30,483 38,946 (8,463)
Repayment of notes receivable — 15,198 (15,198)
Acquisition of interest in unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (60,291) — (60,291)
Contributions to unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (17,876) (11,529) (6,347)
Return of capital from unconsolidated real estate joint ventures 38,576 — 38,576
Net cash used in investing activities $ (1,738,126) $ (1,496,628) $ (241,498)
  The change in net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2017, is primarily due to a higher use of 
cash for construction of our highly leased pipeline, and real estate acquisitions. Refer to Note 3 – “Investments in Real Estate” to our 
consolidated financial statements under Item 15 of this annual report on Form 10-K for further information.
Value-creation opportunities and external growth
  For information on our key development and redevelopment projects for the year ended December 31, 2017, refer to 
“External Growth – Value-Creation Development and Redevelopment of New Class A Properties: 2017 Deliveries” in the 
“Investments in Real Estate” section under Item 2 of this annual report on Form 10-K.
94
94
Financing activitiesFinancing activities
Cash flows provideCda bsyh  ffilnoawnsc ipnrgo vaicdteivdi tbieys f finoar nthcein yge aacrsti veintdieesd f Dore tcheem ybeearr s3 1e,n 2d0ed1 7D aencde m20b1e6r ,3 c1o, n2s0is1t7e da nodf  t2h0e1 f6o, lcloownsinisgte (din o f the following (in 
thousands): thousands):
Year Ended DecemYbeear r3 E1,nded December 31,
2017 22001167 Ch2a0n1g6e Change
Borrowings from seBcourrreodw ninogtess f proamya bselecured notes payable $ 153,405 $$ 219513,,440005 $$ (123971,9,49050) $ (137,995)
Repayments of borRroewpianygms efnrotsm o sf ebcourrreodw ninogtess f proamya bselecured notes payable (396,240) ((331906,,920430)) ((38150,3,93073)) (85,337)
Proceeds from issuPanroccee oefd us nfsroecmu riessdu saenncieo ro nf outnesse pcauyreadb lseenior notes payable 1,023,262 1,304283,,620642 637448,6,65084 674,658
Borrowings from uBnsoercrouwreidn gsesn firoorm li nuen soefc curreeddi tsenior line of credit 3,858,000 43,,181578,,000000 4(2,15197,0,00000) (259,000)
Repayments of borRroewpianygms efnrotsm o uf nbsoercrouwreidn gsesn firoorm li nuen soefc curreeddi tsenior line of credit (3,836,000) ((43,,284306,,000000)) (44,20440,0,00000) 404,000
Repayments of borRroewpianygms efnrotsm o uf nbsoercrouwreidn gsesn firoorm b aunnks etceurmre dlo saennior bank term loan (200,000) ((220000,,000000)) (200,0—00) —
Total changes relateTdo ttaol  dcehbatnges related to debt 602,427 6062,,140217 5966,3,12061 596,326
Repurchases of 7.0R0%ep uSrecrhieass eDs  couf m7.u0l0a%tiv Se ecroiensv Der tcibulme uplraetfievrer ecdo nsvtoecrktible preferred stoc(k17,934) (2(0167,,892364)) (128086,8,89226) 188,892
Redemption of 6.45R%ed Seemripetsio En  coufm 6.u4l5at%iv eS ererideese Em caubmle uplraetifveerr eredd seteomckable preferred stoc(1k30,350) (130,3—50) (130,35—0) (130,350)
Proceeds from the iPsrsoucaenecdes o ffr ocmom thmeo ins ssutoanckce of common stock 1,275,397 11,,423725,,137977 1(1,45362,7,18707) (156,780)
Dividend paymentsDividend payments (321,750) ((236221,,776510)) ((25682,9,78691)) (58,989)
Contributions fromC aonndt rsiabluetsi oonf sn fornocmo natnrodl slianlges i notfe nreosntscontrolling interests 44,931 22414,,498371 (127261,5,45867) (176,556)
Distributions to andD pisutrrcibhuatsieosn os ft on oanncdo pnutrroclhlainsges i notfe nreosntscontrolling interests (22,361) ((6292,,637681)) (4679,3,61778) 47,317
Other Other (14,933) ((1144,,997393)) (14,94769) 46
Net cash provided bNye tf icnaasnhc ipnrgo vaicdteivdi tbieys financing activities $ 1,415,427 $$ 11,,140155,,542217 $$ 13,10095,9,50261 $ 309,906
Inflation Inflation
As of December 31A, 2s 0o1f 7D, eacpepmrobxeirm 3a1te, l2y0 9177%, a popf roouxri mleaatseelsy  (9o7n% an o Rf oSuFr  bleaassise)s  w(oenre a tnr iRplSeF n beta sleisa)s ewse, rwe htriicphl er enqeut ilreea tseensa, nwtsh itcoh  require tenants to 
pay substantially alpl aryea slu ebssttaatne ttiaaxlleys ,a liln rseuarla necstea,t ue ttialixtieess,,  icnosumrmanocne ,a uretial ietixeps,e ncosems,m aonnd  aortehae re xoppeenrasteisn,g a enxdp oetnhseers o (pinecralutidnign ge xinpcernesaesse (si ncluding increases 
thereto) in additiont htoe rbeatose)  irne natd. dAiptiporno txoi mbaasteel yre 9n5t.% A popf roouxri mleaatseelsy  (9o5n% an o Rf oSuFr  bleaassise)s  c(oonnt aainn eRdS eFf fbeacstiisv)e c aonnntuaianl erde netf feescctaivlaet iaonnnsu tahla rte nt escalations that 
were either fixed (gwenereer aeliltyh erar nfgixinedg  (fgroemne 3ra.0ll%y  rtaon 3g.i5n%g f)r oorm i n3d.0ex%e dto b 3a.s5e%d )o no ra i ncodnexsuemd ebra sperdic oe ni nad ceoxn osru motehre rp rinicdei ciensd.e Ax cocro ordthinegr liyn,d wicee s. Accordingly, we 
do not believe that doou rn coat sbhe flileovwes  tohra te oarunri ncagssh f rfolomw rse oarl  eesatrantien gosp efrraotmio nresa al rees stautbej eocpte troa tsioignnsi faircea nsut brijsekcst  tforo smig niniffilcaatinotn r.i Askns  ifnrocrmea isnef liant ion. An increase in 
inflation, however, icnoflualtdio rne,s uhlot wine vaenr ,i nccoruelads ere isnu tlht ein c aons ti nocf roeuars ev ainri athbele c-orastte o bf ooruror wvainrigasb,l ien-craluted ibnogr rboowrrionwgsi,n ignsc lruedlaitnegd  btoo rorouwr $in1g.6s5 r elated to our $1.65 
billion unsecured sebnililoior nli nuen soefc curreeddi ts,e unnioser cliunree do fs ecnreiodri tb, aunnks etceurmre dlo saennsi,o arn bda nsekc tuerremd  lcooannsst,r uacntdio sne clouarend. construction loan.
95 95
95
Capital resources
  We expect that our principal liquidity needs for the year ending December 31, 2018, will be satisfied by the following 
multiple sources of capital, as shown in the table below. There can be no assurance that our sources and uses of capital will not be 
materially higher or lower than these expectations.
Sources and Uses of Capital 2018 Guidance Key
Completed
(In millions) Range Midpoint
Items
Sources of capital:
Net cash provided by operating activities after dividends $ 140 $ 180 $ 160
Incremental debt 470 430 450
Real estate dispositions, partial interest sales, and common equity 1,110 1,310 1,210 $ 817 (1)
Total sources of capital $ 1,720 $ 1,920 $ 1,820
Uses of capital:
Construction $ 1,050 $ 1,150 $ 1,100
Acquisitions 670 770 720 (2)
Total uses of capital $ 1,720 $ 1,920 $ 1,820
Incremental debt (included above):
Issuance of unsecured senior notes payable $ 550 $ 650 $ 600
Repayments of secured notes payable (10) (15) (13)
Repayment of unsecured senior term loan (200) (200) (200)
$1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit/other 130 (5) 63
Incremental debt $ 470 $ 430 $ 450
(1)  Represents 6.9 million shares of our common stock subject to forward equity sales agreements executed in January 2018, with anticipated aggregate net proceeds of $817.3 million, 
subject to adjustments as provided in the forward equity sales agreements. The forward equity sales agreements expire no later than April 2019, and we expect to settle these agreements 
in 2018.
(2)  Refer to the “Acquisitions” section under Item 2 of this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information.
The key assumptions behind the sources and uses of capital in the table above include a favorable capital market 
environment, performance of our core operating properties, lease-up and delivery of current and future development and 
redevelopment projects, and leasing activity. Our expected sources and uses of capital are subject to a number of variables and 
uncertainties, including those discussed under Item 1A and within this Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10-K. We expect to update 
our forecast of sources and uses of capital on a quarterly basis.
96
96
Sources of capital
Net cash provided by operating activities after dividends
We expect to retain $140.0 million to $180.0 million of net cash flows from operating activities after payment of common 
stock and preferred stock dividends and distributions to noncontrolling interests. For the year ending December 31, 2018, we expect 
our recently delivered projects, our highly pre-leased value-creation projects expected to be completed, along with contributions from 
Same Properties and recently acquired properties, to contribute significant increases in rental revenue, net operating income, and cash 
flows. We anticipate significant contractual near-term growth in annual cash rents of $96 million, of which $78 million will commence 
through the fourth quarter of 2018 ($26 million in the first quarter of 2018, $31 million in second quarter of 2018, $10 million in the 
third quarter of 2018, and $11 million in the fourth quarter of 2018). This is related to development and redevelopment projects 
recently placed into service that are currently generating rental revenue. Refer to the “Cash Flows” section within this Item 7 of this 
annual report on Form 10-K for a discussion of net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Debt
  The table below reflects the outstanding balances, maturity dates, applicable margins, and facility fees for each of the 
following facilities:
(Dollars in thousands) As of December 31, 2017
Facility Balance Maturity Date(1) Applicable Margin Facility Fee
$1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit $ 50,000 October 2021 L+1.00% 0.20%
2019 Unsecured Senior Bank Term Loan 199,496 January 2019 L+1.20% N/A
2021 Unsecured Senior Bank Term Loan 348,446 January 2021 L+1.10% N/A
$ 597,942
(1)  Includes any extension options that we control.
  Borrowings under the $1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit bear interest at LIBOR or the base rate specified in the 
amended $1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit agreement plus, in either case, a specified margin (the “Applicable Margin”). 
The Applicable Margin for LIBOR borrowings under the $1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit is based on our existing credit 
ratings as set by certain rating agencies. 
We use our $1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit to fund working capital, construction activities, and, from time to 
time, acquisition of properties. Borrowings under the $1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit will bear interest at a “Eurocurrency 
Rate” or a “Base Rate” specified in the amended $1.65 billion unsecured line of credit agreement plus, in either case, the Applicable 
Margin. The Eurocurrency Rate specified in the amended $1.65 billion unsecured line of credit agreement is, as applicable, the rate per 
annum equal to either (i) the LIBOR or a successor rate thereto as approved by the administrative agent for loans denominated in a 
LIBOR quoted currency (i.e., U.S. dollars, euro, sterling, or yen), (ii) the average annual yield rates applicable to Canadian dollar 
bankers’ acceptances for loans denominated in Canadian dollars, (iii) the Bank Bill Swap Reference Bid rate for loans denominated in 
Australian dollars, or (iv) the rate designated with respect to the applicable alternative currency for loans denominated in a non-
LIBOR quoted currency (other than Canadian or Australian dollars). The Base Rate means, for any day, a fluctuating rate per annum, 
equal to the highest of (i) the federal funds rate plus 1/2 of 1.00%, (ii) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced 
from time to time, by Bank of America as its “prime rate,” and (iii) the Eurocurrency Rate plus 1.00%. Our $1.65 billion unsecured 
senior line of credit contains a feature that allows lenders to competitively bid on the interest rate for borrowings under the facility. 
This may result in an interest rate that is below the stated rate. In addition to the cost of borrowing, the facility is subject to an annual 
facility fee of 0.20% based on the aggregate commitments outstanding.
  We expect to fund a significant portion of our capital needs in 2018 from the issuance of unsecured senior notes payable and 
from borrowings under our $1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit.
97
97
  In March 2017, we completed an offering of $425.0 million of unsecured senior notes, due in 2028, at an interest rate of 
3.95%. Net proceeds of $420.5 million were used initially to reduce outstanding borrowings on our $1.65 billion unsecured senior line 
of credit. 
  In November 2017, we completed an offering of $600.0 million of unsecured senior notes, due in 2025, at an interest rate of 
3.45%. Net proceeds of $593.5 million were used to repay two secured construction loans and for general corporate purposes, 
including the reduction of the outstanding balance on our $1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit. 
  Refer to “3.95% Unsecured Senior Notes Payable Due in 2028” and “3.45% Unsecured Senior Notes Payable Due in 2025” 
in Note 9 – “Secured and Unsecured Senior Debt” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 of this report for additional 
information regarding our unsecured senior notes payable.
 
  During the year ended December 31, 2017, we completed a partial repayment of $200 million of our 2019 Unsecured Senior 
Bank Term Loan, reducing the total outstanding balance from $400 million to $200 million, repaid the outstanding borrowings on two 
secured construction loans aggregating $389.8 million, net of unamortized deferred financing costs, with a weighted-average interest 
rate of 2.89%, and recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $3.5 million related to the write-off of unamortized loan fees. 
Real estate dispositions and common equity
  We expect to continue the disciplined execution of select sales of non-strategic land and non-core operating assets. The sale 
of non-strategic land and non-core operating assets provides an important source of capital to fund a portion of our highly leased 
value-creation development and redevelopment projects. We may also consider additional sales of partial interests in core Class A 
properties and/or development projects. For 2018, we expect real estate dispositions, partial interest sales, and issuances of common 
equity ranging from $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion. The amount of asset sales necessary to meet our forecasted sources of capital will vary 
depending upon the amount of EBITDA associated with the assets sold. In addition, the amount of common equity issued will be 
subject to market conditions. 
  For additional information, refer to “Sales of Real Estate Assets and Impairment Charges” in Note 3 – “Investments in Real 
Estate” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 of this annual report on Form 10-K. 
ATM common stock offering program
  In October 2016, we established an ATM common stock offering program that allowed us to sell up to an aggregate of 
$600.0 million of our common stock. During the six months ended June 30, 2017, we completed our ATM program with the sale of 
2.1 million shares of common stock for gross proceeds of $245.8 million, or $118.97 per share, and net proceeds of approximately 
$241.8 million. 
  In August 2017, we established a new ATM common stock offering program that allows us to sell up to an aggregate of 
$750.0 million of our common stock. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we sold an aggregate of 2.8 million shares of 
common stock under this program for gross proceeds of $336.6 million, or $121.37 per share, and received net proceeds of $331.2 
million. As of December 31, 2017, the remaining aggregate amount available under our current program for future sales of common 
stock is $413.4 million. 
98
98
Forward equity sales agreements
  In March 2017, we executed an offering to sell an aggregate 6.9 million shares of our common stock, consisting of an initial 
issuance of 2.1 million shares and the remaining 4.8 million shares subject to forward equity sales agreements, at a public offering 
price of $108.55 per share, less underwriters’ discount. Approximately 60% of the proceeds was initially targeted to fund value-
creation acquisitions and construction, with approximately 40% targeted to fund balance sheet improvements, including reduction in 
our projected net debt to Adjusted EBITDA – fourth quarter of 2017, annualized, by 0.2x, and redemption of our Series E Redeemable 
Preferred Stock. Aggregate net proceeds from the sale, after underwriters’ discount and issuance costs, of $702.4 million consisted of 
the following:
 
• 2.1 million shares issued at closing in March 2017 with net proceeds of $217.8 million; and
• 4.8 million shares issued in December 2017 with net proceeds of $484.6 million.
  In January 2018, we entered into forward equity sales agreements to sell an aggregate 6.9 million shares of our common 
stock (including the exercise of underwriters’ option to purchase an additional 900,000 shares), at a public offering price of $123.50 
per share. The agreements must be settled no later than April 8, 2019. We expect to settle the forward sales agreements in 2018. We 
expect to receive net proceeds, after underwriters’ discount and issuance costs, of $817.3 million, which will be further adjusted as 
provided in the forward equity sales agreements. We intend to use the net proceeds, if any, received upon the settlement of the forward 
sale agreements to fund acquisitions and the construction of on-going highly leased development projects, with any remaining 
proceeds being held for general working capital and other corporate purposes, including the reduction of the outstanding balance on 
our unsecured senior line of credit, if any.
Other sources
Under our current shelf registration statement filed with the SEC, we may offer common stock, preferred stock, debt, and 
other securities. These securities may be issued, from time to time, at our discretion based on our needs and market conditions, 
including as necessary to balance our use of incremental debt capital.
Additionally, we hold interests, together with joint venture partners, in joint ventures that we consolidate in our financial 
statements. These joint venture partners may contribute equity into these entities primarily related to their share of funds for 
construction and financing-related activities. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we received $44.9 million in contributions 
from and sales of noncontrolling interests. 
99
99
Uses of capital
Summary of capital expenditures 
  Our primary use of capital relates to the development, redevelopment, pre-construction, and construction of properties. We 
currently have projects in our visible growth pipeline aggregating 1.7 million RSF of new Class A office/laboratory and tech office 
space, and future value-creation projects supporting an aggregate of 7.6 million SF of ground-up development in North America. We 
incur capitalized construction costs related to development, redevelopment, pre-construction, and other construction activities. We also 
incur additional capitalized project costs, including interest, property taxes, insurance, and other costs directly related and essential to 
the development, redevelopment, pre-construction, or construction of a project during periods when activities necessary to prepare an 
asset for its intended use are in progress. Refer to the “Development and Redevelopment of New Class A Properties: 2018 - 2020 
Deliveries” and “Summary of Capital Expenditures” sections under Item 2 of this annual report on Form 10-K for more information 
on our capital expenditures.
  We capitalize interest cost as a cost of the project only during the period for which activities necessary to prepare an asset for 
its intended use are ongoing, provided that expenditures for the asset have been made and interest cost has been incurred. Capitalized 
interest for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, of $58.2 million and $52.5 million, respectively, is classified in investments 
in real estate. Indirect project costs, including construction administration, legal fees, and office costs that relate to projects under 
development or construction, are capitalized as incurred during the period an asset is undergoing activities to prepare it for its intended 
use. We capitalized payroll and other indirect project costs related to development, redevelopment, pre-construction, and construction 
projects which aggregated $23.4 million and $14.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The 
increase in capitalized payroll and other indirect project costs for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the year ended 
December 31, 2016, was primarily due to new projects with approximately 3.0 million developable SF that commenced pre-
construction activities in 2017 and late 2016. Pre-construction activities include entitlements, permitting, design, site work, and other 
activities preceding commencement of construction of aboveground building improvements. The advancement of pre-construction 
efforts is focused on reducing the time required to deliver projects to prospective tenants. These critical activities add significant value 
for future ground-up development and are required for the vertical construction of buildings. Should we cease activities necessary to 
prepare an asset for its intended use, the interest, taxes, insurance, and certain other direct project costs related to this asset would be 
expensed as incurred. Expenditures for repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred.
  Fluctuations in our development, redevelopment, and construction activities could result in significant changes to total 
expenses and net income. For example, had we experienced a 10% reduction in development, redevelopment, and construction 
activities without a corresponding decrease in indirect project costs, including interest and payroll, total expenses would have 
increased by approximately $8.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2017.
  We also capitalize and defer initial direct costs to originate leases with independent third parties related to evaluating a 
prospective lessee’s financial condition, negotiating lease terms, preparing the lease agreement, and closing the lease transaction. 
Costs that we capitalized and deferred relate to successful leasing transactions, result directly from and are essential to the lease 
transaction, and would not have been incurred had that lease transaction not occurred. The initial direct costs capitalized and deferred 
also include the portion of our employees’ total compensation and payroll-related benefits directly related to time spent performing the 
activities described above and related to the respective lease that would not have been performed but for that lease. Total initial direct 
leasing costs capitalized during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, were $68.9 million and $40.1 million, respectively, of 
which $13.7 million and $12.2 million, respectively, represented capitalized and deferred payroll costs directly related and essential to 
our leasing activities during each respective period. The increase in direct leasing costs capitalized during the year ended December 
31, 2017, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, was due to the increase in leasing activity in 2017. For the year ended 
December 31, 2017, we completed 4.6 million RSF of new, renewed, and re-leased space with a weighted-average lease term of 7.9 
years, compared to 3.0 million RSF of leasing activity with a weighted-average lease term of 10.7 years during the year ended 
December 31, 2016, excluding one 75-year ground lease for which we incurred no commission costs. 
Acquisitions
Refer to the “Acquisitions” in Note 3 – “Investments in Real Estate” and Note 4 – “Investments in Unconsolidated Real 
Estate Joint Ventures” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 of this annual report on Form 10-K for detailed 
information on our acquisitions.
100
100
7.00% Series D cumulative convertible preferred stock repurchases
  During the year ended December 31, 2017, we repurchased, in privately negotiated transactions, 501,115 shares of our Series 
D Convertible Preferred Stock at an aggregate price of $17.9 million, or $35.79 per share. We recognized a preferred stock redemption 
charge of $5.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2017, including the write-off of original issuance costs of approximately 
$391 thousand. During 2018, we may seek to repurchase additional shares of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, subject to 
market conditions. To the extent that we repurchase additional shares of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, we expect to fund 
such amounts with the proceeds from issuances of our common stock, subject to market conditions. 
6.45% Series E cumulative redeemable preferred stock redemption
  In March 2017, we announced the redemption of our Series E Redeemable Preferred Stock, partially using the proceeds from 
our offering of common stock. On April 14, 2017, we completed the redemption of all 5.2 million outstanding shares of our Series E 
Redeemable Preferred Stock at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, or an aggregate $130.0 million, plus accrued dividends.
Dividends
During the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we paid the following dividends (in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
2017 2016 Change
Common stock dividends $ 312,131 $ 240,347 $ 71,784
7.00% Series D cumulative convertible preferred stock dividends 5,426 14,029 (8,603)
6.45% Series E cumulative redeemable preferred stock dividends 4,193 8,385 (4,192)
$ 321,750 $ 262,761 $ 58,989
 
The increase in dividends paid on our common stock during the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the year ended 
December 31, 2016, was primarily due to an increase in number of common shares outstanding at each record date from December 31, 
2015, to September 30, 2017, as a result of common stock issuances under our ATM program, settlement of forward equity sales 
agreements, and partially due to the increase in the related dividends to $3.38 per common share paid during the year ended December 
31, 2017, from $3.17 per common share paid during the year ended December 31, 2016. The decrease in dividends paid on our Series 
D Convertible Preferred Stock was primarily due to the decrease in number of shares outstanding to 3.0 million shares as of December 
31, 2017, from 9.5 million shares as of December 31, 2015, due to the repurchases. The decrease in dividends paid on our Series E 
Redeemable Preferred Stock was due to the redemption of all 5.2 million outstanding shares of our Series E Redeemable Preferred 
Stock on April 14, 2017. 
Contractual obligations and commitments
Contractual obligations as of December 31, 2017, consisted of the following (in thousands):
Payments by Period
Total 2018 2019-2020 2021-2022 Thereafter
Secured and unsecured debt(1) (2) $ 4,779,542 $ 7,291 $ 1,044,684 $ 964,151 $ 2,763,416
Estimated interest payments on fixed-rate and hedged 
variable-rate debt(3) 1,122,688 177,315 318,752 259,769 366,852
Estimated interest payments on variable-rate debt(4) 739 739 — — —
Ground lease obligations 580,012 12,098 24,333 23,376 520,205
Other obligations 4,214 1,840 2,104 270 —
Total $ 6,487,195 $ 199,283 $ 1,389,873 $ 1,247,566 $ 3,650,473
(1)  Amounts represent principal amounts due and exclude unamortized premiums/discounts and deferred financing costs reflected on the consolidated balance sheets.
(2)  Payment dates reflect any extension options that we control. 
(3)  Amounts are based upon contractual interest rates, including the expense related to our interest rate hedge agreements, interest payment dates, and scheduled maturity dates.
(4)  The interest payments on variable-rate debt are based on the interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2017.
101
101
Secured notes payable
Secured notes payable as of December 31, 2017, consisted of seven notes secured by 18 properties. Our secured notes 
payable typically require monthly payments of principal and interest and had a weighted-average interest rate of approximately 4.04%. 
As of December 31, 2017, the total book values of our investment in real estate securing debt were approximately $1.6 billion. As of 
December 31, 2017, our secured notes payable, including unamortized discounts and deferred financing costs, were composed of 
approximately $745.7 million and $25.3 million of fixed-rate/hedged variable-rate debt and variable-rate debt, respectively.
Unsecured senior notes payable, unsecured senior bank term loans, and $1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit
  The requirements of, and our actual performance with respect to, the key financial covenants under our 2.75% unsecured 
senior notes payable (“2.75% Unsecured Senior Notes”), 4.60% unsecured senior notes payable (“4.60% Unsecured Senior Notes”), 
3.90% unsecured senior notes payable (“3.90% Unsecured Senior Notes”), 3.45% unsecured senior notes payable (“3.45% Unsecured 
Senior Note), 4.30% unsecured senior notes payable (“4.30% Unsecured Senior Notes”), 3.95% unsecured senior notes payable due in 
2027 (“3.95% Unsecured Senior Notes Due in 2027”), 4.50% unsecured senior notes payable (“4.50% Unsecured Senior Notes”), and 
3.95% unsecured senior notes payable due in 2028 (“3.95% Unsecured Senior Notes Due in 2028) as of December 31, 2017, were as 
follows:
Covenant Ratios(1) Requirement Actual
Total Debt to Total Assets Less than or equal to 60% 35%
Secured Debt to Total Assets Less than or equal to 40% 6%
Consolidated EBITDA(2) to Interest Expense Greater than or equal to 1.5x 5.9x
Unencumbered Total Asset Value to Unsecured Debt Greater than or equal to 150% 278%
(1)  For definitions of the ratios, refer to the indenture at Exhibits 4.3, 4.12, and 4.17 hereto and the related supplemental indentures at Exhibits 4.4, 4.6, 4.8, 4.10, 4.13, 4.15, 4.18, and 4.20 
hereto, which are each listed under Item 15 of this annual report on Form 10-K.
(2)  The calculation of consolidated EBITDA is based on the definitions contained in our loan agreements and is not directly comparable to the computation of EBITDA as described in 
Exchange Act Release No. 47226.
The requirements of, and our actual performance with respect to, the key financial covenants under our unsecured senior 
bank term loans and our $1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit as of December 31, 2017, were as follows:
Covenant Ratios(1) Requirement Actual
Leverage Ratio Less than or equal to 60.0% 28.7%
Secured Debt Ratio Less than or equal to 45.0% 4.6%
Fixed-Charge Coverage Ratio Greater than or equal to 1.50x 3.94x
Unsecured Leverage Ratio Less than or equal to 60.0% 30.8%
Unsecured Interest Coverage Ratio Greater than or equal to 1.50x 6.91x
(1)  For definitions of the ratios, refer to the amended $1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term loan agreements filed as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2, and 10.3, 
which are listed under Item 15 of this annual report on Form 10-K.
  In addition, the terms of the indentures, among other things, limit the ability of the Company, Alexandria Real Estate 
Equities, L.P., and the Company’s subsidiaries to (i) consummate a merger, or consolidate or sell all or substantially all of the 
Company’s assets, and (ii) incur certain secured or unsecured indebtedness. 
102
102
Estimated interest payments
Estimated interest payments on our fixed-rate and hedged variable-rate debt were calculated based upon contractual interest 
rates, including estimated interest expense related to interest rate hedge agreements, interest payment dates, and scheduled maturity 
dates. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 99% of our debt was fixed-rate debt or variable-rate debt subject to interest rate hedge 
agreements. Refer to our interest rate hedge agreements in “Contractual Obligations and Commitments” and “Interest Rate Hedge 
Agreements” in the “Sources and Uses of Capital” sections within this Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10-K for additional 
information. The remaining 1% of our debt as of December 31, 2017, was unhedged variable-rate debt based primarily on LIBOR. 
Interest payments on our unhedged variable-rate debt have been calculated based on interest rates in effect as of December 31, 
2017. For additional information regarding our debt, refer to Note 9 – “Secured and Unsecured Senior Debt” to our consolidated 
financial statements under Item 15 of this annual report on Form 10-K. 
Interest rate hedge agreements
  We utilize interest rate derivatives to hedge a portion of our exposure to volatility in variable interest rates primarily 
associated with our $1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit, unsecured senior bank term loans, and variable-rate secured 
construction loans. Our derivative instruments consist of interest rate swaps.
  Our interest rate swap agreements involve the receipt of variable-rate amounts from a counterparty in exchange for our 
payment of fixed-rate amounts to the counterparty over the life of the agreement without the exchange of the underlying notional 
amount. Interest received under all of our interest rate swap agreements is based on one-month LIBOR. The net difference between the 
interest paid and the interest received is reflected as an adjustment to interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations. 
We have entered into master derivative agreements with our counterparties. These master derivative agreements (all of which 
are adapted from the standard International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. form) define certain terms between us and each of 
our respective counterparties to address and minimize certain risks associated with our interest rate hedge agreements. In order to limit 
our risk of non-performance by an individual counterparty under our interest rate hedge agreements, these agreements are spread 
among various counterparties. The largest aggregate notional amount in effect at any single point in time with an individual 
counterparty in our interest rate hedge agreements existing as of December 31, 2017, was $250 million. If one or more of our 
counterparties fail to perform under our interest rate hedge agreements, we may incur higher costs associated with our variable-rate 
LIBOR-based debt than the interest costs we originally anticipated. We have not posted any collateral related to our interest rate hedge 
agreements. 
Ground lease obligations
Ground lease obligations as of December 31, 2017, included leases for 27 of our properties, which accounted for 
approximately 13% of our total number of properties, and one land development parcel. Excluding one ground lease related to one 
operating property that expires in 2036 with a net book value of $9.2 million as of December 31, 2017, our ground lease obligations 
have remaining lease terms ranging from approximately 36 to 97 years, including extension options. Refer to Note 14 – 
“Commitments and Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 of this annual report on Form 10-K for 
further information on our ground leases.
Commitments
As of December 31, 2017, remaining aggregate costs under contract for the construction of properties undergoing 
development, redevelopment, and improvements under the terms of leases approximated $633.1 million. We expect payments for 
these obligations to occur over one to three years, subject to capital planning adjustments from time to time. We may have the ability 
to cease the construction of certain properties, which would result in the reduction of our commitments. We are also committed to 
funding approximately $176.6 million for certain non-real estate investments over the next several years.
  In November 2017, we entered into an agreement with a real estate developer in the San Francisco Bay Area to own a 49% 
interest in a real estate joint venture at Menlo Gateway in our Greater Stanford submarket of San Francisco. Our total equity 
contribution commitment is $269.0 million, of which we have contributed $76.2 million through December 31, 2017.
103
103
  We have existing office space aggregating 46,356 RSF at 161 First Street/50 Rogers Street in our Alexandria Center® at 
Kendall Square (“ACKS”) campus that we are required to partially convert to multifamily residential space, pursuant to our 
entitlements for our ACKS campus. Pursuant to these requirements, we expect to begin construction of the conversion to multifamily 
residential in 2018.
  In addition, we have letters of credit and performance obligations aggregating $39.5 million primarily related to our purchase 
of the 10% interest in our joint venture with Uber and the Golden State Warriors. 
 
Exposure to environmental liabilities
In connection with the acquisition of all of our properties, we have obtained Phase I environmental assessments to ascertain 
the existence of any environmental liabilities or other issues. The Phase I environmental assessments of our properties have not 
revealed any environmental liabilities that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of 
operations taken as a whole, nor are we aware of any material environmental liabilities that have occurred since the Phase I 
environmental assessments were completed. In addition, we carry a policy of pollution legal liability insurance covering exposure to 
certain environmental losses at substantially all of our properties.
Accumulated other comprehensive income
Accumulated other comprehensive income attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. consists of the following (in 
thousands):
Net Unrealized Gain (Loss) on:
Available-for- Interest Rate Foreign
Sale Equity Hedge Currency
Securities Agreements Translation Total
 
Balance as of December 31, 2016 $ 19,293 $ 405 $ (14,343) $ 5,355
Other comprehensive income before reclassifications 24,360 2,837 7,774 34,971
Amounts reclassified from other comprehensive income 6,118 1,915 1,599 9,632
30,478 4,752 9,373 44,603
Amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests — — 66 66
Net other comprehensive income 30,478 4,752 9,439 44,669
Balance as of December 31, 2017 $ 49,771 $ 5,157 $ (4,904) $ 50,024
Available-for-sale equity securities
  Changes in our accumulated other comprehensive income balance relate to the increase in fair value of our investments in 
certain publicly held entities. We reclassify amounts from accumulated other comprehensive income upon recognition of gains and 
losses on sales and impairment write-downs of investments in these publicly held entities. For additional information, refer to 
“Financial Instruments” under the “Recent Accounting Pronouncements” section of Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting 
Policies,” and Note 6 – “Investments” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 of this annual report on Form 10-K. 
Interest rate hedge agreements
  Changes in our accumulated other comprehensive income balance relate to the change in fair value of our interest rate hedge 
agreements. We reclassify amounts from accumulated other comprehensive income as we recognize interest expense related to the 
hedged variable-rate debt instrument.
104
104
Foreign currency translation
  Changes in our accumulated other comprehensive income balance relate to changes in the foreign exchange rates for our real 
estate investments in Canada and Asia. Additionally, we reclassify unrealized foreign currency translation gains and losses into net 
income as we dispose of these holdings.
Critical accounting policies
Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial 
statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of 
assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. We base these estimates, judgments, and assumptions on historical experience and on 
various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. 
We continually evaluate the policies and estimates we use to prepare our consolidated financial statements. Changes in 
estimates or policies applied could affect our financial position and specific items in our results of operations that are used by our 
stockholders, potential investors, industry analysts, and lenders in their evaluation of our performance. Our significant accounting 
policies are described in Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 
15 of this annual report on Form 10-K. 
REIT compliance
We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of 
highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code to our operations and financial results, and the determination of 
various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. We believe that our current organization and method of 
operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code to enable us to qualify, and continue to 
qualify, as a REIT. However, it is possible that we have been organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow us to 
qualify as a REIT, or that our future operations could cause us to fail to qualify.
If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, then we will be required to pay federal and state income taxes on our 
taxable income at regular corporate rates. If we lose our REIT status, then our net earnings available for investment or distribution to 
our stockholders will be significantly reduced for each of the years involved and we will no longer be required to make distributions to 
our stockholders.
Investments in real estate and properties classified as held for sale
We recognize real estate acquired (including the intangible value of acquired above- or below-market leases, acquired in-
place leases, tenant relationships, and other intangible assets or liabilities), liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in an 
acquired entity at their fair value as of the acquisition date. If there is a bargain fixed-rate renewal option for the period beyond the 
non-cancelable lease term of an in-place lease, we evaluate factors such as the business conditions in the industry in which the lessee 
operates, the economic conditions in the area in which the property is located, and the ability of the lessee to sublease the property 
during the renewal term, in order to determine the likelihood that the lessee will renew. When we determine there is reasonable 
assurance that such bargain purchase option will be exercised, we consider the option in determining the intangible value of such lease 
and its related amortization period. The value of tangible assets acquired is based upon our estimation of value on an “as if vacant” 
basis. The value of acquired in-place leases includes the estimated costs during the hypothetical lease-up period and other costs that 
would have been incurred in the execution of similar leases under the market conditions at the acquisition date of the acquired in-place 
lease. We assess the fair value of tangible and intangible assets based on numerous factors, including estimated cash flow projections 
that utilize appropriate discount and capitalization rates and available market information. Estimates of future cash flows are based on 
a number of factors, including the historical operating results, known trends, and market/economic conditions that may affect the 
property. We also recognize the fair values of assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in acquisitions of 
less than a 100% interest when the acquisition constitutes a change in control of the acquired entity. Acquisition-related costs related 
to the acquisition of businesses are expensed as incurred, while acquisition costs related to the acquisition of assets are capitalized. 
105
105
The values allocated to buildings and building improvements, land improvements, tenant improvements, and equipment are 
depreciated on a straight-line basis using the shorter of the term of the respective ground lease and up to 40 years for buildings and 
building improvements, an estimated life of up to 20 years for land improvements, the respective lease term for tenant improvements, 
and the estimated useful life for equipment. The values of acquired above- and below-market leases are amortized over the terms of 
the related leases and recognized as either an increase (for below-market leases) or a decrease (for above-market leases) to rental 
revenue. The values of acquired above- and below-market ground leases are amortized over the terms of the related ground leases and 
recognized as either an increase (for below-market ground leases) or a decrease (for above-market ground leases) to rental operating 
expense. The values of acquired in-place leases are classified in other assets in our consolidated balance sheets and amortized over the 
remaining terms of the related leases.
We capitalize project costs, including interest, property taxes, insurance, and other costs directly related and essential to the 
development, redevelopment, pre-construction, or construction of a project. Capitalization of development, redevelopment, pre-
construction, and construction costs is required while activities are ongoing to prepare an asset for its intended use. Fluctuations in our 
development, redevelopment, pre-construction, and construction activities could result in significant changes to total expenses and net 
income. Costs incurred after a project is substantially complete and ready for its intended use are expensed as incurred. Should 
development, redevelopment, pre-construction, or construction activity cease, interest, property taxes, insurance, and certain other 
costs would no longer be eligible for capitalization and would be expensed as incurred. Expenditures for repairs and maintenance are 
expensed as incurred.
A property is classified as held for sale when all of the following criteria for a plan of sale have been met: (i) management, 
having the authority to approve the action, commits to a plan to sell the property; (ii) the property is available for immediate sale in its 
present condition, subject only to terms that are usual and customary; (iii) an active program to locate a buyer and other actions 
required to complete the plan to sell have been initiated; (iv) the sale of the property is probable and is expected to be completed 
within one year; (v) the property is being actively marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value; and 
(vi) actions necessary to complete the plan of sale indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that 
the plan will be withdrawn. Depreciation of assets ceases upon designation of a property as held for sale.
If the disposal of the property represents a strategic shift that has (or will have) a major effect on our operations or financial 
results, such as (i) a major line of business, (ii) a major geographic area, (iii) a major equity method investment, or (iv) other major 
parts of an entity, then the operations of the property, including any interest expense directly attributable to it, are classified as 
discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of operations, and amounts for all prior periods presented are reclassified from 
continuing operations to discontinued operations. The disposal of an individual property generally will not represent a strategic shift 
and therefore will typically not meet the criteria for classification as discontinued operations.
Impairment of long-lived assets
On a quarterly basis, we review current activities and changes in the business conditions of all of our properties prior to and 
subsequent to the end of each quarter to determine the existence of any triggering events requiring an impairment analysis. If 
triggering events are identified, we review an estimate of the future undiscounted cash flows for the properties, including, if necessary, 
a probability-weighted approach if multiple outcomes are under consideration.
Long-lived assets to be held and used, including our rental properties, CIP, land held for development, and intangibles, are 
individually evaluated for impairment when conditions exist that may indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset may not 
be recoverable. The carrying amount of a long-lived asset to be held and used is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the 
undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. Impairment indicators or triggering 
events for long-lived assets to be held and used, including our rental properties, CIP, land held for development, and intangibles, are 
assessed by project and include significant fluctuations in estimated rental revenues less rental operating expenses, occupancy 
changes, significant near-term lease expirations, current and historical operating and/or cash flow losses, construction costs, estimated 
completion dates, rental rates, and other market factors. We assess the expected undiscounted cash flows based upon numerous factors, 
including, but not limited to, construction costs, available market information, current and historical operating results, known trends, 
current market/economic conditions that may affect the property, and our assumptions about the use of the asset, including, if 
necessary, a probability-weighted approach if multiple outcomes are under consideration. Upon determination that an impairment has 
occurred, a write-down is recognized to reduce the carrying amount of the asset to its estimated fair value. If an impairment loss is not 
required to be recognized, the recognition of depreciation is adjusted prospectively, as necessary, to reduce the carrying amount of the 
real estate to its estimated disposition value over the remaining period that the real estate is expected to be held and used. We may 
adjust depreciation of properties that are expected to be disposed of or redeveloped prior to the end of their useful lives.
106
106
We use the held for sale impairment model for our properties classified as held for sale. The held for sale impairment model 
is different from the held and used impairment model. Under the held for sale impairment model, an impairment loss is recognized if 
the carrying amount of the long-lived asset classified as held for sale exceeds its fair value less cost to sell. Because of these two 
different models, it is possible for a long-lived asset previously classified as held and used to require the recognition of an impairment 
charge upon classification as held for sale.
Equity investments
We hold equity investments in certain publicly traded companies, privately held entities, and limited partnerships primarily 
involved in the life science and technology industries. All of our equity investments in actively traded public companies are considered 
available-for-sale and are reflected in our consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Fair value has been determined based upon the 
closing price as of each balance sheet date, with unrealized gains and losses shown as a separate component of other comprehensive 
income. The classification of each investment is determined at the time each investment is made, and such determination is 
reevaluated at each balance sheet date. The cost of each investment sold is determined by the specific identification method, with 
realized gains or losses classified in other income in our consolidated statements of operations. Investments in privately held entities 
are generally accounted for under the cost method when our interest in the entity is so minor that we have virtually no influence over 
the entity’s operating and financial policies. Certain investments in privately held entities require accounting under the equity method 
unless our interest in the entity is deemed to be so minor that we have virtually no influence over the entity’s operating and financial 
policies. Under the equity method of accounting, we recognize our investment initially at cost and adjust the carrying amount of the 
investment to recognize our share of the earnings or losses of the investee subsequent to the date of our investment. Additionally, as a 
REIT, we generally limit our ownership percentage in the voting stock of each individual entity to less than 10%. As of December 31, 
2017 and 2016, the REIT ownership percentage in the voting stock of each individual entity was less than 10%. 
We monitor each of our investments throughout the year for new developments, including operating results, results of clinical 
trials, capital-raising events, and merger and acquisition activities. Individual investments are evaluated for impairment when changes 
in conditions may indicate an impairment exists. The factors that we consider in making these assessments include, but are not limited 
to, market prices, market conditions, available financing, prospects for favorable or unfavorable clinical trial results, new product 
initiatives, and new collaborative agreements. If there are no identified events or changes in circumstances that might have an adverse 
effect on our cost method investments, we do not estimate the investment’s fair value. For all of our investments, if a decline in the fair 
value of an investment below the carrying value is determined to be other than temporary, such investment is written down to its 
estimated fair value with a charge to current earnings.
Interest rate hedge agreements
We are exposed to certain risks arising from both our business operations and economic conditions. We principally manage 
our exposures to a wide variety of business and operational risks through management of our core business activities. We manage 
economic risks, including interest rate, liquidity, and credit risk, primarily by managing the amount, sources, and duration of our debt 
funding and by entering into interest rate hedge agreements. Specifically, we enter into interest rate hedge agreements to manage 
exposures that arise from business activities that result in the payment of future known and uncertain cash amounts, the value of which 
are determined by interest rates. Our interest rate hedge agreements are used to manage differences in the amount, timing, and duration 
of our known or expected cash payments principally related to our borrowings based on LIBOR. We do not use derivatives for trading 
or speculative purposes, and currently all of our derivatives are designated as hedges. Our objectives in using interest rate hedge 
agreements are to add stability to interest expense and to manage our exposure to interest rate movements in accordance with our 
interest rate risk management strategy. All of our interest rate hedges are designated as cash flow hedges. Interest rate hedge 
agreements designated as cash flow hedges involve the receipt of variable-rate amounts from a counterparty in exchange for the 
Company’s making fixed-rate payments over the life of the interest rate hedge agreements without exchange of the underlying 
notional amount of interest rate hedge agreements.
107
107
We utilize interest rate hedge agreements to hedge a portion of our exposure to variable interest rates primarily associated 
with borrowings based on LIBOR. We recognize our interest rate hedge agreements as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet 
at fair value. The accounting for changes in fair value (i.e., gains or losses) of a derivative instrument depends on whether it has been 
designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship and, further, on the type of hedging relationship. For those derivative 
instruments that are designated and qualify as hedging instruments, a company must designate the hedging instrument, based on the 
hedged exposure, as a fair value hedge, a cash flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation. Our interest rate 
hedge agreements are considered cash flow hedges because they are designated and qualify as hedges of the exposure to variability in 
expected future cash flows. Hedge accounting generally provides for the matching of the timing of gain or loss recognition on the 
hedging instrument with the recognition of the changes in the earnings effect of the hedged transactions in a cash flow hedge. All of 
our interest rate hedge agreements meet the criteria to be deemed “highly effective” in reducing our exposure to variable interest rates. 
We formally document all relationships between interest rate hedge agreements and hedged items, including the method for evaluating 
effectiveness and the risk strategy. We make an assessment at the inception of each interest rate hedge agreement and on an ongoing 
basis to determine whether these instruments are “highly effective” in offsetting changes in cash flows associated with the hedged 
items. The ineffective portion of each interest rate hedge agreement is immediately recognized in earnings. While we intend to 
continue to meet the conditions for such hedge accounting, if hedges did not qualify as “highly effective,” the changes in the fair 
values of the derivatives used as hedges would be reflected in earnings.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of our interest rate hedge agreements that are designated and that qualify as 
cash flow hedges is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income. Amounts classified in accumulated other comprehensive 
income will be reclassified into earnings in the period during which the hedged transactions affect earnings.
The fair value of each interest rate hedge agreement is determined using widely accepted valuation techniques, including 
discounted cash flow analyses on the expected cash flows of each derivative. These analyses reflect the contractual terms of the 
derivatives, including the period to maturity, and use observable market-based inputs, including interest rate curves and implied 
volatilities. The fair values of our interest rate hedge agreements are determined using the market-standard methodology of netting the 
discounted future fixed-cash payments and the discounted expected variable-cash receipts. The variable-cash receipts are based on an 
expectation of future interest rates (forward curves) derived from observable market interest rate curves. The fair value calculation 
also includes an amount for risk of non-performance of our counterparties using “significant unobservable inputs,” such as estimates 
of current credit spreads, to evaluate the likelihood of default, which we have determined to be insignificant to the overall fair value of 
our interest rate hedge agreements.
Recognition of rental revenue and tenant recoveries
Rental revenue from leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the respective lease terms. We classify amounts 
currently recognized as income and expected to be received in later years as deferred rent in our consolidated balance sheets. Amounts 
received currently but recognized as income in future years are classified in accounts payable, accrued expenses, and tenant security 
deposits in our consolidated balance sheets. We commence recognition of rental revenue at the date the property is ready for its 
intended use and the tenant takes possession of or controls the physical use of the property.
Tenant recoveries related to reimbursement of real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, repairs and maintenance, common area 
expenses, and other operating expenses are recognized as revenue in the period during which the applicable expenses are incurred.
Tenant receivables consist primarily of amounts due for contractual lease payments and tenant recoveries. These tenant 
receivables are expected to be collected within one year. We may maintain an allowance for estimated losses that may result from the 
inability of our tenants to make payments required under the terms of the lease and for tenant recoveries due. If a tenant fails to make 
contractual payments beyond any allowance, we may recognize additional bad debt expense in future periods equal to the amount of 
uncollectible rent and deferred rent receivables arising from the straight-lining of rent. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, no 
allowance for uncollectible tenant receivables and deferred rent was deemed necessary.
108
108
Monitoring tenant credit quality
  During the term of each lease, we monitor the credit quality of our tenants by (i) monitoring the credit rating of tenants that 
are rated by a nationally recognized credit rating agency, (ii) reviewing financial statements of the tenants that are publicly available or 
that are required to be delivered to us pursuant to the applicable lease, (iii) monitoring news reports regarding our tenants and their 
respective businesses, and (iv) monitoring the timeliness of lease payments. We have a research team consisting of employees who, 
among them, have graduate and undergraduate degrees in biology, chemistry, and industrial biotechnology and experience in the life 
science and technology industries, as well as in finance. Our research team is responsible for assessing and monitoring the credit 
quality of our tenants and any material changes in their credit quality.
Non-GAAP measures
This section contains additional information of certain non-GAAP financial measures and the reasons why we use these 
supplemental measures of performance and believe they provide useful information to investors, as well as the definitions of other 
terms used in this annual report on Form 10-K.
Funds from operations and funds from operations, as adjusted, attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common 
stockholders
  GAAP-basis accounting for real estate assets utilizes historical cost accounting and assumes that real estate values diminish 
over time. In an effort to overcome the difference between real estate values and historical cost accounting for real estate assets, the 
Nareit Board of Governors established funds from operations as an improved measurement tool. Since its introduction, funds from 
operations has become a widely used non-GAAP financial measure among equity REITs. We believe that funds from operations is 
helpful to investors as an additional measure of the performance of an equity REIT. Moreover, we believe that funds from operations, 
as adjusted, allows investors to compare our performance to the performance of other real estate companies on a consistent basis, 
without having to account for differences recognized because of investment and disposition decisions, financing decisions, capital 
structures, and capital market transactions. We compute funds from operations in accordance with standards established by the Nareit 
Board of Governors in its April 2002 White Paper and related implementation guidance (the “Nareit White Paper”). The Nareit White 
Paper defines funds from operations as net income (computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains (losses) from sales of 
depreciable real estate and land parcels, and impairment of depreciable real estate (excluding land parcels), plus real estate-related 
depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for our share of consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures. 
Impairment represent the write-down of assets when fair value over the recoverability period is less than the carrying value due to 
changes in general market conditions and do not necessarily reflect the operating performance of the properties during the 
corresponding period. 
  We compute funds from operations, as adjusted, as funds from operations calculated in accordance with the Nareit White 
Paper less/plus significant gains/losses on the sale of investments, plus loss on early extinguishment of debt, preferred stock 
redemption charge, impairments of non-depreciable real estate, and non-real estate investments, and deal costs, and the amount of 
such items that is allocable to unvested restricted stock awards. Neither funds from operations nor funds from operations, as adjusted, 
should be considered as alternatives to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as indications of financial performance, or 
to cash flows from operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP) as measures of liquidity, nor are they indicative of the 
availability of funds for our cash needs, including our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.
109
109
  The following tables present a reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s 
common stockholders, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, including 
our share of amounts from consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures, to funds from operations attributable to 
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders – diluted, and funds from operations attributable to Alexandria Real 
Estate Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders – diluted, as adjusted, and the related per share amounts. Per share amounts allocable to 
unvested restricted stock awards are not material and are not presented separately within the per share table below. Per share amounts 
may not add due to rounding.
Year Ended December 31,
(in thousands) 2017 2016 2015
 Net income (loss) attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s
common stockholders $ 145,395 $ (151,141) $ 116,867
Depreciation and amortization 416,783 313,390 261,289
Noncontrolling share of depreciation and amortization from consolidated real
estate JVs (14,762) (9,349) (372)
Our share of depreciation and amortization from unconsolidated real estate
JVs 1,551 2,707 1,734
Gain on sales of real estate – rental properties (270) (3,715) (12,426)
Our share of gain on sales of real estate from unconsolidated real estate JVs (14,106) — —
Gain on sales of real estate – land parcels (111) (90) —
Impairment of real estate – rental properties 203 98,194 23,250
Allocation to unvested restricted stock awards (2,920) — (1,758)
Funds from operations attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s 
common stockholders – basic and diluted(1) 531,763 249,996 388,584
Non-real estate investment income — (4,361) (13,109)
Impairments of land parcels and non-real estate investments 8,296 113,539 —
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 3,451 3,230 189
Preferred stock redemption charge 11,279 61,267 —
Allocation to unvested restricted stock awards (321) (2,356) 110
Funds from operations attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s
common stockholders – diluted, as adjusted $ 554,468 $ 421,315 $ 375,774
110
110
Year Ended December 31,
(Dollars per share) 2017 2016 2015
 Net income (loss) per share attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities,
Inc.’s common stockholders – diluted $ 1.58 $ (1.99) $ 1.63
Depreciation and amortization 4.35 4.02 3.64
Gain on sales of real estate – rental properties — (0.05) (0.17)
Our share of gain on sales of real estate from unconsolidated real estate JVs (0.15) — —
Impairment of real estate – rental properties — 1.29 0.33
Funds from operations per share attributable to Alexandria Real Estate 
Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders – basic and diluted(1) 5.78 3.27 5.43
Non-real estate investment income — (0.06) (0.18)
Impairments of land parcels and non-real estate investments 0.09 1.47 —
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 0.03 0.04 —
Preferred stock redemption charge 0.12 0.79 —
Funds from operations per share attributable to Alexandria Real Estate
Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders – diluted, as adjusted $ 6.02 $ 5.51 $ 5.25
Weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding for calculating funds
from operations per share and funds from operations, as adjusted, per share
– diluted 92,063 76,412 71,529
(1)  Calculated in accordance with standards established by the Advisory Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (the “Nareit Board of Governors”) 
in its April 2002 White Paper and related implementation guidance. 
Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margins
  We use Adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental performance measure of real estate rental operations, for financial and 
operational decision making, and as a supplemental or additional means of evaluating period-to-period comparisons on a consistent 
basis. Adjusted EBITDA is calculated as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (“EBITDA”), excluding stock 
compensation expense, gain or loss on early extinguishment of debt, gains or losses on sales of real estate, and impairments. We 
believe Adjusted EBITDA provides investors relevant and useful information because it allows investors to view income from real 
estate rental operations on an unleveraged basis before the effects of interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, stock compensation 
expense, gain or loss on early extinguishment of debt, gain or loss on sales of real estate, and impairment. 
  By excluding interest expense and gain or loss on early extinguishment of debt, Adjusted EBITDA allows investors to 
measure our performance independent of our capital structure and indebtedness. We believe that excluding charges related to share-
based compensation facilitates a comparison of our operations across periods without the variances caused by the volatility of the 
expense (which depends on market forces outside our control). We believe that adjusting for the effect of impairment and gain or loss 
on sales of real estate allows investors to evaluate performance from period to period on a consistent basis without having to account 
for differences recognized because of investment and disposition decisions. Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as a measure of our 
performance. Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect our historical cash expenditures or future cash requirements for capital expenditures 
or contractual commitments. While Adjusted EBITDA is a relevant measure of performance, it does not represent net income or net 
cash flows from operations calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, and it should not be considered as an alternative to 
those indicators in evaluating performance or liquidity. 
111
111
  The following table reconciles net income, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in 
accordance with GAAP, to Adjusted EBITDA (dollars in thousands):
Three Months Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31,
2017 2016 2017 2016
Net income (loss) $ 45,607 $ 19,792 $ 194,204 $ (49,799)
Interest expense 36,082 31,223 128,645 106,953
Income taxes 1,398 737 4,803 3,111
Depreciation and amortization 107,714 95,222 416,783 313,390
Stock compensation expense 6,961 6,426 25,610 25,433
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 2,781 — 3,451 3,230
Gain on sales of real estate – rental properties — (3,715) (270) (3,715)
Our share of gain on sales of real estate from
unconsolidated real estate JVs — — (14,106) —
Gain on sales of real estate – land parcels — — (111) (90)
Impairment of real estate and non-real estate
investments 3,805 16,024 8,499 212,326
Adjusted EBITDA $ 204,348 $ 165,709 $ 767,508 $ 610,839
Revenues $ 302,596 (1) $ 249,162 $ 1,136,393 (1) $ 924,771
Adjusted EBITDA margins 68% 67% 68% 66%
(1)  Excludes impairment charges aggregating $3.8 million and $8.3 million for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2017, respectively, which relate primarily to three non-real 
estate investments. We believe excluding impairment of non-real estate investments improves the consistency and comparability of the Adjusted EBITDA margins from period to period.
Annual rental revenue
 
Annual rental revenue represents the annualized fixed base rental amount, in effect as of the end of the period, related to our 
operating RSF. Annual rental revenue is presented using 100% of the annual rental revenue of our consolidated properties and our 
share of annual rental revenue for our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures. Annual rental revenue per RSF is computed by 
dividing annual rental revenue by the sum of 100% of the RSF of our consolidated properties and our share of the RSF of properties 
held in unconsolidated real estate joint ventures. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 97% of our leases (on an RSF basis) were 
triple net leases, which require tenants to pay substantially all real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, common area expenses, and other 
operating expenses (including increases thereto) in addition to base rent. Annual rental revenue excludes these operating expenses 
recovered from our tenants. Amounts recovered from our tenants related to these operating expenses are classified in “tenant 
recoveries” in our consolidated statements of operations.
Cash interest
Cash interest is equal to interest expense calculated in accordance with GAAP plus capitalized interest, less amortization of 
loan fees and debt premiums/discounts. See definition of fixed-charge coverage ratio for a reconciliation of interest expense, the most 
directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, to cash interest.
Class A properties and AAA locations
 
  Class A properties are properties clustered in AAA locations that provide innovative tenants with highly dynamic and 
collaborative environments that enhance their ability to successfully recruit and retain world-class talent and inspire productivity, 
efficiency, creativity, and success. Class A properties generally command higher annual rental rates than other classes of similar 
properties.
 
  AAA locations are in close proximity to concentrations of specialized skills, knowledge, institutions, and related businesses. 
Such locations are generally characterized by high barriers to entry for new landlords, high barriers to exit for tenants, and a limited 
supply of available space. 
112
112
Fixed-charge coverage ratio
  Fixed-charge coverage ratio is a non-GAAP financial measure representing the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to fixed charges. 
We believe this ratio is useful to investors as a supplemental measure of our ability to satisfy fixed financing obligations and preferred 
stock dividends. Cash interest is equal to interest expense calculated in accordance with GAAP, plus capitalized interest, less 
amortization of loan fees and debt premiums/discounts. The fixed-charge coverage ratio calculation below is not directly comparable 
to the computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges as defined in Item 503(d) of Regulation S-K and to the “Computation of 
Consolidated Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Computation of Consolidated Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and 
Preferred Stock Dividends” included in Exhibit 12.1 to this annual report on Form 10-K.
  The following table reconciles interest expense, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in 
accordance with GAAP, to cash interest and fixed charges (dollars in thousands):
Three Months Ended December 31,
2017 2016
Adjusted EBITDA $ 204,348 $ 165,709
Interest expense $ 36,082 $ 31,223
Capitalized interest 12,897 11,659
Amortization of loan fees (2,571) (3,080)
Amortization of debt premiums 639 383
Cash interest 47,047 40,185
Dividends on preferred stock 1,302 3,835
Fixed charges $ 48,349 $ 44,020
Fixed-charge coverage ratio:
– period annualized 4.2x 3.8x
– trailing 12 months 4.1x 3.6x
Development, redevelopment, and pre-construction
  A key component of our business model is our disciplined allocation of capital to the development and redevelopment of new 
Class A properties located in collaborative life science and technology campuses in AAA urban innovation clusters. These projects are 
focused on providing high-quality, generic, and reusable spaces that meet the real estate requirements of, and are reusable by, a wide 
range of tenants. Upon completion, each value-creation project is expected to generate a significant increase in rental income, net 
operating income, and cash flows. Our development and redevelopment projects are generally in locations that are highly desirable to 
high-quality entities, which we believe results in higher occupancy levels, longer lease terms, higher rental income, higher returns, and 
greater long-term asset value.
  Development projects consist of the ground-up development of generic and reusable facilities. Redevelopment projects 
consist of the permanent change in use of office, warehouse, and shell space into office/laboratory or tech office space. We generally 
will not commence new development projects for aboveground construction of new Class A office/laboratory and tech office space 
without first securing significant pre-leasing for such space, except when there is solid market demand for high-quality Class A 
properties. 
  Pre-construction activities include entitlements, permitting, design, site work, and other activities preceding commencement 
of construction of aboveground building improvements. The advancement of pre-construction efforts is focused on reducing the time 
required to deliver projects to prospective tenants. These critical activities add significant value for future ground-up development and 
are required for the vertical construction of buildings. Ultimately, these projects will provide high-quality facilities and are expected to 
generate significant revenue and cash flows.
113
113
Initial stabilized yield (unlevered)
  Initial stabilized yield is calculated as the quotient of the estimated amounts of net operating income at stabilization and our 
investment in the property. Our initial stabilized yield excludes the benefit of leverage. Our cash rents related to our value-creation 
projects are expected to increase over time due to contractual annual rent escalations. Our estimates for initial stabilized yields, initial 
stabilized yields (cash basis), and total costs at completion represent our initial estimates at the commencement of the project. We 
expect to update this information upon completion of the project, or sooner if there are significant changes to the expected project 
yields or costs.
•  Initial stabilized yield reflects rental income, including contractual rent escalations and any rent concessions over the 
term(s) of the lease(s), calculated on a straight-line basis.
•  Initial stabilized yield (cash basis) reflects cash rents at the stabilization date after initial rental concessions, if any, have 
elapsed and our total cash investment in the property.
Investment-grade or large cap tenants
  Investment-grade or large cap tenants include tenants that are investment-grade rated or have their most recently reported 
market capitalization (public or private) greater than $10 billion as of December 31, 2017.
Joint venture financial information
  We present components of balance sheet and operating results information related to our joint ventures, which are not in 
accordance with or intended to be presentations in accordance with, GAAP. We present the proportionate share of certain financial line 
items as follows: (i) for each real estate joint venture that we consolidate in our financial statements, but of which we own less than 
100%, we apply the noncontrolling interest economic ownership percentage to each financial item to arrive at the amount of such 
cumulative noncontrolling interest share of each component presented; and (ii) for each real estate joint venture that we do not control, 
and do not consolidate, we apply our economic ownership percentage to each financial item to arrive at our proportionate share of 
each component presented. 
  The components of balance sheet and operating results information related to joint ventures do not represent our legal claim 
to those items. The joint venture agreement for each entity that we do not wholly own generally determines what equity holders can 
receive upon capital events, such as sales or refinancing, or in the event of a liquidation. Equity holders are normally entitled to their 
respective legal ownership of any residual cash from a joint venture only after all liabilities, priority distributions, and claims have 
been repaid or satisfied. 
  We believe this information can help investors estimate balance sheet and operating results information related to our 
partially owned entities. Presenting this information provides a perspective not immediately available from consolidated financial 
statements and one that can supplement an understanding of joint venture assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses included in our 
consolidated results.
  The components of balance sheet and operating results information related to joint ventures are limited as an analytical tool, 
as the overall economic ownership interest does not represent our legal claim to each of our joint ventures’ assets, liabilities, or results 
of operations. In addition, joint venture financial information may include financial information related to the unconsolidated real 
estate joint ventures that we do not control. Refer to Note 4 – “Investments in Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures” to our 
consolidated financial statements under Item 15 of this annual report on Form 10-K for more information on our unconsolidated real 
estate joint ventures. 
  We believe that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of our operating results and our total assets and liabilities, joint 
venture financial information should be examined in conjunction with our consolidated statements of operations and balance sheets. 
Joint venture financial information should not be considered an alternative to our consolidated financial statements, which are 
prepared in accordance with GAAP. 
Net cash provided by operating activities after dividends
  Net cash provided by operating activities after dividends includes the deduction for distributions to noncontrolling interests. 
For purposes of this calculation, changes in operating assets and liabilities are excluded as they represent timing differences. 
114
114
Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA and net debt and preferred stock to Adjusted EBITDA
Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure that we believe is useful to investors as a supplemental 
measure in evaluating our balance sheet leverage. Net debt is equal to the sum of total consolidated debt less cash and cash 
equivalents, and restricted cash. Net debt and preferred stock is equal to the sum of net debt, as discussed above, plus preferred stock 
outstanding as of period end. Refer to “Adjusted EBITDA” within this section of this Item 7 for further information on the calculation 
of Adjusted EBITDA.
  The following table reconciles debt to net debt, and to net debt and preferred stock, and computes the ratio of each to 
Adjusted EBITDA as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 (dollars in thousands):
December 31,
2017 2016
Secured notes payable $ 771,061 $ 1,011,292
Unsecured senior notes payable 3,395,804 2,378,262
Unsecured senior line of credit 50,000 28,000
Unsecured senior bank term loans 547,942 746,471
Unamortized deferred financing costs 29,051 29,917
Cash and cash equivalents (254,381) (125,032)
Restricted cash (22,805) (16,334)
Net debt $ 4,516,672 $ 4,052,576
Net debt $ 4,516,672 $ 4,052,576
7.00% Series D cumulative convertible preferred stock 74,386 86,914
6.45% Series E cumulative redeemable preferred stock — 130,000
Net debt and preferred stock $ 4,591,058 $ 4,269,490
Adjusted EBITDA:
– quarter annualized $ 817,392 $ 662,836
– trailing 12 months $ 767,508 $ 610,839
Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA:
– quarter annualized 5.5x 6.1x
– trailing 12 months 5.9x 6.6x
Net debt and preferred stock to Adjusted EBITDA:
– quarter annualized 5.6x 6.4x
– trailing 12 months 6.0x 7.0x
115
115
Net operating incomeN aent do poepreartaitnign gi nmcoamrgein and operating margin
  The followin g table rTechoen fcoillleosw inincgo mtaeb l(elo rsesc)o fnrcoimle sc oinnctionmuien (gl oospse) rfartoiomn sc oton tnineut ionpge roapteinragt iionncos mtoe n feotr  otpheer yaetianrgs  ienncdoemd e for the years ended 
December 31, 2017, 2D0e1c6e,m abnedr  23011, 52 0(d1o7l,l a2r0s1 i6n,  tahnodu s2a0n1d5s )(:dollars in thousands):
Year Ended DecembeYr e3a1r ,Ended December 31,
2017 22001176 22001165 2015
Income (loss) from coInnctionmuien (gl oospse) rfartoiomn scontinuing operations $ 194,093 $$ 1(9449,,089839) $$ 1(4496,,818597) $ 146,157
Equity in (earnings) lEoqssueisty o ifn u (necaornnisnoglisd)a ltoesds eres aol fe ustnactoe njsooinlitd vaetendtu rreeasl estate joint v(e1n5tu,4r2es6) (15,412864) (1,168541) (1,651)
General and administGraetniveer aelx apnedn saedsministrative expenses 75,009 7653,,080894 6539,,868241 59,621
Interest expense Interest expense 128,645 112086,,694553 110065,,985133 105,813
Depreciation and amoDretipzraetcioiantion and amortization 416,783 431163,,738930 321631,,329809 261,289
Impairment of real esItmatpeairment of real estate 203 209,220631 20293,,226510 23,250
Loss on early extinguLisohsms oennt e oafr ldye ebxttinguishment of debt 3,451 33,,425310 3,213809 189
Gain on sales of real Gesatiante o –n  rseanletasl  opfr orepaelr etisetsate – rental properties (270) (3(,277105)) (1(32,,741256)) (12,426)
Total net operating inTcootmale net operating income $ 802,488 $$ 860423,,428988 $$ 654832,,229482 $ 582,242
Revenues Revenues $ 1,128,097 $$ 1,192281,,079076 $$ 982413,,740764 $ 843,474
Operating margin Operating margin 71% 7710%% 7609%% 69%
   
  Net operatin g incomeN iest a o npoenra-tGinAgA inPc foimnaen icsi aal  nmoena-sGuAreA cPa lfciunlaantecdia la sm neeats iunrceo cmalec,u tlhaete md oasst  ndeitr eicntcloym coe,m thpea rmabolset  fdiniraencctliyal c omparable financial 
measure calculated anmde pasreusreen ctaeldc uinla atecdco arndda npcree swenitthe dG iAn AacPc, oerxdcalnucdein wg iethq uGitAy AinP ,t heex celaurdniinngg se q(luoistsye isn)  tohfe u enacronninsoglsi d(laotessde rse) aol fe ustnactoe nsolidated real estate 
joint ventures, generajlo ainntd v aednmtuirneiss,t rgaetniveer aelx apnedn saedsm, iinntiestrreastti veex peexnpseen, sdeesp, rinecteiaretisot ne xapnedn asme,o dretipzraetcioiant,i oimn paanidr mamenotr otifz aretiaoln e,s itmatpea, igramine notr o f real estate, gain or 
loss on early extinguilsohsms oennt e oafr ldye ebxt,t ianngdu igsahimn eonr tl oosfs d oenb ts, aalneds  ogfa irne aolr e lsotsaste o-rne snatalel sp orof preeratli eess tfartoem-r ecnotnalt ipnruoinpger otipees rfartoiomn sc.o Wntein bueilnigev oep erations. We believe 
net operating incomen perto ovpideerast iunsge fiunlc ionmfoer mpraotvioidne tso u isnevfeuslt oinrfso rremgaatridoinn gto o iunrv feisntaonrcs irael gcaornddinitgio onu ar nfdin raenscuilatls  coofn odpiteiroanti aonnds  breescualutss eo fit  operations because it 
primarily reflects thopseri minacroimlye r eafnlde cetxs pthenossee  iitnecmoms teh aatn adr eex ipnecnusrree idte amt sth teh aptr oapree ritnyc ulervreedl.  aTth tehree fporroep,e wrtey  bleevlieelv. eT nheetr eofpoerera, twineg  bienlcioevmee n iest  operating income is 
a useful measure for eav uasleufautli nmg etahseu orep eforart ienvga lpueartfionrgm thane coep oefr aotiunrg r epaelr feosrtamtea nacses eotsf .o Nure tr eoaple erasttainteg  ainssceotms. eN oent  oap cearsahti nbgas iins cios mneet  on a cash basis is net 
operating income adjoupsteerda ttion ge xinccluodmee t haed jeufsfteecdt  otof  estxrcaliugdhet- ltihnee e rfefnect ta onfd  satmraoigrhtitz-alitnioen r eonf ta acnqdu iarmedo artbizoavteio- na nodf  baceqlouwir-emd aarbkoevt ele- aasned  below-market lease 
revenue adjustments rreevqeunirueed  abdyj uGstAmAenP.t sW reeq bueilrieedv eb yth GatA nAetP .o Wpeera btienlige vinec tohmate n oent  oap cearsahti nbgas iins cios mheel pofnu al  tcoa sinhv beasstoisr si sa hs ealnp faudld tioti ionnvaels tors as an additional 
measure of operatingm peearfsourrme aonf coep beeractaiunsge p iet refloirmminanatcees  bthecea tuimsei nitg e dliimffeinreantecse sth bee ttiwmeienng  tdhief freerceongcnesit iboent woef ernev tehneu ree cino gancictoiornd aonfc ree vweinthu e in accordance with 
GAAP and the receipGt oAfA pPa yamnde nthtse r reefcleeciptet do fin p oayumr ceonntss orleifdlaetcetded r einsu oltusr. consolidated results.
  Further, we  believe nFetu ortpheerra, twineg  bienlcioevmee n iest u ospeefural ttion gin ivnecsotmores  iass u as epfeurlf otorm inavnecset omrse aassu ar ep berefcoarumsea,n wceh mene acsoumrep abreecda uacsero, sws hen compared across 
periods, net operatingp einricoodms,e n reetf loepcetsr attrienngd isn icno omcec urepfalnecctys  rtaretensd, sr einn toacl crautpeasn, cayn dra otepse,r aretinntga lc roasttess,,  wanhdic ohp perroavtiindge  cao psetsr,s pwehcitcivhe p nroovt ide a perspective not 
immediately apparenitm frmomed iinatceolmy ea pfproamre ncto fnrtoimnu iinngco ompee rfartoiomn sc.o Nnteitn oupinegra otipnegr aitnicoonms. eN ceatn o bpee ruastiendg t oin mcoemaseu crea nt hbee  iunsiteidal t sot ambeilaiszuerde  the initial stabilized 
yields of our propertiyeise bldys  coafl couulra tpinrogp tehreti eqsu obtyi ecnatl couf lnaetitn ogp tehrea tqinugo tiinecnot mofe n geet noeprearteadti nbgy  ian cporompee rgteyn oenra ate sdt rbayig ah tp-rlionpee brtays iosn a an ds torauirg ht-line basis and our 
investment in the proipnevretys.t mNeent to ipne trhaeti npgro ipnecrotmy. eN eext colupdereast icnegr tianinco cmome epxocnleundtess f rcoemrta iinnc coommep ionn oerndtes rf rtoo mpr ionvciodme ere isnu lotrsd tehra tto a rper omvoidree  results that are more 
closely related to the crleossuelltys  oref loatpeedr attoi othnes  orefs ouultrs  porfo opperetriaetsi.o Fnos ro ef xoaumr pplreo,p ienrtteireess. tF eoxrp eexnasme ipsl en,o itn nteerceessts eaxripleyn lsine kise dn otot  ntheec eospsearrailtyin lgin ked to the operating 
performance of a realp eesrtfaotrem aasnsceet  aonfd a  irse oafl teesnt aintec uarsrseedt  aant dth ies  cooftrepno riantceu lrervedel a rta tthhee rc tohrapno raatt eth lee vperol praetrhtye rl ethvaenl.  aItn  tahded pitrioopne,r dtye plerevceila. tIino na ddition, depreciation 
and amortization, becaanuds ea mofo hrtiisztaotriiocna,l  bceocsat uascec oouf nhtiisntgo raincadl  ucsoesftu al clcifoeu ensttiinmga atnesd,  umsaeyfu dl ilsitfoer et sctoimmaptaersa, bmilaityy  doifs tooprte rcaotminpga praebrfiolirtmy aonf coep erating performance 
at the property level. aItm tphaei prmroepnetr otyf  lreevael le. sItmatpea hiramvee nbte oenf  reexacl leusdteadte i hna dveer ibveienng  enxect loupdeerda tiinn gd eirnicvoinmge n beet coapuesrea twineg d ion cnoomt ceo bnescidaeurs e we do not consider 
impairments of real eismtaptea itrom been tpsr oofp erertayl- elesvtaetle o tpoe braet pinrgo peexrptye-nlseevse.l I omppearairtminegn et xopfe rnesael se. sItmatpea rierlmateen tto o cf hraenalg eesst iante t hreel avtael utoes c ohfa noguer s in the values of our 
assets and do not reflaescst etthse a cnudr rdeon tn oopt ereraflteincgt  tpheer fcourrmreannt coep weriathti nrges ppeercfto trom raenlactee dw ritehv erensupeesc ot rt oe xrepleantesdes r.e Oveunr uimesp oari remxepnetn osef sr.e Oalu ers itmatpea irment of real estate 
represent the write-dorewpnr eisne tnhte t hvea lwueri toef- dthoew ans sinet sth teo  vthaleu ees otifm thatee ads fsaeitrs  vtoal tuhee l eesstsi mcoastte dto f saeirl lv. aTlhuees lee sims cpoasirtm toe nsetsl lr. eTshuelts efr oimmp ianirvmesetnintsg  result from investing 
decisions and deteriodraetcioisnio inns m anardk dete tceorniodriatitoionns .i nO mura craklectu cloatnidoint ioofn sn.e Ot oupr ecraaltcinugla itniocno mofe n aelts oo peexrcaltuindge si ncchoamrgee sa lisnoc uerxrceldu dfreosm c hcahragnegs eisn curred from changes 
in certain financing dienc icseirotnasin,  sfuincahn acsi nlgo sdse ocnis eioanrlsy,  seuxctihn gasu ilsohsms oennt e oafr ldye ebxt,t iansg tuhiesshem cehnatr goef sd oebftte, na sr etlhaetsee t oc hcaorrgpeosr oatfete snt rraetleagtey .t Po rcoopreprotyra te strategy. Property 
operating expenses thoapt earraet iinngc leuxdpeedn isne sd tehteart marien iinngc lnuedte odp ienr adteintegr minicnoinmge n perti mopaerrilayti ncogn isnicsot mofe c porsitms athrialty a croe nrseilsatt eodf  ctoo sotus rt hoapte arareti nregl ated to our operating 
properties, such as utpilriotipees,r trieeps,a isrusc, ha nads  umtialiintiteesn,a rnecpea;i rrse,n atanld e mxpaeinntseen raenlcaete; dr etnot aglr oeuxnpden lseea sreesla; tceodn ttora gcrteodu nsde rlveiacseess,; s cuocnht raasc jtaendi tsoerrivailc, es, such as janitorial, 
engineering, and landesncgaipnienegr;i npgro, paenrdt yla tnadxsecsa apnindg i;n psurorapnecrtey;  atanxde ps raonpde ritnys-uleravnecl es;a alanrdie psr. oGpeenrteyr-alle avnedl  saadlamriiensis. tGraetniveer aelx apnedn saedsm cionnisstirsat tive expenses consist 
primarily of accountipnrgi manadri lcyo ropfo arcacteo ucnotminpge nansadt icoonr,p coorarpteo rcaotme ipnesnusraatniocne,,  pcororpfeosrsaitoen ianls fuereasn, coef,f ipcreo freesnsti,o annadl  foefefisc, eo sffuipcpe lrieens tt,h aant da roef fice supplies that are 
incurred as part of coirnpcourrarteed o affsi cpea rmt oanf acgoerpmoernatt.e  Wofef ibceel imevaen atgheamt ienn ot.r dWere  tboe fliaecvilei ttahtaet  ai nc loeradre ur ntdoe frasctailnitdaitneg a o cfl eoaurr  uonpdeerrasttianngd riensgu lotfs ,o ur operating results, 
net operating incomen sehto ouplder batei negx ainmcionmede  isnh coounldju bnec teixoanm winitehd i ninc ocmonej ufrnocmtio cno nwtiitnhu iinngco ompee rfartoiomn sc oans tpinreusinengt eodp eirna otiuorn sc oanss porleidseantetded  in our consolidated 
116 116
116
statements of operations. Net operating income should not be considered as an alternative to net income as an indication of our 
performance, nor as an alternative to cash flows as a measure either of liquidity or our ability to make distributions.
Operating statistics
  We present certain operating statistics related to our properties, including number of properties, RSF, occupancy percentage, 
leasing activity, and contractual lease expirations as of the end of the period. We believe these measures are useful to investors because 
they facilitate an understanding of certain trends for our properties. We compute the number of properties, RSF, occupancy percentage, 
leasing activity, and contractual expirations at 100% for all properties in which we have an investment, including properties owned by 
our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures. For operating metrics that include annual rental rate revenue, see our 
discussion of annual rental revenue herein.
Same Property comparisons
As a result of changes within our total property portfolio during the comparative periods presented, including changes from 
assets acquired or sold, properties placed into development or redevelopment, and development or redevelopment properties recently 
placed into service, the consolidated total rental revenues, tenant recoveries, and rental operating expenses in our operating results can 
show significant changes from period to period. In order to supplement an evaluation of our results of operations over a given period, 
we analyze the operating performance for all properties that were fully operating for the entirety of the comparative periods presented, 
referred to as Same Properties. These properties are analyzed separately from properties acquired subsequent to the first day in the 
earliest comparable period presented, properties that underwent development or redevelopment at any time during the comparative 
periods, and corporate entities (legal entities performing general and administrative functions), which are excluded from Same 
Property results. Additionally, rental revenues from lease termination fees, if any, are excluded from the results of Same Properties.
Stabilized occupancy date
  The stabilized occupancy date represents the estimated date on which the project is expected to reach occupancy of 95% or 
greater.
Total market capitalization
  Total market capitalization is equal to the sum of total equity market capitalization and total debt. Total equity market 
capitalization is equal to the sum of outstanding shares of 7.00% Series D cumulative convertible preferred stock, 6.45% Series E 
cumulative redeemable preferred stock, and common stock multiplied by the related closing price of each class of security at the end 
of each period presented.
Unencumbered net operating income as a percentage of total net operating income
 
Unencumbered net operating income as a percentage of total net operating income is a non-GAAP financial measure that we 
believe is useful to investors as a performance measure of the results of operations of our unencumbered real estate assets, as it reflects 
those income and expense items that are incurred at the unencumbered property level. Unencumbered net operating income is derived 
from assets classified in continuing operations, which are not subject to any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, or other security interest, as 
of the period for which income is presented.
The following table summarizes unencumbered net operating income as a percentage of total net operating income for the 
years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (dollars in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
2017 2016
Unencumbered net operating income $ 661,473 $ 543,597
Encumbered net operating income 141,015 99,701
Total net operating income $ 802,488 $ 643,298
Unencumbered net operating income as a percentage of total net operating income 82% 85%
117
117
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
Interest rate risk
The primary market risk to which we believe we are exposed is interest rate risk, which may result from many factors, 
including government monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political considerations, and other factors 
that are beyond our control.
In order to modify and manage the interest rate characteristics of our outstanding debt and to limit the effects of interest rate 
risks on our operations, we may utilize a variety of financial instruments, including interest rate swap agreements, caps, floors, and 
other interest rate exchange contracts. The use of these types of instruments to hedge a portion of our exposure to changes in interest 
rates carries additional risks, such as counterparty credit risk and the legal enforceability of hedging contracts.
Our future earnings and fair values relating to financial instruments are primarily dependent upon prevalent market rates of 
interest, such as LIBOR. However, our interest rate hedge agreements are intended to reduce the effects of interest rate fluctuations. 
The following table illustrates the effect of a 1% change in interest rates, assuming a LIBOR floor of 0%, on our variable-rate debt, 
including our $1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit, unsecured senior bank term loans, and secured construction loans, after 
considering the effect of our interest rate hedge agreements, secured debt, and unsecured senior notes payable as of December 31, 
2017 (in thousands):
Annualized effect on future earnings due to variable-rate debt:
Rate increase of 1% $ (187)
Rate decrease of 1% $ 187
Effect on fair value of total consolidated debt and interest rate hedge agreements:
Rate increase of 1% $ (236,463)
Rate decrease of 1% $ 254,372
These amounts are determined by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on our borrowing cost and our 
interest rate hedge agreements in existence on December 31, 2017. These analyses do not consider the effects of the reduced level of 
overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. Further, in the event of a change of such magnitude, we would 
consider taking actions to further mitigate our exposure to the change. Because of the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be 
taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analyses assume no changes in our capital structure.
Equity price risk
We have exposure to equity price market risk because of our equity investments in certain publicly traded companies, limited 
partnerships, and privately held entities. We currently classify investments in publicly traded companies as available-for-sale and 
consequently recognize them in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value, with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component 
of accumulated other comprehensive income. Investments in limited partnerships and privately held entities are generally accounted 
for under the cost method because we do not influence any of the operating or financial policies of the entities in which we invest. For 
all investments, we recognize other-than-temporary declines in value against earnings in the same period during which the decline in 
value was deemed to have occurred. There is no assurance that future declines in value will not have a material adverse impact on our 
future results of operations. The following table illustrates the effect that a 10% change in the fair value of our equity investments 
would have on earnings as of December 31, 2017 (in thousands):
Equity price risk:
Fair value increase of 10% $ 52,325
Fair value decrease of 10% $ (52,325)
118
118
On January 1, 2018, we adopted an ASU that amended the accounting for equity investments (excluding debt securities and 
equity investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting or that which result in consolidation) and the presentation and 
disclosure requirements for financial instruments. Refer to Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated 
financial statements under Item 15 of this annual report on Form 10-K for further details.
We may have exposure to equity price market risk under the new ASU due to our equity investments in certain publicly 
traded companies, limited partnerships, and other privately held entities. Our investments in publicly traded companies will be 
recognized in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value, with unrealized gains or losses reported in earnings for reporting periods 
subsequent to December 31, 2017. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values that qualify for the NAV practical 
expedient, such as our equity investments in limited partnerships, will be accounted for based on their NAV, with changes in NAV 
recognized in earnings for reporting periods subsequent to December 31, 2017. Equity investments without readily determinable fair 
values in other privately held entities will be accounted for at cost less impairments and adjusted for observable price changes, in 
accordance with the measurement alternative permitted by this ASU. Impairments will be recognized in earnings in the same period in 
which they occur. Refer to Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements under 
Item 15 of this annual report on Form 10-K for further details.
Foreign currency exchange rate risk
We have exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk related to our subsidiaries operating in Canada and Asia. The 
functional currencies of our foreign subsidiaries are the respective local currencies. Gains or losses resulting from the translation of 
our foreign subsidiaries’ balance sheets and statements of operations are classified in accumulated other comprehensive income as a 
separate component of total equity. Gains or losses will be reflected in our consolidated statements of operations when there is a sale 
or partial sale of our investment in these operations or upon a complete or substantially complete liquidation of the investment. The 
following table illustrates the effect that a 10% change in foreign currency rates relative to the U.S. dollar would have on our potential 
future earnings and on the fair value of our net investment in foreign subsidiaries based on our current operating assets outside the 
U.S. as of December 31, 2017 (in thousands):
Effect of potential future earnings due to foreign currency exchange rate:
Rate increase of 10% $ 91
Rate decrease of 10% $ (91)
Effect on the fair value of net investment in foreign subsidiaries due to foreign currency exchange rate:
Rate increase of 10% $ 11,121
Rate decrease of 10% $ (11,121)
This sensitivity analysis assumes a parallel shift of all foreign currency exchange rates with respect to the U.S. dollar; 
however, foreign currency exchange rates do not typically move in such a manner, and actual results may differ materially.
Our exposure to market risk elements for the year ended December 31, 2017, was consistent with the risk elements presented 
above, including the effects of changes in interest rates, equity prices, and foreign currency exchange rates.
119
119
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The information required by this Item is included as a separate section in this annual report on Form 10-K. Refer to “Item 15. 
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.”
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL 
DISCLOSURE
None.
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures
As of December 31, 2017, we had performed an evaluation, under the supervision of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) 
and our Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. 
These controls and procedures have been designed to ensure that information required for disclosure is recorded, processed, 
summarized, and reported within the requisite time periods. Based on our evaluation, the CEO and the CFO concluded that our 
disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2017.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting
There has not been any change in our internal control over financial reporting during the three months ended December 31, 
2017, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting
The management of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) is responsible for establishing 
and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is defined in 
Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is a process designed by, or 
under the supervision of, the CEO and the CFO and effected by the Company’s Board of Directors, management, and other personnel 
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external 
reporting purposes in accordance with GAAP. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and 
procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of assets; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial 
statements in accordance with GAAP, and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with the authorizations of 
the Company’s management and directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of 
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. 
Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of 
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Management has assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 
2017 and 2016. In making its assessment, management has utilized the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations (“COSO 2013”) of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013 framework). 
Management concluded that based on its assessment, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of 
December 31, 2017. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, has been audited by 
Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered accounting firm, as stated in its report, which is included herein.
120
120
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on 
criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. (the “Company”) 
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on the COSO 
criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) 
(“PCAOB”), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the related consolidated 
statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders’ equity and noncontrolling interests, and cash flows for each 
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017, and our report dated January 30, 2018, expressed an unqualified opinion 
thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment 
of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying management’s annual report on internal 
control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control over financial reporting 
based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the 
Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange 
Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit 
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such 
other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our 
opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the 
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the 
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in 
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect 
on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections 
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Los Angeles, California
January 30, 2018
121
121
ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION
  Our discussion of federal income tax considerations in Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, which is incorporated herein by 
reference, supersedes and replaces, in its entirety, (i) the disclosure under the heading “Federal Income Tax Considerations” in the 
prospectus dated December 18, 2017, which is a part of our Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-222136), as amended, 
and (ii) the disclosure under the heading “Federal Income Tax Considerations” in the prospectus dated November 3, 2015, which is a 
part of our Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-207762), as amended. Our updated discussion addresses recently 
enacted tax law changes.
PART III
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2018 
annual meeting of stockholders to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of our fiscal year (the “2018 
Proxy Statement”) under the captions “Board of Directors and Executive Officers,” “Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of 
Ethics,” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.”
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference from our 2018 Proxy Statement under the caption 
“Executive Compensation.”
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED 
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
The following table sets forth information on the Company’s equity compensation plan as of December 31, 2017:
Equity Compensation Plan Information
Number of securities
remaining available for
Number of securities to be Weighted-average future issuance under
issued upon exercise of exercise price of equity compensation plans
outstanding options, outstanding options, (excluding securities
warrants, and rights warrants, and rights reflected in column (a))
(a) (b) (c)
Equity Compensation Plan Approved by
Stockholders — Amended and Restated
1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan — — 3,825,236
The other information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference from our 2018 Proxy Statement under the 
caption “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.”
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference from our 2018 Proxy Statement under the captions 
“Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,” “Policies and Procedures with Respect to Related-Person Transactions,” and 
“Director Independence.”
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference from our 2018 Proxy Statement under the caption 
“Fees Billed by Independent Registered Public Accountants.”
122
122
PART IV
ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
  (a)(1) and (2)  Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule
  The financial statements and financial statement schedule required by this Item are included as a separate section in this 
annual report on Form 10-K beginning on page F-1.
Page
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm F-1
Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.:
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 F-2
Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015 F-3
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the Years Ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015 F-4
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity and Noncontrolling Interests for the Years Ended 
December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015 F-5
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015 F-7
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements F-9
Schedule III – Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule of Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation F-69
  (a)(3) Exhibits
Exhibit Incorporated by
Number Exhibit Title Reference to: Date Filed
3.1* Articles of Amendment and Restatement of the Company Form 10-Q August 14, 1997
3.2* Certificate of Correction of the Company Form 10-Q August 14, 1997
3.3* Articles of Amendment of the Company, dated May 10, 2017 Form 8-K May 12, 2017
3.4* Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company (as amended January 5,  Form 8-K January 9, 2018
2018)
3.5* Articles Supplementary, dated June 9, 1999, relating to the 9.50% Series A  Form 10-Q August 13, 1999
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock
3.6* Articles Supplementary, dated February 10, 2000, relating to the election to  Form 8-K February 10, 2000
be subject to Subtitle 8 of Title 3 of the Maryland General Corporation Law
3.7* Articles Supplementary, dated February 10, 2000, relating to the Series A  Form 8-K February 10, 2000
Junior Participating Preferred Stock
3.8* Articles Supplementary, dated January 18, 2002, relating to the 9.10%  Form 8-A January 18, 2002
Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock
3.9* Articles Supplementary, dated June 22, 2004, relating to the 8.375%  Form 8-A June 28, 2004
Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock
3.10* Articles Supplementary, dated March 25, 2008, relating to the 7.00%  Form 8-K March 25, 2008
Series D Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock
3.11* Articles Supplementary, dated March 12, 2012, relating to the 6.45%  Form 8-K March 14, 2012
Series E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock
3.12* Articles Supplementary, dated May 10, 2017, relating to Reclassified  Form 8-K May 12, 2017
Preferred Stock
4.1* Specimen certificate representing shares of common stock Form 10-Q May 5, 2011
4.2* Specimen certificate representing shares of 7.00% Series D Cumulative  Form 8-K March 25, 2008
Convertible Preferred Stock
123
123
Exhibit Incorporated by
Number Exhibit Title Reference to: Date Filed
4.3* Indenture, dated as of February 29, 2012, among the Company, as Issuer,  Form 8-K February 29, 2012
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, and the Bank of New 
York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee
4.4* Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of February 29, 2012, among the  Form 8-K February 29, 2012
Company, as Issuer, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, 
and the Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee
4.5* Form of 4.60% Senior Note due 2022 (included in Exhibit 4.4 above) Form 8-K February 29, 2012
4.6* Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of June 7, 2013, among the  Form 8-K June 7, 2013
Company, as Issuer, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, 
and the Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee
4.7* Form of 3.90% Senior Note due 2023 (included in Exhibit 4.6 above) Form 8-K June 7, 2013
4.8* Supplemental Indenture No. 3, dated as of July 18, 2014, among the  Form 8-K July 18, 2014
Company, as Issuer, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, 
and the Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee
4.9* Form of 2.750% Senior Note due 2020 (included in Exhibit 4.8 above) Form 8-K July 18, 2014
4.10* Supplemental Indenture No. 4, dated as of July 18, 2014, among the  Form 8-K July 18, 2014
Company, as Issuer, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, 
and the Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee
4.11* Form of 4.500% Senior Note due 2029 (included in Exhibit 4.10 above) Form 8-K July 18, 2014
4.12* Indenture, dated as of November 17, 2015, among the Company, as Issuer,  Form 8-K November 17, 2015
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, and Wilmington Trust, 
National Association, as Trustee
4.13* Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of November 17, 2015, among the  Form 8-K November 17, 2015
Company, as Issuer, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, 
and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as Trustee
4.14* Form of 4.30% Senior Note due 2026 (included in Exhibit 4.13 above) Form 8-K November 17, 2015
4.15* Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of June 10, 2016, among the  Form 8-K June 10, 2016
Company, as Issuer, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, 
and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as Trustee
4.16* Form of 3.95% Senior Note due 2027 (included in Exhibit 4.15 above) Form 8-K June 10, 2016
4.17* Indenture, dated as of March 3, 2017, among the Company, as Issuer  Form 8-K March 3, 2017
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, and Branch Banking 
and Trust Company, as Trustee 
4.18* Supplemental Indenture No.1, dated as of March 3, 2017, among the  Form 8-K March 3, 2017
Company. as Issuer, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, 
and Branch Banking and Trust Company, as Trustee 
4.19* Form of 3.95% Senior Note due 2028 (included in Exhibit 4.18 above)  Form 8-K March 3, 2017
4.20* Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of November 20, 2017, among the  Form 8-K November 20, 2017
Company, as Issuer, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, 
and Branch Banking and Trust Company, as Trustee
4.21* Form of 3.45% Senior Note due 2025 (included in Exhibit 4.20 above) Form 8-K November 20, 2017
10.1* Fifth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of July 29, 2016,  Form 10-Q November 2, 2016
among the Company, as Borrower, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as 
Guarantor, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Merrill Lynch, 
Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., and 
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Book 
Runners, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 
as Co-Syndication Agents, Barclays Bank PLC, BBVA Compass, Capital 
One, National Association, Goldman Sachs Bank USA, Mizuho Bank, 
Ltd., Regions Bank, Royal Bank of Canada, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking 
Corporation, TD Bank, N.A., The Bank of Nova Scotia, and The Bank of 
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Co-Documentation Agents
124
124
Exhibit Incorporated by
Number Exhibit Title Reference to: Date Filed
10.2* First Amendment to Amended and Restated Term Loan Agreement, dated  Form 10-Q November 2, 2016
as of July 29, 2016, among the Company, as Borrower, Alexandria Real 
Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, Bank of America, N.A., as 
Administrative Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citigroup Global 
Markets Inc., as Co-Syndication Agents, Barclays Bank PLC, Capital One, 
N.A., Compass Bank, Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, 
Goldman Sachs Bank USA, HSBC Bank USA, National Association, 
Royal Bank of Canada, The Bank of Nova Scotia, and The Royal Bank of 
Scotland PLC, as Co-Documentation Agents, and J.P. Morgan Securities 
LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, and Citigroup 
Global Markets Inc., as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Lead Book Runners
10.3* First Amendment to Third Amended and Restated Term Loan Agreement,  Form 10-Q November 2, 2016
dated as of July 29, 2016, among the Company, as Borrower, Alexandria 
Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, Citibank, N.A., as Administrative 
Agent, Royal Bank of Canada and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Co-
Syndication Agents, Compass Bank, Regions Bank, MUFG Union Bank, 
N.A., SunTrust Bank, TD Bank, N.A., Mizuho Bank (USA), and PNC 
Bank National Association, as Co-Documentation Agents, and Citigroup 
Global Markets Inc., RBC Capital Markets, and The Bank of Nova Scotia, 
as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Book Running Managers
10.4* (1) Amended and Restated 1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan of the  Form 8-K May 16, 2016
Company, dated May 12, 2016
10.5* (1) Form of Non-Employee Director Stock Option Agreement for use in  Form S-11 May 5, 1997
connection with options issued pursuant to the Amended and Restated 1997 
Stock Award and Incentive Plan
10.6* (1) Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement for use in connection with  Form S-11 May 5, 1997
options issued pursuant to the Amended and Restated 1997 Stock Award 
and Incentive Plan
10.7* (1) Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement for use in connection with  Form S-11 May 5, 1997
options issued pursuant to the Amended and Restated 1997 Stock Award 
and Incentive Plan
10.8* (1) Form of Employee Restricted Stock Agreement for use in connection with  Filed herewith
shares of restricted stock issued to employees pursuant to the Amended and 
Restated 1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan
10.9* (1) Form of Employee Restricted Stock Agreement (U.S. Affiliate) for use in  Filed herewith
connection with shares of restricted stock issued to employees pursuant to 
the Amended and Restated 1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan
10.10* (1) Form of Independent Director Restricted Stock Agreement for use in  Filed herewith
connection with shares of restricted stock issued to directors pursuant to the 
Amended and Restated 1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan
10.11* (1) Form of Independent Contractor Restricted Stock Agreement for use in  Filed herewith
connection with shares of restricted stock issued to independent contractors 
pursuant to the Amended and Restated 1997 Stock Award and Incentive 
Plan
10.12* (1) The Company’s 2000 Deferred Compensation Plan, amended and restated  Form 10-K March 1, 2011
effective as of January 1, 2010
10.13* (1) The Company’s 2000 Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors, amended  Form 10-K March 1, 2011
and restated effective as of January 1, 2010
10.14* (1) Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement, effective as of  Form 8-K April 7, 2015
January 1, 2015, by and between the Company and Joel S. Marcus
10.15* (1) Letter Amendment to Amended and Restated Executive Employment  Form 8-K July 3, 2017
Agreement, dated July 3, 2017, by and between the Company and Joel S. 
Marcus
10.16* (1) Third Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement between  Form 10-Q May 4, 2016
the Company and Dean A. Shigenaga, effective as of January 1, 2016
125
125
Exhibit Incorporated by
Number Exhibit Title Reference to: Date Filed
10.17* (1) Fourth Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement,  Form 10-Q May 4, 2016
effective January 1, 2016, between the Company and Stephen A. 
Richardson
10.18* (1) Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement between the  Form 10-Q May 4, 2016
Company and Peter M. Moglia, effective January 1, 2016
10.19* (1) Third Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement between  Form 10-Q May 4, 2016
the Company and Thomas J. Andrews, effective January 1, 2016
10.20* (1) Executive Employment Agreement between the Company and Daniel J.  Form 10-K March 3, 2014
Ryan, effective September 7, 2010
10.21 (1) Summary of Director Compensation Arrangements Filed herewith
10.22* (1) Anniversary Bonus Plan of the Company Form 8-K June 17, 2010
10.23* (1) Amended and Restated Consulting Agreement, dated as of September 30,  Form 10-Q November 9, 2011
2011, between the Company and James H. Richardson
10.24* Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each of its  Form 10-K March 1, 2011
directors and officers
11.1 Computation of Per Share Earnings (included in Note 12 to the  Filed herewith
Consolidated Financial Statements).
12.1 Computation of Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges and  Filed herewith
Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends
14.1* The Company’s Business Integrity Policy and Procedures for Reporting  Form 10-K February 24, 2015
Non-Compliance (code of ethics pursuant to Item 406 of Regulation S-K)
21.1 List of Subsidiaries of the Company Filed herewith
23.1 Consent of Ernst & Young LLP Filed herewith
31.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the  Filed herewith
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the  Filed herewith
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
32.0 Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer  Filed herewith
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of 
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
99.1 Federal Income Tax Considerations Filed herewith
101 The following materials from the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K Filed herewith
for the year ended December 31, 2017, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible
Business Reporting Language): (i) Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
December 31, 2017 and 2016, (ii) Consolidated Statements of Operations
for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, (iii) Consolidated
Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31,
2017, 2016, and 2015, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Changes in
Stockholders’ Equity and Noncontrolling Interests for the years ended
December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, (v) Consolidated Statements of Cash
Flows for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, (vi) Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements, and (vii) Schedule III - Consolidated
Financial Statement Schedule of Real Estate and Accumulated
Depreciation of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
(*) Incorporated by reference.
(1) Management contract or compensatory arrangement.
126
126
SIGNATURES
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused 
this annual report on Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC. 
Dated: January 30, 2018 By:     /s/ Joel S. Marcus
Joel S. Marcus
Chief Executive Officer
KNOW ALL THOSE BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints 
Joel S. Marcus, as his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him and in his 
name, place, and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this annual report on Form 10-K, and to file the 
same, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, if any, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
granting unto said attorney-in-fact and agent, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and 
necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that 
said attorney-in-fact and agent of their substitute or substitutes may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this annual report on Form 10-K has been signed below 
by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Signature Title Date
/s/ Joel S. Marcus                        Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive
Joel S. Marcus Officer (Principal Executive Officer) January 30, 2018
/s/ Dean A. Shigenaga                 Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer and
Dean A. Shigenaga  Principal Accounting Officer) January 30, 2018
/s/ Steven R. Hash                      
Steven R. Hash  Lead Director January 30, 2018
/s/ John L. Atkins, III                 
John L. Atkins, III  Director January 30, 2018
/s/ James P. Cain                        
James P. Cain Director January 30, 2018
/s/ Maria C. Freire                      
Maria C. Freire Director January 30, 2018
/s/ Richard H. Klein                   
Richard H. Klein  Director January 30, 2018
/s/ James H. Richardson             
James H. Richardson  Director January 30, 2018
/s/ Michael A. Woronoff             
Michael A. Woronoff Director January 30, 2018
S-1
S-1
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. (the “Company”), as of 
December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders’ 
equity and noncontrolling interests, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017, and the related 
notes and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15 (collectively referred to as the “financial statements”). In our 
opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company at 
December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period 
ended December 31, 2017, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) 
(PCAOB), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria established in Internal 
Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 
framework), and our report dated January 30, 2018, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion 
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to 
be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and 
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit 
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. 
Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to 
error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence 
regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used 
and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe 
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1994.
Los Angeles, California
January 30, 2018 
F-1
F-1
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In thousands, except share and per share amounts)
December 31,
2017 2016
Assets
Investments in real estate $ 10,298,019 $ 9,077,972
Investments in unconsolidated real estate joint ventures 110,618 50,221
Cash and cash equivalents 254,381 125,032
Restricted cash 22,805 16,334
Tenant receivables 10,262 9,744
Deferred rent 434,731 335,974
Deferred leasing costs 221,430 195,937
Investments 523,254 342,477
Other assets 228,453 201,197
Total assets $ 12,103,953 $ 10,354,888
Liabilities, Noncontrolling Interests, and Equity
Secured notes payable $ 771,061 $ 1,011,292
Unsecured senior notes payable 3,395,804 2,378,262
Unsecured senior line of credit 50,000 28,000
Unsecured senior bank term loans 547,942 746,471
Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and tenant security deposits 763,832 731,671
Dividends payable 92,145 76,914
Total liabilities 5,620,784 4,972,610
Commitments and contingencies
Redeemable noncontrolling interests 11,509 11,307
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s stockholders’ equity:
7.00% Series D cumulative convertible preferred stock, $0.01 par value per share,
10,000,000 shares authorized; 2,975,432 and 3,476,547 shares issued and
outstanding as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively; $25 liquidation
value per share 74,386 86,914
6.45% Series E cumulative redeemable preferred stock, $0.01 par value per share,
5,200,000 shares authorized; 0 and 5,200,000 shares issued and outstanding as of
December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively; $25 liquidation value per share — 130,000
Common stock, $0.01 par value per share, 200,000,000 and 100,000,000 shares
authorized as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively; 99,783,686 and
87,665,880 shares issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2017 and 2016,
respectively 998 877
Additional paid-in capital 5,824,258 4,672,650
Accumulated other comprehensive income 50,024 5,355
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s stockholders’ equity 5,949,666 4,895,796
Noncontrolling interests 521,994 475,175
Total equity 6,471,660 5,370,971
Total liabilities, noncontrolling interests, and equity $ 12,103,953 $ 10,354,888
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
F-2
F-2
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Operations
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
Year Ended December 31,
2017 2016 2015
Revenues:
Rental $ 863,181 $ 673,820 $ 608,824
Tenant recoveries 259,144 223,655 209,063
Other income 5,772 24,231 25,587
Total revenues 1,128,097 921,706 843,474
Expenses:
Rental operations 325,609 278,408 261,232
General and administrative 75,009 63,884 59,621
Interest 128,645 106,953 105,813
Depreciation and amortization 416,783 313,390 261,289
Impairment of real estate 203 209,261 23,250
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 3,451 3,230 189
Total expenses 949,700 975,126 711,394
Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated real estate joint ventures 15,426 (184) 1,651
Gain on sales of real estate – rental properties 270 3,715 12,426
Income (loss) from continuing operations 194,093 (49,889) 146,157
Loss from discontinued operations — — (43)
Gain on sales of real estate – land parcels 111 90 —
 Net income (loss) 194,204 (49,799) 146,114
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (25,111) (16,102) (1,897)
 Net income (loss) attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s
stockholders 169,093 (65,901) 144,217
Dividends on preferred stock (7,666) (20,223) (24,986)
Preferred stock redemption charge (11,279) (61,267) —
Net income attributable to unvested restricted stock awards (4,753) (3,750) (2,364)
 Net income (loss) attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s
common stockholders $ 145,395 $ (151,141) $ 116,867
 Net income (loss) per share attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities,
Inc.’s common stockholders – basic:
Continuing operations $ 1.59 $ (1.99) $ 1.63
Discontinued operations — — —
 Net income (loss) per share $ 1.59 $ (1.99) $ 1.63
Net income (loss) per share attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities,
Inc.’s common stockholders – diluted:
Continuing operations $ 1.58 $ (1.99) $ 1.63
Discontinued operations — — —
Net income (loss) per share $ 1.58 $ (1.99) $ 1.63
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
F-3
F-3
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
(In thousands)
Year Ended December 31,
2017 2016 2015
 Net income (loss) $ 194,204 $ (49,799) $ 146,114
Other comprehensive income (loss)
Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale equity securities:
Unrealized holding gains (losses) arising during the period 24,360 (79,833) 77,370
Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included in net income (loss) 6,118 (18,473) (12,138)
Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale equity securities, net 30,478 (98,306) 65,232
Unrealized gains (losses) on interest rate hedge agreements:
Unrealized interest rate hedge gains (losses) arising during the period 2,837 (1,150) (5,516)
Reclassification adjustment for amortization to interest expense included in
net income (loss) 1,915 5,273 2,707
Unrealized gains (losses) on interest rate hedge agreements, net 4,752 4,123 (2,809)
Unrealized gains (losses) on foreign currency translation:
Unrealized foreign currency translation gains (losses) arising during the
period 7,774 (2,579) (21,844)
Reclassification adjustment for cumulative foreign currency translation
losses included in net income (loss) upon sale or liquidation 1,599 52,926 9,236
Unrealized gains (losses) on foreign currency translation, net 9,373 50,347 (12,608)
Total other comprehensive income (loss) 44,603 (43,836) 49,815
 Comprehensive income (loss) 238,807 (93,635) 195,929
Less: comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests (25,045) (16,102) (1,893)
Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities,
Inc.’s common stockholders $ 213,762 $ (109,737) $ 194,036
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
F-4
F-4
deemablecontrollingnterests 14,315 1,093 — — (1,190) — — — — — — — 14,218 1,016 — (5,206) (985) 2,264 — — — — — — 11,307
enI
Ro
N $ $ $
3 1 5 4 — 3 7 5 9) 7) 6) — 6 5) 6) — 1) 3 7 9 6) 3) 3) — 1
4 2 1 6 6 4 4 6 9 8 4 1 3 4 8 7 6 2 6 2 7
2 0 8 9 4 0 4 9 2 9 7 8 8 2 1 1 3 8 5 2 9
TotalEquity 3,895, 145, 49, 78, 27, 443, (113, (221, (24, 4,279, (50, (43, (17, 217, 1,432, 38, (206, (257, (20, 5,370,
$ $ $
4 4 4) 4 — — — 5 4) — — — 9 6 — — 1) 1 — — — — — — 5
g 0 0 ( 6 9 0 5 8 4 7 7
n 8 8 9 5 5 6 0 2 6 1
controllinterests 66, 301, (65, 304, 15, (17, 172, 475,
nI
o
N
$ $ $
olling Interests AccumulatedOtherComprehensive(Loss) Income (628$) — 49,819 — — — — — — — — — $49,191 — (43,836) — — — — — — — — — $5,355
r
d Noncont Equity RetainedEarnings $— 144,217 — — — — — — — (221,297) (24,986) 102,066 $— (65,901) — — — — — — (61,267) (257,563) (20,223) 404,954 $—
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.atements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity an(Dollars in thousands) Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s Stockholders’  6.45%Series ECumulativeRedeemableNumber ofAdditionalPreferredCommonCommonPaid-In StockSharesStockCapital $130,00071,463,876$715$3,461,189 ———— ———— ———— ———— —889,856978,454 —194,961127,046 ———141,850 ———(48,465) ———— ———— ———(102,066) $130,00072,548,693$725$3,558,008 ———— ———— ———— ———— ———44,512 —14,773,5931481,432,029 —343,594438,365 ———4,690 ———— ———— ———(404,954) $130,00087,665,880$877$4,672,650 F-5 F-5
t
olidated S 7.00%Series DCumulativeConvertiblePreferredStock 237,163 — — — — — — — — — — — 237,163 — — — — — — — (150,249) — — — 86,914
ns $ $ $
o
C
ests
Balance as of December 31, 2014 Net income Total other comprehensive income (loss) Contributions from noncontrolling interests Distributions to noncontrolling interests Issuances of common stock Issuances pursuant to stock plan Sales of noncontrolling interests Purchases of noncontrolling interests Dividends declared on common stock Dividends declared on preferred stock Distributions in excess of earnings Balance as of December 31, 2015 Net (loss) income Total other comprehensive loss Redemption of redeemable noncontrolling interests Distributions to noncontrolling interests Contributions from and sales of noncontrolling inter Issuances of common stock Issuances pursuant to stock plan Repurchase of 7.00% Series D preferred stock Dividends declared on common stock Dividends declared on preferred stock Distributions in excess of earnings Balance as of December 31, 2016
deemablecontrollingnterests 11,307 1,058 — — (856) — — — — — — — — 11,509
enI
Ro
N $ $
1 6 3 1) 5) 5 7 9 4) 0) 5) 6) — 0
7 4 0 4 0 2 9 9 3 5 8 6 6
9 1 6 5 5 6 3 3 9 3 4 6 6
TotalEquity 5,370, 193, 44, ( (21, 52, 1,275, 42, (17, (130, (329, (7, 6,471,
$ $
5 3 6) 1) 5) 8 — — — — — — — 4
g 7 5 6 4 0 7 9
n 1 0 ( 5 5 8 9
controllinterests 475, 24, ( (21, 44, 521,
d) onI
e N
u $ $
n
ti 5 — 9 — — — — — — — — — — 4
controlling Interests (con Equity AccumulatedOtherRetainedComprehensiveEarningsIncome (Loss) $—$5,35 169,093 —44,66 — — — — — (5,797) (5,482) (329,485) (7,666) 179,337 $—$50,02 ed financial statements.
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.s of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity and Non(Dollars in thousands) Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s Stockholders’  6.45%Series ECumulativeRedeemableNumber ofAdditionalPreferredCommonCommonPaid-In StockSharesStockCapital 130,00087,665,880$877$4,672,650 ———— ———— ———— ———— ———7,747 —11,694,1011171,275,280 —423,705442,395 ———391 (130,000)——5,132 ———— ———— ———(179,337) —99,783,686$998$5,824,258 ying notes are an integral part of these consolidat F-6 F-6
nt $ $ an
me 4 — — — — — — — 8) — — — — 6 mp
ted State 7.00%Series DCumulativeConvertiblePreferredStock 86,91 (12,52 74,38 The acco
a $ $
d
oli s
ns est
o er
C nt
Balance as of December 31, 2016 Net income Total other comprehensive loss Redemption of noncontrolling interests Distributions to noncontrolling interests Contributions from and sales of noncontrolling i Issuances of common stock Issuances pursuant to stock plan Repurchases of 7.00% Series D preferred stock Redemption of 6.45% Series E preferred stock Dividends declared on common stock Dividends declared on preferred stock Distributions in excess of earnings Balance as of December 31, 2017
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In thousands)
Year Ended December 31,
2017 2016 2015
Operating Activities
 Net income (loss) $ 194,204 $ (49,799) $ 146,114
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization 416,783 313,390 261,289
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 3,451 3,230 189
Impairment of real estate 203 209,261 23,250
Gain on sales of real estate – rental properties (270) (3,715) (12,426)
Gain on sales of real estate – land parcels (111) (90) —
Equity in (earnings) losses of unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (15,426) 184 (1,651)
Distributions of earnings from unconsolidated real estate joint ventures 1,618 406 873
Amortization of loan fees 11,149 11,872 11,003
Amortization of debt (premiums) discounts (2,512) (500) (372)
Amortization of acquired below-market leases (19,055) (5,723) (6,118)
Deferred rent (107,643) (51,673) (47,483)
Stock compensation expense 25,610 25,433 17,512
Investment gains (12,352) (28,530) (35,035)
Investment losses 11,023 11,397 16,093
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Restricted cash (557) (986) 60
Tenant receivables (502) (285) 7
Deferred leasing costs (62,639) (35,273) (65,415)
Other assets (18,222) (11,420) (9,079)
Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and tenant security deposits 25,573 5,322 43,800
Net cash provided by operating activities 450,325 392,501 342,611
Investing Activities
Proceeds from sales of real estate 15,432 123,081 129,799
Additions to real estate (893,685) (821,690) (564,206)
Purchase of real estate (675,584) (737,900) (248,933)
Deposits for investing activities (3,300) (450) (5,501)
Acquisition of interest in unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (60,291) — —
Contributions to unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (17,876) (11,529) (9,027)
Return of capital from unconsolidated real estate joint ventures 38,576 — —
Additions to investments (171,881) (102,284) (95,945)
Sales of investments 30,483 38,946 67,136
Repayment of notes receivable — 15,198 4,282
Net cash used in investing activities $ (1,738,126) $ (1,496,628) $ (722,395)
F-7
F-7
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In thousands)
Year Ended December 31,
2017 2016 2015
Financing Activities
Borrowings from secured notes payable $ 153,405 $ 291,400 $ 169,754
Repayments of borrowings from secured notes payable (396,240) (310,903) (89,815)
Proceeds from issuance of unsecured senior notes payable 1,023,262 348,604 298,872
Borrowings from unsecured senior line of credit 3,858,000 4,117,000 2,145,000
Repayments of borrowings from unsecured senior line of credit (3,836,000) (4,240,000) (2,298,000)
Repayments of borrowings from unsecured senior bank term loan (200,000) (200,000) (25,000)
Change in restricted cash related to financing activities (4,914) 11,746 3,842
Payment of loan fees (10,019) (16,681) (10,584)
Repurchases of 7.00% Series D cumulative convertible preferred stock (17,934) (206,826) —
Redemption of 6.45% Series E cumulative redeemable preferred stock (130,350) — —
Proceeds from the issuance of common stock 1,275,397 1,432,177 78,463
Dividends on common stock (312,131) (240,347) (218,104)
Dividends on preferred stock (9,619) (22,414) (24,986)
Financing costs paid for sales of noncontrolling interests — (10,044) —
Contributions from and sales of noncontrolling interests 44,931 221,487 453,750
Distributions to and purchases of noncontrolling interests (22,361) (69,678) (64,066)
Net cash provided by financing activities 1,415,427 1,105,521 419,126
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1,723 (1,460) (255)
 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 129,349 (66) 39,087
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 125,032 125,098 86,011
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 254,381 $ 125,032 $ 125,098
Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information:
Cash paid during the period for interest, net of interest capitalized $ 112,113 $ 84,907 $ 93,856
Non-Cash Investing Activities:
Assumption of secured notes payable in connection with purchase of real estate $ — $ (203,000) $ (82,000)
Change in accrued construction $ (11,034) $ 76,848 $ (10,070)
Payable for purchase of real estate $ — $ (56,800) $ —
Distribution of real estate in connection with purchase of remaining 49% interest
in real estate joint venture with Uber Technologies, Inc. $ — $ (25,546) $ —
Contribution of real estate to an unconsolidated real estate joint venture $ 6,998 $ — $ —
Consolidation of previously unconsolidated real estate joint venture $ — $ 87,930 $ —
Net investment in direct financing lease $ — $ 36,975 $ —
Contribution of real estate from noncontrolling interests $ 8,597 $ — $ —
Non-Cash Financing Activities:
Redemption of redeemable noncontrolling interest $ — $ (5,000) $ —
Contribution from redeemable noncontrolling interest $ — $ 2,264 $ —
Payable for purchase of noncontrolling interest $ — $ — $ (51,092)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
F-8
F-8
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
1.  Organization and basis of presentation
  Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. (NYSE:ARE), an S&P 500® company, is an urban office REIT uniquely focused on 
collaborative life science and technology campuses in AAA innovation cluster locations. As used in this annual report on Form 10-K, 
references to the “Company,” “Alexandria,” “ARE,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and its 
consolidated subsidiaries. The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Alexandria Real Estate 
Equities, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Certain 
prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.
  Any references to our market capitalization, number or quality of buildings, quality of location, square footage, number of
leases, occupancy percentage, and tenants, and any amounts derived from these values, in the notes to consolidated financial
statements are unaudited.
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies
Consolidation
On an ongoing basis, as circumstances indicate the need for reconsideration, we evaluate each legal entity that is not wholly 
owned by us in accordance with the consolidation guidance. Our evaluation considers all of our variable interests, including equity 
ownership, as well as fees paid to us for our involvement in the management of each partially owned entity. To fall within the scope of 
the consolidation guidance, an entity must meet both of the following criteria:
•  The entity has a legal structure that has been established to conduct business activities and to hold assets; such entity can 
be in the form of a partnership, limited liability company, or corporation, among others; and
•  We have a variable interest in the legal entity – i.e., variable interests that are contractual, such as equity ownership, or 
other financial interests that change with changes in the fair value of the entity’s net assets.
If an entity does not meet both criteria above, we apply other accounting literature, such as the cost or equity method of 
accounting. If an entity does meet both criteria above, we evaluate such entity for consolidation under either the variable interest 
model if the legal entity meets any of the following characteristics to qualify as a VIE, or under the voting model for all other legal 
entities that are not VIEs.
A legal entity is determined to be a VIE if it has any of the following three characteristics:
1) The entity does not have sufficient equity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support;
2) The entity is established with non-substantive voting rights (i.e., where the entity deprives the majority economic interest 
holder(s) of voting rights); or
3) The equity holders, as a group, lack the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. Equity holders meet this criterion 
if they lack any of the following:
• The power, through voting rights or similar rights, to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly 
influence the entity’s economic performance, as evidenced by:
• Substantive participating rights in day-to-day management of the entity’s activities; or
• Substantive kick-out rights over the party responsible for significant decisions;
• The obligation to absorb the entity’s expected losses; or
• The right to receive the entity’s expected residual returns.
F-9
F-9
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
  Once we consider the sufficiency of equity and voting rights of each legal entity, we then evaluate the characteristics of the 
equity holders’ interests, as a group, to see if they qualify as controlling financial interests. Our real estate joint ventures consist of 
limited partnerships or limited liability companies. For an entity structured as a limited partnership or a limited liability company, our 
evaluation of whether the equity holders (equity partners other than us in each of our joint ventures) lack the characteristics of a 
controlling financial interest includes the evaluation of whether the limited partners or non-managing members (the noncontrolling 
equity holders) lack both substantive participating rights and substantive kick-out rights, defined as follows:
•  Participating rights provide the noncontrolling equity holders the ability to direct significant financial and operating 
decisions made in the ordinary course of business that most significantly influence the entity’s economic performance.
•  Kick-out rights allow the noncontrolling equity holders to remove the general partner or managing member without cause.
If we conclude that any of the three characteristics of a VIE are met, including that the equity holders lack the characteristics 
of a controlling financial interest because they lack both substantive participating rights and substantive kick-out rights, we conclude 
that the entity is a VIE and evaluate it for consolidation under the variable interest model.
Variable interest model
If an entity is determined to be a VIE, we evaluate whether we are the primary beneficiary. The primary beneficiary analysis 
is a qualitative analysis based on power and benefits. We consolidate a VIE if we have both power and benefits – that is, (i) we have 
the power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly influence the VIE’s economic performance (power), and (ii) we have 
the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE, or the right to receive benefits from the VIE 
that potentially could be significant to the VIE (benefits). We consolidate VIEs whenever we determine that we are the primary 
beneficiary. Refer to Note 3 – “Investments in Real Estate” to our consolidated financial statements for information on specific joint 
ventures that qualify as VIEs. If we have a variable interest in a VIE but we are not the primary beneficiary, we account for our 
investment using the equity method of accounting.
Voting model
If a legal entity fails to meet any of the three characteristics of a VIE (due to insufficiency of equity, existence of non-
substantive voting rights, or lack of a controlling financial interest), we then evaluate such entity under the voting model. Under the 
voting model, we consolidate the entity if we determine that we, directly or indirectly, have greater than 50% of the voting shares and 
that other equity holders do not have substantive participating rights. Refer to Note 4 – “Investments in Unconsolidated Real Estate 
Joint Ventures” to our consolidated financial statements for further information on one of our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures 
that qualifies for evaluation under the voting model.
Use of estimates
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and equity; the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the 
date of the consolidated financial statements; and the amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results 
could materially differ from those estimates.
Reportable segment
We are engaged in the business of providing space for lease to the life science and technology industries. Our properties are 
similar in that they provide space for lease to the life science and technology industries, consist of improvements that are generic and 
reusable for the life science and technology industries, are primarily located in AAA urban innovation cluster locations, and have 
similar economic characteristics. Our chief operating decision maker reviews financial information for our entire consolidated 
operations when making decisions related to assessing our operating performance, and reviews financial information for our 
individual properties when determining how to allocate resources related to capital expenditures. We have aggregated the properties 
into one reportable segment as the properties share similar long-term economic characteristics and have other similarities, including 
the fact that they are operated using consistent business strategies, are typically located in major metropolitan areas, and have similar 
tenant mixes. The financial information disclosed herein represents all of the financial information related to our one reportable 
segment.
F-10
F-10
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Investments in real estate and properties classified as held for sale
In January 2017, the FASB issued an ASU that clarifies the framework for determining whether an integrated set of assets 
and activities meets the definition of a business. The revised framework establishes a screen for determining whether an integrated set 
of assets and activities is a business and narrows the definition of a business, which is expected to result in fewer real estate 
transactions being accounted for as business combinations. Acquisitions of integrated sets of assets and activities that do not meet the 
definition of a business are accounted for as asset acquisitions. We early adopted this accounting standard effective October 1, 2016, 
and since then have evaluated all of our acquisitions under the new framework. 
Evaluation of business combination or asset acquisition
  We evaluate each acquisition of real estate or in-substance real estate (including equity interests in entities that predominantly 
hold real estate assets) to determine whether the integrated set of assets and activities acquired meet the definition of a business and 
need to be accounted as a business combination. If either of the following criteria is met, the integrated set of assets and activities 
acquired would not qualify as a business:
•  Substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in either a single identifiable asset or a 
group of similar identifiable assets; or
•  The integrated set of assets and activities is lacking, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together 
significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs (i.e., revenue generated before and after the transaction).
An acquired process is considered substantive if:
•  The process includes an organized workforce (or includes an acquired contract that provides access to an organized 
workforce) that is skilled, knowledgeable, and experienced in performing the process;
•  The process cannot be replaced without significant cost, effort, or delay; or
•  The process is considered unique or scarce.
Generally, we expect that acquisitions of real estate or in-substance real estate will not meet the revised definition of a 
business because substantially all of the fair value is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets 
(i.e., land, buildings, and related intangible assets) or because the acquisition does not include a substantive process in the form of an 
acquired workforce or an acquired contract that cannot be replaced without significant cost, effort, or delay. When evaluating acquired 
service or management contracts, we consider the nature of the services performed, the terms of the contract relative to similar arm’s-
length contracts, and the availability of comparable vendors in evaluating whether the acquired contract constitutes a substantive 
process.
Recognition of real estate acquired
For acquisitions of real estate or in-substance real estate that are accounted for as business combinations, we recognize the 
assets acquired (including the intangible value of acquired above- or below-market leases, acquired in-place leases, tenant 
relationships, and other intangible assets or liabilities), liabilities assumed, noncontrolling interests, and previously existing ownership 
interests at fair value as of the acquisition date. Any excess (deficit) of the consideration transferred relative to the fair value of the net 
assets acquired is accounted for as goodwill (bargain purchase gain). Acquisition costs related to business combinations are expensed 
as incurred.
Acquisitions of real estate and in-substance real estate that do not meet the definition of a business are accounted for as asset 
acquisitions. The accounting model for asset acquisitions is similar to the accounting model for business combinations except that the 
acquisition consideration (including acquisition costs) is allocated to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed on a 
relative fair value basis. As a result, asset acquisitions do not result in the recognition of goodwill or a bargain purchase gain. 
Additionally, because the accounting model for asset acquisitions is a cost accumulation model, preexisting interests in the acquired 
assets, if any, are not remeasured to fair value but continue to be accounted for at their historical cost. Direct acquisition costs are 
capitalized if an asset acquisition is probable. If we determine that an asset acquisition is no longer probable, no new costs are 
capitalized and all capitalized costs that are not recoverable are written off. 
The relative fair values used to allocate the cost of an asset acquisition are determined by the same methodologies and 
assumptions we utilize to determine fair value in a business combination.
F-11
F-11
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
If a real estate property is acquired with an in-place lease that contains a bargain fixed-rate renewal option for the period 
beyond the non-cancelable lease term, we evaluate factors, such as the business conditions in the industry in which the lessee operates, 
the economic conditions in the area in which the property is located, and the ability of the lessee to sublease its space during the 
renewal term, in order to determine the likelihood that the lessee will renew. When we determine there is reasonable assurance that 
such bargain renewal option will be exercised, we consider the option in determining the intangible value of such lease and its related 
amortization period. The value of tangible assets acquired is based upon our estimation of value on an “as if vacant” basis. The value 
of acquired in-place leases includes the estimated costs during the hypothetical lease-up period and other costs that would have been 
incurred in the execution of similar leases under the market conditions at the acquisition date of the acquired in-place lease. We assess 
the fair value of tangible and intangible assets based on numerous factors, including estimated cash flow projections that utilize 
appropriate discount and capitalization rates and available market information. Estimates of future cash flows are based on a number 
of factors, including the historical operating results, known trends, and market/economic conditions, that may affect the property.
The values allocated to buildings and building improvements, land improvements, tenant improvements, and equipment are 
depreciated on a straight-line basis using the shorter of the term of the respective ground lease and up to 40 years for buildings and 
building improvements, an estimated life of up to 20 years for land improvements, the respective lease term for tenant improvements, 
and the estimated useful life for equipment. The values of acquired above- and below-market leases are amortized over the terms of 
the related leases and recognized as either increases (for below-market leases) or decreases (for above-market leases) to rental 
revenue. The values of acquired above- and below-market ground leases are amortized over the terms of the related ground leases and 
recognized as either increases (for below-market ground leases) or decreases (for above-market ground leases) to rental operating 
expense. The values of acquired in-place leases are classified in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and 
amortized over the remaining terms of the related leases.
Capitalized project costs
We capitalize project costs, including pre-construction costs, interest, property taxes, insurance, and other costs directly 
related and essential to the development, redevelopment, pre-construction, or construction of a project. Capitalization of development, 
redevelopment, pre-construction, and construction costs is required while activities are ongoing to prepare an asset for its intended 
use. Fluctuations in our development, redevelopment, pre-construction, and construction activities could result in significant changes 
to total expenses and net income. Costs incurred after a project is substantially complete and ready for its intended use are expensed as 
incurred. Should development, redevelopment, pre-construction, or construction activity cease, interest, property taxes, insurance, and 
certain other costs would no longer be eligible for capitalization and would be expensed as incurred. Expenditures for repairs and 
maintenance are expensed as incurred.
Real estate sales
A property is classified as held for sale when all of the following criteria for a plan of sale have been met: (i) management, 
having the authority to approve the action, commits to a plan to sell the property; (ii) the property is available for immediate sale in its 
present condition, subject only to terms that are usual and customary; (iii) an active program to locate a buyer and other actions 
required to complete the plan to sell have been initiated; (iv) the sale of the property is probable and is expected to be completed 
within one year; (v) the property is being actively marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value; and 
(vi) actions necessary to complete the plan of sale indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that 
the plan will be withdrawn. Depreciation of assets ceases upon designation of a property as held for sale.
If the disposal of a property represents a strategic shift that has (or will have) a major effect on our operations or financial 
results, such as (i) a major line of business, (ii) a major geographic area, (iii) a major equity method investment, or (iv) other major 
parts of an entity, then the operations of the property, including any interest expense directly attributable to it, are classified as 
discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of operations, and amounts for all prior periods presented are reclassified from 
continuing operations to discontinued operations. The disposal of an individual property generally will not represent a strategic shift 
and therefore will typically not meet the criteria for classification as a discontinued operation.
Impairment of long-lived assets
On a quarterly basis, we review current activities and changes in the business conditions of all of our properties prior to and 
subsequent to the end of each quarter to determine the existence of any triggering events requiring an impairment analysis. If 
triggering events are identified, we review an estimate of the future undiscounted cash flows for the properties, including, if necessary, 
a probability-weighted approach if multiple outcomes are under consideration.
F-12
F-12
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Long-lived assets to be held and used, including our rental properties, CIP, land held for development, and intangibles, are 
individually evaluated for impairment when conditions exist that may indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset may not 
be recoverable. The carrying amount of a long-lived asset to be held and used is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the 
undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. Impairment indicators or triggering 
events for long-lived assets to be held and used, including our rental properties, CIP, land held for development, and intangibles, are 
assessed by project and include significant fluctuations in estimated net operating income, occupancy changes, significant near-term 
lease expirations, current and historical operating and/or cash flow losses, construction costs, estimated completion dates, rental rates, 
and other market factors. We assess the expected undiscounted cash flows based upon numerous factors, including, but not limited to, 
construction costs, available market information, current and historical operating results, known trends, current market/economic 
conditions that may affect the property, and our assumptions about the use of the asset, including, if necessary, a probability-weighted 
approach if multiple outcomes are under consideration. Upon determination that an impairment has occurred, a write-down is 
recognized to reduce the carrying amount to its estimated fair value. If an impairment loss is not required to be recognized, the 
recognition of depreciation is adjusted prospectively, as necessary, to reduce the carrying amount of the real estate to its estimated 
disposition value over the remaining period that the real estate is expected to be held and used. We may adjust depreciation of 
properties that are expected to be disposed of or redeveloped prior to the end of their useful lives.
We use the held for sale impairment model for our properties classified as held for sale. The held for sale impairment model 
is different from the held and used impairment model. Under the held for sale impairment model, an impairment loss is recognized if 
the carrying amount of the long-lived asset classified as held for sale exceeds its fair value less cost to sell. Because of these two 
different models, it is possible for a long-lived asset previously classified as held and used to require the recognition of an impairment 
charge upon classification as held for sale.
Cash and cash equivalents
We consider all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less when purchased to be cash and cash 
equivalents. The majority of our cash and cash equivalents are held at major commercial banks in accounts that may at times exceed 
the FDIC-insured limit of $250,000. We have not experienced any losses to date on our invested cash.
International operations
In addition to operating properties in the U.S., we have three operating properties in Canada and one operating property in 
China. The functional currency for our subsidiaries operating in the U.S. is the U.S. dollar. The functional currencies for our foreign 
subsidiaries are the local currencies in each respective country. The assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into 
U.S. dollars at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. Income statement accounts of our foreign subsidiaries are 
translated using the weighted-average exchange rate for the periods presented. Gains or losses resulting from the translation are 
classified in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of total equity.
Whenever a foreign investment meets the criteria for classification as held for sale, we evaluate the recoverability of the 
investment under the held for sale impairment model. We may recognize an impairment charge if the carrying amount of the 
investment exceeds its fair value less cost to sell. In determining an investment’s carrying amount, we consider its net book value and 
any unrealized cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment related to the investment.
The appropriate amounts of foreign exchange rate gains or losses classified in accumulated other comprehensive income are 
reclassified to net income when realized upon the sale of our investment or upon the complete or substantially complete liquidation of 
our investment.
Investments
We hold equity investments in certain publicly traded companies and investments in certain privately held entities and limited 
partnerships primarily involved in the life science and technology industries. All of our equity investments in actively traded public 
companies are considered available-for-sale and are reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Fair value 
has been determined based upon the closing price as of each balance sheet date, with unrealized gains and losses shown as a separate 
component of other comprehensive income. The classification of each investment is determined at the time each investment is made, 
and such determination is reevaluated at each balance sheet date. The cost of each investment sold is determined by the specific 
identification method, with realized gains or losses classified in other income in the accompanying consolidated statements of 
operations. Investments in privately held entities are generally accounted for under the cost method when our interest in the entity is so 
minor that we have virtually no influence over the entity’s operating and financial policies. Certain investments in privately held 
F-13
F-13
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
entities require accounting under the equity method unless our interest in the entity is deemed to be so minor that we have virtually no 
influence over the entity’s operating and financial policies. Under the equity method of accounting, we recognize our investment 
initially at cost and adjust the carrying amount of the investment to recognize our share of the earnings or losses of the investee 
subsequent to the date of our investment. Additionally, as a REIT, we generally limit our ownership percentage in the voting stock of 
each individual entity to less than 10%.
We periodically assess our investments in available-for-sale equity securities and privately held companies accounted for 
under the cost method for other-than-temporary impairment. We monitor each of our investments throughout the year for new 
developments, including operating results, results of clinical trials, capital-raising events, and merger and acquisition activities. 
Individual investments are evaluated for impairment when changes in conditions may indicate an impairment exists. The factors that 
we consider in making these assessments include, but are not limited to, market prices, market conditions, available financing, 
prospects for favorable or unfavorable clinical trial results, new product initiatives, and new collaborative agreements. If an unrealized 
loss related to an available-for-sale equity security is determined to be other-than-temporary, such unrealized loss is reclassified from 
other comprehensive income into current earnings. For a cost method investment, if a decline in the fair value of an investment below 
its carrying value is determined to be other-than-temporary, such investment is written down to its estimated fair value with a charge to 
current earnings. If there are no identified events or changes in circumstances that might have an adverse effect on our cost method 
investments, we do not estimate the investment’s fair value. Refer to Note 6 – “Investments” to our consolidated financial statements 
for further information.
Recognition of rental income and tenant recoveries
Rental revenue from operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the respective lease terms. We classify 
amounts currently recognized as rental revenue in our consolidated statements of operations, and amounts expected to be received in 
later years as deferred rent in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Amounts received currently but recognized as revenue in 
future years are classified in accounts payable, accrued expenses, and tenant security deposits in the accompanying consolidated 
balance sheets. We commence recognition of rental revenue at the date the property is ready for its intended use and the tenant takes 
possession of or controls the physical use of the property.
Rental revenue from direct financing leases is recognized over the lease term using the effective interest rate method. At lease 
inception, we record an asset within other assets in our consolidated balance sheets, which represents our net investment in the direct 
financing lease. This initial net investment is determined by aggregating the total future minimum lease payments attributable to the 
direct financing lease and the estimated residual value of the property less unearned income. Over the lease term, the investment in the 
direct financing lease is reduced and rental income is recognized as rental revenue in our consolidated statements of operations and 
produces a constant periodic rate of return on the net investment in the direct financing lease.
Tenant recoveries related to reimbursement of real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, repairs and maintenance, common area 
expenses, and other operating expenses are recognized as revenue in the period during which the applicable expenses are incurred and 
the tenant’s obligation to reimburse us arises. 
Tenant receivables consist primarily of amounts due for contractual lease payments and tenant recoveries. These tenant 
receivables are expected to be collected within one year. We may maintain an allowance for estimated losses that may result from the 
inability of our tenants to make payments required under the terms of the lease and for tenant recoveries due. If a tenant fails to make 
contractual payments beyond any allowance, we may recognize additional bad debt expense in future periods equal to the amount of 
uncollectible tenant receivables and deferred rent arising from the straight-lining of rent. As of December 31, 2017, and 2016, no 
allowance for uncollectible tenant receivables and deferred rent was deemed necessary.
Monitoring tenant credit quality
  During the term of each lease, we monitor the credit quality of our tenants by (i) monitoring the credit rating of tenants that 
are rated by a nationally recognized credit rating agency, (ii) reviewing financial statements of the tenants that are publicly available or 
that are required to be delivered to us pursuant to the applicable lease, (iii) monitoring news reports regarding our tenants and their 
respective businesses, and (iv) monitoring the timeliness of lease payments. Our research team is responsible for assessing and 
monitoring the credit quality of our tenants and any material changes in their credit quality.
F-14
F-14
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Income taxes
We are organized and operate as a REIT pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”). Under the Code, a REIT that 
distributes at least 90% of its REIT taxable income to its shareholders annually (excluding net capital gains) and meets certain other 
conditions is not subject to federal income tax on its distributed taxable income, but could be subject to certain federal, foreign, state, 
and local taxes. We distribute 100% of our taxable income annually; therefore, a provision for federal income taxes is not required. In 
addition to our REIT returns, we file federal, foreign, state, and local tax returns for our subsidiaries. We file with jurisdictions located 
in the U.S., Canada, India, China, and other international locations. Our tax returns are subject to routine examination in various 
jurisdictions for the 2012 through 2016 calendar years.
Leasing costs
Costs directly related and essential to our leasing activities are classified in deferred leasing costs in our consolidated balance 
sheets and amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of the related lease. The amortization is classified in depreciation and 
amortization expenses. Costs related to unsuccessful leasing opportunities are expensed as incurred and classified in general and 
administrative expenses, in our consolidated statements of operations.
Loan fees
Fees incurred in obtaining long-term financing are capitalized and classified with the corresponding debt instrument 
appearing on our consolidated balance sheet. Loan fees related to our unsecured senior line of credit are classified within other assets. 
Capitalized amounts are amortized over the term of the related loan, and the amortization is classified in interest expense in our 
consolidated statements of operations.
Interest rate hedge agreements
We do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes, and currently all of our derivatives are designated as hedges. 
We are exposed to certain risks arising from both our business operations and economic conditions. We principally manage our 
exposures to a wide variety of business and operational risks through management of our core business activities. We manage 
economic risks, including interest rate, liquidity, and credit risk, primarily by managing the amount, sources, and duration of our debt 
funding and by entering into interest rate hedge agreements. Specifically, we enter into interest rate hedge agreements to manage 
exposures that arise from business activities that result in the payment of future known and uncertain cash amounts, the values of 
which are determined by interest rates. Our interest rate hedge agreements are used to manage differences in the amount, timing, and 
duration of our known or expected cash payments principally related to our borrowings based on LIBOR. Our objectives in using 
interest rate hedge agreements are to add stability to interest expense and to manage our exposure to interest rate movements in 
accordance with our interest rate risk management strategy. All of our interest rate hedge agreements are designated as cash flow 
hedges. Interest rate hedge agreements designated as cash flow hedges involve the receipt of variable-rate amounts from a 
counterparty in exchange for the Company’s making fixed-rate payments over the life of the interest rate hedge agreements without 
exchange of the underlying notional amount of interest rate hedge agreements.
 
  We utilize interest rate hedge agreements to hedge a portion of our exposure to variable interest rates primarily associated 
with borrowings based on LIBOR. We classify our interest rate hedge agreements as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at 
fair value. The accounting for changes in fair value (i.e., gains or losses) of a derivative instrument depends on whether it has been 
designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship and, further, on the type of hedging relationship. For those derivative 
instruments that are designated and qualify as hedging instruments, a company must designate the hedging instrument, based on the 
hedged exposure, as a fair value hedge, a cash flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation. Our interest rate 
hedge agreements are considered cash flow hedges because they are designated and qualify as hedges of the exposure to variability in 
expected future cash flows. Hedge accounting generally provides for the matching of the timing of gain or loss recognition on the 
hedging instrument with the recognition of the changes in the earnings effect of the hedged transactions in a cash flow hedge. All of 
our interest rate hedge agreements meet the criteria to be deemed “highly effective” in reducing our exposure to variable interest rates. 
We formally document all relationships between interest rate hedge agreements and hedged items, including the method for evaluating 
effectiveness and the risk strategy. We make an assessment at the inception of each interest rate hedge agreement and on an ongoing 
basis to determine whether these instruments are “highly effective” in offsetting changes in cash flows associated with the hedged 
items. The ineffective portion of each interest rate hedge agreement is immediately recognized in earnings. While we intend to 
continue to meet the conditions for such hedge accounting, if our interest rate hedges did not qualify as “highly effective,” the changes 
in the fair values of the derivatives used as hedges would be reflected in earnings.
F-15
F-15
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of our interest rate hedge agreements that are designated and that qualify as 
cash flow hedges is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income. Amounts classified in accumulated other comprehensive 
income will be reclassified into earnings in the period during which the hedged transactions affect earnings. 
The fair value of each interest rate hedge agreement is determined using widely accepted valuation techniques, including 
discounted cash flow analyses on the expected cash flows of each derivative. These analyses reflect the contractual terms of the 
derivatives, including the period to maturity, and use observable market-based inputs, including interest rate curves and implied 
volatilities. The fair values of our interest rate hedge agreements are determined using the market-standard methodology of netting the 
discounted future fixed-cash payments and the discounted expected variable-cash receipts. The variable-cash receipts are based on an 
expectation of future interest rates (forward curves) derived from observable market interest rate curves. The fair value calculation 
also includes an amount for risk of non-performance of our counterparties using “significant unobservable inputs” such as estimates of 
current credit spreads to evaluate the likelihood of default, which we have determined to be insignificant to the overall fair value of 
our interest rate hedge agreements.
Share-based compensation expense
Our restricted stock awards may be subject to time-based vesting or performance or market-based measures in addition to the 
time-based measurement period. The grant date fair values of stock awards that are only subject to time-based service conditions are 
recognized in our consolidated statements of operations on a straight-line basis over the period during which the employee is required 
to provide services in exchange for the award (the vesting period). We recognize stock-based compensation based on performance-
based awards that are ultimately expected to vest. If awards are forfeited, we reverse any previously recognized expense related to 
such awards in the period during which the forfeiture occurs and reclassify any nonforfeitable dividends previously paid on these 
awards from retained earnings to compensation expense. 
Certain restricted stock awards are subject to performance and market-based conditions. The grant date fair value of these 
awards is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation pricing model. Compensation cost is not recognized, and any previously 
recognized compensation cost is reversed to the extent a performance condition is ultimately not satisfied. Conversely, compensation 
cost is not reversed on any stock awards that do not vest as a result of not satisfying market-based conditions. 
F-16
F-16
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Recent accounting pronouncements
Definition of a business
  On October 1, 2016, we adopted an ASU issued by the FASB in January 2017, which clarified the definition of a business. 
Refer to the “Investments in Real Estate and Properties Classified as Held for Sale” section in this Note 2 for additional information.
Employee share-based payments
  On January 1, 2017, we adopted an ASU issued by the FASB in March 2016, which simplifies several aspects of employee 
share-based payment accounting, including the accounting for forfeitures. The ASU allows an entity to make an accounting policy 
election either to continue to estimate the total number of awards that are expected to vest (the method used prior to January 1, 2017) 
or to account for forfeitures when they occur. This entity-wide accounting policy election only applies to service conditions; for 
performance conditions, the entity continues to assess the probability that such conditions will be achieved. If an entity elects to 
account for forfeitures when they occur, all nonforfeitable dividends paid on share-based payment awards are initially charged to 
retained earnings and reclassified to compensation cost only when forfeitures of the underlying awards occur. We elected to account 
for forfeitures when they occur and applied this ASU on a modified retrospective basis resulting in a cumulative-effect adjustment 
aggregating approximately $368 thousand, which was recorded as a decrease to retained earnings and an increase to additional paid-in 
capital upon adoption of the ASU on January 1, 2017.
Lease accounting, revenue recognition, and financial instruments
  In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU that sets out new lease accounting standards for both lessees and lessors. In May 
2014, the FASB issued an ASU that will require a new model for recognition of revenue arising from contracts with customers, as well 
as recognizing gains and losses from the transfer of nonfinancial assets in contracts with noncustomers. In January 2016, the FASB 
issued an ASU that amended the accounting for equity investments. These three ASUs will update the current accounting standards for 
all of our revenues with the exception of revenues subject to other accounting standards as noted in the table below. Our revenues and 
gains on sales of real estate for the year ended December 31, 2017, and the related effective date for adoption of new ASUs, consisted 
of the following (in thousands):
Date of ASU Year Ended
Adoption December 31, 2017
Revenues subject to the new lease ASU:
Rental revenues 1/1/19 $ 821,209
Tenant recoveries (1) 1/1/19 259,144
$1,080,353
Revenues subject to the new revenue recognition ASU:
Parking and other revenues 1/1/18 44,309
Revenues not subject to the new lease or revenue recognition ASUs:
Investment income subject to the new financial instruments ASU 1/1/18 $ 1,329
Interest and other income within the scope of other existing accounting standards N/A 2,106
3,435
Total revenues $1,128,097
Gains on sales of real estate subject to the new revenue recognition ASU 1/1/18 $ 381
(1)  Certain non-lease components, including tenant recoveries, may be subject to the new revenue recognition ASU upon adoption of the new lease ASU effective January 1, 2019. See 
further discussion below.
F-17
F-17
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Recent accounting pronouncements (continued)
Lease accounting
  Overview related to both lessee and lessor accounting
  In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU that sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and 
disclosure of leases for both parties to a lease agreement (i.e., lessees and lessors). The ASU is effective for us no later than January 1, 
2019, with early adoption permitted. The ASU requires us to identify lease and nonlease components of a lease agreement. This ASU 
will govern the recognition of revenue for lease components. Revenue related to nonlease components under our lease agreements will 
be subject to the new revenue recognition standard effective upon adoption of the new lease accounting standard. We expect to adopt 
the new lease accounting standard on January 1, 2019.
  The lease ASU sets new criteria for determining the classification of finance leases for lessees and sales-type leases for 
lessors. The criteria to determine if a lease should be accounted for as a finance (sales-type) lease include (i) ownership is transferred 
from lessor to lessee by the end of the lease term, (ii) an option to purchase is reasonably certain to be exercised, (iii) lease term is for 
the major part of the underlying asset’s remaining economic life, (iv) the present value of lease payments exceeds substantially all of 
the fair value of the underlying asset, and (v) the underlying asset is specialized and is expected to have no alternative use at the end of 
the lease term. If any of these criteria is met, a lease will be classified as a finance lease by the lessee and a sales-type lease by the 
lessor. If none of the criteria is met, a lease will be classified as an operating lease by the lessee, but may still qualify as a direct 
financing lease or an operating lease for the lessor. The existence of a residual value guarantee by either the lessee or any other third 
party unrelated to the lessor may qualify the lease as a direct financing lease by the lessor. Otherwise, the lease will be classified as an 
operating lease by both the lessee and lessor.
  The lease ASU requires the use of the modified retrospective transition method and does not allow for a full retrospective 
approach. Based on the required adoption date of January 1, 2019 for us, the modified retrospective method for this ASU requires 
application of the standard to all leases that exist at, or commence after, January 1, 2017 (the beginning of the earliest comparative 
period presented in the 2019 financial statements), with a cumulative adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings on 
January 1, 2017, for the effect of applying the standard at the date of initial application, and restatement of the amounts presented prior 
to January 1, 2019.
  The FASB has also issued a proposed amendment to the lease ASU that would provide an entity an optional transition 
method to initially account for the impact of the adoption of the new lease ASU with a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings on 
January 1, 2019 (the effective date of the ASU), rather than January 1, 2017, which would eliminate the need to restate amounts 
presented prior to January 1, 2019.
  Under the lease ASU, an entity may elect a practical expedient package, which allows for the following:
•  An entity need not reassess whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases;
•  An entity need not reassess the lease classification for any expired or existing leases; and
•  An entity need not reassess initial direct costs for any existing leases.
  These three practical expedients are available as a single election that must be elected as a package and must be consistently 
applied to all existing leases at the date of adoption. The FASB has also tentatively noted in Board meeting minutes of May 2017 that 
lessors that adopt this package of practical expedients are not expected to reassess expired or existing leases at the date of initial 
application, which is January 1, 2017 under the ASU, or January 1, 2019, if we elect the optional transition method. The FASB noted 
that the transition provisions generally enable entities to “run off” their existing leases for the remainder of the lease term, which 
would effectively eliminate the need to calculate a cumulative adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
  The FASB has also clarified that the lease ASU will require an assessment of whether a land easement meets the definition of 
a lease under the new lease ASU. An entity with land easements that are not accounted for as leases under the current lease accounting 
standards, however, may elect a practical expedient to exclude those land easements from assessment under the new lease accounting 
standards. The new lease ASU will be applied to all land easement arrangements entered into or modified on and after the ASU 
effective date.
F-18
F-18
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Recent accounting pronouncements (continued)
Lease accounting (continued)
  Lessor accounting
  We recognized revenue from our lease agreements aggregating $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2017. This 
revenue consisted primarily of rental revenue and tenant recoveries aggregating $821.2 million and $259.1 million, respectively.
  Under current accounting standards, we recognize rental revenue from our operating leases on a straight-line basis over the 
respective lease terms. We commence recognition of rental revenue at the date the property is ready for its intended use and the tenant 
takes possession of or controls the physical use of the property. We recognize rental revenue from direct financing leases over the lease 
term using the effective interest rate method.
  Under current accounting standards, tenant recoveries related to payments of real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, repairs and 
maintenance, common area expenses, and other operating expenses are considered lease components. We recognize these tenant 
recoveries as revenue when services are rendered in an amount equal to the related operating expenses incurred that are recoverable 
under the terms of the applicable lease.
  Under the lease ASU, each lease agreement will be evaluated to identify the lease components and nonlease components at 
lease inception. The total consideration in the lease agreement will be allocated to the lease and nonlease components based on their 
relative standalone selling prices. Lessors will continue to recognize the lease revenue component using an approach that is 
substantially equivalent to existing guidance for operating leases (straight-line basis). Sale-type and direct financing leases will be 
accounted for as financing transactions with the lease payments being allocated to principal and interest utilizing the effective interest 
rate method. In January 2018, the FASB issued a proposed amendment to the lease ASU that would allow lessors to elect, as a 
practical expedient, not to allocate the total consideration to lease and nonlease components based on their relative standalone selling 
prices. If adopted, this practical expedient will allow lessors to elect a combined single lease component presentation if (i) the timing 
and pattern of the revenue recognition of the combined single lease component is the same, and (ii) the related lease component and, 
the combined single lease component would be classified as an operating lease. 
 
  We have not completed our analysis of this ASU. If the proposed practical expedient mentioned above is adopted and we 
elect it, we expect tenant recoveries that qualify as nonlease components will be presented under a single lease component 
presentation. However, without the proposed practical expedient, we expect that our tenant recoveries would be separated into lease 
and nonlease components. Tenant recoveries that qualify as lease components, which relate to the right to use the leased asset (e.g., 
property taxes, and insurance), would be accounted for under the new lease ASU. Tenant recoveries that qualify as nonlease 
components, which relate to payments for goods or services that are transferred separately from the right to use the underlying asset, 
including tenant recoveries related to payments for maintenance activities and common area expenses, would be accounted for under 
the new revenue recognition ASU upon adoption of the new lease ASU.
  Tenant recoveries that are categorized as lease components will generally be variable consideration with revenue recognized 
as the recoverable services are provided. Tenant recoveries that are categorized as nonlease components will be recognized at a point 
in time or over time based on the pattern of transfer of the underlying goods or services to our tenants.
  Costs to execute leases
  The new ASU will require that lessors and lessees capitalize, as initial direct costs, only those costs that are incurred due to 
the execution of a lease (e.g. commissions paid to leasing brokers). Under this ASU, allocated payroll costs and other costs such as 
legal costs incurred as part of the leasing process prior to the execution of a lease will no longer qualify for classification as initial 
direct costs but will instead be expensed as incurred. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we capitalized $24.0 million of such 
costs. Under the new lease ASU, these costs will be expensed as incurred. However, we will have the option, under the practical 
expedient provided by the lease ASU, to continue to amortize previously capitalized initial direct costs incurred prior to the adoption 
of the ASU.
F-19
F-19
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Recent accounting pronouncements (continued)
Lease accounting (continued)
  Lessee accounting
  Under the new lease ASU, lessees are required to apply a dual approach by classifying leases as either finance or operating 
leases based on the principle of whether the lease is effectively a financed purchase of the leased asset by the lessee. This classification 
will determine whether the lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term 
of the lease, which corresponds to a similar evaluation performed by the lessor. In addition to this classification, a lessee is also 
required to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term of greater than 12 months regardless of their 
classification, whereas a lessor is not required to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for any operating leases. Leases 
with a lease term of 12 months or less will be accounted for similar to existing guidance for operating leases.
  The ASU requires the recognition of a right-of-use asset and a related liability to account for our future obligations under our 
ground and office lease arrangements for which we are the lessee. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized rent expense, 
included in rental operations expense, aggregating $13.0 million and $996 thousand under these ground and office leases, respectively. 
As of December 31, 2017, the remaining contractual payments under our ground and office lease agreements for which we are the 
lessee aggregated $580.0 million and $4.2 million, respectively. All of our existing ground and office leases for which we are the 
lessee are currently classified as operating leases, and therefore, we will have the option, under the practical expedients provided by 
the lease ASU, to continue to classify these leases as operating leases upon adoption of the ASU. If we select this practical expedient, 
it would apply to all of our leases, whether we are the lessee or the lessor. We are still evaluating the impact to our consolidated 
financial statements from the initial recognition of each lease liability upon adoption and the pattern of recognition of ground lease 
expense subsequent to adoption.
Revenue Recognition
  In May 2014, the FASB issued an ASU on recognition of revenue arising from contracts with customers, as well as 
recognition of gains and losses from the transfer of nonfinancial assets in contracts with noncustomers, and subsequently, it issued 
additional guidance that further clarified the ASU. The revenue recognition ASU has implications for all revenues, excluding those 
that are under the specific scope of other accounting standards, such as revenue associated with leases (described above) and financial 
instruments (described below). Our revenues and gains for the year ended December 31, 2017, that would have been subject to the 
revenue recognition ASU had it been effective during the period, were as follows (in thousands):
Year Ended
December 31, 2017
Parking and other revenue $ 44,309
Gain on sales of real estate $ 381
  The core principle underlying the revenue recognition ASU is that an entity will recognize revenue to represent the transfer of 
goods and services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in such 
exchange. This will require entities to identify contractual performance obligations and determine whether revenue should be 
recognized at a point in time or over time, based on when control of goods and services transfers to a customer.
  A customer is distinguished from a noncustomer by the nature of the goods or services that are transferred. Customers are 
provided with goods or services that are generated by a company’s ordinary output activities, whereas noncustomers are provided with 
nonfinancial assets that are outside of a company’s ordinary output activities. This distinction may not significantly change the pattern 
of income recognition, but will determine whether that income is classified as revenue (contracts with customers) or other gains/losses 
(contracts with noncustomers) in our consolidated statements of operations.
  The ASU will require the use of a new five-step model to recognize revenue from customer contracts. The five-step model 
requires that we (i) identify the contract with the customer, (ii) identify the performance obligations in the contract, (iii) determine the 
transaction price, including variable consideration to the extent that it is probable that a significant future reversal will not occur, (iv) 
allocate the transaction price to the respective performance obligations in the contract, and (v) recognize revenue when (or as) we 
satisfy the performance obligation.
F-20
F-20
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Recent accounting pronouncements (continued)
Revenue recognition (continued)
  An entity will also be required to determine if it controls the goods or services prior to the transfer to the customer in order to 
determine if it should account for the arrangement as a principal or agent. Principal arrangements, where the entity controls the goods 
or services provided, will result in the recognition of the gross amount of consideration expected in the exchange. Agent arrangements, 
where the entity simply arranges but does not control the goods or services being transferred to the customer, will result in the 
recognition of the net amount the entity is entitled to retain in the exchange. As described above, upon adoption of the new lease ASU 
in 2019, we may be required to classify our tenant recoveries into lease and nonlease components, whereby the nonlease components 
would be subject to the revenue recognition ASU, pending the resolution of the proposed amendment issued by the FASB in January 
2018. Property services categorized as nonlease components that are reimbursed by our tenants may need to be presented on a net 
basis if it is determined that we hold an agent arrangement.
  The revenue recognition ASU is effective for us on January 1, 2018. Entities can use either a full retrospective or modified 
retrospective method to adopt this ASU. Under the full retrospective method, all periods presented will be restated upon adoption to 
conform to the new standard and a cumulative adjustment for effects on periods prior to 2016 will be recorded to retained earnings as 
of January 1, 2016. Under the modified retrospective approach, prior periods are not restated to conform to the new standard. Instead, 
a cumulative adjustment for effects of applying the new standard to periods prior to 2018 is recorded to retained earnings as of January 
1, 2018. Additionally, incremental footnote disclosures are required to present the 2018 revenues under the prior standard. Under the 
modified retrospective method, an entity may also elect to apply the standard to either (i) all contracts as of January 1, 2018, or (ii) 
only to contracts that are not completed as of January 1, 2018. We have elected to adopt the revenue recognition ASU using the 
modified retrospective method. We further elected to apply this new ASU only to contracts not completed as of January 1, 2018. For 
all contracts within this scope, we recognized $44.3 million of parking and other revenue, and the $381 thousand of gain on sale of 
real estate for the year ended December 31, 2017. We evaluated the revenue recognition for all contracts within this scope under 
existing accounting standards and under the new revenue recognition ASU and confirmed that there were no differences in the 
amounts recognized or the pattern of recognition. Therefore, the adoption of this ASU did not result in an adjustment to our retained 
earnings on January 1, 2018.
  Revenues within the scope of the new revenue recognition ASU
  Parking
  Parking and other revenues aggregated $44.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. These revenues consist 
primarily of short-term rental revenues that are not considered lease revenue. These revenues will be accounted for under the new 
revenue recognition ASU effective January 1, 2018. Under current accounting standards, we recognize parking when the amounts are 
fixed or determinable, collectability is reasonably assured, and services have been rendered. Under the new revenue recognition ASU, 
the recognition of such revenue will occur when the services are provided and the performance obligations are satisfied. These 
services are normally provided at a point in time; therefore, revenue recognition under the new revenue recognition ASU is expected 
to be substantially similar to the recognition pattern under existing accounting standards.
  Sales of real estate
  During the year ended December 31, 2017, we sold real estate for contractual sales prices aggregating $22.1 million, which 
resulted in an aggregate gain of $381 thousand. Our ordinary output activities consist of leasing space to our tenants in our operating 
properties, not the sales of real estate. Therefore, sales of real estate qualify as contracts with non-customers.
  The amount and timing of recognition of gain or loss on those sales may differ significantly under the new standards. The 
current standards focus on whether the seller retains substantial risks or rewards of ownership as a result of its continuing involvement 
with the sold property.
F-21
F-21
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Recent accounting pronouncements (continued)
Recent accounting pronouncements (continued)
Revenue recognition (continued)
Revenue recognition (continued)
  Under the new standard, which includes guidance on recognition of gains and losses arising from the derecognition of 
  Under the new standard, which includes guidance on recognition of gains and losses arising from the derecognition of 
nonfinancial assets in a transaction with noncustomers, the derecognition model is based on the transfer of control. If a real estate sale 
nonfinancial assets in a transaction with noncustomers, the derecognition model is based on the transfer of control. If a real estate sale 
contract includes ongoing involvement by the seller with the property, the seller must evaluate each promised good or service under 
contract includes ongoing involvement by the seller with the property, the seller must evaluate each promised good or service under 
the contract to determine whether it represents a separate performance obligation, constitutes a guarantee, or prevents the transfer of 
the contract to determine whether it represents a separate performance obligation, constitutes a guarantee, or prevents the transfer of 
control. If a good or service is considered a separate performance obligation, an allocated portion of the transaction price should be 
control. If a good or service is considered a separate performance obligation, an allocated portion of the transaction price should be 
recognized as revenue as the entity transfers the related good or service to the buyer.
recognized as revenue as the entity transfers the related good or service to the buyer.
  Under the current standards, a partial sale of real estate in which the seller retains a noncontrolling interest results in the 
  Under the current standards, a partial sale of real estate in which the seller retains a noncontrolling interest results in the 
recognition of a gain or loss related to the interest sold.
recognition of a gain or loss related to the interest sold.
  Under the new standards, a partial sale of real estate in which the seller retains a noncontrolling interest will result in 
  Under the new standards, a partial sale of real estate in which the seller retains a noncontrolling interest will result in 
recognition by the seller of a gain or loss as if 100% of the real estate was sold. Conversely, under the new standards, a partial sale of 
recognition by the seller of a gain or loss as if 100% of the real estate was sold. Conversely, under the new standards, a partial sale of 
real estate in which the seller retains a controlling interest will result in the seller’s continuing to reflect the asset at its current book 
real estate in which the seller retains a controlling interest will result in the seller’s continuing to reflect the asset at its current book 
value, recording a noncontrolling interest for the book value of the partial interest sold, and recognizing additional paid-in capital for 
value, recording a noncontrolling interest for the book value of the partial interest sold, and recognizing additional paid-in capital for 
the difference between the consideration received and the partial interest at book value, consistent with the current accounting 
the difference between the consideration received and the partial interest at book value, consistent with the current accounting 
standards.
 standards.
   Tenant recoveries
  Tenant recoveries
  As previously noted above in the lease accounting section, certain tenant recoveries may be subject to the new revenue 
  As previously noted above in the lease accounting section, certain tenant recoveries may be subject to the new revenue 
recognition ASU upon our adoption of the lease ASU, no later than January 1, 2019.
recognition ASU upon our adoption of the lease ASU, no later than January 1, 2019.
  Revenues within the scope of guidance other than revenue recognition or lease accounting
  Revenues within the scope of guidance other than revenue recognition or lease accounting
  Interest and investment income fall outside the scope of the new revenue recognition and lease accounting standards. 
  Interest and investment income fall outside the scope of the new revenue recognition and lease accounting standards. 
Investment income is subject to a recently issued accounting pronouncement on financial instruments related to the accounting for 
Investment income is subject to a recently issued accounting pronouncement on financial instruments related to the accounting for 
equity investments, as further described below.
equity investments, as further described below.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments
  In January 2016, the FASB issued an ASU that amended the accounting for equity investments (except for debt securities and 
  In January 2016, the FASB issued an ASU that amended the accounting for equity investments (except for debt securities and 
equity investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting or that result in consolidation) and the presentation and 
equity investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting or that result in consolidation) and the presentation and 
disclosure requirements for financial instruments. The core principle of the amendment involves the measurement of equity 
disclosure requirements for financial instruments. The core principle of the amendment involves the measurement of equity 
investments at fair value and the recognition of changes in fair value of those investments during each reporting period in net income.
investments at fair value and the recognition of changes in fair value of those investments during each reporting period in net income.
  The following table summarizes total book value of our investments in publicly traded securities and privately held 
  The following table summarizes total book value of our investments in publicly traded securities and privately held 
investments as of December 31, 2017 (in thousands):
investments as of December 31, 2017 (in thousands):
December 31, 2017
December 31, 2017
Public investments
Public investments
Cost basis $ 59,740
Cost basis $ 59,740
Net unrealized gains 49,771
Net unrealized gains 49,771
Private investments 413,743
Private investments 413,743
$ 523,254
$ 523,254
  For the year ended December 31, 2017, our consolidated statements of operations and statements of comprehensive income 
  For the year ended December 31, 2017, our consolidated statements of operations and statements of comprehensive income 
contained the following amounts related to our investments (in thousands):
contained the following amounts related to our investments (in thousands):
Year Ended
DecYemeabre Er n3d1e, d2017
December 31, 2017
Investment income recognized in net income $ 1,329
Investment income recognized in net income $ 1,329
Unrealized gain recognized in other comprehensive income (component of stockholder’s equity) $ 24,360
Unrealized gain recognized in other comprehensive income (component of stockholder’s equity) $ 24,360
F-22
F-22
F-22
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Recent accounting pronouncements (continued)
Financial instruments (continued)
  The ASU became effective for us on January 1, 2018. The ASU requires the use of the modified retrospective transition 
method, under which cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to equity investments with readily determinable fair values will 
be reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings on January 1, 2018 upon adoption of this ASU. 
The guidance related to equity investments without readily determinable fair values will be applied prospectively to all investments 
that exist as of the date of adoption. We expect the adoption of this new ASU to increase the volatility of our net income due to the 
recognition of changes in fair value of our equity investments in net income for reporting periods subsequent to December 31, 2017.
  The ASU introduces significant changes to current accounting for equity investments, including elimination of (i) the 
classification of equity investments as trading or available-for-sale, and the related recognition of unrealized holding gains and losses 
on available-for-sale equity securities in other comprehensive income, (ii) the cost method of accounting for equity securities that do 
not have readily determinable fair values, and (iii) the consideration of impairments as other-than-temporary, and instead requires 
recognition of impairments under a single-step model. A readily determinable fair value exists for investments for which sales prices/
quotes are available on securities exchanges, or are published and are the basis for current transactions. 
  Under the new ASU, equity investments in publicly traded securities are required to be measured and reported at fair value. 
Upon adoption of the new ASU, cumulative net unrealized gains on our available-for-sale equity securities aggregating $49.8 million 
were recognized as a cumulative adjustment to our retained earnings on January 1, 2018. Subsequent changes in fair value will be 
recognized in net income each reporting period. The year-to-date change in unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale equity 
securities, aggregating $24.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, would have been recognized in net income under this new 
ASU.
  Equity investments without readily determinable fair values or equity investments without readily determinable fair values 
that qualify for the NAV practical expedient, which are currently subject to the cost method of accounting, will be accounted for under 
two categories, as follows:
•  Equity investments that qualify for the practical expedient to be measured at net asset value in accordance with ASC 820, 
Fair Value Measurement, such as our privately held investments in limited partnerships, are required to be measured using 
the reported NAV per share or otherwise valued at fair value using other accepted valuation techniques. The aggregate NAV 
per share of our investments in limited partnerships exceeds our cost basis by approximately $91.1 million as of December 
31, 2017. This cumulative difference is required to be recognized as a one time adjustment to retained earnings on the date of 
adoption. We recognized a cumulative adjustment aggregating approximately $91.1 million on January 1, 2018 related to our 
private investments in limited partnerships that report NAV per share. Subsequent changes in NAV per share will be 
recognized in earnings each reporting period. The year-to-date change in unrealized holding gains of investments in limited 
partnerships aggregating approximately $32.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, would have been recognized in 
net income under this new ASU.
•  Equity investments that do not qualify for the NAV practical expedient, such as our other privately held investments, will be 
measured at cost less impairments, adjusted for observable price changes that are known or can be reasonably known. An 
“observable price” is a price observed in an orderly transaction for an identical or similar investment of the same issuer. 
Investments will be evaluated on the basis of a qualitative assessment for indicators of impairment. If such indicators are 
present, we are required to estimate the investment’s fair value and recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount by 
which the investment’s carrying value exceeds its fair value. The FASB has a clarifying amendment currently out for vote by 
written ballot that confirms a prospective transition approach for securities without readily determinable fair values that do 
not qualify for the NAV practical expedient above, because it may be difficult for entities to determine the last observable 
transaction price existing prior to the adoption of this ASU. Since equity securities which qualify for this measurement 
alternative will be subject to a prospective transition approach, initial valuation adjustments made subsequent to January 1, 
2018 will include recognition of cumulative gains or losses equal to the difference between the carrying basis of the 
investment and the observable price at the date of measurement.
F-23
F-23
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Recent accounting pronouncements (continued)
Financial instruments (continued)
  The new ASU requires additional disclosures. Equity investments in publicly traded securities that have readily determinable 
fair values and private investments that qualify for the practical expedient to be measured at NAV require disclosure of the unrealized 
gains and losses recognized through earnings during the period that relate to equity securities still held at the reporting date. Equity 
investments in privately held entities that do not have readily determinable fair values require disclosures of (i) the carrying amount, 
(ii) the amount of impairments and downward adjustments, if any, both cumulative and annual, (iii) the amount of upward 
adjustments, if any, both cumulative and annual, and (iv) qualitative information to facilitate an understanding of the quantitative 
disclosures.
  We completed our assessment and implementation of the new standard and recognized in retained earnings the cumulative 
adjustments noted above for (i) equity investments in publicly traded securities and (2) privately held investments, which qualified for 
the practical expedient to be measured at NAV, on January 1, 2018. 
Joint venture distributions
  In August 2016, the FASB issued an ASU that provides guidance on the classification in the statement of cash flows of cash 
distributions received from equity method investments, including unconsolidated joint ventures. The ASU provides two approaches to 
determine the classification of cash distributions received from equity method investees: (i) the “cumulative earnings” approach, under 
which distributions up to the amount of cumulative equity in earnings recognized will be classified as cash inflows from operating 
activities, and those in excess of that amount will be classified as cash inflows from investing activities, and (ii) the “nature of the 
distribution” approach, under which distributions will be classified based on the nature of the underlying activity that generated cash 
distributions. An entity may elect either the “cumulative earnings” or the “nature of the distribution” approach. An entity that elects the 
“nature of the distribution” approach but lacks the information to apply it will apply the “cumulative earnings” approach as an 
accounting change on a retrospective basis. The ASU is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early 
adoption permitted, and will be applied retrospectively (exceptions apply). We adopted this ASU on January 1, 2018, using the “nature 
of the distribution” approach. We previously presented distributions from our equity method investees utilizing the “nature of the 
distribution” approach; therefore, the adoption of this ASU had no impact on our consolidated financial statements. During the year 
ended December 31, 2017, distributions received from our equity method investees aggregated $40.2 million, consisting of 
approximately $1.6 million classified as a return on investment (cash flows from operating activities) and approximately $38.6 million 
classified as a return of investment (cash flows from investing activities). 
Restricted cash
  In November 2016, the FASB issued an ASU that will require companies to include restricted cash with cash and cash 
equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown in the statement of cash flows. The ASU 
will require disclosure of a reconciliation between the balance sheet and the statement of cash flows when the balance sheet includes 
more than one line item for cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents. An entity with material restricted 
cash and restricted cash equivalents balances will be required to disclose the nature of the restrictions. The ASU is effective for 
reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and is required to be applied retrospectively to all periods presented. We 
adopted this ASU on January 1, 2018. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, we had $22.8 million and $16.3 million of restricted cash, 
respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets. Subsequent to the adoption of this ASU, restricted cash balances will be included 
with cash and cash equivalents balances as of the beginning and ending of each period presented in our consolidated statements of 
cash flows; separate line items reconciling changes in restricted cash balances to the changes in cash and cash equivalents will no 
longer be presented within the operating, investing, and financing sections of our consolidated statements of cash flows.
Allowance for credit losses
  In June 2016, the FASB issued an ASU that changes the impairment model for most financial instruments by requiring 
companies to recognize an allowance for expected losses, rather than incurred losses as required currently by the other-than-temporary 
impairment model. The ASU will apply to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including 
trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities, net investments in leases, and off-balance-sheet credit exposures 
(e.g., loan commitments). The ASU is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption 
permitted, and will be applied as a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings as of the effective date. We are currently assessing the 
potential effect the adoption of this ASU will have on our consolidated financial statements.
F-24
F-24
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Recent accounting pronouncements (continued)
Hedge accounting
  In August 2017, the FASB issued an ASU that simplifies hedge accounting. The purpose of this updated ASU is to better 
align a company’s financial reporting for hedging activities with the economic objectives of those activities. For cash flow hedges that 
are highly effective, the new standard requires all changes (effective and ineffective components) in the fair value of the hedging 
instrument to be recorded in other comprehensive income and to be reclassified into earnings only when the hedged item impacts 
earnings. 
  Under existing standards, a quantitative assessment is made on an ongoing basis to determine whether a hedge is highly 
effective in offsetting changes in cash flows associated with the hedged item. Currently, hedge accounting requires hedge 
ineffectiveness to be recognized in earnings. Under the new standard, an entity will still be required to perform an initial quantitative 
test. However, the new standard allows an entity to elect to subsequently perform only a qualitative assessment unless facts and 
circumstances change.
  The ASU is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. For cash flow 
hedges in existence at the date of adoption, an entity is required to apply a cumulative-effect adjustment for previously recognized 
ineffectiveness from retained earnings to accumulated other comprehensive income as of the beginning of the fiscal year when an 
entity adopts the amendments in this ASU. 
  We early adopted this ASU effective on January 1, 2018. We utilize interest rate hedge agreements to hedge a portion of our 
exposure to variable interest rates primarily associated with borrowings based on LIBOR. As a result, all of our interest rate hedge 
agreements are designated as cash flow hedges. During the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we did not have any hedge 
ineffectiveness related to our interest rate hedge agreements. Therefore, the adoption is this ASU had no effect on our financial 
statements. Similarly, we do not expect this ASU will have a significant impact on our operating results subsequent to the adoption. 
F-25
F-25
3.  Investments in real estate
Our consolidated investments in real estate consisted of the following as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands):
December 31,
2017 2016
Land (related to rental properties) $ 1,312,072 $ 1,131,416
Buildings and building improvements 9,000,626 7,810,269
Other improvements 780,117 584,565
Rental properties 11,092,815 9,526,250
Development and redevelopment of new Class A properties:
Development and redevelopment projects (under construction or pre-construction) 955,218 809,254
Future development projects 96,112 253,551
Gross investments in real estate – North America 12,144,145 10,589,055
Less: accumulated depreciation (1,875,810) (1,546,798)
Net investments in real estate – North America 10,268,335 9,042,257
Net investments in real estate – Asia 29,684 35,715
Investments in real estate $ 10,298,019 $ 9,077,972
Acquisitions
  Our real estate asset acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2017, consisted of the following (dollars in thousands):
Square Footage
Development/
Three Months Ended Operating Redevelopment Future Development Purchase Price
March 31, 2017 232,470 — 1,508,890 $ 218,500
June 30, 2017 272,634 175,000 1,030,000 244,009
September 30, 2017 168,424 104,212 280,000 110,700
December 31, 2017 214,896 — — 86,450
888,424 279,212 2,818,890 $ 659,659
We evaluated each of the transactions detailed below to determine whether the integrated set of assets and activities acquired 
met the definition of a business. Acquisitions that do not meet the definition of a business are accounted for as asset acquisitions. An 
integrated set of assets and activities does not qualify as a business if substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets is 
concentrated in either a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets, or if the acquired assets do not include a 
substantive process. 
  We evaluated each of the completed acquisitions and determined that substantially all of the fair value related to each 
acquisition is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets, or is a land parcel with no operations. 
Accordingly, each transaction did not meet the definition of a business and consequently was accounted for as an asset acquisition. In 
each of these transactions, we allocated the total consideration for each acquisition to the individual assets and liabilities acquired on a 
relative fair value basis.
F-26
F-26
3. Investments in real estate (continued)
Cambridge, Greater Boston
325 Binney Street
  In March 2017, we acquired land parcels at 325 Binney Street (formerly named 303 Binney Street) in our Cambridge 
submarket of Greater Boston for a purchase price of $80.3 million. The property is located adjacent to our Alexandria Center® at One 
Kendall Square campus and is currently entitled for the development of 163,339 RSF for office or office/laboratory space and 45,626 
RSF for residential space. We may seek to increase the entitlements for additional office or office/laboratory use, which may result in
additional purchase price consideration
Route 128, Greater Boston
266 and 275 Second Avenue
  In July 2017, we acquired two properties aggregating 203,757 RSF at 266 and 275 Second Avenue in our Route 128 
submarket of Greater Boston for a purchase price of $71.0 million. The properties consist of 144,584 RSF of office/laboratory space, 
which is 100% occupied by multiple tenants. The remaining 59,173 RSF, or 29% of the total RSF, are currently undergoing conversion 
from office to office/laboratory space through redevelopment.
Mission Bay/SoMa, San Francisco
88 Bluxome Street
  In January 2017, we acquired land parcels aggregating 2.6 acres at 88 Bluxome Street in our Mission Bay/SoMa submarket 
of San Francisco for a purchase price of $130.0 million.
South San Francisco, San Francisco
201 Haskins Way 
  In September 2017, we acquired a 6.5-acre future development site located at 201 Haskins Way, located in our South San 
Francisco submarket of San Francisco for a purchase price of $33.0 million. The existing building, aggregating 23,840 RSF, is 
currently 100% leased through 2020.
701 Gateway Boulevard
  In December 2017, we acquired an office building aggregating 170,862 RSF at 701 Gateway Boulevard situated on 7.4 acres 
in our South San Francisco submarket of San Francisco for a purchase price of $76.0 million. The building is 90.6% leased as of 
December 31, 2017, to multiple tenants with minimal near-term lease expirations and is strategically located within our Alexandria 
Technology Center® – Gateway campus. In addition, the property provides future opportunities to enhance our return through the 
conversion of existing office space to office/laboratory space through redevelopment and development of a new building. 
Greater Stanford, San Francisco
960 Industrial Road
  In May 2017, we acquired a future ground-up development site at 960 Industrial Road aggregating 11.0 acres in our Greater 
Stanford submarket of San Francisco for a purchase price of $65.0 million.
825 and 835 Industrial Road 
  In June 2017, we acquired an 8-acre future development site located at 825 and 835 Industrial Road in our Greater Stanford 
submarket of San Francisco for a purchase price of $85.0 million. The property is currently entitled for the development of two 
buildings aggregating 530,000 RSF and a parking structure.
F-27
F-27
3. Investments in real estate (continued)
1450 Page Mill Road
  In June 2017, we acquired a 77,634 RSF recently developed technology office building at 1450 Page Mill Road, subject to a 
ground lease, located in Stanford Research Park, a collaborative business community that supports innovative companies in their R&D 
pursuits, in our Greater Stanford submarket of San Francisco for a purchase price of $85.3 million. The building is 100% leased to 
Infosys Limited for 12 years.
Torrey Pines/University Town Center/Sorrento Mesa, San Diego
4110 Campus Point Court
  In December 2017, we acquired a 55% controlling interest in 4110 Campus Point Court, an office building aggregating 
44,034 RSF, in our University Town Center submarket of San Diego for a joint venture equity contribution of $10.5 million. Refer to 
the “Investment in Consolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures” section below. 
3050 Callan Road and Vista Wateridge
  In March 2017, we acquired land parcels aggregating 13.5 acres at 3050 Callan Road and Vista Wateridge in our Torrey Pines 
and Sorrento Mesa submarkets of San Diego, respectively, for an aggregate purchase price of $8.3 million.
Rockville, Maryland
9900 Medical Center Drive
  In August 2017, we acquired a 45,039 RSF redevelopment property at 9900 Medical Center Drive in our Rockville 
submarket of Maryland for a purchase price of $6.7 million. The building is adjacent to our existing properties at 9800 and 9920 
Medical Center Drive.
Research Triangle Park
5 Laboratory Drive
  In May 2017, we acquired a 175,000 RSF redevelopment property at 5 Laboratory Drive in our Research Triangle Park 
market for a purchase price of $8.8 million.
Acquired below-market leases
The balances of acquired below-market leases, and related accumulated amortization, classified in accounts payable, accrued 
expenses, and tenant security deposits in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, were as follows (in 
thousands):
December 31,
2017 2016
Acquired below-market leases $ 167,146 $ 119,187
Accumulated amortization (78,962) (59,678)
$ 88,184 $ 59,509
F-28
F-28
3. Investments in real estate (continued)
For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, we recognized approximately $19.3 million, $6.0 million, and $6.3 
million, respectively, related to the amortization of acquired below-market leases in rental revenues. The increase in 2017 from 2016 is 
primarily due to the below-market leases from the acquisitions of Alexandria Center® at One Kendall Square, aggregating 644,771 
RSF, in our Cambridge submarket of Greater Boston and ARE Torrey Ridge, aggregating 294,993 RSF, in our Torrey Pines submarket 
of San Diego during the three months ended December 31, 2016, and the acquisition of 88 Bluxome Street, aggregating 232,470 RSF, 
in our Mission Bay/SoMa submarket in San Francisco during the three months ended March 31, 2017. The weighted-average 
amortization period of the value of acquired below-market leases was approximately 4.5 years, and the estimated annual amortization 
of the value of acquired below-market leases as of December 31, 2017, is as follows (in thousands):
Year Amount
2018 $ 15,452
2019 13,393
2020 10,440
2021 9,329
2022 8,191
Thereafter 31,379
Total $ 88,184
Acquired in-place leases
The balances of acquired in-place leases, and related accumulated amortization, are classified in other assets in the 
accompanying consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, these amounts were as follows (in thousands): 
December 31,
2017 2016
Acquired in-place leases $ 126,859 $ 105,708
Accumulated amortization (61,880) (42,300)
$ 64,979 $ 63,408
Amortization for these intangible assets, classified in depreciation and amortization expense in our consolidated statements of 
operations, was approximately $19.6 million, $6.8 million, and $5.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, 
respectively. The increase in 2017 from 2016 is primarily due to the increase in acquired leases from the acquisitions made during the 
three months ended December 31, 2016 and March 31, 2017, respectively, as discussed above under “Acquired Below-Market 
Leases.” The weighted-average amortization period of the value of acquired in-place leases was approximately 6.2 years, and the 
estimated annual amortization of the value of acquired in-place leases as of December 31, 2017, is as follows (in thousands):
Year Amount
2018 $ 15,226
2019 12,399
2020 9,624
2021 7,985
2022 5,743
Thereafter 14,002
Total $ 64,979
F-29
F-29
3. Investments in real estate (continued)
Minimum lease payments
Minimum lease payments to be received under our direct financing lease agreement are outlined in Note 7 – “Other assets” to 
our consolidated financial statements. Minimum lease payments to be received under the terms of the operating lease agreements, 
excluding expense reimbursements, in effect as of December 31, 2017, are outlined in the table below (in thousands):
Year Amount
2018 $ 756,979
2019 767,454
2020 751,657
2021 708,838
2022 647,283
Thereafter 4,975,237
Total $ 8,607,448
Investments in consolidated real estate joint ventures
Campus Pointe by Alexandria
  In 2016, we entered into a joint venture agreement to sell a 45% partial interest in Campus Pointe by Alexandria located in 
our University Town Center submarket of San Diego to an institutional investor, TIAA Global Asset Management and affiliates 
(“TIAA”). Campus Pointe by Alexandria consists of 10290 Campus Point Drive, a 305,006 RSF office/laboratory building, 100% 
leased to Eli Lilly and Company; 10300 Campus Point Drive, a 449,759 RSF building primarily leased to Celgene Corporation and 
The Regents of the University of California; and an unentitled land parcel adjacent to our 10290 Campus Point Drive property. In 
addition, we agreed to receive additional consideration upon attaining additional development rights at Campus Pointe by Alexandria 
for the adjacent land aggregating 318,383 RSF. The sales price aggregated $256.3 million. During the year ended December 31, 2017, 
we completed the disposition of the 45% interest in this joint venture with the attainment of the aforementioned development rights.
  During the year ended December 31, 2016, we received gross proceeds from our partner aggregating $221.6 million. During 
the year ended December 31, 2017, we received additional proceeds from our partner aggregating $30.1 million, including 
$12.9 million for the sale of the development rights. The remaining contribution from TIAA for amounts contemplated under 
agreement are expected to be received in 2018. 
  In December 2017, we entered into a real estate joint venture agreement with TIAA to acquire 4110 Campus Point Court, an 
office building aggregating 44,034 RSF, in our University Town Center submarket of San Diego. We hold a 55% ownership interest in 
the joint venture resulting from our equity contribution of $10.5 million. We have leased the property back to the seller for one year.
9625 Towne Centre Drive
  In December 2017, we entered into a joint venture agreement with TIAA to sell a 49.9% interest in 9625 Towne Centre 
Drive, a 163,648 RSF redevelopment project in our University Town Center submarket of San Diego and is 100% leased to Takeda 
Pharmaceutical Company Ltd. We received an initial contribution of $13.5 million from TIAA for a 35.9% initial ownership interest as 
of December 31, 2017, and expect TIAA’s ownership interest to increase to 49.9% by the end of the second quarter of 2018 through 
additional capital contributions to fund construction. 
  We retained controlling interests following each partial sale above and, therefore, continue to consolidate these entities. As a 
result, we accounted for the proceeds from each partial sale as equity financings. Each transaction did not qualify as a sale of real 
estate and did not result in purchase price adjustments to the carrying value of the net assets sold. Accordingly, the carrying amount of 
our partner’s share of assets and liabilities is reported at historical cost basis.
F-30
F-30
3. Investments in real estate (continued)
We own partial interests in the following Class A properties through our real estate joint ventures with TIAA: 
Property/Market/Submarket Our Share
225 Binney Street/Greater Boston/Cambridge 30.0%
409 and 499 Illinois Street/San Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMa 60.0%
1500 Owens Street/San Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMa 50.1%
10290 and 10300 Campus Point Drive and 4110 Campus Point Court/San Diego/University Town Center 55.0%
9625 Towne Centre Drive/San Diego/University Town Center 64.1% (1)
(1)   As of December 31, 2017, TIAA’s ownership interest is 35.9% and is expected to increase to 49.9% through construction funding. 
Under each of these real estate joint venture arrangements, we are the managing member and earn a fee for continuing to 
manage the day-to-day operations of each property.
For each of our joint ventures with TIAA, we evaluated the partially owned legal entity that owns the property under the 
variable interest model to determine whether each entity met any of the three characteristics of a VIE, which are as follows:
1) The entity does not have sufficient equity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support.
•  Each joint venture has significant equity at risk to fund its activities as the ventures are primarily capitalized by 
contributions from the members and could obtain, if necessary, non-recourse commercial financing arrangements on 
customary terms.
2) The entity is established with non-substantive voting rights.
•  The voting rights of each joint venture require both members to approve major decisions, which results in voting rights 
that are disproportionate to the members’ economic interest. However, the activities of each joint venture are 
conducted on behalf of both members, so the voting rights, while disproportionate, are substantive.
3) The equity holders, as a group, lack the characteristics of a controlling financial interest, as evidenced by lack of 
substantive kick-out rights or substantive participating rights.
•  TIAA lacks substantive kick-out rights as it may not remove us as the managing member without cause.
•  TIAA also lacks substantive participating rights as day-to-day control is vested in us as the managing member and the 
major decisions that require unanimous consent are primarily protective in nature.
Based on the analysis detailed in Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial 
statements, TIAA, as the non-managing member of each joint venture, lacks the characteristics of a controlling financial interest in 
each joint venture because it does not have substantive kick-out rights or substantive participating rights. Therefore, each joint venture 
meets the criteria to be considered a VIE and, accordingly, is evaluated for consolidation under the variable interest model.
After determining that these joint ventures are VIEs, we determined that we are the primary beneficiary of each real estate 
joint venture as, in our capacity as managing member, we have the power to make decisions that most significantly influence 
operations and economic performance of the joint ventures. In addition, through our investment in each joint venture, we have the 
right to receive benefits and participate in losses that can be significant to the VIEs. Based on this evaluation, we concluded that we 
are the primary beneficiary of each joint venture, and therefore, we consolidate each entity.
F-31
F-31
3. Investments in real estate (continued)
  The following table aggregates the balance sheet information of our consolidated VIEs as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 (in 
thousands): 
December 31,
2017 2016
Investments in real estate $ 1,047,472 $ 993,710
Cash and cash equivalents 41,112 27,498
Other assets 68,754 57,166
Total assets $ 1,157,338 $ 1,078,374
Secured notes payable $ — $ —
Other liabilities 52,201 66,711
Total liabilities 52,201 66,711
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s share of equity 584,160 538,069
Noncontrolling interests’ share of equity 520,977 473,594
Total liabilities and equity $ 1,157,338 $ 1,078,374
  In determining whether to aggregate the balance sheet information of our consolidated VIEs, we considered the similarity of 
each VIE, including the primary purpose of these entities to own, manage, operate, and lease real estate properties owned by the VIEs, 
and the similar nature of our involvement in each VIE as a managing member. Due to the similarity of the characteristics among these 
VIEs, we present the balance sheet information of these entities on an aggregated basis.
For each of our consolidated VIEs, none of its assets have restrictions that limit their use to settle specific obligations of the 
VIE. There are no creditors or other partners of our consolidated VIEs that have recourse to our general credit. Our maximum 
exposure to all our VIEs is limited to our variable interests in each VIE.
Sales of real estate assets and impairment charges
North America
  In January 2017, we completed the sale of a vacant property at 6146 Nancy Ridge Drive located in our Sorrento Mesa 
submarket of San Diego for a sale price of $3.0 million and recognized a gain of $270 thousand.
  In June 2017, we recognized an impairment charge of $203 thousand on a 20,580 RSF property located in a non-cluster 
market. We had previously recognized an impairment of $1.6 million in December 2016 when management committed to the sale of 
the property and evaluated this asset under the held for sale impairment model. We completed the sale of this asset in July 2017 for a 
gross sales price of $800 thousand with no gain or loss.
Asia
During the year ended December 31, 2016, we completed sales of real estate investments in Asia in multiple transactions. At 
the date of closing of each sale, the related cumulative unrealized foreign currency translation loss was reclassified to net income. We 
calculated a related gain or loss on disposal of each asset using the sales proceeds in comparison to the net book value on the date of 
sale, costs to sell, and any related cumulative unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments. Prior to completing the sales, upon 
initial classification as held for sale, we considered the net book value, cost to sell, and cumulative unrealized foreign currency 
translation losses in determining the carrying amount for evaluating each real estate asset for impairment. 
F-32
F-32
3. Investments in real estate (continued)
On March 31, 2016, we evaluated two separate potential transactions to sell land parcels in our India submarket aggregating 
28 acres. We determined that these land parcels met the criteria for classification as held for sale as of March 31, 2016, including 
among others, the following: (i) management’s having the authority committed to sell the real estate, and (ii) the sale was probable 
within one year. Upon classification as held for sale, we recognized an impairment charge of $29.0 million to lower the carrying 
amount of the real estate to its estimated fair value less cost to sell of approximately $10.2 million. In determining the carrying amount 
for evaluating the real estate for impairment, we considered our net book value, cost to sell, and a $10.6 million unrealized cumulative 
foreign currency translation loss.
During the three months ended June 30, 2016, we sold one of these land parcels totaling five acres for a sales price of $7.5 
million at no gain or loss. During the three months ended September 30, 2016, we sold the second of these land parcels totaling 23 
acres for a sales price of $5.3 million at no gain or loss. In order to calculate the gain or loss on the sale, we considered our net book 
value, cost of the sale, and cumulative foreign currency translation loss of $6.9 million as of June 30, 2016, and $3.8 million as of 
September 30, 2016, respectively, which were each reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to net income upon 
the disposition of each asset.
  On April 22, 2016, we decided to monetize our remaining real estate investments located in Asia in order to invest capital 
into our highly leased value-creation pipeline. We determined that these investments met the criteria for classification as held for sale 
when we achieved the following, among other criteria: (i) committed to sell all of our real estate investments in Asia, (ii) obtained 
approval from our Board of Directors, and (iii) determined that the sale of each property/land parcel was probable within one year. 
During the three months ended June 30, 2016, upon classification as held for sale, we recognized an impairment charge of $154.1 
million related to our remaining real estate investments located in Asia to lower the carrying costs of the real estate to its estimated fair 
value less cost to sell. In determining the carrying amount for evaluating the real estate for impairment, we considered our net book 
value, cost to sell, and a $40.2 million cumulative foreign currency translation loss, which was reclassified to net income upon the 
disposition of the assets. Impairment of real estate recognized during the three months ended June 30, 2016, of $156.1 million 
primarily relates to the impairment charge of $154.1 million as described above, as well as an impairment charge of $2.0 million 
related to properties in North America.
As of September 30, 2016, we had eight operating properties aggregating 1.2 million RSF and land parcels aggregating 168 
acres remaining in Asia, which continued to meet the classification as held for sale. During the three months ended September 30, 
2016, we updated our assumptions of fair value for the remaining real estate investments located in Asia, and as a result, we 
recognized an additional impairment charge of $7.3 million.
During the three months ended December 31, 2016, we completed the sale of our remaining real estate investments in our 
India submarket consisting of six rental properties aggregating approximately 566,355 RSF and four land parcels aggregating 
approximately 168 acres for an aggregate sales price of $53.4 million with no gain or loss. In order to calculate the gain or loss on the 
sale, we considered our net book value, cost of the sale, and cumulative foreign currency translation loss of $39.4 million, which was 
reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to net income upon the disposition of each asset. 
As a result of the completion of sales in our India submarket, we also liquidated legal entities through which we owned our 
real estate investments in our India submarket and reclassified the remaining cumulative foreign currency translation loss of $2.4 
million related to the real estate investments in India into earnings during the three months ended March 31, 2017, upon completion of 
the liquidations.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of one operating property in China aggregating 
300,184 RSF, which was previously classified as held for sale, for a sales price of $11.2 million at no gain or loss. In order to calculate 
the gain on the sale, we considered our net book value, cost of the sale, and cumulative foreign currency translation gain of $822 
thousand, which was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to net income upon the sale of the asset. 
As of December 31, 2017, our remaining real estate investments in Asia consisted of one operating property in China 
aggregating 334,144 RSF currently classified as held for sale. Cumulative unrealized foreign currency translation gains/losses related 
to this real estate investment will be reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to net income upon completion of the 
sale of this remaining investment. As of December 31, 2017, cumulative unrealized foreign currency translation gains related to this 
property aggregated $1.0 million. 
F-33
F-33
3. Investments in real estate (continued)
The fair value considered in our impairment of each investment was determined based on the following: (i) preliminary 
nonbinding letters of intent, (ii) significant other observable inputs, including the consideration of certain local government land 
acquisition programs, and (iii) discounted cash flow analyses.
  We evaluated whether our real estate investments in Asia met the criteria for classification as discontinued operations, 
including, among others, (i) if the properties met the held for sale criteria, and (ii) if the sale of these assets represented a strategic shift 
that has or will have a major effect on our operations and financial results. In our assessment, we considered, among other factors, that 
our total revenue from properties located in Asia was approximately 1.5% of our total consolidated revenues. At the time of 
evaluation, we also noted total assets related to our investment in Asia were approximately 2.5% of our total assets. Consequently, we 
concluded that the monetization of our real estate investments in Asia did not represent a strategic shift that had a major effect in our 
operations and financial results and therefore did not meet the criteria for classification as discontinued operations.
4.  Investments in unconsolidated real estate joint ventures
360 Longwood Avenue
  We have a 27.5% ownership interest in an unconsolidated real estate joint venture that, as of June 30, 2017, owned a building 
aggregating 413,799 RSF in our Longwood Medical Area submarket of Greater Boston. In July 2017, the unconsolidated real estate 
joint venture completed the sale of a condominium interest representing 203,090 RSF, or 49%, of the property, to the anchor tenant, 
pursuant to a fixed-price purchase option in its original lease agreement executed in 2011. Additionally, the unconsolidated real estate 
joint venture repaid the existing secured construction loan. Our share of the gain recognized was $14.1 million, which is reflected in 
our equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate joint ventures in our consolidated statements of operations during the year ended 
December 31, 2017.
  In August 2017, the unconsolidated real estate joint venture entered into a mortgage loan agreement, secured by the 
remaining interest in the property, that included the following key terms as of December 31, 2017 (amounts represent 100% at the 
joint venture level, dollars in thousands):
Extension Option  Remaining
Initial Maturity Date Maturity Date(1) Interest Rate(2) Debt Balance(3) Commitments
9/1/2022 9/1/2024 3.54% $ 94,040 $ 17,000 (4)
(1)  Reflects extension options that exist, which may be subject to certain conditions.
(2)   Represents interest rate including interest expense and amortization of loan fees and discount/premium.
(3)  Represents outstanding principal, net of unamortized deferred financing costs and discount/premium.
(4)   The remaining loan commitment balance excludes an earn-out advance provision that allows for incremental borrowings up to $48.0 million, subject to certain conditions.
  During the year ended December 31, 2017, we received cash distributions aggregating $40.2 million from the joint venture, 
primarily from the condominium sale and loan refinancing. 
Menlo Gateway
  In November 2017, we entered into an agreement with a retail, office, and research and development real estate developer in 
the San Francisco submarket to own a 49% interest in a real estate joint venture (“Menlo Gateway”) that owns one fully leased Class 
A operating property at 100 Independence Drive (“Phase I”), aggregating 251,995 RSF, and two fully leased development projects 
currently under construction at 125 and 135 Constitution Drive (“Phase II”), aggregating 520,988 RSF, in the Greater Stanford 
submarket of San Francisco. The properties are 100% leased to Facebook, Inc. and we expect to deliver Phase II of the project during 
the fourth quarter of 2019. 
  As of December 31, 2017, we have an ownership interest of 21.4% in Menlo Gateway joint venture. Our equity contributions 
consisted of $59.9 million provided upon our initial acquisition of an 18% ownership interest in this joint venture in November 2017 
and subsequent contribution of $16.2 million provided through December 31, 2017. Our ownership interest will increase to 49% 
through future funding of construction costs. 
F-34
F-34
4.  Investments in unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (continued)
  Phase I of the real estate joint venture has a non-recourse, secured construction loan with an aggregate commitment of $145.0 
million that includes the following key terms (amounts represent 100% at the joint venture level, dollars in thousands):
Extension Option 
Initial Maturity Date Maturity Date(1) Interest Rate(2) Debt Balance(3) Remaining Commitments
3/1/2019 3/3/2020 4.66% $ 111,015 $ 38,926
(1)   Reflects extension options that exist, which may be subject to certain conditions.
(2)  Represents interest rate including interest expense and amortization of loan fees and discount/premium. 
(3)  Represents outstanding principal, net of unamortized discount/premium.
We evaluated our ownership interests in the 360 Longwood Avenue and Menlo Gateway joint ventures using the 
consolidation guidance, as described in Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial 
statements, to determine whether these entities meet any of the following characteristics of a VIE: 
1) The entity does not have sufficient equity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support.
•  360 Longwood Avenue – This entity has significant equity and non-recourse financing in place to support operations as 
of December 31, 2017.
•  Menlo Gateway – This entity does not have sufficient equity to finance its activities and to complete its projects under 
construction without additional financial support by us through equity contributions and debt financing as of 
December 31, 2017.
2) The entity is established with non-substantive voting rights.
•  360 Longwood Avenue – Our 27.5% ownership interest in 360 Longwood Avenue consists of an interest in a joint 
venture with a development partner. The joint venture with our development partner holds an interest in the property. 
Our development partner was responsible for the day-to-day management of construction and development activities, 
and we are responsible for the day-to-day administrative operations of components of the property following 
development completion. At the property level, all major decisions (including the development, annual budget, leasing, 
and financing) require approval of all three investors. Although voting rights within the structure are disproportionate 
to the members’ economic interests, the activities of the ventures are conducted on behalf of all members, and 
therefore, the voting rights, while disproportionate, are substantive.
•  Menlo Gateway – Our current 21.4% ownership interest as of December 31, 2017, will increase to 49% ownership 
interest through subsequent contributions to fund construction. Our partner, the managing member, is responsible for 
the day-to-day management of the construction and development activities, as well as the day-to-day administrative 
operations of the operating property. All major decisions, including but not limited to the business plan, annual budget, 
leasing plan, and financing plan, require approval of both investors. Although voting rights within the structure are 
disproportionate to the members’ economic interests, the activities of the venture are conducted on behalf of both 
members, and therefore, the voting rights, while disproportionate, are substantive.
3) The equity holders, as a group, lack the characteristics of a controlling financial interest, as evidenced by lack of 
substantive kick-out rights or substantive participating rights.
•  360 Longwood Avenue – The non-managing members have significant participating rights, including in the day-to-day 
management of development activities and the participation in decisions related to the operations of the property.
•  Menlo Gateway – We lack substantive kick-out rights and substantive participating rights in this entity as the day-to-
day control is vested in our partner, the managing member, and the major decisions that require unanimous consent are 
primarily protective in nature. 
F-35
F-35
4.  Investments in unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (continued)
  Based on our evaluation above, our 360 Longwood Avenue joint venture does not meet the VIE criteria and does not qualify 
for evaluation under the variable interest model. We evaluated this joint venture under the voting model. Under the voting model, we 
consolidate the entity if we determine that we, directly or indirectly, have greater than 50% of the voting shares and that 
noncontrolling equity holders do not have substantive participating rights. Our interest in the 360 Longwood Avenue joint venture is 
limited to 27.5%, and since we do not have other contractual rights that give us control of the entity, we account for this joint venture 
under the equity method of accounting.
  Based on our evaluation above, our Menlo Gateway joint venture meets the VIE criteria and qualifies for evaluation under 
the variable interest model, as it lacks sufficient equity and characteristics of a controlling financial interest. Under the variable interest 
model, we consolidate the entity if we determine that we are the primary beneficiary of the VIE. Our partner in this joint venture is 
responsible for the management of the construction and the day-to-day operations. We do not have the power to direct the activities of 
the joint venture that most significantly impact its economic performance and, therefore, we are not a primary beneficiary of this joint 
venture. As such, we account for our investment in this joint venture under the equity method of accounting.
5.  Deferred leasing costs
The following table summarizes our deferred leasing costs as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands):
December 31,
2017 2016
Deferred leasing costs $ 496,387 $ 430,455
Accumulated amortization (274,957) (234,518)
Deferred leasing costs, net $ 221,430 $ 195,937
6.  Investments
  We hold equity investments in certain publicly traded companies, privately held entities primarily involved in the life science 
and technology industries. All of our equity investments in actively traded public companies are considered available-for-sale and are 
reflected in our consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Our investments in privately held entities are primarily accounted for under 
the cost method. 
  Investments in available-for-sale equity securities with gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2017, had been in a 
continuous unrealized loss position for less than 12 months. We have the ability and intent to hold these investments for a reasonable 
period of time sufficient for the recovery of our investment. We believe that these unrealized losses are temporary. Accordingly, there 
are no other-than-temporary impairments in accumulated other comprehensive income related to available-for-sale equity securities as 
of December 31, 2017 and 2016. 
The following table summarizes our investments as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands):
December 31,
2017 2016
Available-for-sale equity securities, cost basis $ 59,740 $ 41,392
Unrealized gains 52,193 25,076
Unrealized losses (2,422) (5,783)
Available-for-sale equity securities, at fair value 109,511 60,685
Investments accounted for under cost method 413,743 281,792
Total investments $ 523,254 $ 342,477
  Cumulative net unrealized gains of approximately $49.8 million related to available-for-sale equity securities and recognized 
in accumulated other comprehensive income in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2017, were reclassified from 
accumulated other comprehensive income into retained earnings on January 1, 2018, upon adoption of the Financial Instruments ASU. 
For further information about initial application of this ASU to our equity investments in publicly traded securities and our privately 
held investments, refer to the “Financial Instruments” section within Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our 
consolidated financial statements.
F-36
F-36
6. Investments (continued)
  The following table presents the components of our investment income classified within other income in our consolidated 
statements of operations (in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
2017 2016 2015
Investment gains $ 12,352 $ 28,530 $ 35,035
Investment losses (11,023) (11,397) (16,093)
Investment income $ 1,329 $ 17,133 $ 18,942
  Our investment income in the table above includes amounts realized upon disposition or impairment of available-for-sale 
equity securities, which were previously classified as unrealized gains (losses) within the accumulated other comprehensive income 
component of our stockholders’ equity. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we reclassified $6.1 million of previously 
unrealized losses from accumulated other comprehensive income into net income in conjunction with our 2017 realized transactions 
from available-for-sale equity securities. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we reclassified $18.5 million of previously 
unrealized gains from accumulated other comprehensive income into net income in conjunction with our 2016 realized transactions 
from available-for-sale securities.
  Investment losses include impairments of approximately $8.3 million related primarily to three investments for the year 
ended December 31, 2017, including the amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income related to available-for-
sale equity securities as noted above, and $3.1 million related to one cost method investment for the year ended December 31, 2016.
  For further information, refer to the “Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income” section within Note 15 – “Stockholders 
Equity” to our consolidated financial statements.
F-37
F-37
7.   Other assets
The following table summarizes the components of other assets as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands):
December 31,
2017 2016
Acquired below-market ground leases $ 12,684 $ 12,913
Acquired in-place leases 64,979 63,408
Deferred compensation plan 15,534 11,632
Deferred financing costs – $1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit 10,525 14,239
Deposits 10,576 3,302
Furniture, fixtures, and equipment 11,070 12,839
Interest rate hedge assets 5,260 4,115
Net investment in direct financing lease 38,382 37,297
Notes receivable 614 694
Prepaid expenses 10,972 9,724
Property, plant, and equipment 32,073 19,891
Other assets 15,784 11,143
Total $ 228,453 $ 201,197
The components of our net investment in direct financing lease as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are summarized in the 
table below (in thousands):
December 31,
2017 2016
Gross investment in direct financing lease $ 263,719 $ 264,954
Less: unearned income (225,337) (227,657)
Net investment in direct financing lease $ 38,382 $ 37,297
Future minimum lease payments to be received under our direct financing lease as of December 31, 2017 were as follows (in 
thousands):
Year Total
2018 $ 1,607
2019 1,655
2020 1,705
2021 1,756
2022 1,809
Thereafter 255,187
Total $ 263,719
F-38
F-38
8.  Fair value measurements
We provide fair value information about all financial instruments, whether or not recognized in the balance sheet, for which it 
is practicable to estimate fair value. We measure and disclose the estimated fair value of financial assets and liabilities utilizing a fair 
value hierarchy that distinguishes between data obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity and the reporting entity’s 
own assumptions about market participant assumptions. This hierarchy consists of three broad levels, as follows: (i) quoted prices in 
active markets for identical assets or liabilities, (ii) significant other observable inputs, and (iii) significant unobservable 
inputs. Significant other observable inputs can include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, as well as inputs 
that are observable for the asset or liability, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and yield curves. Significant unobservable 
inputs are typically based on an entity’s own assumptions, since there is little, if any, related market activity. In instances in which the 
determination of the fair value measurement is based on inputs from different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the level in the fair 
value hierarchy within which the entire fair value measurement falls is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair 
value measurement in its entirety. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety 
requires judgment and considers factors specific to the asset or liability. There were no transfers between the levels in the fair value 
hierarchy during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.
The following tables set forth the assets and liabilities that we measure at fair value on a recurring basis by level within the 
fair value hierarchy as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands):
December 31, 2017
Quoted Prices in Significant
Active Markets Other Significant
for Identical Observable Unobservable
Description Total Assets Inputs Inputs
Assets:
Available-for-sale equity securities $ 109,511 $ 109,511 $ — $ —
Interest rate hedge agreements $ 5,260 $ — $ 5,260 $ —
Liabilities:
Interest rate hedge agreements $ 103 $ — $ 103 $ —
December 31, 2016
Quoted Prices in Significant
Active Markets Other Significant
for Identical Observable Unobservable
Description Total Assets Inputs Inputs
Assets:
Available-for-sale equity securities $ 60,685 $ 60,685 $ — $ —
Interest rate hedge agreements $ 4,115 $ — $ 4,115 $ —
Liabilities:
Interest rate hedge agreements $ 3,587 $ — $ 3,587 $ —
The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, tenant receivables, other assets, accounts payable, accrued 
expenses, and tenant security deposits approximate fair value. Our available-for-sale equity securities and our interest rate hedge 
agreements have been recognized at fair value. Refer to Note 6 – “Investments” and Note 10 – “Interest Rate Hedge Agreements” to 
our consolidated financial statements for further details. The fair values of our secured notes payable, unsecured senior notes payable, 
$1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit, and unsecured senior bank term loans were estimated using widely accepted valuation 
techniques, including discounted cash flow analyses using significant other observable inputs such as available market information on 
discount and borrowing rates with similar terms, maturities, and credit ratings. Because the valuations of our financial instruments are 
based on these types of estimates, the actual fair value of our financial instruments may differ materially if our estimates do not prove 
to be accurate. Additionally, the use of different market assumptions or estimation methods may have a material effect on the 
estimated fair value amounts.
F-39
F-39
8.  Fair value measurements (continued)
As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the book and estimated fair values of our available-for-sale equity securities, interest rate 
hedge agreements, secured notes payable, unsecured senior notes payable, unsecured senior line of credit, and unsecured senior bank 
term loans were as follows (in thousands):
December 31,
2017 2016
Book Value Fair Value Book Value Fair Value
Assets:
Available-for-sale equity securities $ 109,511 $ 109,511 $ 60,685 $ 60,685
Interest rate hedge agreements $ 5,260 $ 5,260 $ 4,115 $ 4,115
Liabilities:
Interest rate hedge agreements $ 103 $ 103 $ 3,587 $ 3,587
Secured notes payable $ 771,061 $ 776,222 $ 1,011,292 $ 1,016,782
Unsecured senior notes payable $ 3,395,804 $ 3,529,713 $ 2,378,262 $ 2,431,470
Unsecured senior line of credit $ 50,000 $ 49,986 $ 28,000 $ 27,998
Unsecured senior bank term loans $ 547,942 $ 549,361 $ 746,471 $ 750,422
Nonrecurring fair value measurements
  Refer to “Sales of Real Estate Assets and Impairment Charges” in Note 3 – “Investments in Real Estate,” Note 6 – 
“Investments,” and Note 18 – “Assets Classified as Held for Sale” to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion.
9.  Secured and unsecured senior debt
  The following table summarizes our secured and unsecured senior debt as of December 31, 2017 (dollars in thousands):
Fixed Rate/ Weighted-Average
Hedged Unhedged Remaining 
Variable-Rate  Variable-Rate  Interest  Term
Debt Debt Total Percentage Rate(1) (in years)
Secured notes payable $ 745,742 $ 25,319 $ 771,061 16.2% 4.04% 3.3
Unsecured senior notes payable 3,395,804 — 3,395,804 71.3 4.05 6.9
$1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit 50,000 — 50,000 1.0 2.05 3.8
2019 Unsecured Senior Bank Term Loan 199,496 — 199,496 4.2 2.85 1.0
2021 Unsecured Senior Bank Term Loan 348,446 — 348,446 7.3 2.59 3.0
Total/weighted average $ 4,739,488 $ 25,319 $ 4,764,807 100.0% 3.87% 5.7
Percentage of total debt 99% 1% 100%
(1)  Represents the weighted-average interest rate as of the end of the applicable period, including expense/income related to our interest rate hedge agreements, amortization of loan fees, 
amortization of debt premiums (discounts), and other bank fees.
F-40
F-40
9.  Secured and unsecured senior debt (continued)
 
  The following table summarizes our outstanding indebtedness and respective principal payments as of December 31, 2017 
(dollars in thousands):
Unamortized
(Deferred
Maturity Financing Cost),
Stated 
(Discount)
Debt Rate Interest Rate(1) Date(2) Principal Premium Total
Secured notes payable
Greater Boston L+1.50% 3.22% 1/28/19 (3) $ 325,319 $ (1,296) $ 324,023
Greater Boston, San Diego, Seattle, and Maryland 7.75% 8.13 4/1/20 108,469 (752) 107,717
San Diego 4.66% 4.97 1/1/23 34,981 (329) 34,652
Greater Boston 3.93% 3.19 3/10/23 82,000 2,828 84,828
Greater Boston 4.82% 3.39 2/6/24 203,000 16,068 219,068
San Francisco 6.50% 6.67 7/1/36 773 — 773
Secured debt weighted-average interest rate/subtotal 4.39% 4.04 754,542 16,519 771,061
2019 Unsecured Senior Bank Term Loan L+1.20% 2.85 1/3/19 200,000 (504) 199,496
2021 Unsecured Senior Bank Term Loan L+1.10% 2.59 1/15/21 350,000 (1,554) 348,446
$1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit L+1.00% 2.05 10/29/21 50,000 — 50,000
Unsecured senior notes payable 2.75% 2.96 1/15/20 400,000 (1,628) 398,372
Unsecured senior notes payable 4.60% 4.74 4/1/22 550,000 (2,760) 547,240
Unsecured senior notes payable 3.90% 4.04 6/15/23 500,000 (3,236) 496,764
Unsecured senior notes payable 3.45% 3.56 4/30/25 600,000 (4,057) 595,943
Unsecured senior notes payable 4.30% 4.52 1/15/26 300,000 (6,205) 293,795
Unsecured senior notes payable 3.95% 4.14 1/15/27 350,000 (4,518) 345,482
Unsecured senior notes payable 3.95% 4.08 1/15/28 425,000 (4,231) 420,769
Unsecured senior notes payable 4.50% 4.62 7/30/29 300,000 (2,561) 297,439
Unsecured debt weighted average/subtotal 3.84 4,025,000 (31,254) 3,993,746
Weighted-average interest rate/total 3.87% $ 4,779,542 $ (14,735) $ 4,764,807
(1)  Represents the weighted-average interest rate as of the end of the applicable period, including expense/income related to our interest rate hedge agreements, amortization of loan fees, 
amortization of debt premiums (discounts), and other bank fees.
(2)  Reflects any extension options that we control.
(3)  Secured construction loan for our property at 50 and 60 Binney Street in our Cambridge submarket with aggregate commitments of $350.0 million. We have two, one-year options to 
extend the stated maturity date to January 28, 2021, subject to certain conditions. As of December 31, 2017, the aggregate remaining commitments are $24.7 million. 
$1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term loans
  The table below reflects the outstanding balances, maturity dates, applicable rates, and facility fees for our $1.65 billion 
unsecured senior line of credit, 2019 Unsecured Senior Bank Term Loan, and 2021 Unsecured Senior Bank Term Loan (dollars in 
thousands).
As of December 31, 2017
Facility Balance Maturity Date(1) Applicable Rate Facility Fee
$1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit $ 50,000 October 2021 L+1.00% 0.20%
2019 Unsecured Senior Bank Term Loan 199,496 January 2019 L+1.20% N/A
2021 Unsecured Senior Bank Term Loan 348,446 January 2021 L+1.10% N/A
$ 597,942
(1)  Reflects any extension options that we control.
  During the year ended December 31, 2017, we completed a partial principal repayment of $200 million of our 2019 
Unsecured Senior Bank Term Loan, reducing the total outstanding balance from $400 million to $200 million, and recognized a loss 
of $670 thousand related to the write-off of unamortized loan fees.
F-41
F-41
9.  Secured and unsecured senior debt (continued)
Borrowings under our $1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit bear interest at a “Eurocurrency Rate” or a “Base Rate” 
specified in the amended $1.65 billion unsecured line of credit agreement plus, in either case, the Applicable Margin. The 
Eurocurrency Rate specified in the amended $1.65 billion unsecured line of credit agreement is, as applicable, the rate per annum 
equal to (i) the LIBOR or a successor rate thereto as approved by the administrative agent for loans denominated in a LIBOR quoted 
currency (i.e., U.S. dollars, euro, pounds sterling, or yen), (ii) the average annual yield rates applicable to Canadian dollar banker’s 
acceptances for loans denominated in Canadian dollars, (iii) the Bank Bill Swap Reference Bid rate for loans denominated in 
Australian dollars, or (iv) the rate designated with respect to the applicable alternative currency for loans denominated in a non-
LIBOR quoted currency (other than Canadian or Australian dollars). The Base Rate specified in the amended unsecured line of credit 
agreement means, for any day, a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the highest of (i) the federal funds rate plus 1/2 of 1.00%, (ii) the 
rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced, from time to time, by Bank of America as its “prime rate,” and (iii) the 
Eurocurrency Rate plus 1.00%. The Applicable Margin for LIBOR borrowings under the $1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit 
as of December 31, 2017, was 1.00%, which is based on our existing credit rating as set by certain rating agencies. As of December 
31, 2017, we had $50.0 million in borrowings outstanding on our $1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit. Our $1.65 billion 
unsecured senior line of credit is subject to an annual facility fee of 0.20% based on the aggregate commitments.
In addition, the terms of the $1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term loan agreements, 
among other things, limit the ability of the Company, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., and the Company’s subsidiaries to 
(i) consummate a merger, or consolidate or sell all or substantially all of the Company’s assets, and (ii) incur certain secured or 
unsecured indebtedness. Additionally, the terms of the $1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term 
loan agreements include a restriction that may limit our ability to pay dividends, including distributions with respect to common stock 
or other equity interests, during any time a default is continuing, except to enable us to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal 
income tax purposes. As of December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all such covenants.
Unsecured senior notes payable
  As of December 31, 2017, we have unsecured senior notes payable aggregating $3.4 billion, which are unsecured obligations 
of the Company and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., a 100% owned subsidiary of 
the Company. The unsecured senior notes payable rank equally in right of payment with all other senior unsecured 
indebtedness. However, the unsecured senior notes payable are subordinate to existing and future mortgages and other secured 
indebtedness (to the extent of the value of the collateral securing such indebtedness) and to all existing and future preferred equity and 
liabilities, whether secured or unsecured, of the Company’s subsidiaries, other than Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P. In addition, 
the terms of the indentures, among other things, limit the ability of the Company, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., and the 
Company’s subsidiaries to (i) consummate a merger, or consolidate or sell all or substantially all of the Company’s assets, and 
(ii) incur certain secured or unsecured indebtedness.
 
3.95% Unsecured senior notes payable due in 2028
 
  In March 2017, we completed a $425.0 million public offering of our unsecured senior notes payable due on January 15, 
2028, at a stated interest rate of 3.95%. The unsecured senior notes payable were priced at 99.855% of the principal amount with a 
yield to maturity of 3.967%. We used the net proceeds, after discounts and issuance costs, of $420.5 million to repay outstanding 
borrowings under our $1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit. 
3.45% Unsecured senior notes payable due in 2025
 
  In November 2017, we completed a $600.0 million public offering of our unsecured senior notes payable due on April 30, 
2025, at a stated interest rate of 3.45%. The unsecured senior notes payable were priced at 99.813% of the principal amount with a 
yield to maturity of 3.479%. We used the net proceeds, after discounts and issuance costs, of $593.5 million to repay two secured 
notes payable aggregating $389.8 million and for general corporate purposes including the reduction of the outstanding balance on our 
$1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit. 
Repayments of secured notes payable
  During the year ended December 31, 2017, we repaid two secured construction loans aggregating $389.8 million with a 
weighted-average effective interest rate of 2.89%. In connection with the repayment of these secured notes, we recognized a loss on 
early extinguishment of debt related to the write-off of unamortized loan fees of $2.8 million. 
F-42
F-42
9.  Secured and unsecured senior debt (continued)
Interest expense
Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015 consisted of the following (dollars in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
2017 2016 2015
Interest incurred $ 186,867 $ 159,403 $ 142,353
Capitalized interest (58,222) (52,450) (36,540)
Interest expense $ 128,645 $ 106,953 $ 105,813
10. Interest rate hedge agreements
We use interest rate derivatives to hedge the variable cash flows associated with certain of our existing LIBOR-based 
variable-rate debt, including our $1.65 billion unsecured senior line of credit, unsecured senior bank term loans, and secured notes 
payable, and to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility. 
In our interest rate hedge agreements, the ineffective portion of the change in fair value is required to be recognized directly 
in earnings. During each of the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, our interest rate hedge agreements were 100% 
effective; as a result, no hedge ineffectiveness was recognized in earnings. Changes in fair value, including accrued interest and 
adjustments for non-performance risk, on the effective portion of our interest rate hedge agreements that are designated and that 
qualify as cash flow hedges are classified in accumulated other comprehensive income. Amounts classified in accumulated other 
comprehensive income are subsequently reclassified into earnings in the period during which the hedged transactions affect earnings. 
During the next 12 months, we expect to reclassify approximately $3.6 million in accumulated other comprehensive income to 
earnings as a decrease of interest expense. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the fair values of our interest rate hedge agreements 
aggregating an asset balance were classified in other assets, and the fair value of our interest rate hedge agreements aggregating a 
liability balance were classified in accounts payable, accrued expenses, and tenant security deposits, based upon their respective fair 
values, without any offsetting pursuant to master netting agreements. Refer to Note 8 – “Fair Value Measurements” to our 
consolidated financial statements for further details. Under our interest rate hedge agreements, we have no collateral posting 
requirements.
We have agreements with certain of our derivative counterparties that contain a provision wherein we could be declared in 
default on our derivative obligations (i) if repayment of the underlying indebtedness is accelerated by the lender due to our default on 
the indebtedness or (ii) if we default on any of our indebtedness, including default where repayment of the indebtedness has not been 
accelerated by the lender. If we had breached any of these provisions as of December 31, 2017, we could have been required to settle 
our obligations under the agreements at their termination value of $54 thousand.
We had the following outstanding interest rate hedge agreements that were designated as cash flow hedges of interest rate risk 
as of December 31, 2017 (dollars in thousands):
Weighted-
Notional Amount in Effect as of
Number of Average Interest  Fair Value 
Effective Date Maturity Date Contracts Pay Rate(1) as of 12/31/17 12/31/17 12/31/18 12/31/19
March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 11 1.18% $ 618 $ 700,000 $ — $ —
March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 4 1.76% (103) 200,000 — —
March 29, 2018 March 31, 2019 8 1.16% 4,373 — 600,000 —
March 29, 2019 March 31, 2020 1 1.89% 269 — — 100,000
Total $ 5,157 $ 900,000 $ 600,000 $ 100,000
(1)  In addition to the interest pay rate for each swap agreement, interest is payable at an applicable margin over LIBOR for borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2017, as listed under 
the column heading “Stated Rate” in our summary table of outstanding indebtedness and respective principal payments under Note 9 – “Secured and Unsecured Senior Debt” to these 
consolidated financial statements.
F-43
F-43
11.  Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and tenant security deposits
The following table summarizes the components of accounts payable, accrued expenses, and tenant security deposits as of 
December 31, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands):
December 31,
2017 2016
Accounts payable and accrued expenses $ 349,884 $ 366,174
Acquired below-market leases 88,184 59,509
Conditional asset retirement obligations 7,397 3,095
Deferred rent liabilities 27,953 34,426
Interest rate hedge liabilities 103 3,587
Unearned rent and tenant security deposits 248,924 231,416
Other liabilities 41,387 33,464
Total $ 763,832 $ 731,671
Some of our properties may contain asbestos, which, under certain conditions, requires remediation. Although we believe that 
the asbestos is appropriately contained in accordance with environmental regulations, our practice is to remediate the asbestos upon 
the development or redevelopment of the affected property. We recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement 
obligation (including asbestos) when the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. For certain properties, we do not 
recognize an asset retirement obligation when there is an indeterminate settlement date for the obligation because the period in which 
we may remediate the obligation may not be estimated with any level of precision to provide for a meaningful estimate of the 
retirement obligation. These conditional asset retirement obligations are included in the table above.
12. Earnings per share
  In March 2017, we entered into agreements to sell an aggregate of 6.9 million shares of our common stock, which consisted 
of an initial issuance of 2.1 million shares and 4.8 million shares subject to forward equity sales agreements, at a public offering price 
of $108.55 per share, less issuance costs, underwriters’ discount, and further adjustments as provided for in the sales agreements. We 
issued the initial 2.1 million shares at closing in March 2017 for net proceeds of $217.8 million and settled the forward equity sales 
agreements on the remaining 4.8 million shares of common stock in December 2017 for net proceeds, after underwriters’ discount and 
issuance costs, of $484.6 million. 
  To account for the forward equity sales agreements, we considered the accounting guidance governing financial instruments 
and derivatives and concluded that our forward equity sales agreements were not liabilities as they did not embody obligations to 
repurchase our shares nor did they embody obligations to issue a variable number of shares for which the monetary value was 
predominantly fixed, varying with something other than the fair value of the shares, or varying inversely in relation to our shares. We 
then evaluated whether the agreements met the derivatives and hedging guidance scope exception to be accounted for as equity 
instruments, and concluded that the agreements can be classified as equity contracts based on the following assessment: (i) none of the 
agreements’ exercise contingencies were based on observable markets or indices besides those related to the market for our own stock 
price and operations; and (ii) none of the settlement provisions precluded the agreements from being indexed to our own stock.
  We also considered the potential dilution resulting from the forward equity sales agreements on the EPS calculations. We use 
the treasury method to determine the dilution resulting from the forward equity sales agreements during the period of time prior to 
settlement. The number of weighted-average shares outstanding – diluted used in the computation of EPS for the year ended 
December 31, 2017, includes the effect from the assumed issuance of 4.8 million shares pursuant to the settlement of the forward 
equity sales agreements at the contractual price, less the assumed repurchase of common shares at the average market price using the 
net proceeds of $484.6 million, adjusted as provided for in the forward equity sales agreements, through the settlement date in 
December 2017. The impact to our weighted-average shares – diluted for the year ended December 31, 2017, was 517 thousand 
weighted-average incremental shares. 
F-44
F-44
12. Earnings per share (continued)
 
  For purposes of calculating diluted EPS, we did not assume conversion of our 7.00% Series D cumulative convertible 
preferred stock for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, since the result was antidilutive to EPS attributable to 
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders from continuing operations during those periods. Refer to “7.00% Series 
D Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock Repurchases” in Note 15 – “Stockholders’ Equity” to our consolidated financial statements 
for further discussion of the partial repurchases of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock.
We account for unvested restricted stock awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends as participating securities and 
include these securities in the computation of EPS using the two-class method. Our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock and forward 
equity sales agreements are not participating securities and, therefore, are not included in the computation of EPS using the two-class 
method. Under the two-class method, we allocate net income (after gain on sales of real estate – land parcels, dividends on preferred 
stock, preferred stock redemption charge, and amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests) to common stockholders and unvested 
restricted stock awards based on their respective participation rights to dividends declared (or accumulated) and undistributed 
earnings. 
The table below is a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted EPS computations for the 
years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015 (in thousands, except per share amounts):
Year Ended December 31,
2017 2016 2015
Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 194,093 $ (49,889) $ 146,157
Gain on sales of real estate – land parcels 111 90 —
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (25,111) (16,102) (1,897)
Dividends on preferred stock (7,666) (20,223) (24,986)
Preferred stock redemption charge (11,279) (61,267) —
Net income attributable to unvested restricted stock awards (4,753) (3,750) (2,364)
Numerator for basic and diluted EPS – net income (loss) from continuing
operations attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common
stockholders 145,395 (151,141) 116,910
Loss from discontinued operations — — (43)
Numerator for basic and diluted EPS – net income (loss) attributable to
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders $ 145,395 $ (151,141) $ 116,867
Denominator for basic EPS – weighted-average shares of common stock
outstanding 91,546 76,103 71,529
Dilutive effect of forward equity sales agreements 517 — —
Denominator for diluted EPS – weighted-average shares of common stock
outstanding 92,063 76,103 71,529
 Net income (loss) per share attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities,
Inc.’s common stockholders – basic:
Continuing operations $ 1.59 $ (1.99) $ 1.63
Discontinued operations — — —
 Net income (loss) per share $ 1.59 $ (1.99) $ 1.63
Net income (loss) per share attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities,
Inc.’s common stockholders – diluted:
Continuing operations $ 1.58 $ (1.99) $ 1.63
Discontinued operations — — —
Net income (loss) per share $ 1.58 $ (1.99) $ 1.63
F-45
F-45
13.  Income taxes
We have elected to be taxed as a REIT, under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. We believe we 
have qualified and continue to qualify as a REIT. Under the Code, a REIT that distributes at least 90% of its REIT taxable income to 
its shareholders annually and meets certain other conditions is not subject to federal income taxes, but could be subject to certain state, 
local, and foreign taxes. We distribute 100% of our taxable income annually; therefore, a provision for federal income taxes is not 
required. 
We distributed all of our REIT taxable income in 2016 and 2015 and, as a result, did not incur federal income tax in those 
years on such income. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we expect our distributions to exceed our REIT taxable income and, as 
a result, do not expect to incur federal income tax. We expect to finalize our 2017 REIT taxable income when we file our 2017 federal 
income tax return in 2018.
The income tax treatment of distributions and dividends declared on our common stock, our Series D Convertible Preferred 
Stock, and our Series E Redeemable Preferred Stock for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, were as follows 
(unaudited):
Common Stock Series D Convertible Preferred Stock Series E Redeemable Preferred Stock
  Year Ended December 31,
  2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015
Ordinary income 62.1% 25.2% 50.1% 85.3% 44.8% 54.4% 85.3% 44.8% 54.4%
Return of capital 27.2 43.9 7.9 — — — — — —
Capital gains at 25% 0.7 — 8.5 1.0 — 9.2 1.0 — 9.2
Capital gains at 20% 10.0 30.9 33.5 13.7 55.2 36.4 13.7 55.2 36.4
Total 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
Dividends declared $ 3.45 $ 3.23 $ 3.05 $ 1.75 $ 1.75 $ 1.75 $ 0.4031 $ 1.6125 $ 1.6125
Our dividends declared in a given quarter are generally paid during the subsequent quarter. The taxability information 
presented above for our dividends paid in 2017 is based upon management’s estimate. Our federal tax return for 2017 is due on or 
before October 15, 2018, assuming we file for an extension of the due date. Our federal tax returns for previous tax years have not 
been examined by the IRS. Consequently, the taxability of distributions and dividends is subject to change. The income tax treatment 
of distributions and dividends noted above for the year ended December 31, 2017, is inclusive of the changes to taxable income 
related to our 2017 real estate transactions described in Note 3 – “Investments in Real Estate” to our consolidated financial statements.
In addition to our REIT tax returns, we file federal, state, and local tax returns for our subsidiaries. We file with jurisdictions 
located in the U.S., Canada, India, China, and other international locations and may be subject to audits, assessments, or other actions 
by local taxing authorities. We recognize tax benefits of uncertain tax positions only if it is more likely than not that the tax position 
will be sustained, based solely on its technical merits, with the taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. The 
measurement of a tax benefit for an uncertain tax position that meets the “more likely than not” threshold is based on a cumulative 
probability model under which the largest amount of tax benefit recognized is the amount with a greater than 50% likelihood of being 
realized upon ultimate settlement with the taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information.
As of December 31, 2017, there were no material unrecognized tax benefits. We do not anticipate a significant change to the 
total amount of unrecognized tax benefits within the next 12 months.
Interest expense and penalties, if any, are recognized in the first period during which the interest or penalty begins accruing, 
according to the provisions of the relevant tax law at the applicable statutory rate of interest. We did not incur any significant tax-
related interest expense or penalties for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015.
F-46
F-46
13.  Income taxes (continued)
The following reconciles net income (determined in accordance to GAAP) to taxable income as filed with the IRS for the 
years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 (in thousands and unaudited):
Year Ended December 31,
2016 2015
Net (loss) income $ (49,799) $ 146,114
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (16,102) (1,897)
Book/tax differences:
Rental revenue recognition (36,022) (42,815)
Depreciation and amortization 79,710 46,641
Share-based compensation 15,568 12,705
Interest expense (2,597) (58,909)
Sales of property 100,047 66,102
Impairments 61,593 35,177
Other 358 11,479
Taxable income before dividend deduction 152,756 214,597
Dividend deduction necessary to eliminate taxable income(1) (152,756) (214,597)
Estimated income subject to federal income tax $ — $ —
(1)  Total common stock and preferred stock dividend distributions paid were approximately $262.8 million and $243.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, 
respectively.
14. Commitments and contingencies
Employee retirement savings plan
We have a retirement savings plan pursuant to Section 401(k) of the Code whereby our employees may contribute a portion 
of their compensation to their respective retirement accounts in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowed under the Code. In 
addition to employee contributions, we have elected to provide company discretionary profit-sharing contributions (subject to 
statutory limitations), which amounted to approximately $3.2 million, $2.5 million, and $2.0 million for the years ended December 31, 
2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. Employees who participate in the plan are immediately vested in their contributions and in the 
contributions made on their behalf by the Company.
Concentration of credit risk
We maintain our cash and cash equivalents at insured financial institutions. The combined account balances at each 
institution periodically exceed FDIC insurance coverage of $250,000, and, as a result, there is a concentration of credit risk related to 
amounts in excess of FDIC insurance coverage. We have not experienced any losses to date on our invested cash.
In order to limit our risk of non-performance by an individual counterparty under our interest rate hedge agreements, we 
spread our interest rate hedge agreements among various counterparties. As of December 31, 2017, the largest aggregate notional 
amount of interest rate hedge agreements in effect at any single point in time with an individual counterparty was $250.0 million. If 
one or more of our counterparties fail to perform under our interest rate hedge agreements, we may incur higher costs associated with 
our variable-rate LIBOR-based debt than the interest costs we originally anticipated.
We are dependent on rental income from relatively few tenants. The inability of any single tenant to make its lease payments 
could adversely affect our operations. As of December 31, 2017, we had 668 leases with a total of 510 tenants, and 104, or 49%, of our 
213 properties were each leased to a single tenant. As of December 31, 2017, our three largest tenants accounted for approximately 
10.2% of our aggregate annual rental revenue, comprising 3.7%, 3.3%, and 3.2%. 
F-47
F-47
14.  Commitments and contingencies (continued)
Commitments
As of December 31, 2017, remaining aggregate costs under contract for the construction of properties undergoing 
development, redevelopment, and improvements under the terms of leases approximated $633.1 million. We expect payments for 
these obligations to occur over one to three years, subject to capital planning adjustments from time to time. We may have the ability 
to cease the construction of certain properties, which would result in the reduction of our commitments. We are also committed to 
funding approximately $176.6 million for certain non-real estate investments over the next several years.
  In November 2017, we entered into an agreement with a real estate developer in the San Francisco Bay Area to own a 49% 
interest in a real estate joint venture at Menlo Gateway in our Greater Stanford submarket of San Francisco. Our total equity 
contribution commitment is $269.0 million, of which we have contributed $76.2 million through December 31, 2017.
  We have existing office space aggregating 46,356 RSF at 161 First Street/50 Rogers Street in our Alexandria Center® at 
Kendall Square (“ACKS”) campus that we are required to partially convert to multifamily residential space, pursuant to our 
entitlements for our ACKS campus. Pursuant to these requirements, we expect to begin construction of the conversion to multifamily 
residential in 2018.
In addition, we have letters of credit and performance obligations aggregating $39.5 million primarily related to our 
agreement to purchase a 10% interest in a joint venture with Uber and the Golden State Warriors. 
Rental expense
Our rental expense attributable to continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, was 
approximately $14.0 million, $14.3 million, and $13.7 million, respectively. These rental expense amounts include certain operating 
leases for our headquarters and field offices, and ground leases for 27 of our properties and one land development parcel. Ground 
leases generally require fixed annual rent payments and may also include escalation clauses and renewal options. Future minimum 
lease obligations under non-cancelable ground and other operating leases as of December 31, 2017, were as follows (in thousands):
Year Office Leases Ground Leases Total
2018 $ 1,840 $ 12,098 $ 13,938
2019 1,777 12,249 14,026
2020 327 12,084 12,411
2021 270 11,641 11,911
2022 — 11,735 11,735
Thereafter — 520,205 520,205
Total $ 4,214 $ 580,012 $ 584,226
Our operating lease obligations related to our office leases have remaining terms of up to four years, exclusive of extension 
options. Excluding one ground lease that expires in 2036 related to one operating property with a net book value of approximately 
$9.2 million as of December 31, 2017, our ground lease obligations have remaining terms generally ranging from 36 to 97 years, 
including extension options. 
F-48
F-48
15. Stockholders’ equity
ATM common stock offering program
  In October 2016, we established an ATM common stock offering program that allowed us to sell up to an aggregate of 
$600.0 million of our common stock. During the six months ended June 30, 2017, we completed our ATM program with the sale of 
2.1 million shares of common stock for gross proceeds of $245.8 million, or $118.97 per share, and net proceeds of approximately 
$241.8 million. There is no remaining availability under this ATM program. 
  In August 2017, we established a new ATM common stock offering program that allows us to sell up to an aggregate of 
$750.0 million of our common stock. During year ended December 31, 2017, we sold an aggregate of 2.8 million shares of common 
stock under this program for gross proceeds of $336.6 million, or $121.37 per share, and received net proceeds of $331.2 million. As 
of December 31, 2017, the remaining aggregate amount available under our current program for future sales of common stock is 
$413.4 million.
Forward equity sales agreements 
  Refer to Note 12 – “Earnings per Share” to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion related to our forward 
equity sales agreements executed in March 2017 and Note 20 – “Subsequent Events” to our consolidated financial statements for a 
discussion related to our forward equity sales agreements executed in January 2018.
7.00% Series D cumulative convertible preferred stock repurchases
  As of December 31, 2017, we had 3.0 million shares of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding. During the 
year ended December 31, 2017, we repurchased, in privately negotiated transactions, 501,115 outstanding shares of our Series D 
Convertible Preferred Stock at an aggregate price of $17.9 million, or $35.79 per share. We recognized a preferred stock redemption 
charge of $5.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2017, including the write-off of original issuance costs of approximately 
$391 thousand. 
  As of December 31, 2016, we had 3.5 million shares of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock issued and outstanding. 
During the year ended December 31, 2016, we repurchased, in privately negotiated transactions, 6.0 million outstanding shares for an 
aggregate price of $206.8 million, or $34.41 per share. We recognized a preferred stock redemption charge of $61.3 million during the 
year ended December 31, 2016, including the write-off of original issuance costs of approximately $4.7 million. As of December 31, 
2015 and 2014, we had 9.5 million shares of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock issued and outstanding. 
  During the year ended December 31, 2017, we declared cash dividends on our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock 
aggregating $5.2 million, or $1.75 per share. During the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, we declared cash dividends on our 
Series D Convertible Preferred Stock aggregating $11.8 million, or $1.75 per share, and $16.6 million, or $1.75 per share, respectively. 
  The dividends on our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock are cumulative and accrue from the date of original issuance. We 
pay dividends quarterly in arrears at an annual rate of $1.75 per share. Our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock has no stated maturity 
and is not subject to any sinking fund or mandatory redemption provisions. We are not allowed to redeem our Series D Convertible 
Preferred Stock, except to preserve our status as a REIT. Investors in our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock generally have no 
voting rights. We may, at our option, be able to cause some or all of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock to be automatically 
converted if the closing sale price per share of our common stock equals or exceeds 150% of the then-applicable conversion price of 
the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock for at least 20 trading days in a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the trading 
day immediately prior to our issuance of a press release announcing the exercise of our conversion option. Holders of our Series D 
Convertible Preferred Stock, at their option, may, at any time and from time to time, convert some or all of their outstanding shares 
initially at a conversion rate of 0.2477 shares of common stock per $25.00 liquidation preference, which was equivalent to an initial 
conversion price of approximately $100.93 per share of common stock. The conversion rate for the Series D Convertible Preferred 
Stock is subject to adjustments for certain events, including, but not limited to, certain dividends on our common stock in excess of 
$0.78 per share per quarter and dividends on our common stock payable in shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2017, the 
Series D Convertible Preferred Stock had a conversion rate of approximately 0.2490 shares of common stock per $25.00 liquidation 
preference, which is equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $100.40 per share of common stock.
F-49
F-49
15. Stockholders’ equity (continued)
 
6.45% Series E cumulative redeemable preferred stock offering
  In March 2017, we announced the redemption of our Series E Redeemable Preferred Stock and recognized a preferred stock 
redemption charge of $5.5 million related to the write-off of original issuance costs. On April 14, 2017, we completed the redemption 
of all 5.2 million outstanding shares of our Series E Redeemable Preferred Stock at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, or an 
aggregate of $130.0 million, plus accrued dividends, using funds primarily from the proceeds of our March 2017 common stock 
offering discussed in Note 12 – “Earnings per Share” to our consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2017, we had no 
outstanding shares remaining of our Series E Redeemable Preferred Stock. We had 5.2 million shares of our Series E Redeemable 
Preferred Stock issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014.
  During the year ended December 31, 2017, we declared cash dividends on our Series E Redeemable Preferred Stock 
aggregating $2.4 million, or $0.4031 per share. We declared cash dividends on our Series E Redeemable Preferred Stock aggregating 
$8.4 million, or $1.6125 per share, for each of the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015.
Accumulated other comprehensive income
Accumulated other comprehensive income attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. consists of the following (in 
thousands):
Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on:
Available-for- Interest Rate Foreign
Sale Equity Hedge Currency
Securities Agreements Translation Total
 
Balance as of December 31, 2016 $ 19,293 $ 405 $ (14,343) $ 5,355
Other comprehensive income before reclassifications 24,360 2,837 7,774 34,971
Amounts reclassified from other comprehensive income 6,118 1,915 1,599 9,632
30,478 4,752 9,373 44,603
Amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests — — 66 66
Net other comprehensive income 30,478 4,752 9,439 44,669
Balance as of December 31, 2017 $ 49,771 $ 5,157 $ (4,904) $ 50,024
Common stock, preferred stock, and excess stock authorizations
In May 2017, our stockholders approved an amendment to our charter to increase the authorized shares of common stock 
from 100.0 million to 200.0 million shares, of which 99.8 million shares were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2017. Our 
charter also authorizes the issuance of up to 100.0 million shares of preferred stock, of which 3.0 million shares were issued and 
outstanding as of December 31, 2017. In addition, 200.0 million shares of “excess stock” (as defined in our charter) are authorized, 
none of which were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2017.
Additional paid-in capital
  In 2017, we sold partial interests in 9625 Town Center Drive and development rights at Campus Pointe by Alexandria. As 
described in Note 3 - “Investments in Real Estate” to our consolidated financial statements, since we retained controlling interests in 
both joint ventures following the sale and continued to consolidate these entities, we accounted for the proceeds received as equity 
financing transactions. The difference of $7.7 million between the aggregate proceeds of approximately $26.0 million received 
through December 31, 2017, and the corresponding partial interest in our cost basis of $18.3 million was recorded as an adjustment to 
additional paid-in capital. These transactions did not qualify as sales of real estate and did not result in purchase accounting 
adjustments to the carrying value. Accordingly, the carrying amounts of our partner’s share of assets and liabilities are reported at 
historical cost.
 
F-50
F-50
15. Stockholders’ equity (continued)
 
  In 2016, we sold partial interests in two buildings at our Campus Pointe by Alexandria campus. As described in Note 3 – 
“Investments in Real Estate” to our consolidated financial statements, since we retained controlling interests in both joint ventures 
following the sale and continued to consolidate these entities, we accounted for the proceeds received as an equity financing 
transaction. The difference of $44.5 million between the aggregate proceeds of approximately $221.6 million received through 
December 31, 2016, and the corresponding partial interest in our cost basis of $177.1 million was recorded as a reduction to additional 
paid-in capital. These transactions did not qualify as sales of real estate and did not result in purchase accounting adjustments to the 
carrying value. Accordingly, the carrying amounts of our partner’s share of assets and liabilities are reported at historical cost.
16. Share-based compensation
Stock plan
For the purpose of attracting and retaining the highest-quality personnel, providing for additional incentives, and promoting 
the success of our Company, we have historically issued two forms of share-based compensation under our equity incentive plan: (i) 
options to purchase common stock and (ii) restricted stock. We have not granted any options since 2002. Each restricted share issued 
reduces the share reserve by three shares (3:1 ratio). As of December 31, 2017, there were 3,825,236 shares reserved for the granting 
of future options and stock awards under the equity incentive plan.
In addition, the stock plan permits us to issue share awards to our employees and non-employee directors. A share award is an 
award of common stock that (i) may be fully vested upon issuance or (ii) may be subject to the risk of forfeiture under Section 83 of 
the Code. Shares issued generally vest over a four-year period from the date of issuance, and the sale of the shares is restricted prior to 
the date of vesting. The unearned portion of time-based awards is amortized as stock compensation expense on a straight-line basis 
over the vesting period. Certain restricted share awards are subject to vesting based upon the satisfaction of levels of performance and 
market conditions. Failure to satisfy the threshold performance conditions will result in the forfeiture of shares. Forfeiture of share 
awards with time-based or performance-based restrictions results in a reversal of previously recognized share-based compensation 
expense. Forfeiture of share awards with market-based restrictions does not result in a reversal of previously recognized share-based 
compensation expense.
The following is a summary of the stock awards activity under our equity incentive plan and related information for the years 
ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015:
Weighted-Average 
Number of Share Grant Date 
Awards Fair Value Per Share
Outstanding at December 31, 2014 674,969 $ 69.46
Granted 449,559 $ 89.72
Vested (307,511) $ 71.78
Forfeited (2,999) $ 79.81
Outstanding at December 31, 2015 814,018 $ 80.95
Granted 661,409 $ 88.98
Vested (325,537) $ 78.73
Forfeited (14,102) $ 79.10
Outstanding at December 31, 2016 1,135,788 $ 87.21
Granted 688,295 $ 108.22
Vested (423,705) $ 85.16
Forfeited (5,796) $ 101.45
Outstanding at December 31, 2017 1,394,582 $ 95.79
Year Ended December 31,
(In thousands) 2017 2016 2015
Total grant date fair value of stock awards vested $ 36,083 $ 25,630 $ 22,073
Total compensation recognized for stock awards, net of
capitalization $ 25,610 $ 25,433 $ 17,512
Capitalized stock compensation $ 16,682 $ 11,604 $ 9,177
F-51
F-51
16. Share-based compensation (continued)
Certain restricted stock awards granted during 2014 through 2017 are subject to performance and market conditions. The 
grant date fair value of these awards is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation pricing model, using the following assumptions for 
2017 and 2016, respectively: (i) expected term of 3.0 years and 2.8 years (equal to the remaining performance measurement period at 
the grant date), (ii) volatility of 22.0% and 20.0% (approximating a blended average of implied and historical volatilities), (iii) 
dividend yield of 3.2% and 3.4%, and (iv) risk-free rate of 1.46% and 1.03%.
As of December 31, 2017, there was $106.0 million of unrecognized compensation related to unvested share awards under 
the equity incentive plan, which is expected to be recognized over the next four years and has a weighted-average vesting period of 
approximately 19 months.
17. Noncontrolling interests
Noncontrolling interests represent the third-party interests in certain entities in which we have a controlling interest. These 
entities owned eight properties as of December 31, 2017, and are included in our consolidated financial statements. Noncontrolling 
interests are adjusted for additional contributions and distributions, the proportionate share of the net earnings or losses, and other 
comprehensive income or loss. Distributions, profits, and losses related to these entities are allocated in accordance with the respective 
operating agreements.
  During the year ended December 31, 2017, our consolidated joint ventures distributed $22.4 million to our joint venture 
partners. During the year ended December 31, 2016, our distributions to noncontrolling interests aggregated $69.7 million, which 
primarily consisted of the final installment of $54.0 million paid to acquire the previously outstanding 10% noncontrolling interest in 
our 1.2 million RSF campus at Alexandria Technology Square® in our Cambridge submarket of Greater Boston. The total purchase 
price was $108.3 million.
  We sold partial interests in 10290 Campus Point Drive and 10300 Campus Point Drive in 2016, and 9625 Town Centre Drive 
in 2017. As described in Note 3 – “Investments in Real Estate” to our consolidated financial statements, since we retained controlling 
interests in these joint ventures following the sales and continued to consolidate these entities, we accounted for the proceeds received 
as an equity financing transaction. These transactions did not qualify as sales of real estate and did not result in purchase accounting 
adjustments to the carrying value. Accordingly, the carrying amounts of our partner’s share of assets and liabilities are reported at 
historical cost basis.
Certain of our noncontrolling interests have the right to require us to redeem their ownership interests in the respective 
entities. We classify these ownership interests in the entities as redeemable noncontrolling interests outside of total equity in our 
consolidated balance sheets. Redeemable noncontrolling interests are adjusted for additional contributions and distributions, the 
proportionate share of the net earnings or losses, and other comprehensive income or loss. If the amount of a redeemable 
noncontrolling interest is less than the maximum redemption value at the balance sheet date, such amount is adjusted to the maximum 
redemption value. Subsequent declines in the redemption value are recognized only to the extent that previous increases have been 
recognized.
The following table represents income from continuing operations and discontinued operations attributable to Alexandria 
Real Estate Equities, Inc., for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, excluding the amounts attributable to these 
noncontrolling interests (in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
2017 2016 2015
Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Alexandria
Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s stockholders $ 169,093 $ (65,901) $ 144,260
Loss from discontinued operations — — (43)
 Net income (loss) attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities,
Inc.’s stockholders $ 169,093 $ (65,901) $ 144,217
F-52
F-52
18. Assets classified as held for sale
  As of December 31, 2017, our remaining real estate interest in Asia consists of one operating property aggregating 334,144 
RSF, which was classified as held for sale. For additional information, refer to Note 3 – “Investments in Real Estate” to our 
consolidated financial statements.
  The following is a summary of net assets as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, for our real estate investments in Asia that were 
classified as held for sale (in thousands):
December 31,
2017 2016
Total assets $ 31,578 $ 39,643
Total liabilities (1,809) (2,342)
Total accumulated other comprehensive loss (gain) (1,021) 828
Net assets classified as held for sale – Asia $ 28,748 $ 38,129
19. Quarterly financial data (unaudited)
The following is a summary of consolidated financial information on a quarterly basis for 2017 and 2016 (in thousands, 
except per share amounts): 
Quarter
2017 First Second Third Fourth
Revenues $ 270,877 $ 273,059 $ 285,370 $ 298,791
Net income attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities,
Inc.’s common stockholders $ 25,661 $ 31,630 $ 51,273 $ 36,831
Net income per share attributable to Alexandria Real Estate
Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders:
Basic(1) $ 0.29 $ 0.35 $ 0.55 $ 0.39
Diluted(1) $ 0.29 $ 0.35 $ 0.55 $ 0.38
Quarter
2016 First Second Third Fourth
Revenues $ 216,089 $ 226,076 $ 230,379 $ 249,162
Net (loss) income attributable to Alexandria Real Estate
Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders $ (3,818) $ (127,648) $ 5,452 $ (25,127)
Net (loss) income per share attributable to Alexandria Real
Estate Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders:
Basic and diluted(1) $ (0.05) $ (1.72) $ 0.07 $ (0.31)
(1)  Quarterly earnings per common share amounts may not total to the annual amounts due to rounding and due to the increase in the weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding.
F-53
F-53
20. Subsequent events
2100-2400 Geng Road 
  In January 2018, we acquired 2100-2400 Geng Road, a four-building office campus on 11-acres with 14 in-place leases with 
a weighted average remaining lease term of three years, aggregating 197,498 RSF, in our Greater Stanford submarket of San Francisco 
for a purchase price of $136.0 million. We are evaluating options for the conversion of existing office space into office/laboratory 
space through redevelopment. 
9965-9995 Summers Ridge Road
  In January 2018, we acquired 9965-9995 Summers Ridge Road, a campus with on-site amenities, consisting of four operating 
properties aggregating 316,531 RSF of office/laboratory space located in our Sorrento Mesa submarket of San Diego for a purchase 
price of $148.7 million. The property also includes a future development opportunity for an additional 50,000 RSF building. The 
properties are 100% leased as of December 31, 2017, to two life science product, service, and device companies for aggregate terms of 
15 years. 
Forward equity sales agreements
  In January 2018, we entered into forward equity sales agreements to sell an aggregate 6.9 million shares of our common 
stock (including the exercise of underwriters’ option to purchase an additional 900,000 shares), at a public offering price of $123.50 
per share. We expect to receive net proceeds, after underwriters’ discount and issuance costs, of $817.3 million, which will be further 
adjusted as provided in the forward equity sales agreements. We expect to settle the forward sales agreements in 2018.
21. Condensed consolidating financial information
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. (the “Issuer”) has sold certain debt securities registered under the Securities Act of 
1933, as amended, that are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P. (the “LP” or the “Guarantor 
Subsidiary”), an indirectly 100% owned subsidiary of the Issuer. The Company’s other subsidiaries, including, but not limited to, the 
subsidiaries that own substantially all of its real estate (collectively, the “Combined Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries”), will not provide a 
guarantee of such securities, including the subsidiaries that are partially or 100% owned by the LP. The following condensed 
consolidating financial information presents the condensed consolidating balance sheets as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the 
condensed consolidating statements of operations, comprehensive income, and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2017, 
2016, and 2015, for the Issuer, the Guarantor Subsidiary, and the Combined Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries, as well as the eliminations 
necessary to arrive at the information for Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc., on a consolidated basis, and consolidated amounts. In 
presenting the condensed consolidating financial statements, the equity method of accounting has been applied to (i) the Issuer’s 
interests in the Guarantor Subsidiary and the Combined Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries, (ii) the Guarantor Subsidiary’s interests in the 
Combined Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries, and (iii) the Combined Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries’ interests in the Guarantor Subsidiary, 
where applicable, even though all such subsidiaries meet the requirements to be consolidated under GAAP. All intercompany balances 
and transactions between the Issuer, the Guarantor Subsidiary, and the Combined Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries have been eliminated, 
as shown in the column “Eliminations.” All assets and liabilities have been allocated to the Issuer, the Guarantor Subsidiary, and the 
Combined Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries generally based on legal entity ownership.
F-54
F-54
21. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet
as of December 31, 2017 
(In thousands)
Alexandria
Alexandria  Real Estate Combined
Real Estate  Equities, L.P. Non-
Equities, Inc. (Guarantor Guarantor
(Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Assets
Investments in real estate $ — $ — $ 10,298,019 $ — $ 10,298,019
Investments in unconsolidated real estate JVs — — 110,618 — 110,618
Cash and cash equivalents 130,364 9 124,008 — 254,381
Restricted cash 152 — 22,653 — 22,805
Tenant receivables — — 10,262 — 10,262
Deferred rent — — 434,731 — 434,731
Deferred leasing costs — — 221,430 — 221,430
Investments — 1,655 521,599 — 523,254
Investments in and advances to affiliates 9,949,861 9,030,994 183,850 (19,164,705) —
Other assets 45,108 — 183,345 — 228,453
Total assets $ 10,125,485 $ 9,032,658 $ 12,110,515 $ (19,164,705) $ 12,103,953
Liabilities, Noncontrolling Interests, and Equity
Secured notes payable $ — $ — $ 771,061 $ — $ 771,061
Unsecured senior notes payable 3,395,804 — — — 3,395,804
Unsecured senior line of credit 50,000 — — — 50,000
Unsecured senior bank term loans 547,942 — — — 547,942
Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and tenant
security deposits 89,928 — 673,904 — 763,832
Dividends payable 92,145 — — — 92,145
Total liabilities 4,175,819 — 1,444,965 — 5,620,784
Redeemable noncontrolling interests — — 11,509 — 11,509
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s
stockholders’ equity 5,949,666 9,032,658 10,132,047 (19,164,705) 5,949,666
Noncontrolling interests — — 521,994 — 521,994
Total equity 5,949,666 9,032,658 10,654,041 (19,164,705) 6,471,660
Total liabilities, noncontrolling interests, and equity $ 10,125,485 $ 9,032,658 $ 12,110,515 $ (19,164,705) $ 12,103,953
F-55
F-55
21. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet
as of December 31, 2016 
(In thousands)
Alexandria
Alexandria Real Estate Combined
Real Estate Equities, L.P. Non-
Equities, Inc. (Guarantor Guarantor
(Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Assets
Investments in real estate $ — $ — $ 9,077,972 $ — $ 9,077,972
Investments in unconsolidated real estate JVs — — 50,221 — 50,221
Cash and cash equivalents 30,603 — 94,429 — 125,032
Restricted cash 102 — 16,232 — 16,334
Tenant receivables — — 9,744 — 9,744
Deferred rent — — 335,974 — 335,974
Deferred leasing costs — — 195,937 — 195,937
Investments — 4,440 338,037 — 342,477
Investments in and advances to affiliates 8,152,965 7,444,919 151,594 (15,749,478) —
Other assets 45,646 — 155,551 — 201,197
Total assets $ 8,229,316 $ 7,449,359 $ 10,425,691 $ (15,749,478) $ 10,354,888
Liabilities, Noncontrolling Interests, and Equity
Secured notes payable $ — $ — $ 1,011,292 $ — $ 1,011,292
Unsecured senior notes payable 2,378,262 — — — 2,378,262
Unsecured senior line of credit 28,000 — — — 28,000
Unsecured senior bank term loans 746,471 — — — 746,471
Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and tenant
security deposits 104,044 — 627,627 — 731,671
Dividends payable 76,743 — 171 — 76,914
Total liabilities 3,333,520 — 1,639,090 — 4,972,610
Redeemable noncontrolling interests — — 11,307 — 11,307
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s
stockholders’ equity 4,895,796 7,449,359 8,300,119 (15,749,478) 4,895,796
Noncontrolling interests — — 475,175 — 475,175
Total equity 4,895,796 7,449,359 8,775,294 (15,749,478) 5,370,971
Total liabilities, noncontrolling interests, and equity $ 8,229,316 $ 7,449,359 $ 10,425,691 $ (15,749,478) $ 10,354,888
F-56
F-56
21. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Operations
for the Year Ended December 31, 2017 
(In thousands)
Alexandria
Alexandria Real Estate Combined
Real Estate Equities, L.P. Non-
Equities, Inc. (Guarantor Guarantor
(Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Revenues:
Rental $ — $ — $ 863,181 $ — $ 863,181
Tenant recoveries — — 259,144 — 259,144
Other income (loss) 15,238 (2,575) 11,278 (18,169) 5,772
Total revenues 15,238 (2,575) 1,133,603 (18,169) 1,128,097
Expenses:
Rental operations — — 325,609 — 325,609
General and administrative 73,897 — 19,281 (18,169) 75,009
Interest 101,876 — 26,769 — 128,645
Depreciation and amortization 7,625 — 409,158 — 416,783
Impairment of real estate — — 203 — 203
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 670 — 2,781 — 3,451
Total expenses 184,068 — 783,801 (18,169) 949,700
Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate JVs — — 15,426 — 15,426
Equity in earnings of affiliates 337,923 328,230 6,384 (672,537) —
Gain on sales of real estate – rental properties — — 270 — 270
Income from continuing operations 169,093 325,655 371,882 (672,537) 194,093
Gain on sales of real estate – land parcels — — 111 — 111
Net income 169,093 325,655 371,993 (672,537) 194,204
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests — — (25,111) — (25,111)
Net income attributable to Alexandria Real Estate
Equities, Inc.’s stockholders 169,093 325,655 346,882 (672,537) 169,093
Dividends on preferred stock (7,666) — — — (7,666)
Preferred stock redemption charge (11,279) — — — (11,279)
Net income attributable to unvested restricted stock
awards (4,753) — — — (4,753)
Net income attributable to Alexandria Real Estate
Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders $ 145,395 $ 325,655 $ 346,882 $ (672,537) $ 145,395
F-57
F-57
21. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Operations
for the Year Ended December 31, 2016 
(In thousands)
Alexandria
Alexandria Real Estate Combined
Real Estate Equities, L.P. Non-
Equities, Inc. (Guarantor Guarantor
(Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Revenues:
Rental $ — $ — $ 673,820 $ — $ 673,820
Tenant recoveries — — 223,655 — 223,655
Other income (loss) 10,607 147 27,515 (14,038) 24,231
Total revenues 10,607 147 924,990 (14,038) 921,706
Expenses:
Rental operations — — 278,408 — 278,408
General and administrative 62,234 — 15,688 (14,038) 63,884
Interest 85,613 — 21,340 — 106,953
Depreciation and amortization 6,792 — 306,598 — 313,390
Impairment of real estate — — 209,261 — 209,261
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 3,230 — — — 3,230
Total expenses 157,869 — 831,295 (14,038) 975,126
Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate JVs — — (184) — (184)
Equity in earnings of affiliates 81,361 47,215 959 (129,535) —
Gain on sales of real estate – rental properties — — 3,715 — 3,715
(Loss) income from continuing operations (65,901) 47,362 98,185 (129,535) (49,889)
Gain on sales of real estate – land parcels — — 90 — 90
Net (loss) income (65,901) 47,362 98,275 (129,535) (49,799)
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests — — (16,102) — (16,102)
Net (loss) income attributable to Alexandria Real
Estate Equities, Inc.’s stockholders (65,901) 47,362 82,173 (129,535) (65,901)
Dividends on preferred stock (20,223) — — — (20,223)
Preferred stock redemption charge (61,267) — — — (61,267)
Net income attributable to unvested restricted stock
awards (3,750) — — — (3,750)
Net (loss) income attributable to Alexandria Real
Estate Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders $ (151,141) $ 47,362 $ 82,173 $ (129,535) $ (151,141)
F-58
F-58
21. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Operations
for the Year Ended December 31, 2015 
(In thousands)
Alexandria
Alexandria Real Estate Combined
Real Estate Equities, L.P. Non-
Equities, Inc. (Guarantor Guarantor
(Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Revenues:
Rental $ — $ — $ 608,824 $ — $ 608,824
Tenant recoveries — — 209,063 — 209,063
Other income (loss) 12,944 (205) 28,149 (15,301) 25,587
Total revenues 12,944 (205) 846,036 (15,301) 843,474
Expenses:
Rental operations — — 261,232 — 261,232
General and administrative 51,553 — 23,369 (15,301) 59,621
Interest 79,155 — 26,658 — 105,813
Depreciation and amortization 5,986 — 255,303 — 261,289
Impairment of real estate — — 23,250 — 23,250
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 189 — — — 189
Total expenses 136,883 — 589,812 (15,301) 711,394
Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate JVs — — 1,651 — 1,651
Equity in earnings of affiliates 268,156 238,691 4,704 (511,551) —
Gain on sale of real estate – rental properties — — 12,426 — 12,426
Income from continuing operations 144,217 238,486 275,005 (511,551) 146,157
Loss from discontinued operations — — (43) — (43)
Net income 144,217 238,486 274,962 (511,551) 146,114
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests — — (1,897) — (1,897)
Net income attributable to Alexandria Real Estate
Equities, Inc.’s stockholders 144,217 238,486 273,065 (511,551) 144,217
Dividends on preferred stock (24,986) — — — (24,986)
Net income attributable to unvested restricted stock
awards (2,364) — — — (2,364)
Net income attributable to Alexandria Real Estate
Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders $ 116,867 $ 238,486 $ 273,065 $ (511,551) $ 116,867
F-59
F-59
21. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the Year Ended December 31, 2017 
(In thousands)
Alexandria
Alexandria Real Estate Combined
Real Estate Equities, L.P. Non-
Equities, Inc. (Guarantor Guarantor
(Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Net income $ 169,093 $ 325,655 $ 371,993 $ (672,537) $ 194,204
Other comprehensive income (loss)
Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale
equity securities:
Unrealized holding gains (losses) arising during
the period — (5) 24,365 — 24,360
Reclassification adjustment for losses included in
net income — 2 6,116 — 6,118
Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale
equity securities, net — (3) 30,481 — 30,478
Unrealized gains (losses) on interest rate hedge
agreements:
Unrealized interest rate hedge gains (losses)
arising during the period 3,025 — (188) — 2,837
Reclassification adjustment for amortization of
interest expense included in net income 1,914 — 1 — 1,915
Unrealized gains (losses) on interest rate hedge
agreements, net 4,939 — (187) — 4,752
Unrealized gains on foreign currency translation:
Unrealized foreign currency translation gains
arising during the period — — 7,774 — 7,774
Reclassification adjustment for cumulative
foreign currency translation losses included in
net income upon sale or liquidation — — 1,599 — 1,599
Unrealized gains on foreign currency translation, net — — 9,373 — 9,373
Total other comprehensive income (loss) 4,939 (3) 39,667 — 44,603
Comprehensive income 174,032 325,652 411,660 (672,537) 238,807
Less: comprehensive income attributable to
noncontrolling interests — — (25,045) — (25,045)
Comprehensive income attributable to Alexandria
Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders $ 174,032 $ 325,652 $ 386,615 $ (672,537) $ 213,762
F-60
F-60
21. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the Year Ended December 31, 2016 
(In thousands)
Alexandria
Alexandria Real Estate Combined
Real Estate Equities, L.P. Non-
Equities, Inc. (Guarantor Guarantor
(Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Net (loss) income $ (65,901) $ 47,362 $ 98,275 $ (129,535) $ (49,799)
Other comprehensive income (loss)
Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale
equity securities:
Unrealized holding gains (losses) arising during
the period — 135 (79,968) — (79,833)
Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains)
included in net income — (148) (18,325) — (18,473)
Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale
equity securities, net — (13) (98,293) — (98,306)
Unrealized gains on interest rate hedge agreements:
Unrealized interest rate hedge (losses) gains
arising during the period (1,338) — 188 — (1,150)
Reclassification adjustment for amortization of
interest expense included in net income 5,272 — 1 — 5,273
Unrealized gains on interest rate hedge agreements,
net 3,934 — 189 — 4,123
Unrealized gains on foreign currency translation:
Unrealized foreign currency translation gains
(losses) arising during the period — — (2,579) — (2,579)
Reclassification adjustment for cumulative
foreign currency translation losses included in
net income upon sale or liquidation — — 52,926 — 52,926
Unrealized gains on foreign currency translation, net — — 50,347 — 50,347
Total other comprehensive income (loss) 3,934 (13) (47,757) — (43,836)
Comprehensive (loss) income (61,967) 47,349 50,518 (129,535) (93,635)
Less: comprehensive income attributable to
noncontrolling interests — — (16,102) — (16,102)
Comprehensive (loss) income attributable to
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common
stockholders $ (61,967) $ 47,349 $ 34,416 $ (129,535) $ (109,737)
F-61
F-61
21. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the Year Ended December 31, 2015 
(In thousands)
Alexandria
Alexandria Real Estate Combined
Real Estate Equities, L.P. Non-
Equities, Inc. (Guarantor Guarantor
(Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Net income $ 144,217 $ 238,486 $ 274,962 $ (511,551) $ 146,114
Other comprehensive (loss) income
Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale
equity securities:
Unrealized holding gains (losses) arising during
the period — (21) 77,391 — 77,370
Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains)
included in net income — 1 (12,139) — (12,138)
Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale
equity securities, net — (20) 65,252 — 65,232
Unrealized (losses) gains on interest rate hedge
agreements:
Unrealized interest rate hedge (losses) gains
arising during the period (5,516) — — — (5,516)
Reclassification adjustment for amortization of
interest expense included in net income 2,707 — — — 2,707
Unrealized (losses) gains on interest rate hedge
agreements, net (2,809) — — — (2,809)
Unrealized gains (losses) on foreign currency
translation:
Unrealized foreign currency translation gains
(losses) arising during the period — — (21,844) — (21,844)
Reclassification adjustment for cumulative foreign
currency translation losses included in net
income upon sale or liquidation — — 9,236 — 9,236
Unrealized gains (losses) on foreign currency
translation, net — — (12,608) — (12,608)
Total other comprehensive (loss) income (2,809) (20) 52,644 — 49,815
Comprehensive income 141,408 238,466 327,606 (511,551) 195,929
Less: comprehensive income attributable to
noncontrolling interests — — (1,893) — (1,893)
Comprehensive income attributable to Alexandria
Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders $ 141,408 $ 238,466 $ 325,713 $ (511,551) $ 194,036
F-62
F-62
21. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows
for the Year Ended December 31, 2017 
(In thousands)
Alexandria Real Combined
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Non-
Estate Equities, L.P. (Guarantor Guarantor
Inc. (Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Operating Activities
Net income $ 169,093 $ 325,655 $ 371,993 $ (672,537) $ 194,204
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash (used in) provided by
operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization 7,625 — 409,158 — 416,783
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 670 — 2,781 — 3,451
Impairment of real estate — — 203 — 203
Gain on sales of real estate – rental properties — — (270) — (270)
Gain on sales of real estate – land parcels — — (111) — (111)
Equity in losses of unconsolidated real estate JVs — — (15,426) — (15,426)
Distributions of earnings from unconsolidated real estate JVs — — 1,618 — 1,618
Amortization of loan fees 7,627 — 3,522 — 11,149
Amortization of debt discounts (premiums) 608 — (3,120) — (2,512)
Amortization of acquired below-market leases — — (19,055) — (19,055)
Deferred rent — — (107,643) — (107,643)
Stock compensation expense 25,610 — — — 25,610
Equity in earnings of affiliates (337,923) (328,230) (6,384) 672,537 —
Investment gains — (19) (12,333) — (12,352)
Investment losses — 2,594 8,429 — 11,023
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Restricted cash (50) — (507) — (557)
Tenant receivables — — (502) — (502)
Deferred leasing costs — — (62,639) — (62,639)
Other assets (9,343) — (8,879) — (18,222)
Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and tenant security deposits (10,524) — 36,097 — 25,573
Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities (146,607) — 596,932 — 450,325
Investing Activities
Proceeds from sales of real estate — — 15,432 — 15,432
Additions to real estate — — (893,685) — (893,685)
Purchase of real estate — — (675,584) — (675,584)
Deposits for investing activities — — (3,300) — (3,300)
Investments in subsidiaries (1,458,973) (1,257,845) (25,872) 2,742,690 —
Acquisition of interest in unconsolidated real estate JVs — — (60,291) — (60,291)
Contributions to unconsolidated real estate JVs — — (17,876) — (17,876)
Return of capital from unconsolidated real estate JVs — — 38,576 — 38,576
Additions to investments — — (171,881) — (171,881)
Sales of investments — 208 30,275 — 30,483
Net cash used in investing activities $ (1,458,973) $ (1,257,637) $ (1,764,206) $ 2,742,690 $ (1,738,126)
F-63
F-63
21. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows (continued)
for the Year Ended December 31, 2017
(In thousands)
Alexandria Real Combined
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Non-
Estate Equities, L.P. (Guarantor Guarantor
Inc. (Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Financing Activities
Borrowings from secured notes payable $ — $ — $ 153,405 $ — $ 153,405
Repayments of borrowings from secured notes payable — — (396,240) — (396,240)
Proceeds from issuance of unsecured senior notes payable 1,023,262 — — — 1,023,262
Borrowings from unsecured senior line of credit 3,858,000 — — — 3,858,000
Repayments of borrowings from unsecured senior line of credit (3,836,000) — — — (3,836,000)
Repayments of borrowings from unsecured senior bank term loan (200,000) — — — (200,000)
Transfer to/from parent company 64,156 1,257,646 1,420,888 (2,742,690) —
Change in restricted cash related to financing activities — — (4,914) — (4,914)
Payment of loan fees (9,440) — (579) — (10,019)
Repurchases of 7.00% Series D cumulative convertible preferred stock (17,934) — — — (17,934)
Redemption of 6.45% Series E cumulative redeemable preferred stock (130,350) — — — (130,350)
Proceeds from the issuance of common stock 1,275,397 — — — 1,275,397
Dividends on common stock (312,131) — — — (312,131)
Dividends on preferred stock (9,619) — — — (9,619)
Contributions from and sales of noncontrolling interests — — 44,931 — 44,931
Distributions to and purchase of noncontrolling interests — — (22,361) — (22,361)
Net cash provided by financing activities 1,705,341 1,257,646 1,195,130 (2,742,690) 1,415,427
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents — — 1,723 — 1,723
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 99,761 9 29,579 — 129,349
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 30,603 — 94,429 — 125,032
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 130,364 $ 9 $ 124,008 $ — $ 254,381
Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information:
Cash paid during the period for interest, net of interest capitalized $ 85,705 $ — $ 26,408 $ — $ 112,113
Non-Cash Investing Activities:
Changes in accrued capital expenditures $ — $ — $ (11,034) $ — $ (11,034)
Contribution of real estate from noncontrolling interests $ — $ — $ 8,597 $ — $ 8,597
Contribution of real estate to an unconsolidated real estate JV $ — $ — $ 6,998 $ — $ 6,998
F-64
F-64
21. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows
for the Year Ended December 31, 2016 
(In thousands)
Alexandria Real Combined
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Non-
Estate Equities, L.P. (Guarantor Guarantor
Inc. (Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Operating Activities
Net (loss) income $ (65,901) $ 47,362 $ 98,275 $ (129,535) $ (49,799)
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash (used in) provided by
operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization 6,792 — 306,598 — 313,390
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 3,230 — — — 3,230
Impairment of real estate — — 209,261 — 209,261
Gain on sales of real estate – rental properties — — (3,715) — (3,715)
Gain on sales of real estate – land parcels — — (90) — (90)
Equity in earnings from unconsolidated real estate JVs — — 184 — 184
Distributions of earnings from unconsolidated real estate JVs — — 406 — 406
Amortization of loan fees 7,709 — 4,163 — 11,872
Amortization of debt discounts (premiums) 488 — (988) — (500)
Amortization of acquired below-market leases — — (5,723) — (5,723)
Deferred rent — — (51,673) — (51,673)
Stock compensation expense 25,433 — — — 25,433
Equity in earnings of affiliates (81,361) (47,215) (959) 129,535 —
Investment gains — (567) (27,963) — (28,530)
Investment losses — 188 11,209 — 11,397
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Restricted cash (11) — (975) — (986)
Tenant receivables — — (285) — (285)
Deferred leasing costs — (14) (35,259) — (35,273)
Other assets (10,191) (1) (1,228) — (11,420)
Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and tenant security deposits 5,806 (609) 125 — 5,322
Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities (108,006) (856) 501,363 — 392,501
Investing Activities
Proceeds from sales of real estate — — 123,081 — 123,081
Additions to real estate — — (821,690) — (821,690)
Purchase of real estate — — (737,900) — (737,900)
Deposits for investing activities — — (450) — (450)
Investments in subsidiaries (877,512) (907,695) (18,514) 1,803,721 —
Contributions to unconsolidated real estate JVs — — (11,529) — (11,529)
Additions to investments — — (102,284) — (102,284)
Sales of investments — 1,251 37,695 — 38,946
Repayment of notes receivable — — 15,198 — 15,198
Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities $ (877,512) $ (906,444) $ (1,516,393) $ 1,803,721 $ (1,496,628)
F-65
F-65
21. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows (continued)
for the Year Ended December 31, 2016 
(In thousands)
Alexandria Real Combined
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Non-
Estate Equities, L.P. (Guarantor Guarantor
Inc. (Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Financing Activities
Borrowings from secured notes payable $ — $ — $ 291,400 $ — $ 291,400
Repayments of borrowings from secured notes payable — — (310,903) — (310,903)
Proceeds from issuance of unsecured senior notes payable 348,604 — — — 348,604
Borrowings from unsecured senior line of credit 4,117,000 — — — 4,117,000
Repayments of borrowings from unsecured senior line of credit (4,240,000) — — — (4,240,000)
Repayment of borrowings from unsecured senior bank term loan (200,000) — — — (200,000)
Transfer to/from parent company 8,346 907,300 888,075 (1,803,721) —
Change in restricted cash related to financing activities — — 11,746 — 11,746
Payment of loan fees (12,401) — (4,280) — (16,681)
Repurchases of 7.00% Series D cumulative convertible preferred stock (206,826) — — — (206,826)
Proceeds from the issuance of common stock 1,432,177 — — — 1,432,177
Dividends on common stock (240,347) — — — (240,347)
Dividends on preferred stock (22,414) — — — (22,414)
Financing costs paid for sales of noncontrolling interests — — (10,044) — (10,044)
Contributions from and sales of noncontrolling interests — — 221,487 — 221,487
Distributions to and purchases of noncontrolling interests — — (69,678) — (69,678)
Net cash provided by financing activities 984,139 907,300 1,017,803 (1,803,721) 1,105,521
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents — — (1,460) — (1,460)
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (1,379) — 1,313 — (66)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 31,982 — 93,116 — 125,098
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 30,603 $ — $ 94,429 $ — $ 125,032
Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information:
Cash paid during the period for interest, net of interest capitalized $ 67,066 $ — $ 17,841 $ — $ 84,907
Non-Cash Investing Activities:
Assumption of secured notes payable in connection with purchase of real
estate $ — $ — $ (203,000) $ — $ (203,000)
Changes in accrued construction $ — $ — $ 76,848 $ — $ 76,848
Payable for purchase of real estate $ — $ — $ (56,800) $ — $ (56,800)
Distribution of real estate in connection with purchase of remaining 49%
interest in real estate joint venture with Uber Technologies, Inc. $ — $ — $ (25,546) $ — $ (25,546)
Consolidation of previously unconsolidated real estate JV $ — $ — $ 87,930 $ — $ 87,930
Net investment in direct financing lease $ — $ — $ 36,975 $ — $ 36,975
Non-Cash Financing Activities:
Redemption of redeemable noncontrolling interests $ — $ — $ (5,000) $ — $ (5,000)
Contribution from redeemable noncontrolling interest $ — $ — $ 2,264 $ — $ 2,264
F-66
F-66
21. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows
for the Year Ended December 31, 2015 
(In thousands)
Alexandria Real Combined
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Non-
Estate Equities, L.P. (Guarantor Guarantor
Inc. (Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Operating Activities
Net income $ 144,217 $ 238,486 $ 274,962 $ (511,551) $ 146,114
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash (used in) provided by
operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization 5,986 — 255,303 — 261,289
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 189 — — — 189
Impairment of real estate — — 23,250 — 23,250
Gain on sales of real estate – rental properties — — (12,426) — (12,426)
Equity in earnings from unconsolidated real estate JVs — — (1,651) — (1,651)
Distributions of earnings from unconsolidated real estate JVs — — 873 — 873
Amortization of loan fees 7,605 — 3,398 — 11,003
Amortization of debt discounts (premiums) 337 — (709) — (372)
Amortization of acquired below-market leases — — (6,118) — (6,118)
Deferred rent — — (47,483) — (47,483)
Stock compensation expense 17,512 — — — 17,512
Equity in earnings of affiliates (268,156) (238,691) (4,704) 511,551 —
Investment gains — — (35,035) — (35,035)
Investment losses — 346 15,747 — 16,093
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Restricted cash (24) — 84 — 60
Tenant receivables — — 7 — 7
Deferred leasing costs — — (65,415) — (65,415)
Other assets (10,797) — 1,718 — (9,079)
Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and tenant security deposits 28,078 8 15,714 — 43,800
Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities (75,053) 149 417,515 — 342,611
Investing Activities
Proceeds from sales of real estate — — 129,799 — 129,799
Additions to real estate — — (564,206) — (564,206)
Purchase of real estate — — (248,933) — (248,933)
Deposit for investing activities — — (5,501) — (5,501)
Investments in subsidiaries (51,070) 44,687 1,374 5,009 —
Contributions to unconsolidated real estate JVs — — (9,027) — (9,027)
Additions to investments — — (95,945) — (95,945)
Sales of investments — 6 67,130 — 67,136
Repayment of notes receivable — — 4,282 — 4,282
Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities $ (51,070) $ 44,693 $ (721,027) $ 5,009 $ (722,395)
F-67
F-67
21. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows (continued)
for the Year Ended December 31, 2015 
(In thousands)
Alexandria Real Combined
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Non-
Estate Equities, L.P. (Guarantor Guarantor
Inc. (Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Financing Activities
Borrowings from secured notes payable $ — $ — $ 169,754 $ — $ 169,754
Repayments of borrowings from secured notes payable — — (89,815) — (89,815)
Proceeds from issuance of unsecured senior notes payable 298,872 — — — 298,872
Borrowings from unsecured senior line of credit 2,145,000 — — — 2,145,000
Repayments of borrowings from unsecured senior line of credit (2,298,000) — — — (2,298,000)
Repayments of borrowings from unsecured senior bank term loan (25,000) — — — (25,000)
Transfer to/from parent company 155,194 (44,905) (105,280) (5,009) —
Change in restricted cash related to financings — — 3,842 — 3,842
Payment of loan fees (5,825) — (4,759) — (10,584)
Proceeds from the issuance of common stock 78,463 — — — 78,463
Dividends on common stock (218,104) — — — (218,104)
Dividends on preferred stock (24,986) — — — (24,986)
Contributions from and sales of noncontrolling interests — — 453,750 — 453,750
Distributions to and purchases of noncontrolling interests — — (64,066) — (64,066)
Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities 105,614 (44,905) 363,426 (5,009) 419,126
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents — — (255) — (255)
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (20,509) (63) 59,659 — 39,087
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 52,491 63 33,457 — 86,011
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 31,982 $ — $ 93,116 $ — $ 125,098
Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information:
Cash paid during the period for interest, net of interest capitalized $ 70,946 $ — $ 22,910 $ — $ 93,856
Non-Cash Investing Activities:
Change in accrued construction $ — $ — $ (10,070) $ — $ (10,070)
Assumption of secured notes payable in connection with purchase of real
estate $ — $ — $ (82,000) $ — $ (82,000)
Non-Cash Financing Activities:
Payable for purchase of noncontrolling interest $ — $ — $ (51,092) $ — $ (51,092)
F-68
F-68
Date Acquired 2005-2015 2017 2006 2016 2000/2001 2015 2001 2005/2006 1998 1998-2008 2014 2017 2005 2005 2011 2007/2006 2006 2005 2004-2011 2016 2014 2017 2015 2004 2002-2006 2017 2002 2007 2004
Date of (3)onstruction 2000-2017 N/A 2001-2012 Various 2001/2003 2011 2002 2006/2012 2012 1997-2010 2014 2017 1999 2006 2013 2006 2012 2000 2007-2014 N/A 2017 N/A 2017 Various 2000-2006 1998 2012 2001 2001
C
0 1 0 5 0 6 6 0 2 5 6 1 7 3 3 6 3 2 1 7 7 6 9 5 0 5 1 4 2
Net CostBasis 1,680,99 87,25 621,63 753,82 68,97 153,41 27,93 20,22 10,41 89,54 53,05 70,77 45,03 17,31 8,89 16,53 15,43 9,25 591,23 117,63 208,61 183,09 138,54 304,69 138,87 73,41 77,73 99,31 44,93
$
tion Accumulated (2)Depreciation $(137,827) — (204,557) (33,700) (35,410) (21,676) (21,460) (5,998) (4,506) (37,413) (4,509) (1,675) (10,460) (5,800) (1,911) (5,333) (2,956) (14,387) (106,038) — (797) (2,307) (604) (27,224) (48,079) — (35,180) (22,812) (15,544)
a
ci 17 51 87 25 80 92 96 18 18 58 65 46 97 13 04 69 89 39 69 37 14 03 53 19 49 15 11 26 76
Depre (1)Total 1,818,8 87,2 826,1 787,5 104,3 175,0 49,3 26,2 14,9 126,9 57,5 72,4 55,4 23,1 10,8 21,8 18,3 23,6 697,2 117,6 209,4 185,4 139,1 331,9 186,9 73,4 112,9 122,1 60,4
d  $
e
sidiaries Accumulat Total Costs Buildings &Improvements $1,539,149 5,811 826,187 521,911 94,607 175,092 49,396 26,218 14,918 116,519 54,640 58,285 42,664 21,647 10,382 18,723 16,128 22,419 603,456 — 157,309 36,852 107,443 272,720 141,524 47,835 112,911 86,530 53,438
Sub nd  68 40 — 14 73 — — — — 39 25 61 33 66 22 46 61 20 13 37 05 51 10 99 25 80 — 96 38
and  ate a Land 279,6 81,4 265,6 9,7 10,4 2,9 14,1 12,8 1,4 4 3,1 2,2 1,2 93,8 117,6 52,1 148,5 31,7 59,1 45,4 25,5 35,5 7,0
dria Real Estate Equities, Inc. Schedule IIItatement Schedule of Real EstDecember 31, 2017 (Dollars in thousands) CostsCapitalizedSubsequent toAcquisitionsInitial Costs Buildings &Buildings &ImprovementsImprovements 668$205,491$1,333,658$ 440475,764 —619,658206,529 614483,76938,142 77312,77381,834 —174,878214 ——49,396 —12,61313,605 —6,2478,671 43941,59674,923 92514,91339,727 16155,0813,204 83327,33315,331 4669,04612,601 4223,5386,844 14615,7252,998 2617,0999,029 22022,37544 813210,211393,245 637—— 105—157,309 55121,51415,338 7102,540104,903 199—272,720 425121,05920,465 58047,835— ——112,911 59669,09117,439 03839,70413,734 F-69 F-69
xan al S Land 279, 81, 265, 9, 10, 2, 14, 12, 1, 3, 2, 1, 93, 117, 52, 148, 31, 59, 45, 25, 35, 7,
Ale nci $
Fina (4) (5)
dated  mbrances 339,845 — — 219,068 — 84,828 — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
nsoli Encu $
o
C
Market Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston San Francisco San Francisco San Francisco San Francisco San Francisco San Francisco San Francisco San Francisco San Francisco San Francisco San Francisco
d
Schedule III Property ®Alexandria Center at Kendall Square 325 Binney Street ®Alexandria Technology Square® at One Kendall Alexandria CenterSquare 480 and 500 Arsenal Street 640 Memorial Drive 780 and 790 Memorial Drive 167 Sidney Street and 99 Erie Street 79/96 13th Street (Charlestown NavyYard) Alexandria Park at 128 225 Second Avenue 266 and 275 Second Avenue 19 Presidential Way 100 Beaver Street 285 Bear Hill Road 111 and 130 Forbes Boulevard 20 Walkup Drive 30 Bearfoot Road®Alexandria Center for Science & Technology 1455 and 1515 Third Street 510 Townsend Street 88 Bluxome Street 505 Brannan Street 213, 249, 259, 269, and 279 East GranAvenue® – Alexandria Technology CenterGateway 701 Gateway Boulevard 400 and 450 East Jamie Court 500 Forbes Boulevard 7000 Shoreline Court
7 4
1 1
Date Acquired 2000 1998 2017 2017 1999 2003 2017 2005 1999 2017 2006 2007/2017 2016 1994-2000 1994-1997 2014 2007 2010 10/2015/20 1999 1998-2011 2003-2004 2007 2013 2010 2010 2017 97/2000/20 2010/2014 2007 2007 2002 2003 2004 2004
0 9
2 1
Date of (3)onstruction 2009/2013 2012 N/A N/A 2008 2002 2017 1982 2000 N/A 2010-2016 08/2015/2017 2003/2004 2000-2015 2010-2012 1998 2012 2004-2016 91/1997/2016 2000-2010 1989-2016 2000-2001 2005-2012 1988/2014 2007 2004 N/A 06/2008/2014 2007 2007 2017 1997 2013 2012 2010
C 0 9 0
2 1 2
6 5 5 0 7 9 1 7 8 0 3 9 4 5 8 4 6 1 4 7 2 3 0 0 0 5 1 3 0 5 7 4 9 4 4
Net CostBasis 24,84 23,14 68,23 92,16 28,98 13,97 83,29 17,98 9,38 38,96 717,43 272,18 188,82 65,93 115,32 41,88 64,16 296,25 434,99 43,81 111,14 32,45 52,28 26,87 20,40 11,37 3,97 34,08 16,55 24,45 206,69 38,42 74,76 58,75 62,52
$
Accumulated (2)Depreciation $(15,678) (10,962) (1,020) — (20,040) (7,305) (1,259) (4,871) (9,039) (163) (111,368) (36,512) (7,903) (39,090) (33,888) (19,258) (15,867) (32,584) (78,168) (46,086) (17,652) (14,187) (8,037) (2,025) (4,004) (1,850) — (9,439) (19,605) (11,074) (4,535) (29,501) (27,463) (12,302) (16,264)
4 7 5 0 7 4 0 8 7 3 1 1 7 5 6 2 3 5 2 3 4 0 7 5 4 5 1 2 5 9 2 5 2 6 8
2 0 5 6 2 8 5 5 2 2 0 0 2 2 1 4 3 3 6 0 9 4 1 9 0 2 7 2 5 2 3 2 3 5 8
(1)Total 40,5 34,1 69,2 92,1 49,0 21,2 84,5 22,8 18,4 39,1 828,8 308,7 196,7 105,0 149,2 61,1 80,0 328,8 513,1 89,9 128,7 46,6 60,3 28,8 24,4 13,2 3,9 43,5 36,1 35,5 211,2 67,9 102,2 71,0 78,7
$
Total Costs Buildings &mprovements 33,486 30,896 9,046 4,594 47,515 21,284 84,550 18,058 18,427 6,878 828,801 276,340 174,603 98,907 142,532 54,086 70,039 290,495 464,518 81,364 119,112 41,164 53,326 24,287 21,754 11,876 685 39,366 31,832 28,136 199,890 62,115 95,292 62,531 72,260
I $
8 1 9 6 2 — — 0 — 5 — 1 4 8 4 6 4 0 4 9 2 6 1 8 0 9 6 6 3 3 2 0 0 5 8
3 1 0 6 1 0 4 6 2 1 8 5 9 4 4 3 8 7 9 0 5 4 8 5 2 9 4 1 4 2 2
Land 7,0 3,2 60,2 87,5 1,5 4,8 32,2 32,3 22,1 6,1 6,6 7,0 9,9 38,3 48,6 8,5 9,6 5,4 6,9 4,6 2,6 1,3 3,2 4,1 4,3 7,3 11,3 5,8 6,9 8,5 6,5
$
CostsCapitalizedubsequent toAcquisitions Buildings &mprovements 33,486 22,231 3,942 4,594 26,192 2,130 83 11,365 11,799 5,591 828,801 195,383 21,763 80,960 114,932 142 32,940 193,889 253,393 62,514 89,121 12,482 28,173 19,187 1,876 3,860 685 27,795 8,986 186 199,890 14,966 95,292 42,467 72,260 F-70 F-70
S I $
osts Buildings &mprovements — 8,665 5,104 — 21,323 19,154 84,467 6,693 6,628 1,287 — 80,957 152,840 17,947 27,600 53,944 37,099 96,606 211,125 18,850 29,991 28,682 25,153 5,100 19,878 8,016 — 11,571 22,846 27,950 — 47,149 — 20,064 —
Initial C I 038$ 211 209 566 512 — — 800 — 245 — 361 124 118 684 056 994 340 644 539 682 476 991 608 650 349 286 156 323 393 342 810 940 525 528
Land 7, 3, 60, 87, 1, 4, 32, 32, 22, 6, 6, 7, 9, 38, 48, 8, 9, 5, 6, 4, 2, 1, 3, 4, 4, 7, 11, 5, 6, 8, 6,
$
(5) (5) (5)
brances — — — — 773 — — — — — — — — — — 34,652 20,825 — — — 10,862 — — — — — — — — — — 55,070 — — —
m
u
nc
E $
Market San Francisco San Francisco San Francisco San Francisco San Francisco San Francisco San Francisco San Francisco San Francisco San Francisco New York City San Diego San Diego San Diego San Diego San Diego San Diego San Diego San Diego San Diego San Diego San Diego San Diego San Diego San Diego San Diego San Diego San Diego San Diego San Diego Seattle Seattle Seattle Seattle Seattle
Schedule III (continued) Property 341 and 343 Oyster Point Boulevard 849/863 Mitten Road/866 Malcolm Road 960 Industrial Road 825 and 835 Industrial Road 2425 Garcia Avenue & 2400/2450Bayshore Parkway 3165 Porter Drive 1450 Page Mill Road 3350 West Bayshore Road 2625/2627/2631 Hanover Street 201 Haskins Way ®Alexandria Center for Life Science ARE Spectrum ARE Torrey Ridge ARE Sunrise ARE Nautilus 3545 Cray Court 11119 North Torrey Pines Road 5200 Illumina Way Campus Pointe by Alexandria ARE Towne Centre ARE Esplanade 5810/5820 and 6138/6150 Nancy RidgeDrive ARE Portola 10121 and 10151 Barnes Canyon Road 7330 Carroll Road 5871 Oberlin Drive Vista Wateridge I & II 11025, 11035, 11045, 11055, 11065, and11075 Roselle Street 3985, 4025, 4031, and 4045 SorrentoValley Boulevard 13112 Evening Creek Drive 400 Dexter Avenue North 1201 and 1208 Eastlake Avenue 1616 Eastlake Avenue 1551 Eastlake Avenue 199 East Blaine Street
Date Acquired 2007 2005 2015 1998 2004 2004 2017 2004 1997 1997 2010/2004 1997 2001 2004 2004 1997-2004 1997-2000 1996 2010 2005 1998 1997 1998 2017 1999 2000 2012 2005 2004 2013 2006 2014 1998 2008
Date of (3)onstruction 2012 2007 N/A 2000 2008/2006 2010-2013 1985 2002 2005 2003/1995 1998/1999 2006 2010 2007 2007 1992-2009 2000-2003 2007 2009 2012 2003 2006 1985-2009 Various 2000 2005-2008 2012 2011 1995 1998 2009 2015 1981 2012
C
8 5 5 0 6 8 9 2 5 5 5 0 2 0 9 9 6 7 6 0 3 7 6 7 1 1 5 4 6 3 1 9 2 6
Net CostBasis 18,34 11,47 32,58 22,35 12,32 161,81 7,62 12,43 32,66 9,64 20,52 21,74 24,02 7,35 9,88 68,23 38,85 10,86 11,34 9,02 11,04 28,58 27,67 12,74 26,28 35,10 18,50 27,56 27,72 16,68 14,15 24,81 5,93 13,56
$
Accumulated (2)Depreciation $(5,476) (3,606) (97) (10,416) (4,749) (58,025) (10) (2,771) (15,922) (5,935) (4,780) (12,840) (11,535) (2,520) (13,790) (29,368) (25,355) (5,916) (2,724) (3,821) (9,478) (15,414) (20,864) — (16,477) (14,951) (12,003) (5,518) (5,705) (2,325) (4,704) (1,537) (4,289) (2,451)
4 1 2 6 5 3 9 3 7 0 5 0 7 0 9 7 1 3 0 1 1 1 0 7 8 2 8 2 1 8 5 6 1 7
2 8 8 6 7 4 3 0 8 8 0 8 5 7 7 0 1 8 7 4 2 0 4 4 5 5 0 8 3 0 5 5 2 1
(1)Total 23,8 15,0 32,6 32,7 17,0 219,8 7,6 15,2 48,5 15,5 25,3 34,5 35,5 9,8 23,6 97,6 64,2 16,7 14,0 12,8 20,5 44,0 48,5 12,7 42,7 50,0 30,5 33,0 33,4 19,0 18,8 26,3 10,2 16,0
$
Total Costs Buildings &mprovements 22,005 12,869 32,682 31,334 13,218 207,442 5,612 9,412 45,787 14,057 20,401 33,681 34,091 8,394 22,032 87,424 59,680 15,654 11,670 12,057 20,521 39,201 47,110 10,747 42,758 48,987 21,479 32,381 32,718 17,779 18,070 26,356 10,060 15,066
I $
9 2 — 2 7 1 7 1 0 3 4 9 6 6 7 3 1 9 0 4 — 0 0 0 — 5 9 1 3 9 5 — 1 1
1 1 3 5 0 2 9 0 2 0 9 6 7 4 8 3 2 0 8 0 3 0 6 2 0 1 2 8 6 5
Land 1,8 2,2 1,4 3,8 12,4 2,0 5,7 2,8 1,5 4,9 8 1,4 1,4 1,6 10,1 4,5 1,1 2,4 7 4,8 1,4 2,0 1,0 9,0 7 7 1,2 7 1 9
$
CostsCapitalizedubsequent toAcquisitions Buildings &mprovements 19,703 6,081 24,238 23,837 11,229 107,746 825 1,352 34,254 6,326 4,555 11,735 28,383 1,127 8,774 27,783 38,086 8,713 1,050 7,352 6,842 11,562 29,628 3,991 42,382 27,769 10,767 32,381 19,891 46 6,524 26,356 6,651 11,084 F-71 F-71
S I $
osts Buildings &mprovements 2,302 6,788 8,444 7,497 1,989 99,696 4,787 8,060 11,533 7,731 15,846 21,946 5,708 7,267 13,258 59,641 21,594 6,941 10,620 4,705 13,679 27,639 17,482 6,756 376 21,218 10,712 — 12,827 17,733 11,546 — 3,409 3,982
Initial C I 819$ 212 — 432 857 401 027 791 800 523 904 899 466 476 647 183 531 129 400 784 — 800 430 000 — 065 029 701 713 229 785 — 161 951
Land 1, 2, 1, 3, 12, 2, 5, 2, 1, 4, 1, 1, 1, 10, 4, 1, 2, 4, 1, 2, 1, 9, 1,
$
(5)
brances — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — 5,138 — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
m
u
nc
E $
k k k k k k k k k k k k
Par Par Par Par Par Par Par Par Par Par Par Par
Market Seattle Seattle Seattle Seattle Seattle Maryland Maryland Maryland Maryland Maryland Maryland Maryland Maryland Maryland Maryland Maryland Maryland Maryland Maryland Maryland Maryland Maryland Research Triangle  Research Triangle  Research Triangle  Research Triangle  Research Triangle  Research Triangle  Research Triangle  Research Triangle  Research Triangle  Research Triangle  Research Triangle  Research Triangle 
n
Schedule III (continued) Property 219 Terry Avenue North 1600 Fairview Avenue 1818 Fairview Ave 3000/3018 Western Avenue 410 West Harrison/410 Elliott AvenueWest 9800 Medical Center Drive 9900 Medical Center Drive 9920 Medical Center Drive 1330 Piccard Drive 1500 and 1550 East Gude Drive 14920 and 15010 Broschart Road 1405 Research Boulevard 5 Research Place 12301 Parklawn Drive 5 Research Court ® Alexandria Technology Center– Gaithersburg I ®Alexandria Technology Center – Gaithersburg II 401 Professional Drive 950 Wind River Lane 620 Professional Drive 8000/9000/10000 Virginia Manor Road 14225 Newbrook Drive ® Alexandria Technology Center– Alsto ®Alexandria Center for AgTech – RTP 108/110/112/114 TW Alexander Drive ®Alexandria Innovation Center – Research Triangle Park 6 Davis Drive 7 Triangle Drive 2525 East NC Highway 54 407 Davis Drive 601 Keystone Park Drive 6040 George Watts Hill Drive 5 Triangle Drive 6101 Quadrangle Drive
Date Acquired 005/2007 Various 2008
2
(3)n
Date of nstructio 2004 Various 2015
o
C
6 2 5 4 9
Net CostBasis 50,10 239,60 10,268,33 29,68 10,298,01
$ $
Accumulated (2)Depreciation $(17,888) (45,388) (1,875,810) (4,426) $(1,880,236)
4 0 5 0 5
9 9 4 1 5
(1)Total 67,9 284,9 2,144,1 34,1 2,178,2
1 1
$ $
Total Costs Buildings &mprovements 57,644 223,786 10,218,924 34,110 10,253,034
I $ $
0 4 1 — 1
5 0 2 2
Land 10,3 61,2 1,925,2 1,925,2
$ $
CostsCapitalizedubsequent toAcquisitions Buildings &mprovements 13,760 167,694 6,324,411 34,110 6,358,521 F-72 F-72
S I $ $
osts Buildings &mprovements 43,884 56,092 3,894,513 — 3,894,513
Initial C I 350$ 204 221 — 221$
Land 10, 61, 1,925, 1,925,
$ $
brances — — 771,061 — 771,061
m
u
nc
E $ $
ket
Mar
Canada Various
)
d
e
u
n
nti y
III (co Propert America
Schedule  Canada Various Total – North  Asia
Schedule III (continued)
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule of Rental Properties and Accumulated Depreciation
December 31, 2017
(Dollars in thousands)
(1)  The aggregate cost of real estate for federal income tax purposes is not materially different from the cost basis under GAAP 
(unaudited).
(2)  The depreciable life for buildings and improvements ranges from up to 40 years, up to 20 years for land improvements, and the 
term of the respective lease for tenant improvements.
(3)  Represents the later of the date of original construction or the date of the latest renovation.
(4)  Represents $15,822 related to the loan in footnote (5) and $324,023 of other debt. 
(5)  Loan of $107,717 secured by six properties identified by this reference.
F-73
F-73
Schedule III (continued)
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule of Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
December 31, 2017
(In thousands)
  A summary of activity of consolidated investments in real estate and accumulated depreciation is as follows:
December 31,
Real Estate 2017 2016 2015
Balance at beginning of period $ 10,632,518 $ 8,945,261 $ 8,228,855
Acquisitions (including real estate, land, and joint venture consolidation) 707,522 1,078,959 436,480
Additions to real estate 881,463 914,178 395,555
Deductions (including dispositions and direct financing lease) (43,248) (305,880) (115,629)
Balance at end of period $ 12,178,255 $ 10,632,518 $ 8,945,261
December 31,
Accumulated Depreciation 2017 2016 2015
Balance at beginning of period $ 1,554,546 $ 1,315,339 $ 1,120,245
Depreciation expense on properties 348,064 265,387 214,041
Sale of properties (22,374) (26,180) (18,947)
Balance at end of period $ 1,880,236 $ 1,554,546 $ 1,315,339
F-74
F-74
EXHIBIT 10.21
 
SUMMARY OF DIRECTOR COMPENSATION ARRANGEMENTS
 
Independent non-employee directors of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. (the “Company”) will receive the 
following compensation in 2018:
An annual retainer fee of $110,000.
The committee chairpersons will receive additional annual fees as follows:
Lead Independent Director $ 50,000
Audit Committee Chairperson $ 35,000
Compensation Committee Chairperson $ 35,000
Nominating & Governance Committee Chairperson $ 35,000
Science and Technology Committee Chairperson $ 20,000
 
The committee members, other than the chairpersons, will receive additional annual fees as follows:
Audit Committee Member $ 20,000
Compensation Committee Member $ 20,000
Nominating & Governance Committee Member $ 20,000
Science and Technology Committee Member $ 6,000
Pricing Committee Member $ 6,000
Reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses incurred to attend related meetings.
A restricted stock grant of 880 shares of common stock on January 12, 2018, under the Company’s Amended and 
Restated 1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan. Such shares vest over a period from March 31, 2018 to March 31, 2021.
The Company’s independent non-employee directors may elect to defer all or any portion of the fees above in 
accordance with the Company’s deferred compensation plan for its directors.
Directors who are also employees of the Company will not receive any compensation for their services as directors of 
the Company.
EXHIBIT 12.1
ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
COMPUTATION OF CONSOLIDATED RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
COMPUTATION OF CONSOLIDATED RATIO OF EARNINGS TO COMBINED FIXED
CHARGES AND PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS
(in thousands, except ratios)
Years Ended December 31,
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
 Income (loss) from continuing operations before noncontrolling 
interests (a) $ 178,778 $ (49,615) $ 144,506 $ 104,991 $ 139,349
Add: interest expense 128,645 106,953 105,813 79,299 67,952
Subtract: noncontrolling interests in income of subsidiaries that have
not incurred fixed charges (25,111) (16,102) (1,897) (4,856) (954)
Earnings available for fixed charges (b) $ 282,312 $ 41,236 $ 248,422 $ 179,434 $ 206,347
Fixed charges:
Interest incurred $ 186,867 $ 159,403 $ 142,353 $ 126,287 $ 128,038
Preferred stock dividends 7,666 20,223 24,986 25,698 25,885
Preferred stock redemption charge 11,279 61,267 — 1,989 —
Total combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends $ 205,812 $ 240,893 $ 167,339 $ 153,974 $ 153,923
Consolidated ratio of earnings to fixed charges 1.51 (c) 0.26 (d) 1.75 (e) 1.42 (f) 1.61
Consolidated ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and
preferred stock dividends 1.37 (c) 0.17 (d) 1.48 (e) 1.17 (f) 1.34
(a)  Includes gains on sales of land parcels that are not attributable to discontinued operations and excludes equity in earnings from unconsolidated real estate joint 
ventures.
(b)  For purposes of calculating the consolidated ratio of earnings to fixed charges and consolidated ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock 
dividends, earnings consist of income from continuing operations before noncontrolling interests and interest expense less noncontrolling interests in income of 
subsidiaries that have not incurred fixed charges. Fixed charges consist of interest incurred (including amortization of deferred financing costs and capitalized 
interest).
(c)  Ratios for the year ended December 31, 2017, include the effect of losses on early extinguishment of debt aggregating $3.5 million, a preferred stock redemption 
charge of $11.3 million, and impairment of real estate of $203 thousand. Excluding the impact of losses on early extinguishment of debt, the preferred stock 
redemption charge, and the impairment of real estate, the consolidated ratio of earnings to fixed charges and the consolidated ratio of earnings to combined fixed 
charges and preferred stock dividends for the year ended December 31, 2017, were 1.53 and 1.47, respectively.
(d)  Fixed charges and combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends exceeded earnings by $118.2 million and $199.7 million, respectively, for the year ended 
December 31, 2016. Ratios for the year ended December 31, 2016, include the effect of losses on early extinguishment of debt aggregating $3.2 million, a 
preferred stock redemption charge of $61.3 million, and impairment of real estate of $209.3 million. Excluding the impact of losses on early extinguishment of 
debt, the preferred stock redemption charge, and the impairment of real estate, the consolidated ratio of earnings to fixed charges and the consolidated ratio of 
earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends for the year ended December 31, 2016, were 1.59 and 1.41, respectively.
(e)  Ratios for the year ended December 31, 2015, include the effect of losses on early extinguishment of debt of $189 thousand and impairment of real estate of $23.3 
million. Excluding the impact of losses on early extinguishment of debt and the impairment of real estate, the consolidated ratio of earnings to fixed charges and 
the consolidated ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends for the year ended December 31, 2015, were 1.91 and 1.62, 
respectively.
(f)  Ratios for the year ended December 31, 2014, include the effect of losses on early extinguishment of debt aggregating $525 thousand, a preferred stock 
redemption charge of $2.0 million, impairment of land parcel of $24.7 million, and impairment of real estate of $27.0 million. Excluding the impact of losses on 
early extinguishment of debt, the preferred stock redemption charge, the impairment of land parcel, and the impairment of real estate, the consolidated ratio of 
earnings to fixed charges and the consolidated ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends for the year ended December 31, 2014, 
were 1.83 and 1.52, respectively.
EXHIBIT 21.1
List of Subsidiaries of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
The list below excludes subsidiaries in the same line of business (ownership and operation of commercial real estate) 
and includes the immediate parent of each excluded subsidiary. The list also excludes subsidiaries that in the aggregate, as a 
single subsidiary, would not constitute a significant subsidiary as of December 31, 2017.  A total of 330 subsidiaries have been 
excluded.
Name of Subsidiary Jurisdiction of Organization
ARE - QRS Corp. Maryland
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P. Delaware
Alexandria Venture Investments, LLC Maryland
ARE - Tech Square, LLC Delaware
EXHIBIT 23.1
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration statements: 
•  Registration Statements pertaining to the Amended and Restated 1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan of Alexandria Real 
Estate Equities Inc. (Form S-8 No. 333-34223, Form S-8 No. 333-60075, Form S-8 No. 333-152433, Form S-8 No. 
333-167889, Form S-8 No. 333-197212, and Form S-8 No. 333-212385);
•  Registration Statement (Form S-3/A No. 333-56449) and in the related Prospectus of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, 
Inc.;
•  Registration Statement (Form S-3/A No. 333-81985) and in the related Prospectus of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, 
Inc.;
•  Registration Statement (Form S-3ASR No. 333-207762) and in the related Prospectus of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, 
Inc.; and
•  Registration Statement (Form S-3ASR No. 333-222136) and in the related Prospectus of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, 
Inc.;
of our reports dated January 30, 2018, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Alexandria Real Estate 
Equities, Inc., and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc., included 
in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2017. 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Los Angeles, California
January 30, 2018
EXHIBIT 31.1
 
CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
PURSUANT TO
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002
 
I, Joel S. Marcus, certify that:
 
1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.;
             
 
2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact 
             
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading 
with respect to the period covered by this report;
 
3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in 
             
all material respects the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods 
presented in this report;
 
4.  The registrant’s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and 
             
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as 
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:
 
a.  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed 
             
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is 
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
 
b.  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be 
             
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the 
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
 
c.  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our 
              
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report 
based on such evaluation; and
 
d.  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the 
             
registrant’s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially 
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting; and
 
5.  The registrant’s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over 
             
financial reporting, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant’s board of directors (or persons 
performing the equivalent functions):
 
a.  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial 
             
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize, and report 
financial information; and
 
b.  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the 
             
registrant’s internal control over financial reporting.
 
Date: January 30, 2018 
 
  /s/ Joel S. Marcus
  Joel S. Marcus
  Chief Executive Officer
EXHIBIT 31.2
 
CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
PURSUANT TO
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002
 
I, Dean A. Shigenaga, certify that:
 
1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.;
             
 
2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact 
             
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading 
with respect to the period covered by this report;
 
3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in 
             
all material respects the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods 
presented in this report;
 
4.  The registrant’s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and 
             
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as 
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  
 
a.  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed 
             
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is 
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
 
b.  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be 
             
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the 
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
 
c.  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our 
              
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report 
based on such evaluation; and
 
d.  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the 
             
registrant’s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially 
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting; and
 
5.  The registrant’s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over 
             
financial reporting, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant’s board of directors (or persons 
performing the equivalent functions):
 
a.  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial 
             
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize, and report 
financial information; and
 
b.  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the 
             
registrant’s internal control over financial reporting.
 
Date: January 30, 2018 
 
  /s/ Dean A. Shigenaga
  Dean A. Shigenaga
  Chief Financial Officer
EXHIBIT 32.0
 
CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
PURSUANT TO
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350.
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002
 
I, Joel S. Marcus, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002, that the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2017, 
fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and that the 
information contained in such report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of 
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
 
Date: January 30, 2018 
 
  /s/ Joel S. Marcus
  Joel S. Marcus
  Chief Executive Officer
 
I, Dean A. Shigenaga, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act of 2002, that the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 
2017, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and 
that the information contained in such report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of 
operations of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Date: January 30, 2018 
 
  /s/ Dean A. Shigenaga
  Dean A. Shigenaga
  Chief Financial Officer
PERFORMANCE GRAPH
The following performance graph compares the cumulative total return on our common stock 
over the five-year period ending December 31, 2017, to the cumulative total return of the S&P 
500 Index, the Russell 2000 Index, the Equity Office Index prepared by the FTSE and Nareit 
(“FTSE Nareit Equity Office”), and the US REIT Office Index prepared by S&P Global Market 
Intelligence (“SNL US REIT Office”). The graph assumes that $100 was invested on December 
31, 2012, in our common stock, the S&P 500 Index, the Russell 2000 Index, the FTSE Nareit 
Equity Office Index, and the SNL US REIT Office Index, and that all dividends were reinvested. 
The returns shown on the graph are not necessarily indicative of future performance.
$230 index value 
$220 ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
$210
S&P 500
$200
$190 RUSSELL 2000
$180
$170
$160
FTSE NAREIT EQUITY OFFICE 
$150 SNL US REIT OFFICE  
$140
$130
$120
$110
$100
$90
12/31/12  12/31/13  12/31/14 12/31/15 12/31/16  12/31/17
period ending
index 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/14 12/31/15 12/31/16 12/31/17
alexandria real estate equities, inc. $100.00 $95.48 $138.20 $145.52 $184.68 $223.36
s&p 500 $100.00 $132.39 $150.51 $152.59 $170.84 $208.14
russell 2000 $100.00 $138.82 $145.62 $139.19 $168.85 $193.58
ftse nareit equity ofﬁce  $100.00 $105.57 $132.87 $133.25 $150.80 $158.71
snl us reit ofﬁce    $100.00 $106.57 $134.34 $135.52 $151.24 $155.31
Source: S&P Global Market Intelligence © 2017
I
CORPORATE INFORMATION
COMMON STOCK ANNUAL MEETING
Listed on the New York The annual meeting will be held
Stock Exchange at 11:00 a.m., Pacific Daylight Time,
Symbol “ARE” May 22, 2018, at Waldorf Astoria Beverly Hills
9850 Wilshire Boulevard
CORPORATE OFFICES Beverly Hills, California 90210
385 East Colorado Boulevard, Suite 299
Pasadena, California 91101 SEC FORM 10-K
(626) 578-0777 A copy of the Company’s Annual Report
on Form 10-K, as filed with the Securities
TRANSFER AGENT and Exchange Commission, is available
American Stock Transfer & without charge, upon written request to:
Trust Company, LLC Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
6201 15th Avenue 385 East Colorado Boulevard, Suite 299
Brooklyn, New York 11219 Pasadena, California 91101
(800) 937-5449 (626) 396-4828
www.are.com
LEGAL COUNSEL
Morrison & Foerster LLP
Los Angeles, California
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
Ernst & Young LLP
Los Angeles, California
II
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE OFFICERS SENIOR OFFICERS
Joel S. Marcus Joel S. Marcus Monica J. Beam
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Marc E. Binda
Chief Executive Officer Kristina A. Carlson
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. Dean A. Shigenaga Jackie B. Clem
Chief Financial Officer Hart Cole
John L. Atkins III Daniel E. Cordeau
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thomas J. Andrews John J. Cox
O’Brien/Atkins Associates, PA Executive Vice President Gary D. Dean
Regional Market Director – Greater Boston Lawrence J. Diamond
James P. Cain Jenna R. Foger
Managing Partner Jennifer J. Banks Andres R. Gavinet
Cain Global Partners, LLC General Counsel, Executive Vice President   Greg N. Gehlen
and Corporate Secretary Bret E. Gossett
Maria C. Freire, PhD Joseph Hakman
President and Executive Director Vincent R. Ciruzzi, Jr. Aaron G. Jacobson
Foundation for the National Institutes Chief Development Officer Eric S. Johnson
of Health Mehran Khordodi
John H. Cunningham Onn C. Lee
Steven R. Hash Executive Vice President Joseph T. Maguire
President and Chief Operating Officer Regional Market Director – New York City Todd S. Miller
Renaissance Macro Research, LLC Terezia C. Nemeth
Peter M. Moglia Christopher R. Otey
Richard H. Klein, CPA Chief Investment Officer Andrew U. Reinach
Chief Financial Officer  Emily M. Sheridan
Industrial Realty Group, LLC Stephen A. Richardson Oliver F. Sherrill
Chief Operating Officer and Madeleine Thorp
James H. Richardson Regional Market Director – San Francisco Daniel T. Tsang
Senior Management Consultant Timothy M. White
Daniel J. Ryan
Michael A. Woronoff Executive Vice President
Partner Regional Market Director – San Diego and
Proskauer Rose LLP Strategic Operations
III
ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC. (NYSE:ARE), an S&P 500® company, is an  Alexandria®, Lighthouse Design® logo, Building 
urban office real estate investment trust uniquely focused on collaborative  the Future of Life-Changing Innovation™, 
LaunchLabs®, Alexandria Center®, Alexandria 
life science and technology campuses in AAA innovation cluster locations, 
Technology Square®, Alexandria Technology 
with a total market capitalization of $17.9 billion and an asset base in North 
Center®, and Alexandria Innovation Center® are 
America of 29.6 million SF as of December 31, 2017. The asset base in North  trademarks of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, 
America includes 22.0 million RSF of operating properties, including 1.7  Inc. All other company names, trademarks, and 
million RSF of development and redevelopment of new Class A properties  logos referenced herein are the property of 
their respective owners.
currently undergoing construction. Additionally, the asset base in North 
America includes 7.6 million SF of future development projects, including 1.6 
million SF of near-term projects undergoing marketing for lease and pre-
construction activities and 3.8 million SF of intermediate-term development 
projects. Founded in 1994, Alexandria pioneered this niche and has since 
established a significant market presence in key locations, including Greater 
Boston, San Francisco, New York City, San Diego, Seattle, Maryland, and 
Research Triangle Park. Alexandria has a longstanding and proven track 
record of developing Class A properties clustered in urban life science 
and technology campuses that provide its innovative tenants with highly 
dynamic and collaborative environments that enhance their ability to 
successfully recruit and retain world-class talent and inspire productivity, 
efficiency, creativity, and success. Alexandria also provides strategic risk 
capital to transformative life science and technology companies through 
its venture capital arm. We believe our unique business model and diligent 
underwriting ensure a high-quality and diverse tenant base that results in 
higher occupancy levels, longer lease terms, higher rental income, higher 
returns, and greater long-term asset value. For additional information on 
Alexandria, please visit www.are.com.
SAFE HARBOR: This document includes “forward-looking statements” within the 
meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 
21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking 
statements include, without limitation, statements regarding our 2018 earnings per 
share attributable to Alexandria’s common stockholders – diluted, 2018 funds from 
operations per share attributable to Alexandria’s common stockholders – diluted, 
net operating income, and our projected sources and uses of capital. You can 
identify the forward-looking statements by their use of forward-looking words, 
such as “forecast,” “guidance,” “projects,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “believes,” 
“expects,” “intends,” “may,” “plans,” “seeks,” “should,” or “will,” or the negative of 
those words or similar words. These forward-looking statements are based on our 
current expectations, beliefs, projections, future plans and strategies, anticipated 
events or trends, and similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical 
facts, as well as a number of assumptions concerning future events. There can be 
no assurance that actual results will not be materially higher or lower than these 
expectations. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, 
and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially 
from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might 
cause such a difference include, without limitation, our failure to obtain capital 
(debt, construction financing, and/or equity) or refinance debt maturities, increased 
interest rates and operating costs, adverse economic or real estate developments in 
our markets, our failure to successfully place into service and lease any properties 
undergoing development or redevelopment and our existing space held for future 
development or redevelopment (including new properties acquired for that 
purpose), our failure to successfully operate or lease acquired properties, decreased 
rental rates, increased vacancy rates or failure to renew or replace expiring 
leases, defaults on or non-renewal of leases by tenants, adverse general and local 
economic conditions, an unfavorable capital market environment, decreased 
leasing activity or lease renewals, and other risks and uncertainties detailed in 
our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Accordingly, you 
are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. 
All forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this report, and unless 
otherwise stated, we assume no obligation to update this information and expressly 
disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether 
as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. For more discussion 
relating to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially 
from those anticipated in our forward-looking statements, and risks to our business 
in general, please refer to our SEC filings, including our most recent annual report on 
Form 10-K and any subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
