
ALEXANDRIA  
REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
2019 ANNUAL REPORT
THE BUILDING 
BLOCKS OF 
OUR DNA*
A
Advancing Human 
Health and Nutrition
C
Creating Collaborative  
Campuses and Vibrant Clusters 
G
Giving Back to 
Our Communities
T
Team-Oriented,  
Mission-Driven Culture
ON THE COVER
The Alexandria Center® for 
Life Science – New York City, 
the first and only commercial  *The chemical bases  
life science campus in New 
adenine (A), cytosine  
York City, currently comprises 
(C), guanine (G), and  
727,674 RSF across its existing 
thymine (T) are the four  
East and West Towers. The 
latest addition to the campus,  main components that  
the iconic North Tower, is  make up DNA.
an inspiring 550,000 RSF 
development project, which 
upon completion will expand 
the campus to nearly 1.3 million 
RSF of highly amenitized and 
uniquely designed space for  
innovative life science companies  
at all stages in their life cycle.
E XECUTIVE CHAIRMAN & FOUNDER 
L ETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS
As founder of Alexandria, I am humbled and proud to lead and work alongside our 
Alexandria family to realize our critical mission to advance human health and nutrition. 
During this unprecedented time, which could prove to be a fundamentally new reality,  
we stand together as a family and wish each of you safety and good health as we navigate 
the coronavirus pandemic and maintain our focus to persevere and do our part in the  
face of this global crisis. Through our unique leadership position and longstanding 
pioneering relationships in the life science industry, we have a strong understanding  
of its far-reaching social, economic, and health impacts and feel an even greater 
responsibility to enable the life-changing innovations needed to conquer the virus  
and broadly advance human health.
We weathered the September 11, 2001 attacks on our homeland. We successfully 
endured the financial crisis of 2008–2009. Today, with a fortress balance sheet  
with significant liquidity, high-credit tenancy, long-term leases, and long-term,  
low-fixed-rate, investment-grade debt, we are well positioned during this time of global 
economic uncertainty and very well prepared to handle the black swan coronavirus. 
Many of our transformative tenants and investment companies are now swiftly working  
on developing diagnostic tests, treatments, and vaccines to combat and hopefully resolve 
this pandemic. We will continue to make highly disciplined and strategic decisions, 
and the health, safety, and well-being of our Alexandria family, our partners, our 
stakeholders, and our communities are our top priorities. The significance of our  
mission has never been greater and our dedication never stronger. 
2019 was the 25th anniversary of our founding, and it was an exceptional year for Alexandria. We founded 
the company in 1994 with a bold and visionary business plan, and in doing so pioneered the life science real 
estate niche and formed the first-ever REIT uniquely focused on the critically important life science industry. 
Today, Alexandria is the foremost owner, operator, and developer of collaborative campuses for leading life 
science companies in the nation’s top innovation clusters. 
From our humble beginnings as a garage startup with $19 million in Series A capital, followed by our 
disciplined growth over the last 25 years into a highly respected investment-grade rated S&P 500® REIT, 
we surpassed $25 billion in total market capitalization at the end of 2019. We are profoundly grateful to 
every single member of our best-in-class team for their passion, dedication, and stellar operational excellence 
on the quest toward our important mission. Together, we have positioned Alexandria as the true innovator, 
influencer, and trusted partner within the life science industry.
Our solid 2019 operating and financial results highlight our continued growth in high-quality cash flows 
and our operational efficiency. Our industry-leading, high-quality tenant roster, with 50% of our annual 
rental revenue as of December 31, 2019 generated from investment-grade or publicly traded large cap tenants, 
drives high-quality and stable cash flows. Truly outstanding execution of our unique business strategy by 
our team resulted in a strong Adjusted EBITDA margin of 69% for 2019—a REIT industry-leading statistic.  
2 
The enduring strength of our balance sheet and significant liquidity of $3.4 billion as of December 31, 
2019, including the $1 billion of forward equity sales agreements executed in January 2020, affords 
us flexibility to manage our strategic business initiatives. Our team also deserves recognition for the 
continual improvement in our credit profile, which ranks us in the top 10% among all publicly traded 
REITs (excluding mortgage REITs) as of December 31, 2019. Additionally, over the past five years ended 
December 31, 2019, we have continued to drive strong per-share growth in net asset value of 75%; funds 
from operations – diluted, as adjusted, of 45%; and common stock dividends of 39%. 
Deepening our competitive advantage and distinguishing us from all other office REITs, our 
unique business model continues to contribute to the company’s superior results and exceptional total 
shareholder return (TSR) of over 1,700% since the company’s IPO in 1997 through December 31, 
2019 (assuming reinvestment of dividends)—which outperforms various indices, including MSCI US 
REIT Index’s 687% TSR and S&P 500’s 482% TSR over the same period. We also received our fourth 
Nareit Gold Investor CARE Award in the Large Cap Equity REIT category for excellence in shareholder 
communications and reporting, highlighting Alexandria’s operational transparency.
MISSION DRIVEN
At Alexandria, we live our mission—to create clusters that ignite and accelerate the world’s leading 
innovators in their noble pursuit of advancing human health by curing disease and improving 
nutrition—each and every day. We differentiate ourselves with a deep-rooted passion for all that we do, 
a pioneering spirit to continually innovate, and a high degree of discipline that provides us with financial 
consistency and stability and enables us to adapt to market conditions. Our mission is woven into our 
DNA and underpins all aspects of our multifaceted business, which is built around four verticals: real  JOEL S. MARCUS
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN  
estate, venture investments, thought leadership, and corporate responsibility. 
& FOUNDER
REAL ESTATE: DRIVING GROWTH THROUGH OUR BOLD, VISIONARY STRATEGY 
Our extraordinary growth was accelerated by our visionary cluster campus strategy, as informed by 
Harvard Business Professor Michael E. Porter’s cluster theory. Utilizing this theory as the basis for our 
proven cluster model, for which we identified four critical components for innovative companies to 
thrive—location, innovation, talent, and capital—we successfully shifted our focus during 2004–2006 
from single assets to high-potential urban innovation cluster campuses as the first mover in Mission Bay, 
Cambridge, and New York City. 
Serving as an example of the next phase of our incredible execution of this visionary strategy is the 
future iconic North Tower at the Alexandria® Center for Life Science – New York City, featured on our 
cover this year. As Alexandria further advances the emerging life science cluster that we established in 
NYC, we continue to successfully operate the Alexandria Center, the city’s first and only commercial 
life science campus. Today, our flagship campus is home to over 50 cutting-edge entities ranging from 
high-growth life science startups to multinational pharmaceutical companies. We are also proud to be 
NYC’s leading provider of seed- and early-stage life science venture capital, as well as to have attracted 
serial life science entrepreneurs, who are vital to new company formation, and created and executed our 
Alexandria LaunchLabs® and Seed Capital platforms to foster the city’s next generation of best-in-class 
biotechnology companies. 
Alexandria has defined and dominated the creation and growth of vibrant life science clusters for 25 
years. At our Investor Day on December 3, 2019, we publicly announced our mega campus strategy. 
Mega campuses consist of more than 1 million RSF and provide a superior set of amenities and services, 
which  include  transportation  programs  and  sustainable  commuting  options.  We  anticipate  that 
these compelling campuses will generate significant premiums relative to stand-alone assets and offer 
companies valuable strategic optionality. As part of this strategy, we will continue to execute on our 
overall growth strategy by focusing on delivering our highly visible value-creation pipeline and developing 
and enhancing value-added properties and campuses in the best locations to provide our tenants with 
amenity-rich environments that increase their ability to attract and retain top talent. 
Located in the heart of the University Town Center submarket, Campus Pointe by Alexandria, our 
flagship San Diego campus, is a highly sustainable, 10-building campus at the forefront of workplace 
    2019 ANNUAL REPORT  3
design. The exceptionally amenitized mega campus, anchored by Eli Lilly and Company, Bristol 
ALEXANDRIA: NAIOP 
Myers Squibb, and UC San Diego, serves as a prime location for our newest proprietary product, 
2019 DEVELOPER  
Alexandria GradLabs™, which opened in 2019. A first of its kind, this post-seed-stage life science 
OF THE YEAR
platform is providing promising companies with sought-after, highly flexible office/laboratory 
workspaces and an accelerated, scalable path for growth. In addition to state-of-the-art office/
“T  he company has  
laboratory space, the contemporarily designed Alexandria GradLabs features on-site laboratory 
been strategic in its  resources more commonly enjoyed by large biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, 
growth by locating  creative collaborative spaces, and support services. The campus also has future value-creation 
in markets where the  development and redevelopment opportunities aggregating 982,000 RSF to create a 2.4 million 
key building blocks  RSF mega campus.
To provide much-needed infrastructure and capital to the rapidly growing agtech industry and 
for innovation thrive. 
address the challenge of advancing human health by improving nutrition, we opened the first 
… Alexandria’s 
phase of the Alexandria Center® for AgTech in Research Triangle, the most important, dense, 
commitment to its 
and diverse agtech cluster in the United States. On this campus—the first and only integrated 
employees and to  
multi-tenant, amenity-rich agtech R&D and greenhouse campus in the country—we have 
the communities  
created a thriving ecosystem ranging from global to emerging agtech companies such as UPL, 
where it does   Indigo Ag, and Boragen to facilitate the discovery and development of groundbreaking solutions 
business is evident.” to enhance the nutritional value of food and ensure a sustainable, cost-effective global food 
supply. We also extended the Alexandria LaunchLabs platform into the agtech sector to provide 
JEAN KANE
2019 CHAIR, NAIOP’S   promising seed- and early-stage agtech companies with a dynamic and nurturing environment on 
DEVELOPER OF THE YEAR   this collaborative campus. Its second phase consists of a 160,000 RSF development project and 
SELECTION COMMITTEE
includes additional greenhouse space. 
STRATEGIC VENTURE INVESTMENTS: SUPPORTING THE CREATION  
OF TREATMENTS AND CURES
We founded Alexandria Venture Investments®, our strategic venture capital arm, in 1996 to 
strategically invest in promising seed-, early-, and growth-stage companies that will positively 
impact the lives of patients. Our venture activity provides us with deep insights emerging from 
the leading edge of science and technology, strengthens our relationships across the life science 
industry, and enables us to recruit and retain the highest-quality tenant base. 
As a testament to our unparalleled network, Alexandria Venture Investments was recognized 
by Silicon Valley Bank as the #1 most active biopharma investor by new deal volume for the third 
consecutive year and was recently highlighted in Barron’s as having been a key contributor to the 
life science “venture boom” in 2019.
The  life-changing  work  that  our  investment  companies  are  pursuing  underscores  the 
ALEXANDRIA 
tremendous value of the life science industry. Moderna and Vir Biotechnology, two of our 
VENTURE 
investments (and tenants), are among the transformational companies leading the charge 
INVESTMENTS® 
in response to the coronavirus global pandemic with record speed. The novel innovation and 
remarkable talent behind each of these companies positions them to combat the most critical 
1 threats to human health and vitality. 
#  IMPACTFUL THOUGHT LEADERSHIP: DRIVING INNOVATION TO  
ADVANCE HUMAN HEALTH
We founded the Alexandria Summit® in 2011 with the goal of building a highly collaborative, 
neutral platform that would convene our preeminent global life science and healthcare networks 
MOST ACTIVE INVESTOR   in a unique environment that catalyzes transformative discussions and stimulates new approaches 
IN BIOPHARMA to the most important issues facing human health. The impactful collaborations and policy work 
SILICON VALLEY BANK   that have been cultivated by this platform over the last nine years have had a profound influence 
“2 020 HEALTHCARE INVESTMENTS  
AND EXITS REPORT,” BY NEW   on the fields of oncology, neuroscience, infectious diseases, healthcare economics, agricultural 
DEAL VOLUME (U.S. AND  
innovation, medical research philanthropy, and digital health. 
EUROPE, 2018–2019) 
In 2019, we focused on two topics that are critical in our mission to advance human health—
neuroscience and agricultural innovation. Diseases of the brain represent one of society’s 
4  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
biggest unmet medical needs and are an enormous cost to society. At the Alexandria Summit 
THOUGHT  
– Neuroscience 2019, we examined the immense challenges and complexity of brain diseases 
LEADERSHIP 
and identified compelling opportunities and approaches for tackling neurodegeneration, mental 
health, and addiction. At the Alexandria Summit – Innovate Ag 2019, we worked to identify 
innovative solutions to support the evolution of the agricultural ecosystem so that we can  Alexandria convenes  
collectively improve nutrition, increase access to healthy foods, and prepare to feed a rapidly  a diverse group of  
growing world population.  visionary stakeholders  
Leveraging the Alexandria Summit’s powerful collective voice, we are catalyzing tangible  to address the most  
solutions that will improve patient outcomes, drive the discovery and development of novel, 
critical challenges in  
cost-effective therapies, impact policy to advance innovation that saves lives and manages and 
global healthcare  
cures disease, and address the urgent need to transform our healthcare system. The esteemed 
and agriculture
reputation of the Alexandria Summit demonstrates our distinct position as a trusted and 
collaborative partner to the life science industry.
PURPOSEFUL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY: PIONEERING A UNIQUELY 
COMPREHENSIVE CARE MODEL TO TACKLE OPIOID ADDICTION
Supported recovery is good philanthropy. Community revitalization is good business. 
Since 2016, more Americans have died from drug overdoses each year than in battle during the 
Vietnam War. Roughly three-quarters of these deaths are attributed to opioids, with an average 
ALEXANDRIA SUMMIT® –  
of 130 Americans dying per day. The U.S. opioid epidemic is one of the most important public 
NEUROSCIENCE 2019 
health issues of our time, and to effectively solve it will require new therapies, new evidenced- Opening Keynote (left to right):  
based care models, and new attitudes and policies toward how we view and treat addiction.  Krishna Yeshwant, MD, General  
Partner, GV; Scott Gottlieb, MD,  
We are passionate about partnering on endeavors that aim to better manage and cure disease,  Resident Fellow, American Enterprise  
Institute; Former Commissioner, U.S.  
and we are tackling the opioid crisis head on. Alexandria partnered with Verily, an Alphabet  Food and Drug Administration; and  
company, on OneFifteen in Dayton, Ohio, to pioneer a comprehensive care model for the full  Mark McClellan, MD, PhD, Director,  
Duke-Margolis Center for Health  
and sustained recovery of people suffering from opioid addiction. We are leading the design and  Policy and Robert J. Margolis, MD,  
Professor of Business, Medicine,  
development of its state-of-the-art campus, which opened to patients in the fall of 2019. Our goal  and Health Policy, Duke University;  
Former Administrator, Centers for  
with OneFifteen is to help people recover from addiction, live healthier lives, and revitalize local 
Medicare & Medicaid Services; and  
communities, and we hope it serves as a model for the rest of the country. Former Commissioner, U.S. Food  
and Drug Administration 
PREPARING FOR THE FUTURE
Coronavirus represents not only a threat to public health, but also to the world’s economic 
and international security. The United States must recognize the urgency around this effort by 
shaping policy to transform our already strained healthcare system and promoting faster and  CORPORATE  
more effective translation of novel discoveries into medicines for patients. It is time that we move  RESPONSIBILITY
to the forefront of this global crisis. 
In the 25 years since we first launched Alexandria, we have demonstrated stability and growth in 
Alexandria partnered with 
the face of volatility. Guided by our culture of idea meritocracy, mutual respect, diversity, humility, 
Verily on OneFifteen to 
transparency, and teamwork, we take great pride in the fact that the mission-critical work of our 
pioneer a comprehensive 
team and the industries we serve are part of the solution to our major healthcare challenges. 
care model to support 
The world is changing rapidly, and it is a business imperative that we adapt and evolve in 
people suffering from 
anticipation of those changes. As renowned author and business strategist Jim Collins put it, “To 
be built to last, you must be built to change.” This is how we think about what we do each and  opioid addiction
every day. It is how we will remain at the vanguard of the much-needed niche we created and how 
we will build the future of life-changing innovation for years to come.
With my deepest respect, gratitude, and appreciation, 
JOEL S. MARCUS
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN & FOUNDER
    2019 ANNUAL REPORT  5
Proud of the past.  
25  YEARS
Focused on the present.  
$26.3B
Prepared for the future.
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
Alexandria 
expands into 
the Seattle 
and Maryland 
clusters
Alexandria 
executes IPO, 
trading on the 
NYSE under  
the ticker 
symbol ARE $18.4B
$17.9B
Joel S. Marcus  Alexandria’s  Alexandria  Alexandria’s  Alexandria 
and Jerry M.  senior  enters the  portfolio  launches its 
Sudarsky found  management  Greater Boston,  exceeds   first proprietary 
Alexandria  team completes  San Francisco,  5 million RSF product, the 
over 30 one- and Research  Science Hotel®, 
Alexandria  on-one investor  Triangle clusters in Cambridge 
Joel S. Marcus  Alexandria enters 
acquires its first  meetings to support 
co-founds  Mission Bay,  
properties in  the growth of 
Joel S. Marcus  Accelerator  San Francisco
Torrey Pines,  founds   leading early- Corporation (now   $14.2B
San Diego stage life science 
Alexandria  Accelerator Life 
companies
Venture  Alexandria  Alexandria’s  Science Partners)  Alexandria is  Alexandria  Alexandria  
Investments®,  commences the  total market  in Seattle selected to  acquires land  breaks ground  
the company’s 
company’s first  capitalization  develop New  supporting   on the first phase  
strategic venture 
two development  surpasses   York City’s first  2 million RSF  of the Alexandria  
capital arm
projects in  $1 billion commercial life  in the Binney  Center® for Life  
Torrey Pines,  science campus Street corridor  Science – New   $10.9B
San Diego; and  and a 1.2 million  York City $10.4B
Gaithersburg,  RSF campus 
Maryland in Technology  Alexandria 
Alexandria’s CEO   Square in  delivers one of 
Alexandria’s   Joel S. Marcus  Cambridge the world’s first 
portfolio more   receives the EY  LEED® certified 
than triples in   Entrepreneur Of  office/laboratory  $8.0B $7.9B
size since IPO,   The Year Award  projects  $7.4B
comprising   (Los Angeles –  $7.0B
3.6 million RSF Real Estate)
$6.1B $5.9B
$5.1B $5.1B
$3.4B
Alexandria’s Total Market Capitalization1   $2.8B
1 997–2019
$1.9B
$699M $818M $1.0B $1.3B $1.5B
1.  Total market capitalization is equal to the sum of total  $431M
equity capitalization and total debt as of December 31 
of each year.
6  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC. ’97 ’98 ’99 ’00 ’01 ’02 ’03 ’04 ’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 ’17 ’18 ’19
$26.3B
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Alexandria opens 
Alexandria  
Alexandria  Alexandria  Alexandria   LaunchLabs® –  
receives its first  unveils plans    acquires         Cambridge,  
Nareit Investor  for Alexandria        land at 88   $18.4  B      located at  
CARE Gold  LaunchLabs®  $17.9  B      Bluxome          the Alexandria  
Alexandria  Alexandria   Alexandria opens  Alexandria  Award in the  and the        Street in   Center® at One  
expands its  signs Eli Lilly and  the Alexandria  celebrates its  Large Cap Equity  Alexandria     Mission Bay/ Kendall Square
sustainable  Company as the  Center® at Kendall  20th anniversary 
REIT category  Seed Capital  SoMa to develop 
building and  anchor tenant at  Square with the  platform in   a 1.1 million   Alexandria  
operational  the Alexandria  delivery of 225  Alexandria opens  Alexandria  New York City RSF campus  issues its first 
practices, from  Center® for Life  Binney Street to  the West Tower  breaks ground  green bond
central plant  Science – New  Biogen Inc. at the Alexandria 
on the new     Alexandria   Alexandria 
optimization  York City Center® for Life 
headquarters         acquires   celebrates its 
projects to green  Science – New  and R&D  $14.2  B      One Kendall   20th anniversary 
housekeeping  York City
center at 400        Square, an  as an NYSE 
Dexter Avenue  iconic 644,771  listed REIT 
Alexandria opens  Alexandria  Alexandria   Alexandria  Alexandria 
North for Juno  RSF, nine-
the Alexandria  receives  rings the closing  acquires the   celebrates its  
Therapeutics,   building life  Alexandria  
Center® for Life  investment-  bell at the NYSE  510 Townsend   25th anniversary
Inc. in Lake   science and  joins the S&P 
Science – New  grade ratings  to celebrate 15   Street site in  
     Union, Seattle  technology  500 index
York City in  from Moody’s   years as a publicly   San Francisco,   Alexandria is 
the heart of  and Standard   traded company        expanding   $10.9B campus in  named NAIOP 
Cambridge
Manhattan’s East  & Poor’s (now   $10.4  B      its Mission   2019 Developer  
Side Medical  S&P Global) Alexandria         Bay life science  of the Year 
Corridor breaks ground   and technology 
Alexandria  on the second   campus into the 
Alexandria  establishes the     phase of the   SoMa submarket
acquires   Alexandria         Alexandria  
Veralliance         Summit®,   $8.0 B       Center®   $7.9B
      Properties,   $7.4B        convening          for Life  
$7.0 B       Inc. and          senior life   Science – New  Alexandria 
       its strategic     science industry  York City
achieves a GRESB  
$6.1B $5.9B    facilities and   leaders to address  5 Star rating
key personnel   the most critical 
in San Diego challenges in 
$5.1B $5.1B global healthcare 
and agriculture
$3.4B
$2.8B
$1.9B
$699M $818M $1.0B $1.3B $1.5B
$431M
’97 ’98 ’99 ’00 ’01 ’02 ’03 ’04 ’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 ’17 ’18 ’19    2019 ANNUAL REPORT  9
COMMUNICATIONS 
2  019 
AND REPORTING 
EXCELLENCE 
P ERFORMANCE
Best-in-class transparency, 
quality, and efficiency of 
disclosures and reporting
ALEXANDRIA’S OUTSTANDING PERFORMANCE  STRONG REAL ESTATE PERFORMANCE
Alexandria’s 
May 27, 19971 – December 31, 2019 5-Year Growth 
well-earned 
reputation as a 
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN COMPARISON TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN2 NET OPERATING
trusted partner to  INCOME6 GROWTH
($ in Millions) 
innovative entities  11771144 112
Alexandria ,, %%
%
and institutions in 
the real estate, life 
+113
%
science, technology,  Microsoft 1,458%
and agtech 
PER-SHARE GROWTH
industries drives  $1,086
Walmart 1,058% Net Asset Funds From Common Stock
Value3  Operations4  Dividends5 
our exceptional 
performance.
Berkshire Hathaway 698%
+75 +45 +39
% % %
MSCI US REIT Index 687%
$4.00
Nasdaq 685% $6.96 $509
$152
$2.88
FTSE Nareit 
$4.80
Equity Office Index 555%
$87
Russell 2000 498%
S&P 500 482%
2014 2019 2014 2019 2014 2019 2014 2019
DEAN A. SHIGENAGA   Source: Bloomberg and S&P Global Market  2.  Represents a five-year total shareholder   3.  Based on average net asset value estimates  4. Represents funds from operations – diluted, as  5.  Represents common stock dividends declared.
CO-PRESIDENT & CHIEF   Intelligence. Assumes reinvestment of dividends. return as of December 31, 2019, and assumes  at the end of each year provided by Bank of  adjusted. For information on Alexandria’s funds 
FINANCIAL OFFICER reinvestment of dividends. America Merrill Lynch, Barclays Capital Inc.,  from operations, including definitions and a  6. For information on Alexandria’s net operating 
1.  Alexandria’s IPO priced at $20.00 per share   Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Evercore ISI,  reconciliation to the most directly comparable  income, including definitions and a reconciliation 
on May 27, 1997. Green Street Advisors, Inc., and J.P. Morgan  GAAP measure, see “Non-GAAP Measures and  to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, 
Securities LLC. Definitions” under Item 7 of Alexandria’s Annual  see “Non-GAAP Measures and Definitions” 
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal years ended  under Item 7 of Alexandria’s Annual Report on 
December 31, 2014 and 2019. Form 10-K for the fiscal years ended December 31,  
2014 and 2019.
10  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.     2019 ANNUAL REPORT  11
2  019 
P ERFORMANCE
HIGH-QUALITY CASH FLOWS   HIGH-QUALITY  STRONG   VENTURE   MAKING A POSITIVE IMPACT  
AND STRONG DEMAND TENANT ROSTER AND FLEXIBLE   INVESTMENTS ON OUR COMMUNITIES
BALANCE SHEET
CASH FLOWS FROM   ADJUSTED   TRUSTED PARTNER TO  CREDIT RATING IMPROVEMENT6 STRATEGIC VENTURE CAPITAL 2025 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT   AWARDS AND   PHILANTHROPY  
HIGH-QUALITY TENANTS  EBITDA MARGIN2 INNOVATIVE COMPANIES REDUCTION GOALS RECOGNITION AND VOLUNTEERISM  
Annual Rental Revenue   Outperformance   Alexandria’s Top 20 Tenants’  4 500+
(ARR) From Investment-Grade   vs. Other   ARR From Investment-Grade   1 CARBON POLLUTION (MTCO2e) ,
or Publicly Traded Large   Office REITS3 or Publicly Traded Large  
2015–2019  2025 Goal12 
Cap Tenants1 Cap Tenants1 #  Progress11 Hours Volunteered 
by Alexandria Team 
Baa1
1 7.9 30 Members in 2019
% % 
5  0 6  8 8  0  
REDUCTION REDUCTION
% % % Stable GRESB 5 STAR RATING
2019 2  50+
MOST ACTIVE INVESTOR IN 
BIOPHARMA BY NEW DEALS
ENERGY CONSUMPTION (kWh)
Ranked by Silicon Valley Bank8
2015–2019  2025 Goal12  A Non-Profit Organizations 
Progress11 Alexandria Supported 
in 2019
CASH FLOWS FROM CLASS A  STRONG DEMAND DRIVES   ALEXANDRIA’S TENANTS COMMIT 
1 8.8 25
PROPERTIES IN AAA LOCATIONS  SOLID OCCUPANCY  SUBSTANTIAL CAPITAL TO R&D VALUE CREATION THROUGH  % % 
BBB+ ALEXANDRIA VENTURE 
REDUCTION REDUCTION
ARR From Class A Properties   Occupancy Over   17 of the Top 20   INVESTMENTS ACTIVITY
in AAA Locations1 10 Years4 Biopharma R&D Spenders     5  9
Are Alexandria Tenants5 Stable 400
$  M
WASTE DIVERSION (Ton)
GRESB DISCLOSURE 
7 6 9  6 1/7 2019  2025 Goal14  SCORE 
ALEXANDRIA’S CREDIT RATINGS7 On-Balance Sheet   Progress13 2018 | 2019
% % Unrealized Gains9 Alexandria Team 
44.7 45 Members Completed 
10 % % 
the 2019 New York City 
20 TOP  %
DIVERSION DIVERSION Marathon to Support 
70 Critical Oncology 
$  M
Research at Memorial 
Alexandria Is in the Top 10%   FITWEL IMPACT AWARD Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Among All Publicly Traded REITs POTABLE WATER CONSUMPTION (Gal) Highest-Scoring Project   Center, Raising Over
Realized Gains Over the   of All Time
Past Two Years10 2015–2019  2025 Goal12  $  373,000
Progress11
6.0 1  0
% % 
REDUCTION REDUCTION
1.  Represents annual rental revenue in effect as of  2.  For information on Alexandria’s Adjusted  3.  Based on data from S&P Global Market  5.  Source: EvaluatePharma, February 2020.   7.  Represents credit rating levels from Moody’s  8. Source: Silicon Valley Bank, “2020 Healthcare  10. Represents realized gains from non-real estate  13. Reflects progress for all buildings  
December 31, 2019. For definitions, see “Non- EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin, including  Intelligence and SEC filings for 2019. Top 20 biopharmaceutical companies ranked   Investors Service and S&P Global Ratings in  Investments and Exits Report.” Most Active  investments for the two-year period ended  in operation in 2019 that Alexandria  
GAAP Measures and Definitions” under Item 7   definitions and a reconciliation to the most  by pharma R&D spend in 2018. comparison to those of all publicly traded   New Investors calculated as new (first-time)  December 31, 2019.  indirectly and directly manages.
of Alexandria’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for  directly comparable GAAP measure, see “Non- 4. Represents average occupancy of operating  REITs (excluding mortgage REITs) as of  investments into U.S. and Europe companies 
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. GAAP Measures and Definitions” under Item 7 of  properties in North America as of each  6. As of December 31, 2019. December 31, 2019. from 2018 to 2019. 11. Reflects sum of annual like-for-like progress  14. Relative to a 2015 baseline for buildings  
Alexandria’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the  December 31 for the last 10 years. from 2015 to 2019. in operation that Alexandria indirectly  
fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. 9.  Represents cumulative adjustments in value   and directly manages.
of Alexandria’s non-real estate investments   12. Relative to a 2015 baseline for buildings in 
as of December 31, 2019. operation that Alexandria directly manages.
12  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.     2019 ANNUAL REPORT  13
2019 BIG WINS THROUGH THE LENS OF  
ALEXANDRIA’S CO-CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
SOMA, SAN FRANCISCO 
P  IONEERING A NEW MODEL  
F OR URBAN DEVELOPMENT
In one of our biggest wins  
this past year, our cutting-edge 
development project at 88 
Bluxome Street in San Francisco 
was the first under the Central 
SoMa Plan to obtain its full 
Prop M allocation at once, 
whereas others had managed 
only phased approvals. This 
unprecedented green-lighting 
from the San Francisco Planning 
Commission was particularly 
gratifying because it was born 
of the trusted relationships our 
team had developed with the 
City of San Francisco and key 
community partners during a 
multiyear approval process.
As a result of this highly 
collaborative model of urban 
development, 88 Bluxome will 
be an iconic, fully integrated, 
sustainable campus that 
addresses the multiple priorities 
of the community as it supports 
the vital work of the world’s 
leading innovators. In short, it  that position us for robust  partner with our tenants in  The transformative mixed-use campus 
will consist of two iconic, cutting-edge life 
will be a model of how doing  future growth through our  their ongoing efforts to advance 
science and technology buildings totaling 
what’s right for a neighborhood  mega campus strategy. We also  human health, grateful to our  1.1 million RSF that will feature ample 
can lead to building design   continue to bring to bear our  colleagues for their work ethic  outdoor deck spaces and be activated by 
ground-floor retail amenities.
and amenities our innovative  strong brand and multifaceted  and passion, and indebted to our 
tenants look for and that also  resources in partnership with  stockholders for their continued 
generate long-term value for   generational institutions  interest and support. 
our stockholders.  like Stanford University and 
The 88 Bluxome mega   Columbia University, city  Sincerely, 
campus is already nearly 60%  governments like San Francisco 
pre-leased and continues to see  and Seattle, and community 
strong demand. The fully entitled  groups like the ones we engaged 
project will enable our tenants  for 88 Bluxome to advance 
to advance their mission-critical  economic and societal goals   STEPHEN A. RICHARDSON
CO-CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
work to improve lives, both  that are mutually desirable  
for those in their immediate  and meaningful. 
community and beyond.  We will continue to look for 
In all of our cluster locations,  ways where we can be supportive, 
the Alexandria team has  constructive, and proactive in the 
identified and taken advantage  communities where we develop 
of high-quality opportunities  and operate. We are proud to 
14  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
LAKE UNION, SEATTLE
C  REATING AN ICONIC DESTINATION  
T O ENABLE INNOVATION
In 2019, we were honored to be 
selected by the City of Seattle to 
transform the last of its large, 
undeveloped parcels of land into 
a community-oriented, amenity-
driven campus that will attract 
the most advanced life science 
and technology entities and 
enable innovation for the benefit 
of humankind. Our compelling 
vision for the Mercer Mega Block 
entails a premier campus that will 
serve as the center of gravity for 
Seattle’s life science ecosystem 
while it also critically addresses 
some of the most pressing 
challenges the City faces.
Engagement and integration 
with the community were always 
central to our vision for this multi-
use campus. From the streetscape 
and activated retail spaces to more 
affordable housing options and a 
community recreation center, our 
plans focus on elevating the Lake 
Union neighborhood, promoting 
economic and residential diversity,  to foster the technological  innovation campuses in the  The 800,000 RSF Mercer Mega Block 
campus will build upon Seattle’s legacy 
and enabling the world’s most  advancements of the future.  nation’s top life science and 
of scientific innovation by providing the 
innovative organizations working  The Mercer mega campus is the  technology clusters, we are  neighborhood with engaging amenities for 
to better our lives.  crown jewel of that pipeline. It is  committed to collaborating with  our tenants and the community and iconic 
buildings to showcase South Lake Union.
When I became Regional  literally located at the intersection  the City of Seattle to build upon 
Market Director of our Seattle  of science and technology, only  its leadership in those disciplines. 
cluster in 2003, the life science  a few blocks away from the UW  We celebrate this important 
sector was in its nascency and our  School of Medicine and the Allen  and strategic award with an eye 
asset base in the region totaled  Institute for Brain Science and  toward the future, always driven 
750,000 RSF. In recent years, the  Amazon’s and Google’s campuses.  by the promise of life-changing 
region has emerged as a leader  Our team fully grasps the  technologies that will emerge 
in immunology, cell therapy,  importance of the Mercer Mega  from our world-class buildings, 
and the intersection of science  Block development in its role to  campuses, and clusters.
and technology—areas that  engage the existing neighborhood 
are generating some of today’s  and build a connected ecosystem  Many thanks,
most transformative medical  where these critical industries 
innovations. This expertise has  can cross-pollinate. With more 
led to the significant growth in  than 20 years of on-the-ground 
our Seattle asset base, which  experience and expertise in 
now exceeds 1.5 million RSF  Seattle and an unparalleled  PETER M. MOGLIA
CO-CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER &  
with a solid development pipeline  track record of creating urban 
CO-CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER
    2019 ANNUAL REPORT  15
REAL ESTATE
GREATER BOSTON
MARYLAND
NEW YORK CITY
RESEARCH TRIANGLE 
SAN DIEGO
SAN FRANCISCO
SEATTLE
16  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.     2019 ANNUAL REPORT  17
GREATER  
BOSTON
399 BINNEY STREET is a 164,000 RSF development project that   The Alexandria Center® at One Kendall  The LEED® Gold certified building 
was completed in 2019 at the Alexandria Center® at One Kendall  Square, which includes an intermediate- incorporates a number of sustainable design 
term development opportunity for  features such as a green roof that serves 
Square, a 10-building campus in Cambridge. Located in the most  402,000 square feet at 325 Binney   many functions. They include retaining 
sought-after area of East Cambridge known as the world’s most  Street, features ample outdoor space   rainwater, improving site biodiversity, and 
and engaging campus amenities to  reducing the heat island effect, which lowers 
innovative square mile, the building is home to a carefully curated   enhance our innovative tenants’ ability   the building’s HVAC energy consumption 
mix of therapeutics companies. to attract and retain top talent. and also has a positive impact on lowering 
the overall temperature of the city.
18  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.     2019 ANNUAL REPORT  19
9950 Medical Center Drive is an 
84,264 RSF development project that 
MARYLAND
Alexandria fully leased to London-based  The sustainable office/laboratory 
biopharmaceutical company Autolus   development project aggregating 
Therapeutics plc in early 2019. The facility   176,832 RSF at 9800 Medical Center 
will contain Autolus’s U.S.-based R&D,   Drive is anchored by a leading clinical-
commercial, and corporate functions   stage biotechnology company seeking 
and serve as its first full commercial-scale  to improve lives through the curative 
manufacturing center. potential of gene therapy.
9800 AND 9950 MEDICAL CENTER DRIVE, on our flagship Maryland 
campus in the highly desirable Rockville submarket, represent the 
first ground-up development projects in Maryland in a decade. Upon 
completion of these two buildings, Alexandria’s footprint along 
Medical Center Drive will aggregate 859,777 RSF across 12 mission-
critical facilities. Alexandria also has additional future development 
opportunities aggregating 499,000 RSF in Rockville.
20  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.     2019 ANNUAL REPORT  21
NEW YORK CITY
The Alexandria Center® – Long Island City   As the Alexandria Center® for Life   ALEXANDRIA HAS A STRATEGIC GROWTH PIPELINE of approximately  The North Tower at the Alexandria Center® 
campus includes two redevelopment  Science – NYC grows, Alexandria envisions  1.4 million RSF in New York City, which includes the development   for Life Science – NYC is a 550,000 RSF 
projects—30-02 48th Avenue and 47-50  new campus amenities, including a lively  development project that will expand on 
30th Street—to provide the city’s early-  food hall, a flexible forum for tenant  of the North Tower at the Alexandria Center® for Life Science – NYC,   the success of New York City’s first and 
stage life science companies with highly  programming, and reimagined outdoor  the redevelopment of our Long Island City acquisitions, and a future  only commercial life science campus. 
flexible step-up space. Upon completion   spaces to complement the campus’s  Situated in Manhattan’s East Side Medical 
of these two projects, the innovatively  expansive river views. redevelopment or development opportunity at 219 East 42nd Street.  Corridor, the iconic North Tower will 
designed and amenity-rich campus will  Combining this pipeline with our 1.1 million RSF of operating  feature inspiring design, significant 
aggregate 312,697 RSF. office/laboratory step-up space, and 
properties, our New York City asset base is uniquely positioned to  
sophisticated new amenities on a highly 
meet the future needs of the city’s emerging life science cluster. curated and sustainable campus. 
22  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.     2019 ANNUAL REPORT  23
RESEARCH  
The campus provides leading and  5 Laboratory Drive is home to Alexandria 
emerging agtech companies with an  LaunchLabs® – AgTech, the premier  TRIANGLE
inspiring environment to facilitate  platform accelerating early-stage 
the discovery and development of  agtech company growth. Alexandria 
breakthrough innovations that are vital to  LaunchLabs – AgTech supports promising 
enhancing the nutritional value of food   seed- and early-stage agtech companies 
and ensuring a sustainable, accessible,  across plant science, animal health, food 
cost-effective global food supply. tech, and other sector areas.
THE ALEXANDRIA CENTER® FOR AGTECH – RESEARCH TRIANGLE, 
the first fully integrated, amenity-rich multi-tenant agtech R&D and 
greenhouse campus in the United States, opened in 2019. The campus’s 
first phase is a 180,400 RSF redevelopment project at 5 Laboratory Drive 
in the heart of Research Triangle, the country’s most important agtech 
cluster. The collaborative campus, which fills a critical need for high-tech 
greenhouse space, highlights Alexandria’s significant focus on addressing 
the challenge of advancing human health by improving nutrition.
24  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.     2019 ANNUAL REPORT  25
SAN DIEGO
CAMPUS POINTE BY ALEXANDRIA, the company’s flagship San Diego   The 10-building campus features  Alexandria GradLabs™ provides its  9880 CAMPUS POINT DRIVE, a 98,000 RSF development project 
exceptional amenities, including a farm-to- tenants with a communal gathering and 
campus, is a highly sustainable, amenity-rich campus in the heart of  that was delivered in 2019, is home to Alexandria’s latest strategic 
table eatery, a sophisticated conference  event space, on-site shared laboratory 
our University Town Center submarket, one of the region’s leading life  center, a fully equipped fitness center,  equipment, and support services. proprietary offering, Alexandria GradLabs™. Located at Campus  
science and technology clusters. Anchored by Eli Lilly and Company,   a regulation-size soccer field, outdoor  Pointe by Alexandria, Alexandria GradLabs is a highly flexible, first- 
walking trails, and an organic farm.
Bristol Myers Squibb, and UC San Diego, the campus holds development   of-its-kind life science platform that provides post-seed-stage life 
and redevelopment opportunities aggregating 982,263 RSF to create   science companies with turnkey, fully furnished office/laboratory  
a 2.4 million RSF mega campus. suites and an accelerated, scalable path for growth. 
26  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.     2019 ANNUAL REPORT  27
SAN FRANCISCO
ALEXANDRIA’S GATEWAY CAMPUS in our South San Francisco  685 Gateway Boulevard, an amenities  681 Gateway Boulevard, a 126,963 RSF 
building, is a showcase for cutting- redevelopment office/laboratory project, 
submarket will aggregate approximately 1.7 million RSF upon 
edge, high-performance sustainable  was delivered to two leading life science 
completion of the campus’s value-creation opportunities over time.   development. The building will feature a  companies, Eli Lilly and Company and  
In 2019, Alexandria completed the redevelopment of a high-quality  sophisticated conference center, a healthy  Twist Bioscience Corporation, in 2019. 
eatery, and a modern fitness center to 
office/laboratory facility at 681 Gateway Boulevard and broke ground   enhance the campus experience.
on a highly curated amenities building at 685 Gateway Boulevard.  
685 Gateway is on track to be the first Zero Energy Certification 
building in Alexandria’s asset base.
28  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.     2019 ANNUAL REPORT  29
SEATTLE
The building includes modern amenities 
to enable our innovative tenants to attract 
and recruit top talent, including a rooftop 
deck with sweeping views of Lake Union 
and Seattle.
188 EAST BLAINE STREET is a 201,805 RSF development project on the  The smartly amenitizied building features  Researchers investigate early-stage  The iconic facility is LEED® Gold certified 
a modern conference center, a fully  cancer treatments from a cutting-edge  and offers highly adaptable state-of-the-
north campus of Eastlake by Alexandria in our Lake Union submarket, 
equipped fitness center, and a communal  cancer R&D facility at 188 East Blaine  art office/laboratory space in the heart  
which was delivered in 2019 to a range of innovative entities. At 188  lobby atrium that offers collaborative  Street, expanding on existing research  of Lake Union.
East Blaine Street, Alexandria has curated a fully integrated life science  touchdown space and a healthy eatery. collaborations with Seattle Children’s 
Research Institute and Fred Hutchinson 
ecosystem where public biotechnology companies and world-class  Cancer Research Center.
research institutions are co-located.
30  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.     2019 ANNUAL REPORT  31
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE
C  ORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
, our sustainability 
TO THRIVE IN A RAPIDLY CHANGING WORLD
mission is to make a positive impact on society by developing 
and operating efficient buildings, reducing carbon pollution, 
managing climate risk, and advancing human health  
and nutrition.
ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE
Developing and operating  Advancing human health and  Abiding by sound corporate 
efficient buildings, reducing  well-being on our campuses,  governance principles
carbon pollution, and  for our employees, in our 
managing climate risk  communities, and for the 
world at large
32  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.     2019 ANNUAL REPORT  33
E NVIRONMENTAL  IMPACT
685 Gateway Boulevard, an amenities 
building, is a showcase for cutting-edge, 
high-performance sustainability. The 
project, which is tracking and targeting 
reductions in embodied carbon, is on pace 
to achieve Zero Energy Certification from 
the International Living Future Institute.
ALEXANDRIA IS FOCUSED ON developing and operating efficient  CLIMATE CHANGE 
buildings, reducing carbon pollution, and managing climate risk  
FRAMEWORK
in the creation of sustainable and vibrant ecosystems that support  
life-changing innovation to benefit humankind.
2025 REDUCTION GOALS FOR BUILDINGS IN OPERATION
Alexandria supports and aligns 
CARBON POLLUTION   ENERGY   WASTE   POTABLE WATER   our sustainability reporting with 
(MTCO2e) CONSUMPTION (kWh)  DIVERSION (Ton) CONSUMPTION (Gal) the recommendations of the 
Taskforce on Climate-related 
2025 Goal1 | 30% Reduction 2025 Goal1 | 25% Reduction 2025 Goal2 | 45% Diversion 2025 Goal1 | 10% Reduction Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
Alexandria was the first REIT 
to use the Embodied Carbon 
Construction Calculator (EC3) 
tool, an open-source tool to 
179 188 44 7 60 compare and reduce embodied 
. . . .
% % % % carbon emissions from 
construction materials.
 
REDUCTION REDUCTION DIVERSION REDUCTION
2015–2019 PROGRESS3 2015–2019 PROGRESS3 2019 PROGRESS4 2015–2019 PROGRESS3
NEW CONSTRUCTION GOAL HEALTHY BUILDING GOAL SUSTAINABILITY AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
ACHIEVE LEED® GOLD OR  50 CERTIFICATIONS   A A
PLATINUM CERTIFICATION   BY 2025
FOR NEW GROUND-UP 
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
GRESB 5 STAR RATING GRESB DISCLOSURE SCORE  MSCI ESG RATING FITWEL IMPACT AWARD
2019 2018 | 2019 2019 Highest-Scoring Project of All Time
1.  Relative to a 2015 baseline for buildings in  3.  Reflects sum of annual like-for-like progress  4. Reflects progress for all buildings  
operation that Alexandria directly manages.  from 2015 to 2019. in operation in 2019 that Alexandria  
indirectly and directly manages.
2.  Relative to a 2015 baseline for buildings in 
operation that Alexandria indirectly and  
directly manages.
34  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.     2019 ANNUAL REPORT  35
P HILANTHROPY & VOLUNTEERISM
OUR IMPACT 
4 500+
,
Hours Volunteered by Alexandria 
Team Members in 2019
2  50+
Non-Profit Organizations 
Alexandria Supported in 2019
5  9
Alexandria Team Members 
Completed the 2019 New York  
City Marathon to Support  
Critical Oncology Research  
at Memorial Sloan Kettering 
Cancer Center, Raising Over
$  373,000
OUR PHILANTHROPY AND VOLUNTEERISM EFFORTS are fundamental   In 2019, we launched Alexandria Scholars,   Family, friends, and fellow team members  Alexandria Team runners celebrate at  
a scholarship program that grants students   gather outside of Memorial Sloan Kettering  the finish line after completing 26.2 miles  
to the fulfillment of our commitment to building the future of life-
in select locations $5,000 annually to  Cancer Center, which is located along the  in the 2019 New York City Marathon.
changing innovation. Through our strategic corporate philanthropy,  attend either a two- or four-year program  New York City Marathon route at mile 17,  
tireless fundraising, and robust volunteerism, Alexandria develops  at a college/university of their choice to  to cheer on Alexandria Team runners.
study one of the STEM (science, technology, 
multifaceted partnerships with leading-edge non-profit organizations  engineering, and mathematics) fields.
doing groundbreaking work in medical research, STEM education, 
military support services, and local communities.
36  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.     2019 ANNUAL REPORT  37
A city once known for its rich history of 
innovation, Dayton in the past several 
O  NEFIFTEEN
years has experienced a significant burden 
around opioid addiction and overdose, 
Reflecting the nonlinear path and  with the highest death rate per capita in any 
continual process of recovery, the campus  U.S. city in 2017. With strong institutions 
is anchored around a curved pathway  and civic leadership, the community 
that connects all of the experiences and  is a natural partner for this unique and 
elements of the OneFifteen ecosystem. integrated approach to treatment.
“S  upported recovery  
is good philanthropy. 
Community revitalization  
is good business.”
JOEL S. MARCUS
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN & FOUNDER
As a key component of our 
mission to advance human health 
by creating clusters and campuses 
that enable innovators to cure 
disease, improve nutrition, and 
enhance the quality of people’s 
lives, Alexandria partnered with 
Verily to support OneFifteen, 
a new non-profit healthcare 
system dedicated to the full and 
sustained recovery of people 
suffering from opioid addiction. 
Together with Verily, we are 
building a state-of-the-art campus 
in Dayton, Ohio, to provide a 
comprehensive model of care 
that will encompass treatment, 
residential housing, family 
reunification, and community 
transition. The OneFifteen 
campus, designed and developed 
by Alexandria, opened to patients 
in the fall of 2019. OneFifteen 
is establishing a sustainable 
program with potential to act as 
a model throughout the country 
while revitalizing the local 
community it serves.
Central to our mission, we 
are committed to partnering 
Grand Opening (foreground left to right): 
on endeavors that aim to better  Julia McNeal, Vice President, Carillon 
manage and cure disease, as well  Civic Council; Senator Rob Portman, U.S. 
Senator (R-OH); Nan Whaley, Mayor of 
as reduce the economic burden 
Dayton, Ohio; Joel S. Marcus, Executive 
of disease on society, including  Chairman & Founder, Alexandria Real 
Estate Equities, Inc./Alexandria Venture 
addressing critical public health 
Investments; Marti Taylor, President & 
issues like the opioid epidemic. Chief Executive Officer, OneFifteen;  
Fred Manchur, Chief Executive Officer, 
Kettering Health Network; and  
Mary Boosalis, President & Chief  
Executive Officer, Premier Health
38  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.     2019 ANNUAL REPORT  39
ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC. (NYSE:ARE), an S&P 500® urban office REIT, is the first,  Alexandria®, Lighthouse Design® logo,
longest-tenured, and pioneering owner, operator, and developer uniquely focused on collaborative life  Building the Future of Life-Changing
Innovation™, That’s What’s in Our DNA™, 
science, technology, and agtech campuses in AAA innovation cluster locations, with a total market  Alexandria Center®, Alexandria Venture 
capitalization of $26.3 billion as of December 31, 2019, and an asset base in North America of 39.2 million  Investments®, Alexandria Summit®, Science 
Hotel®, LaunchLabs®, and GradLabs™ are 
square feet. The asset base in North America includes 27.0 million RSF of operating properties and 2.1 
trademarks of Alexandria Real Estate 
million RSF of Class A properties undergoing construction, 6.3 million RSF of near-term and intermediate- Equities, Inc. All other company names, 
trademarks, and logos referenced herein 
term development and redevelopment projects, and 3.8 million square feet of future development projects. 
are the property of their respective owners.
Founded in 1994, Alexandria pioneered this niche and has since established a significant market presence in 
key locations, including Greater Boston, San Francisco, New York City, San Diego, Seattle, Maryland, and 
Research Triangle. Alexandria has a longstanding and proven track record of developing Class A properties 
clustered in urban life science, technology, and agtech campuses that provide our innovative tenants with 
highly dynamic and collaborative environments that enhance their ability to successfully recruit and retain 
world-class talent and inspire productivity, efficiency, creativity, and success. Alexandria also provides 
strategic capital to transformative life science, technology, and agtech companies through our venture capital 
arm. We believe our unique business model and diligent underwriting ensure a high-quality and diverse 
tenant base that results in higher occupancy levels, longer lease terms, higher rental income, higher returns,  
and greater long-term asset value. For additional information on Alexandria, please visit www.are.com.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS: This document includes “forward-looking statements” within 
the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements  
regarding our 2020 earnings per share attributable to Alexandria’s common stockholders – diluted, 2020  
funds from operations per share attributable to Alexandria’s common stockholders – diluted, net operating 
income, our projected sources and uses of capital, and 2025 sustainability goals. You can identify the 
forward-looking statements by their use of forward-looking words, such as “forecast,” “guidance,”  
“goals,” “projects,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “plans,” “seeks,” 
“should,” or “will,” or the negative of those words or similar words. These forward-looking statements 
are based on our current expectations, beliefs, projections, future plans and strategies, anticipated events 
or trends, and similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts, as well as a number of 
assumptions concerning future events. There can be no assurance that actual results will not be materially 
higher or lower than these expectations. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, 
and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in 
the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, without limitation, our 
failure to obtain capital (debt, construction financing, and/or equity) or refinance debt maturities, increased 
interest rates and operating costs, adverse economic or real estate developments in our markets, our failure 
to successfully place into service and lease any properties undergoing development or redevelopment and 
our existing space held for future development or redevelopment (including new properties acquired for that 
purpose), our failure to successfully operate or lease acquired properties, decreased rental rates, increased 
vacancy rates or failure to renew or replace expiring leases, defaults on or non-renewal of leases by tenants, 
adverse general and local economic conditions, an unfavorable capital market environment, decreased leasing 
activity or lease renewals, and other risks and uncertainties detailed in our filings with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission (SEC). Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-
looking statements. All forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this document, and unless 
otherwise stated, we assume no obligation to update this information and expressly disclaim any obligation 
to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, 
or otherwise. For more discussion relating to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ 
materially from those anticipated in our forward-looking statements, and risks to our business in general, 
please refer to our SEC filings, including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and any subsequent 
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
40  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.

A
L
E
X
A
N
D
R
IA
 R
E
A
L
 E
S
T
A
T
E
 E
Q
U
IT
IE
S
, IN
C
. 2
0
19
 A
N
N
U
A
L
 R
E
P
O
R
T
ALEXANDRIA  
REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
2019 ANNUAL REPORT  
ON FORM 10-K
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 10-K 
(Mark One)
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 
Commission file number 1-12993 
ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC. 
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Maryland 95-4502084
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)
26 North Euclid Avenue, Pasadena, California 91101 
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code)
(626) 578-0777
(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code) 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class  Trading Symbol(s)  Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock, $0.01 par value per share  ARE  New York Stock Exchange
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes       No 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes      No 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing 
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes       No 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File 
required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes     No  
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or 
emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth 
company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer Smaller reporting company 
Accelerated filer  Emerging growth company 
Non-accelerated filer
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new 
or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.   
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes    No 
The aggregate market value of the shares of Common Stock held by non-affiliates of registrant was approximately $15.8 billion based on the closing 
price for such shares on the New York Stock Exchange on June 28, 2019.
As of January 15, 2020, 122,699,875 shares of common stock were outstanding.
Documents Incorporated by Reference
Part III of this annual report on Form 10-K incorporates certain information by reference from the registrant’s definitive proxy statement to be filed within 
120 days of the end of the fiscal year covered by this annual report on Form 10-K in connection with the registrant’s annual meeting of stockholders to be 
held on or about May 5, 2020.
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  i
INDEX TO FORM 10-K
ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
PART I Page
ITEM 1. BUSINESS .......................................................................................................................................................... 1
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS .................................................................................................................................................. 6
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS .................................................................................................................. 39
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES ..................................................................................................................................................... 40
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ..................................................................................................................................... 68
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES .......................................................................................................................... 68
PART II
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND 
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES ............................................................................................. 68
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  ............................................................................................................................ 69
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF 
OPERATIONS  ..................................................................................................................................................... 71
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ................................................... 118
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  ............................................................................... 120
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL 
DISCLOSURE ..................................................................................................................................................... 120
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES ...................................................................................................................... 120
ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION ...................................................................................................................................... 122
PART III
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE .................................................... 122
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION .......................................................................................................................... 122
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED 
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  ............................................................................................................................... 122
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE................
122
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES  ........................................................................................... 122
PART IV
ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES .................................................................................... 123
ii  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
GLOSSARY
  The following abbreviations or acronyms that may be used in this document 
shall have the adjacent meanings set forth below:
ASU Accounting Standards Update
ATM At the Market
BBA British Bankers’ Association
BPS Basis Points
CIP Construction in Progress
EPS Earnings per Share
FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board
FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
FFO Funds From Operations
GAAP U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
GRESB Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark
HVAC Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning
IASB International Accounting Standards Board
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards
IRS Internal Revenue Service
JV Joint Venture
LEED® Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design
LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate
Nareit National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts
NAV Net Asset Value
NYSE New York Stock Exchange
REIT Real Estate Investment Trust
RSF Rentable Square Feet/Foot
SEC Securities and Exchange Commission
SF Square Feet/Foot
SoMa South of Market submarket of San Francisco
U.S. United States
VIE Variable Interest Entity
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  iii
PART I 
Forward-looking statements 
Certain information and statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K, including, without limitation, statements 
containing the words “forecast,” “guidance,” “goals,” “projects,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “plans,” 
“seeks,” “should,” or “will,” or the negative of these words or similar words, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of 
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties regarding events, conditions, and financial trends that may affect 
our future plans of operations, business strategy, results of operations, and financial position. A number of important factors could cause 
actual results to differ materially from those included within or contemplated by the forward-looking statements, including, but not limited 
to, the description of risks and uncertainties in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this annual report on Form 10-K. Additional information 
regarding risk factors that may affect us is included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
Results of Operations” in this annual report on Form 10-K. Readers of our annual report on Form 10-K should also read our SEC and 
other publicly filed documents for further discussion regarding such factors.
As used in this annual report on Form 10-K, references to the “Company,” “Alexandria,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to 
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the 
consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes under “Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules” in this 
annual report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
Overview
We are a Maryland corporation, formed in October 1994, that has elected to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax 
purposes. We are an S&P 500® urban office REIT and the first and longest-tenured owner, operator, and developer uniquely focused on 
collaborative life science, technology, and agtech campuses in AAA innovation cluster locations. We consider AAA locations to be highly 
desirable for tenancy by life science, technology, and agtech entities because of their close proximity to concentrations of specialized 
skills, knowledge, institutions, and related businesses. Such locations are generally characterized by high barriers to entry for new 
landlords, high barriers to exit for tenants, and a limited supply of available space. Founded in 1994, Alexandria pioneered this niche 
and has since established a significant market presence in key locations, including Greater Boston, San Francisco, New York City, San 
Diego, Seattle, Maryland, and Research Triangle.
Alexandria develops dynamic urban cluster campuses and vibrant ecosystems that enable and inspire the world’s most 
brilliant minds and innovative companies to create life-changing scientific and technological breakthroughs. We believe in the utmost 
professionalism, humility, and teamwork. Alexandria manages its properties through fully integrated regional teams with real estate, life 
science, technology, and agtech expertise. Our tenants include multinational pharmaceutical companies; public and private 
biotechnology companies; life science product, service, and medical device companies; digital health, technology companies, and 
agtech companies; academic and medical research institutions; U.S. government research agencies; non-profit companies; and 
venture capital firms. Alexandria has a longstanding and proven track record of developing Class A properties clustered in urban life 
science, technology, and agtech campuses that provide its innovative tenants with highly dynamic and collaborative environments that 
enhance their ability to successfully recruit and retain world-class talent and inspire productivity, efficiency, creativity, and success. 
Alexandria also provides strategic risk capital to transformative life science, technology, and agtech companies through its venture 
capital arm. We believe our unique business model and diligent underwriting ensure a high-quality and diverse tenant base that should 
result in higher occupancy levels, longer lease terms, higher rental income, higher returns, and greater long-term asset value. 
As of December 31, 2019, Alexandria’s total market capitalization was $26.3 billion and our asset base in North America 
consisted of 39.2 million SF. The asset base in North America includes 27.0 million RSF of operating properties and 2.1 million RSF of 
Class A properties undergoing construction, 6.3 million RSF of near-term and intermediate-term development and redevelopment 
projects, and 3.8 million SF of future development projects. These operating properties and development projects include 36 properties 
that are held by consolidated real estate joint ventures and six properties that are held by unconsolidated real estate joint ventures. The 
occupancy percentage of our operating properties in North America was 96.8% as of December 31, 2019. Our 10-year average 
occupancy rate of operating properties as of December 31, 2019, was 96%. Investment-grade or publicly traded large cap tenants 
represented 50% of our annual rental revenue in effect as of December 31, 2019. Additional information regarding our consolidated and 
unconsolidated real estate joint ventures is included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
Results of Operations” in this annual report on Form 10-K. Additional information regarding risk factors that may affect us is included in 
“Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this 
annual report on Form 10-K.
1
1  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Business objective and strategies
Our primary business objective is to maximize long-term asset value and shareholder returns based on a multifaceted 
platform of internal and external growth. A key element of our strategy is our unique focus on Class A properties clustered in urban 
campuses located in AAA innovation cluster locations. These key urban campus locations are characterized by high barriers to entry 
for new landlords, high barriers to exit for tenants, and a limited supply of available space. They represent highly desirable locations 
for tenancy by life science, technology, and agtech entities because of their close proximity to concentrations of specialized skills, 
knowledge, institutions, and related businesses. Our strategy also includes drawing upon our deep and broad real estate, life 
science, technology, and agtech relationships in order to identify and attract new and leading tenants and to source additional value-
creation real estate.
Our tenant base is broad and diverse within the life science, technology, and agtech industries and reflects our focus on 
regional, national, and international tenants with substantial financial and operational resources. For a more detailed description of 
our properties and tenants, refer to “Item 2. Properties” in this annual report on Form 10-K. We have an experienced Board of 
Directors and are led by an executive and senior management team with extensive experience in the real estate, life science, 
technology, and agtech industries.
Acquisitions
We seek to identify and acquire high-quality properties in our target cluster markets. Critical evaluation of prospective 
property acquisitions is an essential component of our acquisition strategy. When evaluating acquisition opportunities, we assess a 
full range of matters relating to the prospective property or properties, including:
•  Proximity to centers of innovation and technological advances;
•  Location of the property and our strategy in the relevant market;
•  Quality of existing and prospective tenants;
•  Condition and capacity of the building infrastructure;
•  Physical condition of the structure and common area improvements;
•  Quality and generic characteristics of the improvements;
•  Opportunities available for leasing vacant space and for re-tenanting or renewing occupied space;
•  Availability of and/or ability to add appropriate tenant amenities;
•  Availability of land for future ground-up development of new space;
•  Opportunities to generate higher rent through redevelopment of existing space;
•  The property’s unlevered yields; and
•  Our ability to increase the property’s long-term financial returns.
Development, pre-construction, and redevelopment
A key component of our business model is our value-creation development projects. Our development strategy is primarily 
to pursue selective projects with significant pre-leasing for which we expect to achieve appropriate investment returns and generally 
match a source of funds for this use. Our value-creation development projects focus on high-quality, generic, and reusable office/
laboratory or tech office space to meet the real estate requirements of our diverse group of tenants.
We seek to meet growing demand from our stakeholders and continuously improve the efficiency of our buildings. We have 
committed to significant building goals to promote wellness and productivity for our buildings’ occupants, including targeting a 
minimum of LEED® Gold certification on all new ground-up construction projects. 
Pre-construction activities include entitlements, permitting, design, site work, and other activities preceding commencement 
of construction of aboveground building improvements, which are focused on reducing the time required to deliver projects to 
prospective tenants. These critical activities add significant value to our future ground-up development and are required for the 
vertical construction of buildings. We normally do not commence vertical construction of new projects prior to achieving significant 
pre-leasing. 
Another key component of our business model is our value-creation redevelopment of existing office, warehouse, or shell 
space, or newly acquired properties, into high-quality, generic, and reusable office/laboratory space that can be leased at higher 
rental rates. Our redevelopment strategy generally includes significant pre-leasing of projects prior to the commencement of 
redevelopment. 
2
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  2
Non-real estate investments
  We also hold equity investments in publicly traded companies, limited partnerships, and privately held entities primarily 
involved in the life science, technology, and agtech industries. We invest primarily in highly innovative entities whose focus on the 
development of therapeutic products that advance health and transform patients’ lives is aligned with Alexandria’s purpose of 
making a positive and meaningful impact on the health, safety, and well-being of the global community. Our status as a REIT limits 
our ability to make such non-real estate investments. Therefore, we conduct, and will continue to conduct, our non-real estate 
investment activities in a manner that complies with REIT requirements. 
Balance sheet and financial strategy
We seek to maximize balance sheet liquidity and flexibility, cash flows, and cash available for distribution to our 
stockholders through the ownership, operation, management, and selective acquisition, development, and redevelopment of office/
laboratory and tech office space, as well as the management of our balance sheet. In particular, we seek to maximize balance sheet 
liquidity and flexibility, cash flows, and cash available for distribution to our stockholders by:
•  Maintaining access to diverse sources of capital, including operating cash flows after dividends, incremental debt, 
asset sales, and other capital such as the sale of equity or joint venture capital;
•  Maintaining significant liquidity through borrowing capacity under our unsecured senior line of credit, available 
commitments under secured construction loans, marketable securities, and cash and cash equivalents;
•  Continuing to improve our credit profile;
•  Minimizing the amount of near-term debt maturities in a single year;
•  Maintaining commitment to long-term capital to fund growth;
•  Maintaining low to modest leverage;
•  Minimizing variable interest rate risk;
•  Generating high-quality, strong, and increasing operating cash flows;
•  Selectively selling real estate assets, including land parcels and non-core/“core-like” operating assets, and reinvesting 
the proceeds into our highly leased value-creation development projects;
•  Allocating capital to Class A properties located in collaborative life science, technology, and agtech campuses in AAA 
urban innovation clusters;
•  Maintaining geographic diversity in urban intellectual centers of innovation;
•  Selectively acquiring high-quality office/laboratory and tech office space in our target urban innovation cluster 
submarkets at prices that enable us to realize attractive returns;
•  Selectively developing properties in our target urban innovation cluster submarkets;
•  Selectively redeveloping existing office, warehouse, or shell space, or newly acquired properties, into high-quality, 
generic, and reusable office/laboratory space that can be leased at higher rental rates in our target urban innovation 
cluster submarkets;
•  Renewing existing tenant space at higher rental rates to the extent possible;
•  Minimizing tenant improvement costs;
•  Improving investment returns through the leasing of vacant space and the replacing of existing tenants with new 
tenants at higher rental rates;
•  Executing leases with high-quality tenants and proactively monitoring tenant health;
•  Maintaining solid occupancy while attaining high rental rates;
•  Realizing contractual rental rate escalations; and
•  Implementing effective cost control measures, including negotiating pass-through provisions in tenant leases for 
operating expenses and certain capital expenditures. 
Competition
In general, other office/laboratory and tech office properties are located in close proximity to our properties. The amount of 
rentable space available in any market could have a material effect on our ability to rent space and on the rental rates we can attain 
for our properties. In addition, we compete for investment opportunities with other REITs, insurance companies, pension and 
investment funds, private equity entities, partnerships, developers, investment companies, owners/occupants, and foreign investors. 
Many of these entities have substantially greater financial resources than we do and may be able to invest more than we can or 
accept more risk than we are willing to accept. These entities may be less sensitive to risks with respect to the creditworthiness of a 
tenant or the overall expected returns from real estate investments. In addition, as a result of their financial resources, our 
competitors may offer more free rent concessions, lower rental rates, or higher tenant improvement allowances in order to attract 
tenants. These leasing incentives could hinder our ability to maintain or raise rents and attract or retain tenants. Competition may 
also reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities available to us or may increase the bargaining power of property 
owners seeking to sell. Competition in acquiring existing properties and land, both from institutional capital sources and from other 
REITs, has been very strong over the past several years; however, we believe we have differentiated ourselves from our 
competitors. As the first and only publicly traded urban office REIT to focus primarily on the office/laboratory real estate niche, we 
provide world-class collaborative life science, technology, and agtech campuses in AAA innovation cluster locations and maintain 
and cultivate many of the most important and strategic relationships in the life science, technology, and agtech industries.
3
3  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Financial information about our reportable segment
Refer to Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in 
this annual report on Form 10-K for information about our one reportable segment.
Regulation
General
Properties in our markets are subject to various laws, ordinances, and regulations, including regulations relating to 
common areas. We believe we have the necessary permits and approvals to operate each of our properties.
Americans with Disabilities Act
Our properties must comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (“ADA”) to the extent that such 
properties are “public accommodations” as defined by the ADA. The ADA may require removal of structural barriers to permit access 
by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. We believe that our 
properties are in substantial compliance with the ADA and that we will not be required to incur substantial capital expenditures to 
address the requirements of the ADA. However, noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of 
damages to private litigants. The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations is an ongoing one, and we will continue to 
assess our properties and make alterations as appropriate in this respect.
Environmental matters
Under various environmental protection laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for 
contamination resulting from the presence or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances at that property and may be required to 
investigate and clean up contamination located on or emanating from that property. Such laws often impose liability without regard 
to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the contaminants, and the liability may be joint 
and several. Previous owners may have used some of our properties for industrial and other purposes, so those properties may 
contain some level of environmental contamination. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination at our 
properties may expose us to third-party liability or may materially adversely affect our ability to sell, lease, or develop the real estate 
or to borrow using the real estate as collateral.
Some of our properties may have asbestos-containing building materials. Environmental laws require that asbestos-
containing building materials be properly managed and maintained and may impose fines and penalties on building owners or 
operators for failure to comply with these requirements. These laws may also allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or 
operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos-containing building materials.
In addition, some of our tenants handle hazardous substances and wastes as part of their routine operations at our 
properties. Environmental laws and regulations subject our tenants, and potentially us, to liability resulting from such activities. 
Environmental liabilities could also affect a tenant’s ability to make rental payments to us. We require our tenants to comply with 
these environmental laws and regulations and to indemnify us against any related liabilities. 
Independent environmental consultants have conducted Phase I or similar environmental site assessments on the 
properties in our portfolio. Site assessments are intended to discover and evaluate information regarding the environmental 
condition of the surveyed property and surrounding properties and do not generally include soil samplings, subsurface 
investigations, or an asbestos survey. To date, these assessments have not revealed any material environmental liability that we 
believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, or results of operations. Nevertheless, it is possible that the 
assessments on our properties have not revealed all environmental conditions, liabilities, or compliance concerns that may have 
arisen after the review was completed or may arise in the future; and future laws, ordinances, or regulations may also impose 
additional material environmental liabilities.
Insurance
With respect to our properties, we carry commercial general liability, all-risk property, and business interruption insurance, 
including loss of rental income coverage. We select policy specifications and insured limits that we believe to be appropriate given 
the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage, and industry practice. In our opinion, the properties in our portfolio are currently 
adequately insured. In addition, we have obtained earthquake insurance for certain properties located in the vicinity of known active 
earthquake zones in an amount and with deductibles we believe are commercially reasonable. We also carry environmental 
insurance and title insurance policies on our properties. We generally obtain our title insurance policies when we acquire the 
property, with each policy covering an amount equal to the initial purchase price of each property. Accordingly, any of our title 
insurance policies may be in an amount less than the current value of the related property. Additional information regarding risk 
factors that may affect us is included in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this annual report on Form 10-K.
4
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  4
Available information
Copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, including 
any amendments to the foregoing reports, are available, free of charge, through our corporate website at www.are.com as soon as 
is reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The current charters of our Board of 
Directors’ Audit, Compensation, and Nominating & Governance Committees, along with our corporate governance guidelines and 
Business Integrity Policy and Procedures for Reporting Non-Compliance (the “Business Integrity Policy”), are also available on our 
corporate website. Additionally, any amendments to, and waivers of, our Business Integrity Policy that apply to our Co-Chief 
Executive Officers or our Chief Financial Officer will be available free of charge on our corporate website in accordance with 
applicable SEC and NYSE requirements. Written requests should be sent to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc., 26 North Euclid 
Avenue, Pasadena, California 91101, Attention: Investor Relations. The public may also download these materials from the SEC’s 
website at www.sec.gov.
Employees
As of December 31, 2019, we had 439 employees. We believe that we have good relations with our employees. We have 
adopted a Business Integrity Policy that applies to all of our employees. Its receipt and review by each employee is documented and 
verified annually.
5
5  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 
Overview
The following risk factors may adversely affect our overall business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows; 
our ability to make distributions to our stockholders; our access to capital; or the market price of our common stock, as further described 
in each risk factor below. In addition to the information set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K, one should carefully review and 
consider the information contained in our other reports and periodic filings that we make with the SEC. Those risk factors could 
materially affect our overall business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows; our ability to make distributions to our 
stockholders; our access to capital; or the market price of our common stock. The risks that we describe in our public filings are not the 
only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently consider immaterial, also may 
materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additional information regarding forward-looking 
statements is included in the beginning of “Part I” in this annual report on Form 10-K.
Operating factors
We may be unable to identify and complete acquisitions and successfully operate acquired properties. 
We continually evaluate the market of available properties and may acquire properties when opportunities exist. Our ability to 
acquire properties on favorable terms and successfully operate them may be exposed to the following significant risks:
•  We may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other real estate investors with significant 
capital, including both publicly traded REITs and institutional funds.
•  Even if we are able to acquire a desired property, competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase the 
purchase price or result in other less favorable terms.
•  Even if we enter into agreements for the acquisition of properties, these agreements are subject to customary conditions 
to closing, including completion of due diligence investigations to our satisfaction.
•  We may be unable to complete an acquisition because we cannot obtain debt and/or equity financing on favorable terms 
or at all.
•  We may spend more than budgeted amounts to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties;
•  We may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of operating properties or 
portfolios of properties, into our existing operations.
•  Acquired properties may be subject to reassessment, which may result in higher-than-expected property tax payments;
•  Market conditions may result in higher-than-expected vacancy rates and lower-than-expected rental rates.
•  We may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to 
unknown liabilities, such as liabilities for the cleanup of undisclosed environmental contamination; claims by tenants, 
vendors, or other persons dealing with the former owners of the properties; and claims for indemnification by general 
partners, directors, officers, and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties.
The realization of any of the above risks could significantly and adversely affect our ability to meet our financial expectations, 
our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, the market price of our 
common stock, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations.
We may suffer economic harm as a result of making unsuccessful acquisitions in new markets.
We may pursue selective acquisitions of properties in markets where we have not previously owned properties. These 
acquisitions may entail risks in addition to those we face in other acquisitions where we are familiar with the markets, such as the risk of 
not correctly anticipating conditions or trends in a new market and therefore not being able to generate profit from the acquired property. 
If this occurs, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our 
stockholders, ability to satisfy our debt service obligations, and the market price of our common stock.
The acquisition of new properties or the development of new properties may give rise to difficulties in predicting 
revenue potential.
We may continue to acquire additional properties and/or land and may seek to develop our existing land holdings strategically 
as warranted by market conditions. These acquisitions and developments could fail to perform in accordance with expectations. If we 
fail to accurately estimate occupancy levels, rental rates, lease commencement dates, operating costs, or costs of improvements to 
bring an acquired property or a development property up to the standards established for our intended market position, the performance 
of the property may be below expectations. Acquired properties may have characteristics or deficiencies affecting their valuation or 
revenue potential that we have not yet discovered. We cannot assure our stockholders that the performance of properties acquired or 
developed by us will increase or be maintained under our management.
6
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  6
We may fail to obtain the financial results expected from development or redevelopment projects.
There are significant risks associated with development and redevelopment projects, including the possibility that:
•  We may not complete development or redevelopment projects on schedule or within budgeted amounts;
•  We may be unable to lease development or redevelopment projects on schedule or within budgeted amounts;
•  We may encounter project delays or cancellations due to unavailability of necessary labor and construction materials;
•  We may expend funds on, and devote management’s time to, development and redevelopment projects that we may not 
complete;
•  We may abandon development or redevelopment projects after we begin to explore them, and as a result, we may lose 
deposits or fail to recover costs already incurred;
•  Market and economic conditions may deteriorate, which can result in lower-than-expected rental rates;
•  We may face higher operating costs than we anticipated for development or redevelopment projects, including insurance 
premiums, utilities, real estate taxes, and costs of complying with changes in government regulations or increases in 
tariffs;
•  We may face higher requirements for capital improvements than we anticipated for development or redevelopment 
projects, particularly in older structures;
•  We may be unable to proceed with development or redevelopment projects because we cannot obtain debt and/or equity 
financing on favorable terms or at all;
•  We may fail to retain tenants that have pre-leased our development or redevelopment projects if we do not complete the 
construction of these properties in a timely manner or to the tenants’ specifications;
•  Tenants that have pre-leased our development or redevelopment projects may file for bankruptcy or become insolvent, 
which may adversely affect the income produced by, and the value of, our properties or require us to change the scope of 
the project, which may potentially result in higher construction costs and lower financial returns;
•  We may encounter delays, refusals, unforeseen cost increases, and other impairments resulting from third-party litigation, 
natural disasters, or severe weather conditions;
•  We may encounter delays or refusals in obtaining all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy, and other required 
government permits and authorizations; and
•  Development or redevelopment projects may have defects we do not discover through our inspection processes, including 
latent defects that may not reveal themselves until many years after we put a property in service.
  The realization of any of the above risks could significantly and adversely affect our ability to meet our financial expectations, 
our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, the market price of our 
common stock, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations.
We could default on leases for land on which some of our properties are located or held for future development.
If we default under the terms of a ground lease obligation, we may lose the ownership rights to the property subject to the 
lease. Upon expiration of a ground lease and all of its options, we may not be able to renegotiate a new lease on favorable terms, if at 
all. The loss of the ownership rights to these properties or an increase in rental expense could have a material adverse effect on our 
financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and make distributions to 
our stockholders, as well as the market price of our common stock. Refer to “Ground Lease Obligations” in the “Sources and Uses of 
Capital” section under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this annual 
report on Form 10-K for additional information on our ground lease obligations.
We may not be able to operate properties successfully and profitably.
Our success depends in large part upon our ability to operate our properties successfully. If we are unable to do so, our 
business could be adversely affected. The ownership and operation of real estate is subject to many risks that may adversely affect our 
business and our ability to make payments to our stockholders, including the risks that:
•  Our properties may not perform as we expect;
•  We may have to lease space at rates below our expectations;
•  We may not be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms; and
•  We may underestimate the cost of improvements required to maintain or improve space to meet standards established for 
the market position intended for that property.
The realization of any of the above risks could significantly and adversely affect our ability to meet our financial expectations, 
our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, the market price of our 
common stock, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations.
7
7  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
  We may not be able to attain the expected return on our investments in real estate joint ventures. 
As of December 31, 2019, we had several consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures in which we shared 
ownership and decision-making power with one or more parties. Our joint venture partners must agree in order for the applicable joint 
venture to take specific major actions, including budget approvals, acquisitions, sales of assets, debt financing, execution of lease 
agreements, and vendor approvals. Under these joint venture arrangements, any disagreements between us and our partners may 
result in delayed decisions. Our inability to take unilateral actions that we believe are in our best interests may result in missed 
opportunities and an ineffective allocation of resources and could have an adverse effect on the financial performance of the joint 
venture and our operating results.
We may experience increased operating costs, which may reduce profitability to the extent that we are unable to pass 
those costs through to our tenants.
Our properties are subject to increases in operating expenses, including insurance, property taxes, utilities, administrative 
costs, and other costs associated with security, landscaping, and repairs and maintenance of our properties. As of December 31, 2019, 
approximately 97% of our leases (on an RSF basis) were triple net leases, which require tenants to pay substantially all real estate and 
other rent-related taxes, insurance, utilities, common area expenses, and other operating expenses (including increases thereto) in 
addition to base rent. 
  In addition, in June 2018, San Francisco voters approved a commercial rent tax measure establishing a new 3.5% gross 
receipts tax rate on rental revenues received by landlords of commercial properties within the city of San Francisco. The new 3.5% 
gross receipts tax, and the measure went into effect on January 1, 2019. The new gross receipts tax resulted in an incremental tax 
liability imposed on our commercial properties in the city of San Francisco, specifically in our Mission Bay/SoMa submarket of San 
Francisco. 
  Our triple net leases allow us to pass through, among other costs, substantially all real estate and rent-related taxes to our 
tenants in the form of additional rent. We cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to negotiate pass-through provisions related 
to taxes in tenant leases in the future, which could lead to a decrease in our income from rentals. If our operating expenses increase 
without a corresponding increase in revenues, our profitability could diminish. In addition, we cannot be certain that increased costs will 
not lead our current or prospective tenants to seek space outside of the city of San Francisco and the state of California, which could 
significantly hinder our ability to increase our rents or to maintain existing occupancy levels. A repeal of Proposition 13 in California and 
the 3.5% gross receipts tax rate in the city of San Francisco may significantly increase occupancy costs for some of our tenants and 
may adversely impact their financial condition, ability to make rental payments, and ability to renew lease agreements, which in turn 
could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.
The cost of maintaining the quality of our properties may be higher than anticipated, which can result in reduced 
cash flows and profitability.
If our properties are not as attractive to current and prospective tenants in terms of rent, services, condition, or location as 
properties owned by our competitors, we could lose tenants or suffer lower rental rates. As a result, we may, from time to time, be 
required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain the competitiveness of our properties. However, there can be no 
assurances that any such expenditures would result in higher occupancy or higher rental rates or deter existing tenants from relocating 
to properties owned by our competitors.
Our inability to renew leases or re-lease space on favorable terms as leases expire may significantly affect our 
business.
Our revenues are derived primarily from rental payments and reimbursement of operating expenses under our leases. If our 
tenants experience a downturn in their business or other types of financial distress, they may be unable to make timely payments under 
their leases. Also, if our tenants terminate early or decide not to renew their leases, we may not be able to re-lease the space. Even if 
tenants decide to renew or lease space, the terms of renewals or new leases, including the cost of any tenant improvements, 
concessions, and lease commissions, may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. Consequently, we could generate less 
cash flows from the affected properties than expected, which could negatively impact our business. We may have to divert cash flows 
generated by other properties to meet our debt service payments, if any, or to pay other expenses related to owning the affected 
properties.
8
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  8
The inability of a tenant to pay us rent could adversely affect our business.
Our revenues are derived primarily from rental payments and reimbursement of operating expenses under our leases. If our 
tenants, especially significant tenants, fail to make rental payments under their leases, our financial condition, cash flows, and ability to 
make distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected. Additionally, the inability of the U.S. Congress to enact a budget for 
a fiscal year or the occurrence of partial or complete U.S. government shutdowns may result in financial difficulties for tenants that are 
dependent on federal funding, which could adversely affect the ability of those tenants to pay us rent.
The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant may also adversely affect the income produced by a property. If any of our 
tenants becomes a debtor in a case under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, as amended, we cannot evict that tenant solely because of its 
bankruptcy. The bankruptcy court may authorize the tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. Our claim against such a tenant for 
uncollectible future rent would be subject to a statutory limitation that might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed 
to us under the tenant’s lease. Any shortfall in rent payments could adversely affect our cash flows and our ability to make distributions 
to our stockholders.
We could be held liable for damages resulting from our tenants’ use of hazardous materials.
Many of our tenants engage in research and development activities that involve controlled use of hazardous materials, 
chemicals, and biological and radioactive compounds. In the event of contamination or injury from the use of these hazardous 
materials, we could be held liable for damages that result. This liability could exceed our resources and any recovery available through 
any applicable insurance coverage, which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.
Together with our tenants, we must comply with federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, 
storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations, or 
changes thereto, could adversely affect our business or our tenants’ businesses and their ability to make rental payments to us.
Our properties may have defects that are unknown to us.
Although we thoroughly review the physical condition of our properties before they are acquired, and as they are developed 
and redeveloped, any of our properties may have characteristics or deficiencies unknown to us that could adversely affect the 
property’s value or revenue potential.
Our properties may contain or develop harmful mold or suffer from other air quality issues, which could lead to 
liability for adverse health effects and costs to remedy the problem.
When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold may grow, particularly if the moisture 
problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Indoor 
air quality issues can also stem from inadequate ventilation, chemical contamination from indoor or outdoor sources, and other 
biological contaminants such as pollen, viruses, and bacteria. Indoor exposure to airborne toxins or irritants above certain levels may 
cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant 
mold or other airborne contaminants at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or 
remove the mold or other airborne contaminants from the affected property or increase indoor ventilation. In addition, the presence of 
significant mold or other airborne contaminants could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants, and others if 
property damage or health concerns arise.
We may not be able to obtain additional capital to further our business objectives.
Our ability to acquire, develop, or redevelop properties depends upon our ability to obtain capital. The real estate industry has 
historically experienced periods of volatile debt and equity capital markets and/or periods of extreme illiquidity. A prolonged period in 
which we cannot effectively access the public debt or equity markets may result in heavier reliance on alternative financing sources to 
undertake new investments. An inability to obtain debt or equity capital on acceptable terms could delay or prevent us from acquiring, 
financing, and completing desirable investments and could otherwise adversely affect our business. Also, the issuance of additional 
shares of capital stock or interests in subsidiaries to fund future operations could dilute the ownership of our then-existing stockholders. 
Even as liquidity returns to the market, debt and equity capital may be more expensive than in prior years.
We may not be able to sell our properties quickly to raise money.
Investments in real estate are relatively illiquid compared to other investments. Accordingly, we may not be able to sell our 
properties when we desire or at prices acceptable to us in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”), limits our ability to sell properties held for less than two years. 
These limitations on our ability to sell our properties may adversely affect our cash flows, our ability to repay debt, and our ability to 
make distributions to our stockholders.
9
9  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our financing ability.
Our credit ratings may affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms and pricing of any debt we may incur. 
There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. In the event that our current credit ratings are 
downgraded or removed, we would most likely incur higher borrowing costs and experience greater difficulty in obtaining additional 
financing, which in turn would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity.
We may not be able to refinance our debt, and/or our debt may not be assumable.
Due to the high volume of real estate debt financing in recent years, the real estate industry may require more funds to 
refinance debt maturities than are available from lenders. This potential shortage of available funds from lenders and stricter credit 
underwriting guidelines may limit our ability to refinance our debt as it matures or may adversely affect our financial condition, results of 
operations, cash flows, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, and the market price of our common stock.
We may not be able to borrow additional amounts through the issuance of unsecured bonds or under our unsecured 
senior line of credit or commercial paper program.
There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to access the unsecured bond market on favorable terms. Our ability to 
borrow additional amounts through the issuance of unsecured bonds may be negatively impacted by periods of illiquidity in the bond 
market. 
Aggregate borrowings under our unsecured senior line of credit require compliance with certain financial and non-financial 
covenants. Borrowings under our unsecured senior line of credit are funded by a group of banks. Our ability to borrow additional 
amounts under our unsecured senior line of credit and commercial paper program may be negatively impacted by a decrease in cash 
flows from our properties, a default or cross-default under our unsecured senior line of credit and commercial paper program, non-
compliance with one or more loan covenants associated with our unsecured senior line of credit, and non-performance or failure of one 
or more lenders under our unsecured senior line of credit. In addition, we may not be able to refinance or repay outstanding borrowings 
on our unsecured senior line of credit or commercial paper program.
Our inability to borrow additional amounts on an unsecured basis could delay us in or prevent us from acquiring, financing, and 
completing desirable investments, which could adversely affect our business; and our inability to refinance or repay amounts under our 
unsecured senior line of credit or commercial paper program may adversely affect our cash flows, ability to make distributions to our 
stockholders, financial condition, and results of operations.
If interest rates rise, our debt service costs will increase and the value of our properties may decrease.
Our unsecured senior line of credit bears interest at variable rates, and we may incur additional variable-rate debt in the future. 
Additionally, amounts issued under our commercial paper program typically mature in less than 30 days and no later than 397 days 
from the date of issuance, and would require repayment or refinancing upon maturity. Increases in market interest rates would increase 
our interest expense under these debt instruments and would increase the costs of refinancing existing indebtedness or obtaining new 
debt. Additionally, increases in market interest rates may result in a decrease in the value of our real estate and a decrease in the 
market price of our common stock. Accordingly, these increases could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to make 
distributions to our stockholders.
Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations.
From time to time, we may enter into interest rate hedge agreements to manage some of our exposure to interest rate 
volatility. Interest rate hedge agreements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under 
these arrangements. In addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates. These 
risk factors may lead to failure to hedge effectively against changes in interest rates and therefore could adversely affect our results of 
operations. As of December 31, 2019, we had no interest rate hedge agreements outstanding. 
10
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  10
Our unsecured senior line of credit restricts our ability to engage in some business activities.
Our unsecured senior line of credit contains customary negative covenants and other financial and operating covenants that, 
among other things:
•  Restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness;
•  Restrict our ability to make certain investments;
•  Restrict our ability to merge with another company;
•  Restrict our ability to make distributions to our stockholders;
•  Require us to maintain financial coverage ratios; and
•  Require us to maintain a pool of qualified unencumbered assets.
Complying with these restrictions may prevent us from engaging in certain profitable activities and constrain our ability to 
effectively allocate capital. Failure to comply with these restrictions may result in our defaulting on these and other loans, which would 
likely have a negative impact on our operations, financial condition, and ability to make distributions to our stockholders.
Our debt service obligations may have adverse consequences on our business operations.
We use debt to finance our operations, including the acquisition, development, and redevelopment of properties. Our use of 
debt may have adverse consequences, including the following:
•  Our cash flows from operations may not be sufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest;
•  We may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms, to make payments on 
our debt;
•  If we default on our debt obligations, the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties that secure those loans;
•  A foreclosure on one of our properties could create taxable income without any accompanying cash proceeds to pay the 
tax;
•  A default under a loan that has cross-default provisions may cause us to automatically default on another loan;
•  We may not be able to refinance or extend our existing debt;
•  The terms of any refinancing or extension may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt;
•  We may be subject to a significant increase in the variable interest rates on our unsecured senior line of credit, which 
could adversely impact our cash flows and operations; and
•  The terms of our debt obligations may require a reduction in our distributions to stockholders.
If our revenues are less than our expenses, we may have to borrow additional funds, and we may not be able to make 
distributions to our stockholders.
If our properties do not generate revenues sufficient to cover our operating expenses, including our debt service obligations 
and capital expenditures, we may have to borrow additional amounts to cover fixed costs and cash flow needs. This could adversely 
affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Factors that could adversely affect the revenues we generate from, and the 
values of, our properties include:
•  National, local, and worldwide economic and political conditions;
•  Competition from other properties;
•  Changes in the life science, technology, and agtech industries;
•  Real estate conditions in our target markets;
•  Our ability to collect rent payments;
•  The availability of financing;
•  Changes to the financial and banking industries;
•  Changes in interest rate levels;
•  Vacancies at our properties and our ability to re-lease space;
•  Changes in tax or other regulatory laws;
•  The costs of compliance with government regulation;
•  The lack of liquidity of real estate investments; and
•  Increases in operating costs.
In addition, if a lease at a property is not a triple net lease, we will have greater exposure to increases in expenses associated 
with operating that property. Certain significant expenditures, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes, insurance, and 
maintenance costs, are generally fixed and do not decrease when revenues at the related property decrease.
11
11  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
If we fail to effectively manage our debt obligations, we could become highly leveraged, and our debt service 
obligations could increase to unsustainable levels.
Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt that we may incur. Therefore, if we fail to prudently manage our 
capital structure, we could become highly leveraged. This would result in an increase in our debt service obligations that could 
adversely affect our cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Higher leverage could also increase the risk of 
default on our debt obligations or may result in downgrades to our credit ratings.
Market volatility may negatively affect our business. 
From time to time, the capital and credit markets experience volatility. In some cases, the markets have produced downward 
pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial and/or operating 
strength. If market disruption and volatility occur, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may 
be material, on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Market disruption and volatility may adversely affect the 
value of the companies in which we hold equity investments, and we may be required to recognize losses in our earnings. Disruptions, 
uncertainty, or volatility in the capital markets may also limit our access to capital from financial institutions on favorable terms, or 
altogether, and our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities could be adversely affected by causes beyond our 
control through extraordinary disruptions in the global economy and financial systems or through other events.
Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance would likely adversely affect the market price and 
volatility of our stock.
Our expected financial results may not be achieved, and actual results may differ materially from our expectations. This may 
be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to:
•  The status of the economy;
•  The status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital;
•  Changes in financing terms available to us;
•  Negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to 
pay rent;
•  Our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur;
•  Our ability to reinvest sale proceeds in a timely manner at rates similar to the rate at which assets are sold;
•  Regulatory approval and market acceptance of the products and technologies of tenants;
•  Liability or contract claims by or against tenants;
•  Unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future acquisitions;
•  Environmental laws affecting our properties;
•  Changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting; and
•  Other legal and operational matters, including REIT qualification and key management personnel recruitment and 
retention.
Failure to meet market expectations, particularly with respect to earnings estimates, funds from operations per share, 
operating cash flows, and revenues, would likely result in a decline and/or increased volatility in the market price of our common stock 
or other outstanding securities.
The price per share of our stock may fluctuate significantly.
The market price per share of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, including, but not 
limited to:
•  The availability and cost of debt and/or equity capital;
•  The condition of our balance sheet;
•  Actual or anticipated capital requirements;
•  The condition of the financial and banking industries;
•  Actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends;
•  The amount and timing of debt maturities and other contractual obligations;
•  Changes in our net income, funds from operations, or guidance;
•  The publication of research reports and articles about us, our tenants, the real estate industry, or the life science, 
technology, and agtech industries;
•  The general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other debt or equity 
securities (including securities issued by other real estate-based companies);
•  General stock and bond market conditions, including changes in interest rates on fixed-income securities, that may lead 
prospective stockholders to demand a higher annual yield from future dividends;
•  Fluctuations from general market volatility;
12
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  12
•  Changes in our analyst ratings;
•  Changes in our corporate credit rating or credit ratings of our debt or other securities;
•  Changes in market valuations of similar companies;
•  Adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future;
•  Additions, departures, or other announcements regarding our key management personnel;
•  Actions by institutional stockholders;
•  Speculation in the press or investment community;
•  Terrorist activity adversely affecting the markets in which our securities trade, possibly increasing market volatility and 
causing the further erosion of business and consumer confidence and spending;
•  Government regulatory action and changes in tax laws;
•  Fiscal policies or inaction at the U.S. federal government level that may lead to federal government shutdowns or negative 
impacts on the U.S. economy;
•  Global market factors adversely affecting the U.S. economic and political environment;
•  The realization of any of the other risk factors included in this annual report on Form 10-K; and
•  General market and economic conditions.
Many of the factors listed above are beyond our control. These factors may cause the market price of shares of our common 
stock to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business, or prospects.
Possible future sales of shares of our common stock could adversely affect its market price.
We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of shares of our common stock or the market price of our common stock. 
Sales of substantial amounts of capital stock (including the conversion or redemption of preferred stock), or the perception that such 
sales may occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Refer to “Other Sources” in the “Sources and 
Uses of Capital” subsection of the “Capital Resources” section under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations” in this annual report on Form 10-K.
We have reserved a number of shares of common stock for issuance to our directors, officers, and employees pursuant to our 
Amended and Restated 1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (sometimes referred to herein as our “equity incentive plan”). We have 
filed a registration statement with respect to the issuance of shares of our common stock pursuant to grants under our equity incentive 
plan. In addition, any shares issued under our equity incentive plan will be available for sale in the public market from time to time 
without restriction by persons who are not our “affiliates” (as defined in Rule 144 adopted under the Securities Act of 1933, as 
amended). Affiliates will be able to sell shares of our common stock subject to restrictions under Rule 144.
Our distributions to stockholders may decline at any time.
We may not continue our current level of distributions to our stockholders. Our Board of Directors will determine future 
distributions based on a number of factors, including:
•  The amount of net cash provided by operating activities available for distribution;
•  Our financial condition and capital requirements;
•  Any decision to reinvest funds rather than to distribute such funds;
•  Our capital expenditures;
•  The annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code;
•  Restrictions under Maryland law; and
•  Other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant.
A reduction in distributions to stockholders may negatively impact our stock price.
Distributions on our common stock may be made in the form of cash, stock, or a combination of both.
As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income to our stockholders. Typically, we generate cash for 
distributions through our operations, the disposition of assets, including partial interest sales, or the incurrence of additional debt. Our 
Board of Directors may determine in the future to pay dividends on our common stock in cash, in shares of our common stock, or in a 
combination of cash and shares of our common stock. For example, we may declare dividends payable in cash or stock at the election 
of each stockholder, subject to a limit on the aggregate cash that could be paid. Any such dividends would be distributed in a manner 
intended to count in full toward the satisfaction of our annual distribution requirements and to qualify for the dividends paid deduction. 
While the IRS privately has ruled that such a dividend would so qualify if certain requirements are met, no assurances can be provided 
that the IRS would not assert a contrary position in the future. Moreover, a reduction in the cash yield on our common stock may 
negatively impact our stock price.
13
13  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
We have certain ownership interests outside the U.S. that may subject us to risks different from or greater than those 
associated with our domestic operations.
We have three operating properties in Canada and one operating property in China. Acquisition, development, redevelopment, 
ownership, and operating activities outside the U.S. involve risks that are different from those we face with respect to our domestic 
properties and operations. These risks include, but are not limited to:
•  Adverse effects of changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies;
•  Challenges and/or taxation with respect to the repatriation of foreign earnings or repatriation of proceeds from the sale of 
one or more of our foreign investments;
•  Changes in foreign political, regulatory, and economic conditions, including nationally, regionally, and locally;
•  Challenges in managing international operations;
•  Challenges in hiring or retaining key management personnel;
•  Challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to real estate, 
corporate governance, operations, taxes, employment, and legal proceedings;
•  Differences in lending practices;
•  Differences in languages, cultures, and time zones; 
•  Changes in applicable laws and regulations in the U.S. that affect foreign operations;
•  Challenges in managing foreign relations and trade disputes that adversely affect U.S. and foreign operations;
•  Future partial or complete U.S. federal government shutdowns, trade disagreements with other countries, or uncertainties 
that could affect business transactions within the U.S. and with foreign entities;
•  Changes in tax and local regulations with potentially adverse tax consequences and penalties; and
•  Foreign ownership and transfer restrictions.
In addition, our foreign investments are subject to taxation in foreign jurisdictions based on local tax laws and regulations and 
on existing international tax treaties. We have invested in foreign markets under the assumption that our future earnings in each of 
those countries will be taxed at the current prevailing income tax rates. There are no guarantees that foreign governments will continue 
to honor existing tax treaties we have relied upon for our foreign investments or that the current income tax rates in those countries will 
not increase significantly, thus impacting our ability to repatriate our foreign investments and related earnings.
Investments in international markets may also subject us to risks associated with establishing effective controls and 
procedures to regulate the operations of new offices and to monitor compliance with U.S. laws and regulations, including the Foreign 
Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign laws and regulations. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar applicable anti-corruption 
laws prohibit individuals and entities from offering, promising, authorizing, or providing payments or anything of value, directly or 
indirectly, to government officials in order to obtain, retain, or direct business. Failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil 
and criminal penalties that could materially adversely affect our results of operations or the value of our international investments. In 
addition, if we fail to effectively manage our international operations, our overall financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, 
and the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected.
Furthermore, we may in the future enter into agreements with non-U.S. entities that are governed by the laws of, and are 
subject to dispute resolution rules of, another country or region. In some cases, such a country or region might not have a forum that 
provides us an effective or efficient means for resolving disputes that may arise under these agreements.
We are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with properties owned through partnerships, limited liability 
companies, and joint ventures.
Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of funds that we may invest in non-wholly owned partnerships, limited 
liability companies, or joint ventures. Partnership, limited liability company, or joint venture investments involve certain risks, including, 
but not limited to, the following:
•  Upon bankruptcy of non-wholly owned partnerships, limited liability companies, or joint venture entities, we may become 
liable for the liabilities of the partnership, limited liability company, or joint venture;
•  We may share certain approval rights over major decisions with third parties;
•  We may be required to contribute additional capital if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital 
contributions;
•  Our partners, co-members, or joint venture partners might have economic or other business interests or goals that are 
inconsistent with our business interests or goals and that could affect our ability to lease or re-lease the property, operate 
the property, or maintain our qualification as a REIT;
•  Our ability to sell the interest on advantageous terms when we so desire may be limited or restricted under the terms of 
our agreements with our partners; and
•  We may not continue to own or operate the interests or assets underlying such relationships or may need to purchase 
such interests or assets at an above-market price to continue ownership.
14
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  14
We generally seek to maintain control of our partnerships, limited liability companies, and joint venture investments in a 
manner sufficient to permit us to achieve our business objectives. However, we may not be able to do so, and the occurrence of one or 
more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, our ability to make 
distributions to our stockholders, or the market price of our common stock.
Market and other external factors may adversely impact the valuation of our equity investments.
We hold equity investments in certain publicly traded companies, limited partnerships, and privately held entities primarily 
involved in the life science, technology, and agtech industries. The valuation of these investments is affected by many external factors 
beyond our control, including, but not limited to, market prices, market conditions, the effect of healthcare reform legislation, prospects 
for favorable or unfavorable clinical trial results, new product initiatives, the manufacturing and distribution of new products, product 
safety and efficacy issues, and new collaborative agreements. In addition, partial or complete future government shutdowns that may 
result in temporary closures of agencies such as the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and SEC may adversely affect the 
processing of initial public offerings, business operations, financial results, and funding for projects of the companies in which we hold 
equity investments. Unfavorable developments with respect to any of these factors may have an adverse impact on the valuation of our 
equity investments.
Market and other external factors may negatively impact the liquidity of our equity investments.
  We make and hold investments in privately held life science, technology, and agtech companies. These investments may be 
illiquid, which could impede our ability to realize the value at which these investments are carried if we are required to dispose of them. 
The lack of liquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell these investments on a timely basis and may impair the 
value of these investments. If we are required to liquidate all or a portion of these investments quickly, we may realize significantly less 
than the amounts at which we had previously valued these investments. 
We face risks associated with short-term liquid investments.
From time to time, we may have significant cash balances that we invested in a variety of short-term investments that are 
intended to preserve principal value and maintain a high degree of liquidity while providing current income. These investments may 
include (either directly or indirectly) obligations (including certificates of deposit) of banks, money market funds, treasury bank 
securities, and other short-term securities. Investments in these securities and funds are not insured against loss of principal. Under 
certain circumstances, we may be required to redeem all or part of these securities or funds at less than par value. A decline in the 
value of our investments, or a delay or suspension of our right to redeem them, may have a material adverse effect on our results of 
operations or financial condition and our ability to pay our obligations as they become due.
We could incur significant costs due to the financial condition of our insurance carriers.
We insure our properties with insurance companies we believe have good ratings at the time our policies are put into effect. 
The financial condition of one or more of the insurance companies we hold policies with may be negatively impacted, which can result 
in their inability to pay on future insurance claims. Their inability to pay future claims may have a negative impact on our financial 
results. In addition, the failure of one or more insurance companies may increase the cost of renewing our insurance policies or 
increase the cost of insuring additional properties and recently developed or redeveloped properties.
Our insurance may not adequately cover all potential losses.
If we experience a loss at any of our properties that is not covered by insurance, that exceeds our insurance policy limits, or 
that is subject to a policy deductible, we could lose the capital invested in the affected property and, possibly, future revenues from that 
property. In addition, we could continue to be obligated on any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the affected 
properties. All properties carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, and rental loss insurance with respect to our properties, 
including properties partially owned through joint ventures that are managed by our joint venture partners.
We have obtained earthquake insurance for our properties that are located in the vicinity of active earthquake zones in an 
amount and with deductibles we believe are commercially reasonable. However, a significant portion of our real estate portfolio is 
located in seismically active regions, including San Francisco, San Diego, and Seattle, and a damaging earthquake in any of these 
regions could significantly impact multiple properties. As a result, the amount of our earthquake insurance coverage may be insufficient 
to cover our losses, and aggregate deductible amounts may be material, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, 
results of operations, and cash flows. We also carry environmental insurance and title insurance policies for our properties. We 
generally obtain title insurance policies when we acquire a property, with each policy covering an amount equal to the initial purchase 
price of each property. Accordingly, any of our title insurance policies may be in an amount less than the current value of the related 
property.
Our tenants are also required to maintain comprehensive insurance, including liability and casualty insurance that is 
customarily obtained for similar properties. There are, however, certain types of losses that we and our tenants do not generally insure 
15
15  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
against because they are uninsurable or because it is not economical to insure against them. The availability of coverage against 
certain types of losses, such as from terrorism or toxic mold, has become more limited and, when available, carries a significantly 
higher cost. We cannot predict whether insurance coverage against terrorism or toxic mold will remain available for our properties 
because insurance companies may no longer offer coverage against such losses, or such coverage, if offered, may become 
prohibitively expensive. We have not had material losses from terrorism or toxic mold at any of our properties.
The loss of services of any of our senior officers could adversely affect us.
We depend upon the services and contributions of relatively few senior officers. The loss of services or contributions of any 
one of them may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and prospects. We use the extensive personal and business 
relationships that members of our management have developed over time with owners of office/laboratory and tech office properties 
and with major tenants in the life science, technology, and agtech industries. We cannot assure our stockholders that our senior officers 
will remain employed with us.
Competition for skilled personnel could increase labor costs.
We compete with various other companies in attracting and retaining qualified and skilled personnel. We depend on our ability 
to attract and retain skilled management personnel who are responsible for the day-to-day operations of our company. Competitive 
pressures may require that we enhance our pay and benefits package to compete effectively for such personnel. We may not be able to 
offset such additional costs by increasing the rates we charge tenants. If there is an increase in these costs or if we fail to attract and 
retain qualified and skilled personnel, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.
Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our 
business, results of operations, financial condition, and stock price.
Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to provide a report by management on internal control over 
financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control. Changes to our business will 
necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems and processes. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or 
detect misstatement because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of 
controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and 
fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement 
required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, results of operations, and 
financial condition could be materially harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse 
effect on the market price of our common stock.
If we failed to qualify as a REIT, we would be taxed at corporate rates and would not be able to take certain 
deductions when computing our taxable income.
If, in any taxable year, we failed to qualify as a REIT:
•  We would be subject to federal and state income taxes on our taxable income at regular corporate rates;
•  We would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to our stockholders in computing taxable income;
•  We would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we lost 
qualification, unless we were entitled to relief under the Internal Revenue Code; and
•  We would no longer be required by the Internal Revenue Code to make distributions to our stockholders.
As a result of any additional tax liability, we might need to borrow funds or liquidate certain investments in order to pay the 
applicable tax. Accordingly, funds available for investment or distribution to our stockholders would be reduced for each of the years 
involved.
Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code to our 
operations and financial results, and the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. 
There are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations of these provisions. Although we believe that we have operated in a 
manner so as to qualify as a REIT, we cannot assure our stockholders that we are or will remain so qualified.
From time to time, we dispose of properties in transactions qualified as Section 1031 Exchanges. If a transaction intended to 
qualify as a Section 1031 Exchange is later determined by the IRS to be taxable or if we are unable to identify and complete the 
acquisition of a suitable replacement property to effect a Section 1031 Exchange or if the laws surrounding Section 1031 Exchanges 
are amended or repealed, we may not be able to dispose of properties on a tax-deferred basis. In such a case, our earnings and profits 
and our taxable income would increase, which could increase the dividend income and reduce the return of capital to our stockholders. 
As a result, we may be required to pay additional dividends to stockholders, or if we do not pay additional dividends, our corporate 
income tax liability could increase and we may be subject to interest and penalties.
16
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  16
  We may not be able to participate in certain sales that the IRS characterizes as “prohibited transactions.” The tax imposed on 
REITs engaging in prohibited transactions is a 100% tax on net income from the transaction. Whether or not the transaction is 
characterized as a prohibited transaction is a factual matter. Generally, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of 
property, other than foreclosures, characterized as held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. However, a 
sale will not be considered a prohibited transaction if it meets certain safe harbor requirements. Although we do not intend to participate 
in prohibited transactions, there is no guarantee that the IRS would agree with our characterization of our properties or that we will meet 
the safe harbor requirements. 
  Federal income tax rules are constantly under review by Congress and the IRS. Changes to tax laws could adversely affect 
our investors or our tenants, and we cannot predict how those changes may affect us in the future. New legislation, U.S. Treasury 
Department regulations, administrative interpretations, or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as 
a REIT, the federal income tax consequences of such qualification, or an investment in our stock. Also, laws relating to the tax treatment 
of investment in other types of business entities could change, making an investment in such other entities more attractive relative to an 
investment in a REIT.
We are dependent on third parties to manage the amenities at our properties. 
We retain third-party managers to manage certain amenities at our properties, such as restaurants, conference centers, 
exercise facilities, and parking garages. Our income from our properties may be adversely affected if these parties fail to provide quality 
services and amenities with respect to our properties. While we monitor the performance of these third parties, we may have limited 
recourse if we believe they are not performing adequately. In addition, these third-party managers may operate, and in some cases may 
own or invest in, properties that compete with our properties, which may result in conflicts of interest. As a result, these third-party 
managers may have made, and may in the future make, decisions that are not in our best interests.
We rely on a limited number of vendors to provide utilities and certain other services at our properties, and disruption 
in these services may have a significant adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition, and cash flows.
We rely on a limited number of vendors to provide key services, including, but not limited to, utilities and construction services, 
at certain of our properties. Our business and property operations may be adversely affected if key vendors fail to adequately provide 
key services at our properties as a result of natural disasters (such as fires, floods, earthquakes, etc.), power interruptions, 
bankruptcies, war, acts of terrorism, public health emergencies, cyber attacks, or other unanticipated catastrophic events. If a 
vendor encounters financial difficulty such as bankruptcy or other events beyond our control that cause it to fail to adequately provide 
utilities, construction, or other important services, we may experience significant interruptions in service and disruptions to business 
operations at our properties, incur remediation costs, and become subject to claims and damages to our reputation.  
In addition, difficulties encountered by key vendors in providing necessary services at our properties could result in a 
significant market rate increases for such services. Our triple net leases allow us to pass through substantially all operating expenses 
and certain capital expenditures to our tenants in the form of additional rent. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to 
continue to negotiate pass-through provisions in tenant leases in the future, which could lead to a decrease in our recovery of operating 
expenses. If our operating expenses increase without a corresponding increase in revenues, our profitability could diminish. In addition, 
we cannot be certain that increased costs will not lead our current or prospective tenants to seek space elsewhere, which could 
significantly hinder our ability to increase our rents or to maintain existing occupancy levels. Additionally, this may significantly increase 
occupancy costs for some of our tenants and may adversely impact their financial condition, ability to make rental payments, and ability 
to renew their lease agreements.
On January 29, 2019, in response to potential liabilities arising from a series of catastrophic wildfires that occurred in Northern 
California in 2017 and 2018, PG&E Corporation and its regulated utility subsidiary, Pacific Gas and Electric Company (together, 
“PG&E”), initiated voluntary reorganization proceedings under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. An examination conducted by 
the California state fire investigators identified numerous violations by PG&E of state rules for maintaining electric lines and specific 
problems with upkeep of the transmission line that started the 2018 Camp Fire, the deadliest in California history. On December 17, 
2019, the court approved PG&E’s $13.5 billion settlement with victims of fires linked to its equipment and $11 billion settlement with 
insurance creditors, among other settlements. In addition, in December 2019, PG&E and the California Public Utilities Commission, 
PG&E’s regulator, reached a settlement, under the terms of which PG&E must improve the safety of its electric system by investing in 
safety upgrades, expanding oversight of its tree-trimming efforts, employing a wildfire safety auditor, evaluating the causes of the fires, 
and resolving PG&E’s other outstanding issues with the California Public Utilities Commission.
However, PG&E’s bankruptcy plan still faces opposition from California’s Governor, who wants to see a restructured company 
with a new board of directors that would prioritize safety. PG&E needs the governor’s approval to participate in the California wildfire 
fund designed to help the state’s utilities that operate safely against rising wildfire risks to cover their liabilities in the event of future 
fires. 
PG&E is the primary public utility company providing electrical and gas service to residential and commercial customers in 
northern California, including the San Francisco Bay Area. Most of our properties located in our San Francisco market depend on 
17
17  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
PG&E for the delivery of these essential services. PG&E has stated that it does not expect any impact to electric or natural gas service 
for its customers as a result of the Chapter 11 proceedings. While PG&E expects to continue to provide electric and natural gas utilities 
services during the Chapter 11 process, there is no guarantee that PG&E will be able to sustain safe operations and continue to provide 
consistent utilities services. During periods of high winds and high fire danger, PG&E has preemptively shut off power to areas of 
Central and Northern California. The shut-offs were designed to help guard against fires ignited in areas with high winds and dry 
conditions. PG&E has warned that it may have to employ shut-offs while the utility company addresses maintenance issues. Future 
shut-offs of power may impact the reliability of access to a stable power supply at our properties and, in turn, adversely impact our 
tenants’ businesses. In addition, there is no guarantee that PG&E’s safety measures mandated by regulators will be timely and 
sufficient to prevent future catastrophic wildfires. While bankruptcies of utilities as large and complex as PG&E are relatively infrequent, 
based on the experience in other large utility bankruptcy proceedings (including PG&E’s own previous Chapter 11 proceedings in 
2001-2004) and the course of Chapter 11 practice generally, we currently consider it unlikely that utility service disruptions will occur as 
a result of the PG&E bankruptcy proceedings. However, in the unexpected event that such service disruptions were to occur at our 
properties in connection with the bankruptcy proceedings and continue for an extended period, they could result in adverse 
consequences to us similar to those described earlier in this risk factor.
The realization of any of the above risks could significantly and adversely affect our ability to meet our financial expectations, 
our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, the market price of our 
common stock, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations.
We may change our business policies without stockholder approval.
Our Board of Directors determines all of our material business policies, with management’s input, including those related to 
our:
•  Status as a REIT;
•  Incurrence of debt and debt management activities;
•  Selective acquisition, disposition, development, and redevelopment activities;
•  Stockholder distributions; and
•  Other policies, as appropriate.
Our Board of Directors may amend or revise these policies at any time without a vote of our stockholders. A change in these 
policies could adversely affect our business and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.
There are limits on the ownership of our capital stock under which a stockholder may lose beneficial ownership of its 
shares and that may delay or prevent transactions that might otherwise be desired by our stockholders.
In order for a company to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% of the value of its 
outstanding stock may be owned, directly or constructively, by five or fewer individuals or entities (as set forth in the Internal Revenue 
Code) during the last half of a taxable year. Furthermore, shares of our company’s outstanding stock must be beneficially owned by 100 
or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year. 
In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, among other things, our charter provides for an ownership limit, which 
prohibits, with certain exceptions, direct or constructive ownership of shares of stock representing more than 9.8% of the combined total 
value of our outstanding shares of stock by any person, as defined in our charter. Our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may 
waive the ownership limit for any person. However, our Board of Directors may not grant such waiver if, after giving effect to such 
waiver, we would be “closely held” under Section 856(h) of the Internal Revenue Code. As a condition to waiving the ownership limit, 
our Board of Directors may require a ruling from the IRS or an opinion of counsel in order to determine our status as a REIT. 
Notwithstanding the receipt of any such ruling or opinion, our Board of Directors may impose such conditions or restrictions as it deems 
appropriate in connection with granting a waiver. 
Our charter further prohibits transferring shares of our stock if such transfer would result in our being “closely held” under 
Section 856(h) of the Internal Revenue Code or would result in shares of our stock being owned by fewer than 100 persons. 
The constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause shares of our common stock owned directly or constructively by 
a group of related individuals or entities to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. A transfer of shares to a person who, as a 
result of the transfer, violates these limits shall be void or these shares shall be exchanged for shares of excess stock and transferred to 
a trust for the benefit of one or more qualified charitable organizations designated by us. In that case, the intended transferee will have 
only a right to share, to the extent of the transferee’s original purchase price for such shares, in proceeds from the trust’s sale of those 
shares and will effectively forfeit its beneficial ownership of the shares. These ownership limits could delay, defer, or prevent a 
transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for the holders of our common stock or that might otherwise be 
desired by such holders.
18
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  18
In addition to the ownership limit, certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may delay or prevent transactions that 
may be deemed to be desirable to our stockholders.
As authorized by Maryland law, our charter allows our Board of Directors to cause us to issue additional authorized but 
unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and to classify or reclassify unissued shares of common or preferred stock 
without any stockholder approval. Our Board of Directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could delay, defer, or prevent a 
transaction that might involve a premium price for our common stock or that might, for other reasons, be desired by our common 
stockholders, or a series of preferred stock that has a dividend preference that may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on our 
common stock.
Our charter permits the removal of a director only upon a two-thirds majority of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the 
election of directors, and our bylaws require advance notice of a stockholder’s intention to nominate directors or to present business for 
consideration by stockholders at an annual meeting of our stockholders. Our charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that may 
delay, defer, or prevent a transaction or change in control that involves a premium price for our common stock or that, for other reasons, 
may be desired by our stockholders.
Market and industry factors
We face substantial competition in our target markets. 
The significant competition for business in our target markets could have an adverse effect on our operations. We compete for 
investment opportunities with:
•  Other REITs;
•  Insurance companies;
•  Pension and investment funds;
•  Private equity entities;
•  Partnerships;
•  Developers;
•  Investment companies; 
•  Owners/occupants; and
•  Foreign investors, including sovereign wealth funds.
Many of these entities have substantially greater financial resources than we do and may be able to pay more than we can or 
accept more risk than we are willing to accept. These entities may be less sensitive to risks with respect to the creditworthiness of a 
tenant or the geographic concentration of their investments. Competition may also reduce the number of suitable investment 
opportunities available to us or may increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell.
Poor economic conditions in our markets could adversely affect our business.
Our properties are primarily located in the following markets:
•  Greater Boston;
•  San Francisco;
•  New York City;
•  San Diego;
•  Seattle;
•  Maryland; and
•  Research Triangle.
As a result of our geographic concentration, we depend upon the local economic and real estate conditions in these markets. 
We are therefore subject to increased exposure (positive or negative) to economic, tax, and other competitive factors specific to 
markets in confined geographic areas. Our operations may also be affected if too many competing properties are built in any of these 
markets. An economic downturn in any of these markets could adversely affect our operations and our ability to make distributions to 
our stockholders. We cannot assure our stockholders that these markets will continue to grow or remain favorable to the life science, 
technology, and agtech industries.
19
19  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Improvements to our properties are significantly more costly than improvements to traditional office space.
Many of our properties generally contain infrastructure improvements that are significantly more costly than improvements to 
other property types. Although we have historically been able to recover the additional investment in infrastructure improvements 
through higher rental rates, there is the risk that we will not be able to continue to do so in the future. Typical improvements include:
•  Reinforced concrete floors;
•  Upgraded roof loading capacity;
•  Increased floor-to-ceiling heights;
•  Heavy-duty HVAC systems;
•  Enhanced environmental control technology;
•  Significantly upgraded electrical, gas, and plumbing infrastructure; and
•  Laboratory benches.
We are dependent on the life science, technology, and agtech industries, and changes within these industries may 
adversely impact our revenues from lease payments and our results of operations.
In general, our business strategy is to invest primarily in properties used by tenants in the life science, technology, and agtech 
industries. Our business could be adversely affected if the life science, technology, and agtech industries are impacted by an economic, 
financial, or banking crisis, or if the life science, technology, and agtech industries migrate from the U.S. to other countries. Because of 
our industry focus, events within these industries may have a more pronounced effect on our results of operations and ability to make 
distributions to our stockholders than if we had more diversified investments. Also, some of our properties may be better suited for a 
particular life science, technology, or agtech tenant and could require significant modification before we are able to re-lease space to 
another tenant. Generally, our properties may not be suitable for lease to traditional office tenants without significant expenditures on 
renovations.
Our ability to negotiate contractual rent escalations on future leases and to achieve increases in rental rates will depend upon 
market conditions and the demand for office/laboratory and tech office space at the time the leases are negotiated and the increases 
are proposed.
It is common for businesses in the life science, technology, and agtech industries to undergo mergers or consolidations. 
Mergers or consolidations of life science, technology, and agtech entities in the future could reduce the RSF requirements of our 
tenants and prospective tenants, which may adversely impact the demand for office/laboratory and tech office space and our future 
revenue from lease payments and our results of operations.
Some of our current or future tenants may include high-tech companies in their startup or growth phases of their life cycle. 
Fluctuations in market confidence vested in these companies or adverse changes in economic conditions may have a disproportionate 
effect on operations of such companies. Deteriorations in the financial conditions of our tenants may result in our inability to collect 
rental payments from them and therefore may negatively impact our results of operations. 
Our results of operations depend on our tenants’ research and development efforts and their ability to obtain funding 
for these efforts.
Our tenant base includes entities in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, life science, technology, agtech, and 
related industries; academic institutions; government institutions; and private foundations. Our tenants base their research and 
development budgets on several factors, including the need to develop new products, the availability of government and other funding, 
competition, and the general availability of resources.
Research and development budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, research priorities, general economic 
conditions, institutional and government budgetary limitations, and mergers and consolidations of entities. Our business could be 
adversely impacted by a significant decrease in research and development expenditures by either our tenants or the life science, 
technology, and agtech industries.
 Our tenants also include research institutions whose funding is largely dependent on grants from government agencies, such 
as the National Institutes of Health (the “NIH”), the National Science Foundation, and similar agencies or organizations. U.S. 
government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is often unpredictable. Other programs, such 
as Homeland Security or defense, could be viewed by the government as higher priorities. Additionally, proposals to reduce or eliminate 
budgetary deficits have sometimes included reduced allocations to the NIH and other U.S. government agencies that fund research and 
development activities. Additionally, the inability of the U.S. Congress to enact a budget for a fiscal year or the occurrence of partial or 
complete U.S. federal government shutdowns may result in temporary closures of agencies such as the Food and Drug Administration 
(the “FDA”) or NIH, which could adversely affect business operations of our tenants who are dependent on government approvals and 
appropriations. Any shift away from funding of research and development or delays surrounding the approval of government budget 
20
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  20
proposals may adversely impact our tenants’ operations, which in turn may impact their demand for office/laboratory and tech office 
space and their ability to make lease payments to us and thus adversely impact our results of operations.
Our life science tenants are subject to a number of risks unique to their industry, including (i) high levels of 
regulation, (ii) failures in the safety and efficacy of their products, (iii) significant funding requirements for product research 
and development, and (iv) changes in technology, patent expiration, and intellectual property protection. These risks may 
adversely affect their ability to make rental payments to us or satisfy their other lease obligations and consequently may 
materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and stock price.
High levels of regulation
•  Some of our tenants develop and manufacture drugs that require regulatory approval, including approval from the FDA, 
prior to being made, marketed, sold, and used. The regulatory approval process to manufacture and market drugs is 
costly, typically takes several years, requires validation through clinical trials and the use of substantial resources, and is 
often unpredictable. A tenant may fail to obtain or may experience significant delays in obtaining these approvals. Even if 
the tenant obtains regulatory approvals, marketed products will be subject to ongoing regulatory review and potential loss 
of approvals.
•  The ability of some of our tenants to commercialize any future products successfully will depend in part on the coverage 
and reimbursement levels set by government authorities, private health insurers, and other third-party payers. Additionally, 
reimbursements may decrease in the future.
Failures in the safety and efficacy of their products
•  Some of our tenants developing potential products may find that their products are not effective, or even are harmful, 
when tested in humans.
•  Some of our tenants depend upon the commercial success of certain products. Even if a product made by a tenant is 
successfully developed and proven safe and effective in human clinical trials, and the requisite regulatory approvals are 
obtained, subsequent discovery of safety issues with these products could cause product liability events, additional 
regulatory scrutiny and requirements for additional labeling, loss of approval, withdrawal of products from the market, and 
the imposition of fines or criminal penalties.
•  A drug made by a tenant may not be well accepted by doctors and patients, or may be less effective or accepted than a 
competitor’s drug, even if it is successfully developed.
•  The negative results of safety signals arising from the clinical trials of the competitors of our tenants may prompt 
regulatory agencies to take actions that may adversely affect the clinical trials or products of our tenants.
Significant funding requirements for product research and development
•  Some of our tenants require significant funding to develop and commercialize their products and technologies, which 
funding must be obtained from venture capital firms; private investors; the public markets; companies in the life science 
industry; or federal, state, and local governments. Such funding may become unavailable or difficult to obtain. The ability 
of each tenant to raise capital will depend on its financial and operating condition, viability of their products, and the 
overall condition of the financial, banking, and economic environment, as well as government budget policies.
•  Even with sufficient funding, some of our tenants may not be able to discover or identify potential drug targets in humans, 
or potential drugs for use in humans, or to create tools or technologies that are commercially useful in the discovery or 
identification of potential drug targets or drugs.
•  Some of our tenants may not be able to successfully manufacture their drugs economically, even if such drugs are proven 
through human clinical trials to be safe and effective in humans.
•  Marketed products also face commercialization risk, and tenants may never realize projected levels of product utilization 
or revenues.
•  Negative news regarding the products, the clinical trials, or other business developments of our tenants may cause their 
stock price or credit profile to deteriorate.
Changes in technology, patent expiration, and intellectual property protection
•  Our tenants sell products and services in an industry that is characterized by rapid and significant technological changes, 
frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements, evolving industry standards, and uncertainty over the 
implementation of new healthcare reform legislation, which may cause them to lose competitive positions and adversely 
affect their operations.
•  Some of our tenants and their licensors require patent, copyright, or trade secret protection to develop, make, market, and 
sell their products and technologies. A tenant may be unable to commercialize its products or technologies if patents 
covering such products or technologies are not issued or are successfully challenged, narrowed, invalidated, or 
circumvented by third parties, or if the tenant fails to obtain licenses to the discoveries of third parties necessary to 
commercialize its products or technologies.
•  Many of our tenants depend upon patents to provide exclusive marketing rights for their products. As their product patents 
expire, competitors of these tenants may be able to legally produce and market products similar to those products of our 
tenants, which could have a material adverse effect on their sales and results of operations.
21
21  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
We cannot assure our stockholders that our life science industry tenants will be able to develop, make, market, or sell their 
products and technologies due to the risks inherent in the life science industry. Any life science industry tenant that is unable to avoid, 
or sufficiently mitigate, the risks described above may have difficulty making rental payments to us or satisfying their other lease 
obligations to us. Such risks may also decrease the credit quality of our life science industry tenants or cause us to expend more funds 
and resources on the space leased by these tenants than we originally anticipated. The increased burden on our resources due to 
adverse developments relating to our life science industry tenants may cause us to achieve lower-than-expected yields on the space 
leased by these tenants. Negative news relating to our more significant life science industry tenants may also adversely impact our 
stock price.
Our technology industry tenants are subject to a number of risks unique to their industry, including (i) an uncertain 
regulatory environment, (ii) rapid technological changes, (iii) a dependency on the maintenance and security of the Internet 
infrastructure, (iv) significant funding requirements for product research and development, and (v) inadequate intellectual 
property protections. These risks may adversely affect their ability to make rental payments to us or satisfy their other lease 
obligations, which in turn may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and stock 
price.
Uncertain regulatory environment
•  Laws and regulations governing the Internet, e-commerce, electronic devices, and other services are evolving. Existing 
and future laws and regulations and the halting of operations at certain agencies resulting from partial or complete U.S. 
federal government shutdowns may impede the growth of our technology industry tenants. These laws and regulations 
may cover, among other areas, taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, mobile 
communications, business licensing, and consumer protection.
Rapid technological changes
•  The technology industry is characterized by rapid changes in customer requirements and preferences, frequent new 
product and service introductions, and the emergence of new industry standards and practices. A failure to respond in a 
timely manner to these market conditions could materially impair the operations of our technology industry tenants.
Dependency on the maintenance and security of the Internet infrastructure
•  Some of our tenants depend on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet by users of their products and services, 
as well as access to mobile networks. Internet service providers and mobile network operators may be able to block, 
degrade, or charge additional fees to these tenants or users.
•  The Internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, outages and other delays. These outages and 
delays, as well as problems caused by cyber attacks and computer malware, viruses, worms, and similar programs, may 
materially affect the ability of our technology industry tenants to conduct business.
•  Security breaches or network attacks may delay or interrupt the services provided by our tenants and could harm their 
reputations or subject them to significant liability.
Significant funding requirements for product research and development
•  Some of our tenants require significant funding to develop and commercialize their products and technologies, which 
funding must be obtained from venture capital firms; private investors; the public markets; companies in the technology 
industry; or federal, state, and local governments. Such funding may become unavailable or difficult to obtain. The ability 
of each tenant to raise capital will depend on its financial and operating condition, viability of their products, and the 
overall condition of the financial, banking, governmental budget policies, and economic environment.
•  Even with sufficient funding, some of our tenants may not be able to discover or identify potential customers or may not be 
able to create tools or technologies that are commercially useful.
•  Some of our tenants may not be able to successfully manufacture their products economically.
•  Marketed products also face commercialization risk, and some of our tenants may never realize projected levels of 
product utilization or revenues.
•  Unfavorable news regarding the products or other business developments of our tenants may cause their stock price or 
credit profile to deteriorate.
22
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  22
Inadequate intellectual property protections
•  The products and services provided by some of our tenants are subject to the threat of piracy and unauthorized copying, 
and inadequate intellectual property laws and other inadequate protections could prevent them from enforcing or 
defending their proprietary technologies. These tenants may also face legal risks arising out of user-generated content. 
•  Trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress, and trade secret protection is very expensive to maintain and 
may require our technology industry tenants to incur significant costs to protect their intellectual property rights. 
We cannot assure our stockholders that our technology industry tenants will be able to develop, make, market, or sell their 
products and services due to the risks inherent in the technology industry. Any technology industry tenant that is unable to avoid, or 
sufficiently mitigate, the risks described above may have difficulty making rental payments to us or satisfying their other lease 
obligations to us. Such risks may also decrease the credit quality of our technology industry tenants or cause us to expend more funds 
and resources on the space leased by these tenants than we originally anticipated. The increased burden on our resources due to 
adverse developments relating to our technology industry tenants may cause us to achieve lower-than-expected yields on the space 
leased by these tenants. Unfavorable news relating to our more significant technology industry tenants may also adversely impact our 
stock price.
  Our agtech industry tenants are subject to a number of risks unique to their industry, including (i) governmental 
policies affecting the agricultural industry, (ii) seasonality in business, (iii) unavailability of transportation mechanisms for 
carrying products and raw materials, (iv) changes in costs or constraints on supplies or energy used in operations, (v) strikes 
or labor slowdowns or labor contract negotiations, and (vi) rapid technological changes in agriculture. These risks may 
adversely affect their ability to make rental payments to us or satisfy their other lease obligations, which in turn may 
materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and stock price.
Uncertain regulatory environment
•  Laws and regulations governing the Internet, e-commerce, electronic devices, and other services and products developed 
by the agtech industry are evolving. Existing and future laws and regulations and the halting of operations at certain 
agencies resulting from partial or complete U.S. federal government shutdowns may impede the growth of our agtech 
industry tenants. These laws and regulations may cover, among other areas, taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, 
content, copyrights, distribution, mobile communications, business licensing, and consumer protection.
Seasonality in business
•  Our agtech tenants businesses may fluctuate from time to time due to seasonal weather conditions and other factors out 
of their control, affecting products and services our agtech tenants’ offer.
Unavailability of transportation mechanisms for carrying products and raw materials
•  Some of our agtech tenants’ businesses depend on transportation services to deliver their products or to deliver raw 
materials to their clients. If transportation providers are unavailable or fail to deliver our agtech tenant’s products in a 
timely manner, they may be able to manufacture and deliver their services and products on a timely basis.
Changes in costs or constraints on supplies or energy used in operations
•  Similarly, if fuel or other energy prices increase, it may increase transportation costs, which could affect our agtech 
tenants’ businesses.
Strikes or labor slowdowns or labor contract negotiations
•  Our agtech tenants may face labor strikes, work slowdowns, labor contract negotiations or other job actions from their 
employees or third party contractors. In the event of a strike, work slowdown or other similar labor unrest, our tenants may 
not have the ability to adequately staff their businesses, which could have an adverse effect on their operations and 
revenue.
Rapid technological changes
•  The agtech industry is characterized by frequent new product and service introductions, and the emergence of new 
industry standards and practices. A failure to respond in a timely manner to these market conditions could materially 
impair the operations of our agtech industry tenants.
•  Technological advances in agriculture could decrease the demand for crop nutrients, energy and other crop input products 
and services our tenants provide. Genetically engineered crops that resist disease and insects could affect the demand 
for certain of our tenant’s products. Demand for fuel could decline as technology allows for more efficient usage of 
equipment.
  We cannot assure our stockholders that our agtech industry tenants will be able to develop, make, market, or sell their 
products and services due to the risks inherent in the agtech industry. Any agtech industry tenant that is unable to avoid, or sufficiently 
mitigate, the risks described above may have difficulty making rental payments to us or satisfying their other lease obligations to us. 
Such risks may also decrease the credit quality of our agtech industry tenants or cause us to expend more funds and resources on the 
space leased by these tenants than we originally anticipated. The increased burden on our resources due to adverse developments 
23
23  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
relating to our agtech industry tenants may cause us to achieve lower-than-expected yields on the space leased by these tenants. 
Unfavorable news relating to our more significant agtech industry tenants may also adversely impact our stock price.
Government factors
  Negative impact on economic growth resulting from the combination of federal income tax policy, debt policy, and 
government spending may adversely affect our results of operations.
Global macroeconomic conditions affect our tenants’ businesses. Instability in the banking and government sectors of the 
U.S. and/or the negative impact on economic growth resulting from the combination of government tax policy, debt policy, and 
government spending, may have an adverse effect on the overall economic growth and our future revenue growth and profitability. 
Volatile, negative, or uncertain economic conditions could undermine business confidence in our significant markets or in other 
markets and cause our tenants to reduce or defer their spending, which would negatively affect our business. Growth in the markets 
we serve could be at a slow rate or could stagnate or contract in each case for an extended period of time. Differing economic 
conditions and patterns of economic growth and contraction in the geographic regions in which we operate and the industries we 
serve may in the future affect demand for our services. Our revenues and profitability are derived from our tenants in North America, 
some of which derive significant revenues from their international operations. Ongoing economic volatility and uncertainty affects 
our business in a number of other ways, including making it more difficult to accurately forecast client demand beyond the short 
term and to effectively build our revenue and spending plans. Economic volatility and uncertainty are particularly challenging 
because it may take some time for the effects and resulting changes in demand patterns to manifest themselves in our business 
and results of operations. Changing demand patterns from economic volatility and uncertainty could have a significant negative 
impact on our results of operations. These risks may impact our overall liquidity, our borrowing costs, or the market price of our 
common stock.
Failure of the U.S. federal government to manage its fiscal matters or to raise or further suspend the debt ceiling, 
and changes in the amount of federal debt, may negatively impact the economic environment and adversely impact our 
results of operations.
The Budget Control Act of 2011 provided for a reduction of $1.1 trillion of U.S. federal government discretionary spending 
over the succeeding decade (later extended through 2023) through a series of automatic, across-the-board spending cuts known as 
sequestration. Sequestration went into effect on March 1, 2013, and will remain in effect in the absence of further legislative action.
The U.S. federal government has established a limit on the level of federal debt that the U.S. federal government can have 
outstanding, often referred to as the debt ceiling. The U.S. Congress has authority to raise or suspend the debt ceiling and to 
approve the funding of U.S. federal government operations within the debt ceiling, and has done both frequently in the past, often on 
a relatively short-term basis. Following a three-day partial shutdown of the U.S. federal government in January 2018, the U.S. 
Congress extended the government funding deadline to February 8, 2018. On February 9, 2018, the U.S. President signed the 
Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, which temporarily suspended the statutory debt limit through March 1, 2019. A debt limit was 
reimposed on March 2, 2019, and on July 22, 2019, congressional leaders passed a two-year deal to raise the U.S. borrowing limit, 
which reduced the threat of default and significantly raised federal spending limits. Absent appropriate action to mitigate increasing 
government spending and provide fiscal discipline, the U.S. federal government may encounter similar issues that result in a partial 
or complete shut down and/or default of its existing loans as a result of reaching the debt ceiling. If effective legislation to manage 
the debt ceiling is not enacted and the debt ceiling is reached, the federal government may stop or delay making payments on its 
obligations. A failure by the U.S. Congress to raise the debt limit to the extent necessary in future fiscal years would increase the risk 
of default by the U.S. on its obligations, the risk of a lowering of the credit rating of the U.S. federal government, and the risk of other 
economic dislocations. If the U.S. government fails to complete its budget process, another federal government shutdown may 
result. Such a failure, or the perceived risk of such a failure could consequently have a material adverse effect on the financial 
markets and economic conditions in the U.S. and throughout the world.
An inability of the U.S. federal government to manage its fiscal matters, reduce the duration and scope of sequestration, or 
manage its debt may result in the loss of economic confidence domestically and globally, reduce investment spending, increase 
borrowing costs, impact availability and cost of capital, and significantly hinder or reduce economic activity. Furthermore, a failure by 
the U.S. federal government to enact appropriate fiscal legislation may significantly impact the national and global economic and 
financial environment and affect our business and the businesses of our tenants. In December 2018, the U.S. Congress failed to 
enact a budget for the upcoming fiscal year’s government operations and the U.S. President rejected a stopgap funding bill to fund 
the government into early 2019, which resulted in a partial government shutdown that began on December 22, 2018 through 
January 25, 2019. The shutdown affected certain key agencies at the federal government level, including the FDA and the SEC, 
resulting in partial closures of operations. The shutdown ended on January 25, 2019, when the U.S. President signed a bill to 
temporarily reopen the government through February 15, 2019, after which Congress passed an appropriations bill to fund the 
government through September 30, 2019. In September, 2019, the Senate passed a temporary government-wide bill to provide 
funding through November 21, 2019. Subsequently, further temporary funding was extended through December 20, 2019, and in 
December 2019, the Senate passed two appropriations measures to provide funding for the 2020 fiscal year. It is unclear whether 
24
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  24
the U.S. federal government will fail to enact a budget in future fiscal years, and if so, it is possible another partial government 
shutdown may occur.
The shutdown in early 2019 had affected certain key agencies at the federal government level, including the SEC, which 
closed partial non-essential operations. The SEC operated limited functions to address emergency situations involving market 
integrity and investor protection. However, the SEC suspended key functions, such as those related to enforcement actions and 
review of applications for initial public offerings. Future closures of the SEC could result in uncertainty regarding regulatory actions, 
issuance of new or clarifications of existing rules and regulations, disruptions in the initial public offerings of companies, including 
those of our tenants and companies in which we hold equity investments, and investigations and enforcement actions by the SEC. 
During this period, the FDA and certain other science agencies temporarily shut down select non-essential operations. Also during 
this period, the FDA maintained only operations deemed to be essential public health-related functions and halted the acceptance of 
new medical product applications and routine regulatory and compliance work for medical products and certain drugs and foods 
during the shutdown. The long-term impacts resulting from a prolonged closure of the SEC, FDA, and other similar agencies are 
uncertain and may adversely affect our business operations or our tenants and companies in which we hold equity investments. If 
economic conditions severely deteriorate as a result of government fiscal gridlock, our operations, or those of our tenants, could be 
affected, which may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. These risks may also impact our overall 
liquidity, our borrowing costs, or the market price of our common stock.
Monetary policy actions by the U.S. Federal Reserve could adversely impact our financial condition and our ability 
to make distributions to our stockholders.
During 2017-2018, the U.S. Federal Reserve gradually increased the target range for the federal funds rate. In December 
2017, the U.S. Federal Reserve increased the federal funds rate to a range from 1.25% to 1.50%. During each quarter of 2018, the 
rate was increased by 25 bps per quarter. As of December 31, 2018, the federal funds rate was set at a range from 2.25% to 2.50%. 
As of December 31, 2019, after a series of rate cuts during 2019, the federal funds rate was set at a range from 1.50% to 1.75%. 
The U.S. Federal Reserve has not indicated any intention to continue to cut the federal funds rate. Should the U.S. Federal Reserve 
raise the rate in the future, this will likely result in an increase in market interest rates, which may increase our interest expense 
under our variable-rate borrowings and the costs of refinancing existing indebtedness or obtaining new debt. In addition, increases 
in market interest rates may result in a decrease in the value of our real estate and a decrease in the market price of our common 
stock. Increases in market interest rates may also adversely affect the securities markets generally, which could reduce the market 
price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. Any such unfavorable changes to our borrowing costs and 
stock price could significantly impact our ability to raise new debt and equity capital going forward.
Changes to the U.S. tax laws could have a significant negative impact on the overall economy, our tenants, and 
our business.
On December 20, 2017, the House of Representatives and the Senate passed a tax reform bill, which the U.S. President 
signed into law on December 22, 2017 (the “Tax Reform Legislation”). Among other things, the Tax Reform Legislation:
•  Restricted the deductibility of interest expense by businesses (generally, to 30% of the business’ adjusted taxable 
income) except, among others, real property businesses electing out of such restriction; generally, we expect our 
business to qualify as a real property business, but businesses conducted by our taxable REIT subsidiaries may not 
qualify; 
•  Required real property businesses to use the less favorable alternative depreciation system to depreciate real property 
in the event businesses elect to avoid the interest deduction restriction above;
•  Restricted the benefits of like-kind exchanges that defer capital gains for tax purposes to exchanges of real property;
•  Required accrual method taxpayers to take certain amounts in income no later than the taxable year in which such 
income is taken into account as revenue in an applicable financial statement prepared under GAAP, which, with 
respect to certain leases, could accelerate the inclusion of rental income; and
•  Generally allowed a deduction for individuals equal to 20% of certain income from pass-through entities, including 
ordinary dividends distributed by a REIT (excluding capital gain dividends and qualified dividend income).
  Many of the provisions in the Tax Reform Legislation expire at the end of 2025. 
  The Tax Reform Legislation was a far-reaching and complex revision to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws with 
disparate and, in some cases, countervailing impacts on different categories of taxpayers and industries and will continue to require 
rulemaking and interpretation in a number of areas. As a result, the long-term impact of the Tax Reform Legislation on the overall 
economy, government revenues, our tenants, us, and the real estate industry cannot be reliably predicted. Furthermore, the Tax 
Reform Legislation may negatively impact certain of our tenants’ operating results, financial condition, and future business plans. 
The Tax Reform Legislation may also result in reduced government revenues, and therefore reduced government spending, which 
may negatively impact some of our tenants that rely on government funding. There can be no assurance that the Tax Reform 
Legislation will not negatively impact our operating results, financial condition, and future business operations.
25
25  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
  Actual and anticipated changes to the regulations of the healthcare system may have a negative impact on the 
pricing of drugs, the cost of healthcare coverage, and the reimbursement of healthcare services and products.
The FDA and comparable agencies in other jurisdictions directly regulate many critical activities of life science, technology, 
and healthcare industries, including the conduct of preclinical and clinical studies, product manufacturing, advertising and 
promotion, product distribution, adverse event reporting, and product risk management. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales 
of products depend in part on the availability and amount of reimbursement by third-party payers, including governments and private 
health plans. Governments may regulate coverage, reimbursement, and pricing of products to control cost or affect utilization of 
products. Private health plans may also seek to manage cost and utilization by implementing coverage and reimbursement 
limitations. Substantial uncertainty exists regarding the reimbursement by third-party payers of newly approved healthcare products. 
The U.S. and foreign governments regularly consider reform measures that affect healthcare coverage and costs. Such reforms 
may include changes to the coverage and reimbursement of healthcare services and products. In particular, there have been recent 
judicial and Congressional challenges to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Health Care 
and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “ACA”), which could have an impact on coverage and reimbursement for 
healthcare terms and services covered by plans authorized by the ACA. During 2017 several attempts were made to amend the 
ACA; however, no amendment proposal gained the 50-vote support from the U.S. Senate needed to pass a repeal bill. As a result, 
in October 2017, The U.S. President issued an Executive Order “Promoting Healthcare Choice and Competition Across the United 
States.” We do not know how our tenants will be affected (if at all) by this new executive order. Government and other regulatory 
oversight and future regulatory and government interference with the healthcare systems may adversely impact our tenants’ 
businesses and our business.
U.S. government tenants may not receive anticipated appropriations, which could hinder their ability to pay us.
U.S. government tenants are subject to government funding. If one or more of our U.S. government tenants fail to receive 
anticipated appropriations, we may not be able to collect rental amounts due to us. A significant reduction in federal government 
spending, particularly a sudden decrease due to the recent tax reform or to a sequestration process, which has occurred in recent 
years, could also adversely affect the ability of these tenants to fulfill lease obligations or decrease the likelihood that they will renew 
their leases with us. In addition, recent budgetary pressures have resulted in, and may continue to result in, reduced allocations to 
government agencies that fund research and development activities, such as the NIH. For example, the NIH budget has been, and 
may continue to be, significantly impacted by the sequestration provisions of the Budget Control Act of 2011, which became effective 
on March 1, 2013. Past proposals to reduce budget deficits have included reduced NIH and other research and development 
budgets. Any shift away from the funding of research and development or delays surrounding the approval of government budget 
proposals may cause our tenants to default on rental payments or delay or forgo leasing our rental space, which could adversely 
affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Additionally, the inability of the U.S. Congress to enact a budget for 
a fiscal year or the occurrence of partial or complete U.S. federal government shutdowns could adversely impact demand for our 
services by limiting federal funding available to our tenants and their customers. In addition, defaults under leases with U.S. 
government tenants are governed by federal statute and not by state eviction or rent deficiency laws. As of December 31, 2019, 
leases with U.S. government tenants at our properties accounted for approximately 1.3% of our aggregate annual rental revenue in 
effect as of December 31, 2019.
Some of our tenants may be subject to increasing government price controls and other healthcare cost-
containment measures.
Government healthcare cost-containment measures can significantly affect our tenants’ revenue and profitability. In many 
countries outside the U.S., government agencies strictly control, directly or indirectly, the prices at which our pharmaceutical industry 
tenants’ products are sold. In a number of European Union (“EU”) Member States, the pricing and/or reimbursement of prescription 
pharmaceuticals are subject to governmental control, and legislators, policymakers, and healthcare insurance funds continue to 
propose and implement cost-containing measures to keep healthcare costs down, due in part to the attention being paid to 
healthcare cost containment and other austerity measures in the EU. In the U.S., our pharmaceutical industry tenants are subject to 
substantial pricing pressures from state Medicaid programs, private insurance programs, and pharmacy benefit managers. In 
addition, many state legislative proposals could further negatively affect pricing and/or reimbursement for our pharmaceutical 
industry tenants’ products. Also, the pricing environment for pharmaceuticals continues to be in the political spotlight in the U.S. 
Pharmaceutical and medical device product pricing is subject to enhanced government and public scrutiny and calls for reform. 
Some states have implemented, and other states are considering, pharmaceutical price controls or patient access constraints under 
the Medicaid program, and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their 
populations who are not Medicaid eligible. We anticipate that pricing pressures from both governments and private payers inside 
and outside the U.S. will become more severe over time.
26
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  26
Changes in U.S. federal government funding for the FDA, NIH, and other government agencies could hinder their 
ability to hire and retain key leadership and other personnel, properly administer drug innovation, or prevent new products 
and services from being developed or commercialized by our life science tenants, which could negatively impact our 
business.
The ability of the FDA to review and approve new products can be affected by a variety of factors, including budget and 
funding levels, the ability to hire and retain key personnel, and statutory, regulatory, and policy changes. Average review times at the 
agency have fluctuated in recent years as a result. In addition, government funding of the NIH and other government agencies that 
fund research and development activities is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable.
The ability of the FDA, the NIH, and other government agencies to properly administer their functions is highly dependent 
on the levels of government funding and the ability to fill key leadership appointments, among various factors. Delays in filling or 
replacing key positions could significantly impact the ability of the FDA, the NIH, and other agencies to fulfill their functions and 
could greatly impact healthcare and the drug industry.
In December 2016, the 21st Century Cures Act was signed into law. This legislation is designed to advance medical 
innovation and empower the FDA with the authority to directly hire positions related to drug and device development and review. In 
the past, the FDA was often unable to offer key leadership candidates (including scientists) competitive compensation packages as 
compared to those offered by private industry. The 21st Century Cures Act is designed to streamline the agency’s hiring process 
and enable the FDA to compete for leadership talent by expanding the narrow ranges that are provided in prior compensation 
structures.
However, any future government proposals to reduce or eliminate budgetary deficits may include reduced allocations to the 
FDA, the NIH, and other related government agencies. These budgetary pressures may result in a reduced ability by the FDA and 
the NIH to perform their respective roles and may have a related impact on academic institutions and research laboratories whose 
funding is fully or partially dependent on both the level and the timing of funding from government sources.
In December 2018, the U.S. Congress failed to enact a budget for the upcoming fiscal year’s government operations and 
the U.S. President rejected a stopgap funding bill to fund the government into early 2019, which resulted in a partial government 
shutdown that took place from December 22, 2018 through January 25, 2019. During this period, the FDA and certain other science 
agencies temporarily shut down select non-essential operations. The FDA maintained only operations deemed to be essential public 
health-related functions and halted the acceptance of new medical product applications and routine regulatory and compliance work 
for medical products and certain drugs and foods during the shutdown. The shutdown ended on January 25, 2019, when the 
President signed a bill to temporarily reopen the government through February 15, 2019. After a series of stopgap bills passed to 
temporarily fund the government, Congress passed appropriations bills to provide funding for the 2020 fiscal year.
Disruptions at the FDA and other agencies, including those caused by the government shutdown, may slow the time 
necessary for new drugs and devices to be reviewed and/or approved by necessary government agencies and the healthcare and 
drug industries’ ability to deliver new products to the market in a timely manner, which would adversely affect our tenants’ operating 
results and business. Interruptions to the function of the FDA and other government agencies could adversely affect the demand for 
office/laboratory space and significantly impact our operating results and our business.
Changes in laws and regulations that control drug pricing for government programs may adversely impact our 
operating results and our business.
The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) is the federal agency within the U.S. Department of Health and 
Human Services that administers the Medicare program and works in partnership with state governments to administer Medicaid. 
The Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 that went into effect on January 1, 2006 (which also made changes to the public Part C 
Medicare health plan program), explicitly prohibits government entities from directly negotiating drug prices with manufacturers. 
Recently, there has been significant public outcry against price increases viewed to be unfair and unwarranted. The U.S. President 
has endorsed having government programs such as Medicare bid and negotiate the price of drugs directly with drug companies. 
Currently, the outcome of potential reforms and changes to government negotiation/regulation to drug pricing is unknown. 
Changes in policy that limit prices may reduce the financial incentives for the research and development efforts that lead to discovery 
and production of new therapies and solutions to life-threatening conditions. Negative impacts of new policies could adversely affect 
our tenants’ businesses, including life science and technology companies, which may reduce the demand for office/laboratory space 
and negatively impact our operating results and our business.
27
27  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) may 
subject us to substantial additional federal regulation and may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash 
flows, or financial condition.
There are significant corporate governance- and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that 
required the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded 
companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments. Our 
efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a 
diversion of management’s time from other business activities. In addition, provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that directly affect other 
participants in the real estate and capital markets, such as banks, investment funds, and interest rate hedge providers, could have 
indirect, but material, impacts on our business. The U.S. President has also proposed to repeal certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank 
Act. Given the uncertainty associated with the Dodd-Frank Act itself and the manner in which its provisions are implemented by 
various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our future 
operations is unclear. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of business activities, require changes to 
certain business practices, or otherwise adversely affect our business in general.
The ongoing implementation of derivatives regulations could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks 
associated with our business.
Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act regulates derivatives transactions, which include certain instruments that we use in our risk 
management activities. It remains impossible at this time to predict the full effects on our hedging activities of the derivatives-related 
provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and rules of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) and SEC thereunder, or the 
timing of such effects. While the CFTC has implemented most of its derivatives-related regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act, it has 
not yet adopted all of those regulations, and it has proposed revisions to certain of its existing derivatives regulations. The impact of 
any future new or revised CFTC derivatives regulations, or new or revised CFTC interpretations of existing regulations, is unknown, 
but they could result in, among other things, increases in the costs to us of swaps and other derivatives contracts, and decreases in 
the number and/or creditworthiness of available hedge counterparties. Furthermore, at this time the SEC’s regulations for security-
based swaps have generally not yet been implemented and their potential impact on our ability to hedge risks cannot yet be known.  
In addition, we may enter into hedging transactions with counterparties based in the EU, Canada, or other jurisdictions 
which, like the U.S., are in the process of implementing regulations for derivatives. Non-U.S. regulations may apply to such 
derivatives transactions. The potential impact of such non-U.S. regulations is not fully known and may include, among other things, 
increased costs for our hedging transactions.
Global factors
  A global financial crisis, high structural unemployment levels, and other events or circumstances beyond our control 
may adversely affect our industry, business, results of operations, contractual commitments, and access to capital.
What began initially in 2007 and 2008 as a “subprime” mortgage crisis turned into an extraordinary U.S. and worldwide 
structural economic and financial crisis, coupled with the rapid decline of the consumer economy. From 2008 through 2010, significant 
concerns over energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, and a declining real estate 
market in the U.S. contributed to increased volatility, diminished expectations for the economy and the markets, and high levels of 
structural unemployment by historical standards. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices and fluctuating business and consumer 
confidence, precipitated a steep economic decline. Since 2011, the U.S. economy showed significant signs of improvement, but other 
economies around the world, including Latin America, continue to demonstrate sluggish, stagnant, or slowing growth. Further, severe 
financial and structural strains on the banking and financial systems have led to significant lack of trust and confidence in the global 
credit and financial system. Consumers and money managers have liquidated and may liquidate equity investments, and consumers 
and banks have held and may hold cash and other lower-risk investments, which has resulted in significant and, in some cases, 
catastrophic declines in the equity capitalization of companies and failures of financial institutions. Although U.S. bank earnings and 
liquidity are on the rebound, the potential of significant future bank credit losses creates uncertainty for the lending outlook.
  Further downgrades of the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating and an economic crisis in Europe could 
negatively impact our liquidity, financial condition, and earnings.
Previous U.S. debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns, together with sovereign debt conditions in Europe, have increased the 
possibility of additional downgrades of sovereign credit ratings and economic slowdowns. There is no guarantee that future debt ceiling 
or federal spending legislation will not fail. 
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. from “AAA” to “AA+” in 
August 2011, which was affirmed in June 2018. Although Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services maintains a stable outlook on the U.S. 
credit rating, further fiscal impasses within the federal government may result in future downgrades. Further, Moody’s Investor Services, 
Inc. and Fitch Ratings Inc. each maintain a stable outlook on the U.S. credit rating but have warned that they may downgrade the 
federal government’s credit rating under certain circumstances. The impact of any further downgrades to the U.S. government’s 
28
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  28
sovereign credit rating, or its perceived creditworthiness, is inherently unpredictable and could adversely affect the U.S. and global 
financial markets and economic conditions. 
In addition, certain European nations experienced in the recent past varying degrees of financial stress, including Greece, 
Ireland, Italy, Portugal, and Spain. Although these economies are continuing to recover or have already gone through a gradual 
recovery, we do not know whether the economic growth will be slowed by the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) leaving the EU or whether the 
prior sovereign financial difficulties within the EU governments will reemerge with a higher degree of negative impact to the financial 
markets. Market concerns over the direct and indirect exposure of European banks and insurers to these EU peripheral nations have 
resulted in a widening of credit spreads and increased costs of funding for some EU financial institutions. There can be no assurance 
that government or other measures to aid economic recovery will be effective. 
These developments, and concerns over the U.S. government’s fiscal policies in general, could cause interest rates and 
borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. In addition, the lowered 
credit rating could create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which may exert downward pressure on the market price of our 
common stock. Continued adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and 
results of operations.
Financial volatility and geopolitical instability outside of the U.S. may adversely impact the U.S. and global 
economies.
During 2018-2019, global growth weakened, trade tensions heightened, and several developing economies, most notably 
Argentina and Turkey, experienced financial trouble, soaring inflation and interest rates, and a significant depreciation of local 
currencies. Economies of developing countries like Venezuela remain in a long-term crisis with current political turmoil exacerbating 
their economic problems and rendering a bleak near-term outlook. Policies of advanced economies have a profound effect on emerging 
markets and ramifications of any trade war involving an advanced economy, like of that between the U.S. and China, could further 
contribute to the adverse economic and political conditions of emerging and other developed economies. In addition, there are ongoing 
security concerns about North Korea and Iran’s nuclear weapons and ballistic missile capabilities, uncertainty regarding North Korea 
and Iran’s actions, their relations with the U.S. and the international community in general, which have created a global security issue 
that may adversely affect international business and economic conditions. 
During 2018-2019, disputes on trade policy between the U.S. and China resulted in increased tariffs and escalating tensions 
between the two countries. On January 15, 2020, the two parties signed a trade deal representing the first phase of trade negotiations 
between the two countries. The agreement reduces certain existing tariffs, obligates China to purchase additional products from the 
U.S. during the next two years, and provides for stronger protection of American intellectual property and trade secrets. It is unclear 
whether both parties will honor the stipulations of the agreement or if future disputes will occur. Future trade disputes may result in the 
imposition of further tariffs or other retaliatory actions that may affect us, the industry in which we operate, or that of our tenants and 
vendors.
Additionally, on January 3, 2020, the U.S. President authorized an airstrike against Iran to deter attacks against U.S. 
embassies, service members, or diplomats. The airstrike killed a top Iranian military general. In response, Iran’s foreign minister 
declared the strike as an act of international terrorism. On January 8, 2020, Iran launched ballistic missiles targeting two U.S. air bases 
located in Iraq. Following the attacks, the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Iran, targeting the construction, mining, manufacturing, and 
textiles sectors, which are key sectors of Iran’s economy, in an attempt to deny the Iranian government revenues derived from these 
activities. It is unclear how Iran will respond to the airstrike and resulting death of its military leader or to the newly imposed sanctions. If 
Iran carries out retaliatory actions against the U.S., the U.S. economy, safety, and lives of U.S. residents and businesses may be 
significantly impacted, resulting in financial volatility and social instability for those affected. This may include, but not be limited to, our 
company, tenants, employees, investors, and others located in affected communities in which we hold properties.
It is not possible to predict to what extent regional economic and political instability of emerging economies or trade conflicts 
may negatively impact other economies around the world, including the U.S. If these macroeconomic and political issues are not 
managed appropriately, they could lead to currency devaluation, sovereign debt increases, banking crises, and other financial and 
political turmoil and uncertainty. Continued adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial 
condition, and results of operations.
We are subject to risks from potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies.
We have properties and operations in countries where the U.S. dollar is not the local currency, and we thus are subject to 
international currency risk from the potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the local currency. In particular, 
a significant decrease or volatility in the value of the Canadian dollar or other currencies in countries where we may have an investment 
could materially affect our results of operations. We may attempt to mitigate such effects by borrowing in the local foreign currency in 
which we invest. Any international currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates may not qualify under gross 
income tests that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a REIT.
29
29  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Changes in the method of determining LIBOR, or the replacement of LIBOR with an alternative reference rate, may 
adversely affect interest expense related to outstanding debt.
  From time to time, we utilize interest rate hedge agreements to manage a portion of our exposure to variable interest rates. 
Historically, our interest rate hedge agreements primarily related to our borrowings with variable interest rates based on LIBOR. 
Beginning in 2008, concerns were raised that some of the member banks surveyed by the BBA in connection with the calculation of 
daily LIBOR across a range of maturities and currencies may have underreported, overreported, or otherwise manipulated the interbank 
lending rate applicable to them in order to profit on their derivatives positions or to avoid an appearance of capital insufficiency or 
adverse reputational or other consequences that might have resulted from reporting interbank lending rates higher than those they 
actually submitted. A number of BBA member banks have entered into settlements with their regulators and law enforcement agencies 
with respect to alleged manipulation of LIBOR, and investigations have been instigated by regulators and government authorities in 
various jurisdictions. Other member banks may also enter into such settlements with, or have proceedings brought by, their regulators 
or law enforcement agencies in the future. If manipulation of LIBOR occurred, it may have resulted in LIBOR having been artificially 
lower (or higher) than it would otherwise have been. Any such manipulation could have occurred over a substantial period of time.
On September 28, 2012, British regulators published a report on the review of LIBOR. The report concluded that LIBOR 
should be retained as a benchmark but recommended a comprehensive reform of LIBOR, including replacing the BBA with a new 
independent administrator of LIBOR. Based on this report, final rules for the regulation and supervision of LIBOR by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (“FCA”) were published and came into effect on April 2, 2013 (the “FCA Rules”). In particular, the FCA Rules include 
requirements that (i) an independent LIBOR administrator monitor and survey LIBOR submissions to identify breaches of practice 
standards and/or potentially manipulative behavior and (ii) firms submitting data to LIBOR establish and maintain a clear conflict-of-
interest policy and appropriate systems and controls. In response, ICE Benchmark Administration Limited (“IBA”) was appointed as the 
independent LIBOR administrator, effective in early 2014. On July 27, 2017, the FCA announced that it would phase out LIBOR as a 
benchmark by the end of 2021. 
In addition, in November 2014, the U.S. Federal Reserve established a working group composed of large U.S. financial 
institutions, the Alternative Reference Rates Committee (“ARRC”), to identify a set of alternative interest reference rates to LIBOR. In a 
May 2016 interim report, the ARRC narrowed its choice to two LIBOR alternatives. The first choice was the Overnight Bank Funding 
Rate (“OBFR”), which consists of domestic and foreign unsecured borrowing in U.S. dollars. The U.S. Federal Reserve has been 
calculating and publishing the OBFR since March 2016. The second alternative rate to LIBOR was the Treasury General Collateral 
Rate, which is composed of repo transactions secured by treasuries or other assets accepted as collateral by the majority of 
intermediaries in the repo market.
In June 2017, the ARRC selected the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”), a new index calculated by reference to 
short-term repurchase agreements backed by Treasury securities, as its preferred replacement for U.S. dollar LIBOR. SOFR is 
observed and backward looking, which stands in contrast to LIBOR under the current methodology, which is an estimated forward-
looking rate and relies, to some degree, on the expert judgment of submitting panel members. Given that SOFR is a secured rate 
backed by government securities, it does not take into account bank credit risk (as is the case with LIBOR). SOFR is therefore likely to 
be lower than LIBOR and is less likely to correlate with the funding costs of financial institutions. The first publication of SOFR was 
released by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in April 2018. 
  In April 2019, the ARRC published its recommendations on fallback language for syndicated loans, which the ARRC 
encourages companies to use in new contracts that reference LIBOR in order to minimize market disruptions when LIBOR ceases to 
exist. The ARRC suggested two alternative fallback language approaches for syndicated loan contracts:
•  “Hardwired Approach,” which clearly specifies the SOFR-based successor rate and spread adjustment to be used when 
LIBOR ceases to exist.
•  “Amendment Approach,” which, unlike the Hardwired Approach, does not reference specific rates or spread adjustments 
but provides a streamlined amendment approach for negotiating a benchmark replacement and introduces clarity with 
respect to the fallback trigger events and an adjustment to be applied to the successor rate.
  Since 2012, we have been closely monitoring developments related to the transition away from LIBOR and have implemented 
numerous proactive measures to minimize the potential impact of the transition to the Company, specifically:
•  We have proactively reduced outstanding LIBOR-based borrowings under our unsecured senior bank term loans and 
secured construction loans through repayments. From January 2017 to December 2018, we retired approximately 
$942.0 million of such debt. 
•  During the year ended December 31, 2019, we further reduced our exposure to LIBOR as follows:
•  Repaid the $350.0 million balance and extinguished our unsecured senior bank term loan.
•  Terminated our LIBOR-based interest rate hedge agreements aggregating $350.0 million in conjunction with the 
extinguishment of our unsecured senior bank term loan. As a result, we had no outstanding interest rate hedge 
agreements as of December 31, 2019. 
•  Fully repaid outstanding balances aggregating $193.1 million under our LIBOR-based construction loans.
30
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  30
•  During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we established a commercial paper program, under which we have 
the ability to issue up to $750.0 million of commercial notes, bearing interest at short term fixed rates, with a maximum 
maturity of 397 days from the date of issuance. Our commercial paper program is not subjected to LIBOR and will be 
used for funding short-term working capital needs. As of December 31, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding under 
our commercial paper program.
•  We continue to prudently manage outstanding borrowings under our unsecured senior line of credit, which represented 
less than 6% of our total debt balance outstanding as of December 31, 2019. Excluding LIBOR-based debt held by our 
unconsolidated joint ventures, borrowings under our unsecured senior line of credit represented our only LIBOR-based 
debt outstanding as of December 31, 2019. 
•  Our unsecured senior line of credit contains fallback language generally consistent with the ARRC’s Amendment 
Approach, which provides a streamlined amendment approach for negotiating a benchmark replacement and introduces 
clarity with respect to the fallback trigger events and an adjustment to be applied to the successor rate.
•  We continue to monitor developments by the ARRC and other governing bodies involved in LIBOR transition.
  We continue to be proactive in managing the risk of disruption associated with the cessation of LIBOR; however, it is not 
possible to predict the effect of the FCA Rules, any changes in the methods pursuant to which LIBOR is determined, the administration 
of LIBOR by IBA, and any other reforms to LIBOR that will be enacted in the United Kingdom and elsewhere. In addition, any changes 
announced by the FCA, the BBA, IBA, the ARRC, or any other successor governance or oversight body, or future changes adopted by 
such body, in the method pursuant to which LIBOR is determined, as well as manipulative practices or the cessation thereof, may result 
in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in reported LIBOR, which could have an adverse impact on the level of the index. 
Fluctuation or discontinuation of LIBOR would affect our interest expense and earnings and the fair value of certain of our financial 
instruments. We also have certain joint ventures that may require variable-rate construction loans with interest based upon LIBOR plus 
a spread. From time to time, we utilize interest rate hedge agreements to mitigate our exposure to such interest rate risk on a portion of 
our debt obligations. However, there is no assurance these arrangements will be effective in reducing our exposure to changes in
interest rates.
  It is unclear whether new methods of calculating LIBOR will be established such that it continues to exist after 2021. When 
LIBOR ceases to exist, we may need to amend the credit and loan agreements with our lenders that utilize LIBOR as a factor in 
determining the interest rate based on a new standard that is established, if any. The transition to an alternative rate will require careful 
and deliberate consideration and implementation so as to not disrupt the stability of financial markets. There is no guarantee that a 
transition from LIBOR to an alternative will not result in financial market disruptions, significant increases in benchmark rates, or 
borrowing costs to borrowers, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and 
stock price.
  The transition to SOFR may present challenges, including, but not limited to, the illiquidity of SOFR derivatives markets, which 
could make it difficult for financial institutions to offer SOFR-based debt products, the determination of the spread adjustment required 
to convert LIBOR to SOFR (and the related determination of a term structure with different maturities), and the greater volatility of 
SOFR compared to that of LIBOR. Although daily pricing resets for SOFR have been noted to be more volatile than that of LIBOR, 
especially at month end, there is no sufficient evidence to establish how SOFR volatility compares to that of LIBOR. Whether or not 
SOFR attains market acceptance as a LIBOR replacement tool remains in question. As such, the future of LIBOR and potential 
alternatives at this time remains uncertain.
Adoption of the Basel III standards and other regulatory standards affecting financial institutions may negatively 
impact our access to financing or affect the terms of our future financing arrangements. 
In response to various financial crises and the volatility of financial markets, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the 
“Basel Committee”) adopted the Basel III regulatory capital framework (“Basel III” or the “Basel III Standards”). The final package of 
Basel III reforms was approved by the G20 leaders in November 2010. In January 2013, the Basel Committee agreed to delay 
implementation of the Basel III Standards and expanded the scope of assets permitted to be included in certain banks’ liquidity 
measurements. U.S. banking regulators have elected to implement substantially all of the Basel III Standards, with implementation of 
Basel III commencing in 2014 and scheduled to be incrementally implemented through 2019.
Since approving the Basel III Standards, U.S. regulators also issued rules that impose upon the most systemically significant 
banking organizations in the U.S. supplementary leverage ratio standards (the “SLR Standards”) more stringent than those of the Basel 
III Standards. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board has adopted a final rule that establishes a methodology to identify whether a U.S. 
bank holding company is a global systemically important banking organization (“GSIB”). Any firm identified as a GSIB would be subject 
to a risk-based capital surcharge that is calibrated based on its systemic risk profile. Under the final rule, the capital surcharge began 
phasing in on January 1, 2016, and became fully effective on January 1, 2019.
31
31  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
On September 3, 2014, U.S. banking regulators issued a final rule to implement the Basel Committee’s liquidity coverage ratio 
(the “LCR”) in the U.S. (the “LCR Final Rule”). The LCR is intended to promote the short-term resilience of internationally active banking 
organizations to improve the banking industry’s ability to absorb shocks arising from idiosyncratic or market stress, and to improve the 
measurement and management of liquidity risk. The LCR Final Rule contains requirements that are in certain respects more stringent 
than the Basel Committee’s LCR. The LCR measures an institution’s high-quality liquid assets against its net cash outflows. Under the 
LCR Final Rule, the LCR transition period occurred from 2015 through 2017.
  U.S. regulators have also issued and proposed rules that impose additional restrictions on the business activities of financial 
institutions, including their trading and investment activities. For example, with effect in April 2014, U.S. regulators adopted a final rule 
implementing a section of the Dodd-Frank Act that has become known as the “Volcker Rule.” The Volcker Rule generally restricts 
certain U.S. and foreign financial institutions from engaging in proprietary trading and from investing in sponsoring or having certain 
relationships with “covered funds,” which include private equity funds and hedge funds. Amendments effective in January 2020 have 
provided a certain level of regulatory relief, particularly pertaining to proprietary trading restrictions, by tailoring the Volker Rule’s 
application, simplifying certain standards and requirements, and reducing compliance burden. Additional amendments related to 
“covered funds” are expected. The effects of the Volcker Rule are uncertain, but it is in any event likely to curtail various banking 
activities, which in turn could result in uncertainties in the financial markets.
The implementation of the Basel III Standards, the SLR Standards, the GSIB capital surcharge, the LCR Final Rule, the 
Volcker Rule, and other similar rules and regulations could cause an increase in capital requirements for, and place other financial 
constraints on, both U.S. and foreign financial institutions from which we borrow, which may negatively impact our access to financing 
or affect the terms of our future financing arrangements.
  Significant developments stemming from the recent U.S. presidential election, outcomes from impeachment 
procedures, or the U.K.’s referendum on membership in the EU could have a material adverse effect on us.
During his administration, President Trump has expressed apprehension toward existing trade agreements, such as the North 
American Free Trade Agreement (“NAFTA”), and has imposed significant increases on tariffs on goods imported into the U.S., 
particularly from China, Mexico, and Canada. The U.S., Mexico, and Canada negotiated and reached an agreement for a new United 
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (“USMCA”), which replaces NAFTA and, as of the date of this report, is signed but not yet ratified. 
Mr. Trump has also spearheaded significant efforts to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, and government negotiation/
regulation of drug prices paid by government programs. 
 
  On December 18, 2019, the U.S. House of Representatives voted on and passed two articles of impeachment against 
President Trump for abuse of power and obstruction of Congress relating to the President’s effort to solicit Ukraine’s interference in the 
2020 election while withholding military aid. Senate impeachment proceedings are ongoing, during which the Senate will determine 
whether or not to convict President Trump and remove him from office. It is unclear what the length, outcome, and effects of the trial will 
be, or how the proceedings will impact the U.S. economy, political environment, and upcoming U.S. presidential election in 2020. Any 
changes in U.S. social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or laws and policies governing the health care system and drug 
prices, foreign trade, manufacturing, and development and investment in the territories and countries where we or our tenants operate 
could adversely affect our operating results and our business.
Additionally, on June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum and voted in favor of leaving the EU (known as “Brexit”). The U.K. 
government initiated the official EU withdrawal process on March 29, 2017, and the exit from the EU was expected to occur by the end 
of March 2019. However, the withdrawal was extended several times due to deadlock in negotiations. On January 29, 2020, the U.K. 
Parliament approved a withdrawal agreement submitted on January 22, 2020, and the U.K. officially withdrew from the EU on January 
31, 2020. There is a transition period through December 2020, with an option to extend an additional one to two years, to allow for 
businesses and individuals to adjust to its changes, during which all EU regulations will continue to apply to the U.K. Trade negotiations 
are expected to begin in early March 2020, but the nature of the economic relationship between the EU and U.K. remains uncertain, 
and there is no guarantee that both parties will be able to reach an agreement before the transition period expires. This Brexit decision 
has created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the U.K. and the EU, and this uncertainty may last for years. Our business 
could be affected during this period of uncertainty, and perhaps longer, by the impact of the U.K. referendum. In addition, our business 
could be negatively affected by new trade agreements between the U.K. and other countries, including the U.S., and by the possible 
imposition of trade or other regulatory barriers in the U.K. These possible negative impacts, and others resulting from the U.K.’s 
withdrawal from the EU, may adversely affect our operating results and our tenants’ businesses.
32
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  32
Other factors
Changes in laws, regulations, and financial accounting standards may adversely affect our reported results of 
operations.
As a response, in large part, to perceived abuses and deficiencies in current regulations believed to have caused or 
exacerbated the recent global financial crisis, legislative, regulatory, and accounting standard-setting bodies around the world are 
engaged in an intensive, wide-ranging examination and rewriting of the laws, regulations, and accounting standards that have 
constituted the basic playing field of global and domestic business for several decades. In many jurisdictions, including the U.S., the 
legislative and regulatory response has included the extensive reorganization of existing regulatory and rule-making agencies and 
organizations, and the establishment of new agencies with broad powers. This reorganization has disturbed longstanding regulatory 
and industry relationships and established procedures.
The rule-making and administrative efforts have focused principally on the areas perceived as having contributed to the 
financial crisis, including banking, investment banking, securities regulation, and real estate finance, with spillover impacts on many 
other areas. These initiatives have created a degree of uncertainty regarding the basic rules governing the real estate industry, and 
many other businesses, that is unprecedented in the U.S. at least since the wave of lawmaking, regulatory reform, and government 
reorganization that followed the Great Depression.
The global financial crisis and the aggressive reaction of the government and accounting profession thereto have occurred 
against a backdrop of increasing globalization and internationalization of financial and securities regulation that began prior to the 
recent financial crisis. As a result of this ongoing trend, financial and investment activities previously regulated almost exclusively at a 
local or national level are increasingly being regulated, or at least coordinated, on an international basis, with national rule-making and 
standard-setting groups relinquishing varying degrees of local and national control to achieve more uniform regulation and reduce the 
ability of market participants to engage in regulatory arbitrage between jurisdictions. This globalization trend has continued, arguably 
with an increased sense of urgency and importance, since the financial crisis.
This high degree of regulatory uncertainty, coupled with considerable additional uncertainty regarding the underlying condition 
and prospects of global, domestic, and local economies, has created a business environment that makes business planning and 
projections even more uncertain than is ordinarily the case for businesses in the financial and real estate sectors.
In the commercial real estate sector in which we operate, the uncertainties posed by various initiatives of accounting standard-
setting authorities to fundamentally rewrite major bodies of accounting literature constitute a significant source of uncertainty as to the 
basic rules of business engagement. Changes in accounting standards and requirements, including the potential requirement that U.S. 
public companies prepare financial statements in accordance with international accounting standards and the adoption of accounting 
standards likely to require the increased use of “fair value” measures, may have a significant effect on our financial results and on the 
results of our tenants, which would in turn have a secondary impact on us. New accounting pronouncements and interpretations of 
existing pronouncements are likely to continue to occur at an accelerated pace as a result of recent Congressional and regulatory 
actions and continuing efforts by the accounting profession itself to reform and modernize its principles and procedures.
Although we have not been as directly affected by the wave of new legislation and regulation as banks and investment banks, 
we may also be adversely affected by new or amended laws or regulations; by changes in federal, state, or foreign tax laws and 
regulations; and by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. In the U.S., the financial crisis and 
continuing economic slowdown prompted a variety of legislative, regulatory, and accounting profession responses.
The federal legislative response culminated in the enactment on July 21, 2010, of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act 
contains far-reaching provisions that substantially revise, or provide for the revision of, longstanding, fundamental rules governing the 
banking and investment banking industries and provide for the broad restructuring of the regulatory authorities in these areas. The 
Dodd-Frank Act has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, profound changes in the ground rules for financial business 
activities in the U.S.
To a large degree, the impacts of the legislative, regulatory, and accounting reforms to date are still not clear. Many of the 
provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates and will require extensive rule 
making by regulatory authorities. While we do not currently expect the Dodd-Frank Act to have a significant impact on our business 
activities, the Dodd-Frank Act’s impact on us may not be known for an extended period of time. The Dodd-Frank Act, including current 
and future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, along with other legislative and regulatory proposals 
directed at the financial or real estate industry or affecting taxation that are proposed or pending in the U.S. Congress, may limit our 
revenues, impose fees or taxes on us, and/or intensify the regulatory framework within which we operate in ways that are not currently 
identifiable. The Dodd-Frank Act also has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, substantial changes and dislocations in 
the banking industry and the financial services sector in ways that could have significant effects on, for example, the availability and 
pricing of unsecured credit, commercial mortgage credit, and derivatives, such as interest rate swaps, which are important aspects of 
our business. Accordingly, new laws, regulations, and accounting standards, as well as changes to, or new interpretations of, currently 
accepted accounting practices in the real estate industry, may adversely affect our results of operations.
33
33  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
We may incur significant costs if we fail to comply with laws or if laws change.
Our properties are subject to many federal, state, and local regulatory requirements and to state and local fire, life-safety, and 
other requirements. If we do not comply with all of these requirements, we may have to pay fines to government authorities or damage 
awards to private litigants. We do not know whether these requirements will change or whether new requirements will be imposed. 
Changes in these regulatory requirements could require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures. These expenditures could 
have an adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.
  For example, the California Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act, also referred to as Proposition 65, requires “clear 
and reasonable” warnings be given to persons who are exposed to chemicals known to the State of California to cause cancer or 
reproductive toxicity. We believe that we comply with Proposition 65 requirements; however, there can be no assurance that we will not 
be adversely affected by litigation or regulatory enforcement relating to Proposition 65. In addition, there can be no assurance that the 
costs of compliance with new environmental laws and regulations will not be significant or will not adversely affect our ability to meet 
our financial expectations, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.
We may incur significant costs in complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws.
Under the ADA, places of public accommodation and/or commercial facilities must meet federal requirements related to 
access and use by disabled persons. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures at our properties to comply with this 
law. In addition, non-compliance could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants.
A number of additional federal, state, and local laws and regulations exist regarding access by disabled persons. These 
regulations may require modifications to our properties or may affect future renovations. These expenditures may have an adverse 
impact on overall returns on our investments.
We face possible risks and costs associated with the effects of climate change and severe weather.
We cannot predict the rate at which climate change will progress. However, the physical effects of climate change could have 
a material adverse effect on our properties, operations, and business. For example, most of our properties are located along the east 
and west coasts of the U.S. To the extent that climate change impacts changes in weather patterns, our markets could experience 
severe weather, including hurricanes, severe winter storms, and coastal flooding due to increases in storm intensity and rising sea 
levels. Over time, these conditions could result in declining demand for space at our properties, delays in construction, resulting in 
increased construction costs, or in our inability to operate the buildings at all. Climate change and severe weather may also have 
indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of, or decreasing the availability of, property insurance on terms we find 
acceptable, by increasing the cost of energy, maintenance, repair of water and/or wind damage, and snow removal at our properties.
Although Congress has not yet enacted comprehensive federal legislation to address climate change, numerous states and 
municipalities have adopted laws and policies on climate change and emission reduction targets. For example, in July 2019, the 
Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act was signed into law in New York, establishing a statewide framework to reduce net 
greenhouse gas emissions to zero by 2050. Also, in May 2019, New York City enacted the Climate Mobilization Act aimed at reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions and will apply to commercial and residential buildings. In September 2018, SB 100 was signed into law in 
California, accelerating the state’s renewable portfolio standard target dates, and setting a policy of meeting 100% of retail sales from 
eligible renewables and zero-carbon resources by December 31, 2045. Changes in federal, state and local legislation and regulation 
based on concerns about climate change could result in increased capital expenditures on our existing properties and our new 
development properties (for example, to improve their energy efficiency and/or resistance to severe weather) without a corresponding 
increase in revenue, resulting in adverse impacts to our net income.
There can be no assurance that climate change and severe weather will not have a material adverse effect on our properties, 
operations, or business.
We may incur significant costs in complying with environmental laws.
Federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations may require us, as a current or prior owner or operator of real 
estate, to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products released at or from any of our properties. The 
cost of investigating and cleaning up contamination could be substantial and could exceed the amount of any insurance coverage 
available to us. In addition, the presence of contamination, or the failure to properly clean it up, may adversely affect our ability to lease 
or sell an affected property, or to borrow funds using that property as collateral.
Under environmental laws and regulations, we may have to pay government entities or third parties for property damage and 
for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by those parties relating to contaminated properties regardless of whether we knew of or 
caused the contamination. Even if more than one party was responsible for the contamination, we may be held responsible for all of the 
34
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  34
cleanup costs. In addition, third parties may sue us for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination, or jointly 
responsible parties may contest their responsibility or be financially unable to pay their share of such costs.
Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance, and removal of asbestos-containing building materials. These 
laws may impose fines and penalties on us for the release of asbestos-containing building materials and may allow third parties to seek 
recovery from us for personal injury from exposure to asbestos fibers. We have detected asbestos-containing building materials at 
some of our properties, but we do not expect that they will result in material environmental costs or liabilities for us.
Environmental laws and regulations also require the removal or upgrading of certain underground storage tanks and regulate:
•  The discharge of stormwater, wastewater, and any water pollutants;
•  The emission of air pollutants;
•  The generation, management, and disposal of hazardous or toxic chemicals, substances, or wastes; and
•  Workplace health and safety.
Many of our tenants routinely handle hazardous substances and wastes as part of their operations at our properties. 
Environmental laws and regulations subject our tenants, and potentially us, to liability resulting from these activities. Environmental 
liabilities could also affect a tenant’s ability to make rental payments to us. We require our tenants to comply with these environmental 
laws and regulations and to indemnify us against any related liabilities.
Independent environmental consultants have conducted Phase I or similar environmental assessments at our properties. We 
intend to use consultants to conduct similar environmental assessments on our future acquisitions. This type of assessment generally 
includes a site inspection, interviews, and a public records review, but no subsurface sampling. These assessments and certain 
additional investigations of our properties have not to date revealed any environmental liability that we believe would have a material 
adverse effect on our business, assets, or results of operations.
Additional investigations have included, as appropriate:
•  Asbestos surveys;
•  Radon surveys;
•  Lead-based paint surveys;
•  Mold surveys;
•  Additional public records review;
•  Subsurface sampling; and
•  Other testing.
Nevertheless, it is possible that the assessments on our current properties have not revealed, and that assessments on future 
acquisitions will not reveal, all environmental liabilities. Consequently, there may be material environmental liabilities of which we are 
unaware that may result in substantial costs to us or our tenants and that could have a material adverse effect on our business.
Environmental, health, or safety matters are subject to evolving regulatory requirements. Costs and capital expenditures 
relating to the evolving requirements depend on the timing of the promulgation and enforcement of new standards. As discussed in the 
immediately preceding risk factor, due to concern over the risks of climate change, a more restrictive regulatory framework to reduce 
greenhouse gas pollution might be implemented, including the adoption of carbon taxes, restrictive permitting, and increased efficiency 
standards. These requirements could make our operations more expensive and lengthen our project times. The costs of complying with 
evolving regulatory requirements, including greenhouse gas regulations and policies, could negatively impact our financial results. 
Moreover, changes in environmental regulations could inhibit or interrupt our operations, or require modifications to our facilities. 
Accordingly, environmental, health, or safety regulatory matters could result in significant unanticipated costs or liabilities and could 
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the market price of our 
common stock. 
We may be unable to meet our sustainability goals.
We seek to make a positive and meaningful impact on the health, safety, and well-being of our tenants, stockholders, 
employees, and the communities in which we live and work. In support of these efforts, we set specific sustainability goals to reduce the 
environmental impact of buildings in operation and for new ground-up construction projects. There are significant risks that may prevent 
us from achieving these goals, including the possibility that:
•  Change in market conditions may affect our ability to deploy capital for projects that reduce energy consumption, 
greenhouse gas pollution and potable water consumption, and provide waste savings.
•  Our tenants might be unwilling or unable to accept potential incremental expenses associated with our sustainability 
programs, including expenses to comply with requirements stipulated under building certification standards such as 
LEED, WELL, and Fitwel.
35
35  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
  The realization of any of the above risks could significantly impact our reputation, our ability to continue developing properties 
in markets where high levels of LEED certification contribute to our efforts to obtain building permits and entitlements, and our ability to 
attract tenants who include LEED certification among their priorities when selecting a location to lease.
  We may invest or spend the net proceeds from the offering of our unsecured senior notes payable due in January 
2024 and April 2026 in ways with which investors may not agree and in ways that may not earn a profit.
  The net proceeds from the offering of our unsecured senior notes payable due in January 2024 and our unsecured senior 
notes payable due in April 2026 (collectively “the Green Bonds”) will be used to fund, in whole or in part, Eligible Green Projects (as 
defined below), including the development and redevelopment of such projects. The net proceeds from this offering were initially used 
to reduce the outstanding balance on our unsecured senior line of credit. We then allocated the funds to recently completed and future 
Eligible Green Projects.
  There can be no assurance that the projects funded with the proceeds from the Green Bonds will meet investor criteria and 
expectations regarding environmental impact and sustainability performance. In particular, no assurance is given that the use of such 
proceeds for any Eligible Green Projects will satisfy, whether in whole or in part, any present or future investor expectations or 
requirements as regards to any investment criteria or guidelines with which such investor or its investments are required to comply, 
whether by any present or future applicable law or regulations or by its own bylaws or other governing rules or investment portfolio 
mandates (in particular with regard to any direct or indirect environmental, sustainability, or social impact of any projects or uses, the 
subject of or related to, the relevant Eligible Green Projects). Adverse environmental or social impacts may occur during the design, 
construction, and operation of the projects, or the projects may become controversial or criticized by activist groups or other 
stakeholders. In addition, although we will limit the use of proceeds from the Green Bonds to Eligible Green Projects, there can be no 
assurance that one or more development, redevelopment, and tenant improvement projects that we expect will receive a LEED 
certification will actually receive such certification.
  ‘‘Eligible Green Projects’’ are defined as:
•  New class A development properties that have received or are expected to receive Gold or Platinum LEED certification;
•  Existing class A redevelopment properties that have received or are expected to receive Gold or Platinum LEED 
certification; and
•  Tenant improvements that have received or are expected to receive Gold or Platinum LEED certification.
  Eligible Green Projects include projects with disbursements made in the three years preceding the applicable issue date of the 
Green Bonds. We intend to spend the remaining net proceeds from the sale of the Green Bonds within two years following the 
applicable issue date of the Green Bonds. LEED is a voluntary, third party building certification process developed by the U.S. Green 
Building Council (‘‘USGBC’’), a non-profit organization. The USGBC developed the LEED certification process to (i) evaluate the 
environmental performance from a whole-building perspective over a building’s life cycle, (ii) provide a definitive standard for what 
constitutes a ‘‘green building,’’ (iii) enhance environmental awareness among architects and building contractors, and (iv) encourage 
the design and construction of energy-efficient, water-conserving buildings that use sustainable or green resources and materials.
Changes in U.S. accounting standards may adversely impact us.
The regulatory boards and government agencies that determine financial accounting standards and disclosures in the U.S., 
which include the FASB and the IASB (collectively, the “Boards”) and the SEC, continually change and update the financial accounting 
standards we must follow. 
In February 2016, the Boards issued an ASU that changes certain aspects of accounting for leases for both lessees and 
lessors. Since then, several additional ASUs have been issued to clarify implementation issues, which became effective for us on 
January 1, 2019. These ASUs could have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations, which in turn could also 
significantly impact the market price of our common stock. Such potential impacts include, without limitation:
•  Significant changes to our balance sheet relating to the recognition of operating leases as assets or liabilities based on 
existing lease terms and whether we are the lessor or lessee;
•  Significant changes in the timing of revenue recognition (related to lease arrangements in which we are the lessor) or 
expense recognition (related to the lease arrangements in which we are the lessee) stemming from the potential 
classification of financing or sales-type leases under the new ASU, for leases that are classified as operating leases under 
the current accounting standards;
•  Significant fluctuations in our reported results of operations, including an increase in our expenses related to amortization 
of new lease-related assets and/or liabilities and assumed interest costs with leases;
•  Significant fluctuations in our reported results of operations, including an increase in our general and administrative 
expenses related to payroll costs, legal costs, and other out-of-pocket costs incurred as part of the leasing process prior to 
the execution of a lease that no longer qualifies for capitalization as initial direct costs and instead are expensed as 
incurred; and
36
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  36
•  Significant fluctuations in our reported results of operations that may result from the classification of future ground leases 
as finance leases rather than operating leases. Prior to January 1, 2019, the effective date of the new lease ASUs, all 
ground leases were accounted for as operating leases, with ground lease payments straight-lined over the term of the 
ground lease. Under the new lease accounting, ground leases can qualify for classification as finance leases, which are 
recognized in operating results using an effective interest method. The classification of ground leases as operating leases 
or finance leases may result in different timing of expense recognition over the term of the ground leases.
  In addition, the new accounting updates could make leasing/re-leasing of our space less attractive to our potential and current 
tenants, which could reduce overall occupancy of our properties. Under the lease guidance effective prior to January 1, 2019, our 
tenants did not reflect operating leases with us as a liability on their balance sheets, but only provided a disclosure of future minimum 
payments associated with the operating lease in the footnotes to their financial statements. The new lease standard requires that 
lessees record on their balance sheets their rights and obligations pertaining to operating leases with a term of over 12 months. 
Changes in lease accounting standards could potentially impact the structure and terms of future leases since our tenants may seek to 
limit lease terms to avoid recognizing lease obligations in their financial statements. The new rules may also make lease renewal 
options less attractive because, under certain circumstances, the rules will require a tenant to assume that a renewal right will be 
exercised and accrue a liability relating to the longer lease term. Shorter lease terms and a reduction in RSF leased may lead to 
reduction in occupancy rates and decline in rental revenue, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations.
  Furthermore, in January 2016, the FASB issued an ASU that amended the accounting for certain equity investments. The 
update became effective for us on January 1, 2018. The core principle of the ASU involves the measurement of equity investments at 
fair value and the recognition of changes in fair value of those investments during each reporting period in net income. Since adoption, 
this ASU increased the volatility of our earnings, and is expected to continue introducing volatility to our results of operations, as a result 
of the guidance requiring us to immediately recognize in net income (i) unrealized gains and losses on our equity investments and 
(ii) impairments deemed not to be other than temporary under the previous guidance. The increased volatility of our earnings could 
adversely affect investors and analysts’ ability to form reliable expectations of our future performance, which could negatively impact 
analysts’ “buy,” “sell,” or “hold” recommendations for our common stock. Therefore, our share price could be negatively affected by 
causes beyond our control. 
  Any difficulties in the implementation of changes in accounting principles, particularly for the new leases ASUs, including the 
ability to modify our accounting systems and to update our policies, procedures, information systems, and internal controls over 
financial reporting, could result in materially inaccurate financial statements, which in turn could harm our operating results or cause us 
to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Significant changes in the new lease ASUs could cause fluctuations in revenue and expense 
recognition and materially affect our results of operations. We also anticipate an increase to our general and administrative expenses 
resulting from the expensing of initial direct costs that no longer qualify for capitalization. This could adversely affect our reported results 
of operations, profitability, and financial statements. Additionally, the adoption of new accounting standards could also affect the 
calculation of our debt covenants. It cannot be assured that we will be able to work with our lenders to successfully amend our debt 
covenants in response to changes in accounting standards.
Changes in the system for establishing U.S. accounting standards may result in adverse fluctuations in our reported 
asset and liability values and earnings and may materially and adversely affect our reported results of operations.
Accounting for public companies in the U.S. has historically been conducted in accordance with GAAP as established by the 
FASB, an independent body whose standards are recognized by the SEC as authoritative for U.S. publicly held companies. The IASB is 
a London-based independent board established in 2001 and charged with the development of IFRS. IFRS generally reflects accounting 
practices that prevail in Europe and in developed nations in other parts of the world.
IFRS differs in material respects from GAAP. Among other things, IFRS has historically relied more on “fair value” models of 
accounting for assets and liabilities than GAAP. “Fair value” models are based on periodic revaluation of assets and liabilities, often 
resulting in fluctuations in such values as compared to GAAP, which relies more frequently on historical cost as the basis for asset and 
liability valuation.
The SEC released a final report on its IFRS work plan, which indicates the SEC still needs to analyze and consider whether 
IFRS should be incorporated into the U.S. financial reporting system. It is unclear at this time how and when the SEC will propose that 
GAAP and IFRS be harmonized if the decision to incorporate is adopted. In addition, incorporating a new method of accounting and 
adopting IFRS will be a complex undertaking. We may need to develop new systems and controls based on the principles of IFRS. 
Since these are new endeavors, and the precise requirements of the pronouncements ultimately adopted are not now known, the 
magnitude of costs associated with this conversion is uncertain.
We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of IFRS on our financial condition and results of operations. Such 
evaluation cannot be completed, however, without more clarity regarding the specific proposed standards that will be adopted. Until 
there is more certainty with respect to the standards to be adopted, prospective investors should consider that our conversion to IFRS 
could have a material adverse impact on our reported results of operations.
37
37  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Changes in financial accounting standards may adversely impact our compliance with financial debt covenants.
Our unsecured senior notes payable contain financial covenants that are calculated based on GAAP at the date the 
instruments were issued. However, certain debt agreements, including those related to our unsecured senior line of credit, contain 
financial covenants whose calculations are based on current GAAP, which is subject to future changes. Our unsecured senior line of 
credit agreement provides that our financial debt covenants be renegotiated in good faith to preserve the original intent of the existing 
financial covenant when such covenant is affected by an accounting standard change. For those debt agreements that require the 
renegotiation of financial covenants upon changes in accounting standards, there is no assurance that we will be successful in such 
negotiations or that the renegotiated covenants will not be more restrictive to us.
Extreme weather, natural or other unforeseen disasters may cause property damage or disrupt operations, which 
could harm our business and operating results.
We have properties located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather and natural or other disasters, including, but not 
limited to, earthquakes, winds, floods, hurricanes, fires, power shortages, telecommunication failures, medical epidemics, explosions, or 
other natural or manmade accidents or incidents. Our headquarters and certain properties are located in areas of California that have 
historically been subject to earthquakes and wildfires. Such conditions and disastrous events may damage our properties, disrupt our 
operations, or adversely impact our tenants’ or third party vendors’ operations. These events may affect our ability to operate our 
business and have significant negative consequences on our financial and operating results. Damage caused by these events may 
result in costly repairs for damaged properties or equipment, delays in the development or redevelopment of our construction projects, 
or interruption of our daily business operations, which may result in increased costs and decreased revenues.
We maintain insurance coverage at levels that we believe are appropriate for our business. However, we cannot be certain 
that the amount of coverage will be adequate to satisfy damages or losses incurred in the event of another wildfire or other natural or 
manmade disaster, which may lead to a material adverse effect on our properties, operations, and our business, or those of our 
tenants.
Terrorist attacks may have an adverse impact on our business and operating results and could decrease the value of 
our assets.
Terrorist attacks such as those that took place on September 11, 2001, could have a material adverse impact on our business, 
our operating results, and the market price of our common stock. Future terrorist attacks may result in declining economic activity, 
which could reduce the demand for, and the value of, our properties. To the extent that future terrorist attacks impact our tenants, their 
businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to honor their lease obligations.
Our business and operations would suffer in the event of information technology system failures.
Despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures, and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our 
internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer 
viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, and telecommunications failures. Any system failure 
or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. We may also incur additional 
significant costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions.
Security incidents through cyber attacks, cyber intrusions, or other methods could disrupt our information 
technology networks and related systems, cause a loss of assets or loss of data, give rise to remediation or other expenses, 
expose us to liability under federal and state laws, and subject us to litigation and investigations, which could result in 
substantial reputational damage and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, 
cash flows, and the market price of our common stock.
Information technology, communication networks, and related systems are essential to the operation of our business. We use 
these systems to manage our tenant and vendor relationships, internal communications, accounting and record-keeping systems, and 
many other key aspects of our business. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and 
other information in our computer systems and networks, which also depend on the strength of our procedures and the effectiveness of 
our internal controls. 
A security incident may occur through physical break-ins, breaches of our secure network by an unauthorized party, software 
vulnerabilities, malware, computer viruses, attachments to emails, employee theft or misuse, social engineering, or inadequate use of 
security controls. Outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce our employees to disclose sensitive information or transfer funds 
via illegal electronic spamming, phishing, spoofing, or other tactics. Additionally, cyber attackers can develop and deploy malware, 
credential theft or guessing tools, and other malicious software programs to gain access to sensitive data or fraudulently obtain assets 
we hold.
38
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  38
  We have implemented security measures to safeguard our systems and data and to manage cyber security risk. We monitor 
and develop our information technology networks and infrastructure, and invest in the development and enhancement of our controls 
designed to prevent, detect, respond, and mitigate the risk of unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, and other events that 
could have a security impact. We conduct periodic security awareness trainings of our employees to educate them on how to identify 
and alert management to phishing emails, spoofed or manipulated electronic communications, and other critical security threats. We’ve 
implemented internal controls around our treasury function including enhanced payment authorization procedures, verification 
requirements for new vendor set-up and vendor information changes, and bolstered outgoing payment notification process and account 
reconciliation procedures.
  While, to date, we are not aware of having experienced a significant security incident or cyber attack, there can be no 
assurance that our actions, security measures, and controls designed to prevent, detect, or respond to intrusion; to limit access to data; 
to prevent loss, destruction, alteration, or exfiltration of business information; or to limit the negative impact from such attacks can 
provide absolute security against a security incident. A significant security incident involving our information systems or those of our 
tenants, vendors, software creators, cloud providers, or other third parties with whom we do business could lead to:
•  Theft of our cash, cash equivalents, or other liquid assets, including publicly traded securities;
•  Interruption in the operation of our systems, which may result in operational inefficiencies and a loss of profits;
•  Unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation, or release of, proprietary, confidential, sensitive, or 
otherwise valuable information of ours or our tenants, and other business partners, which could be used to compete 
against us or for disruptive, destructive, or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes;
•  Inability to produce financial and operational data necessary to comply with rules and regulations from the SEC, the IRS, 
or other state and federal regulatory agencies;
•  Our inability to properly monitor our compliance with the rules and regulations regarding our qualification as a REIT;
•  Significant management attention and resources required to remedy any damages that result;
•  Significant exposure to litigation and regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions; 
•  Violation of our lease agreements or other agreements; 
•  Damage to our reputation among our tenants, business partners, and investors;
•  Loss of business opportunities; and
•  Difficulties in employee retention and recruitment.
  A principal reason that we cannot provide absolute protection from security incidents is that it may not always be possible to 
anticipate, detect, or recognize threats to our systems, or to implement effective preventive measures against all security incidents due 
to, among other things, the frequent change in techniques used in cyber attacks, which may not be recognized until launched, and the 
wide variety of sources from which a cyber attack can originate. We may not be able to immediately address the consequences of a 
security incident due to a cyber attack. A successful breach of our computer systems, software, networks, or other technology assets 
due to a cyber attack could occur and persist for an extended period of time before being detected due to, among other things:
•  The breadth of our operations and the high volume of transactions that our systems process;
•  The large number of our business partners; and
•  The proliferation and increasing sophistication of cyber attacks.
  The extent of a particular cyber attack and the steps that we may need to take to investigate the attack may not be 
immediately clear. Therefore, in the event of an attack, it may take a significant amount of time before such an investigation can be 
completed. During an investigation, we may not necessarily know the extent of the damage incurred or how best to remediate it, and 
certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated, which could further increase 
the costs and consequences of a cyber attack.
  Even if we are not targeted directly, cyber attacks on the U.S. government, financial markets, financial institutions, or other 
businesses, including our tenants, vendors, software creators, cloud providers, and other third parties with whom we do business, could 
disrupt our normal business operations and networks. 
  We maintain insurance to protect ourselves against certain losses incurred in the event of a security incident or disruption of 
our information systems. However, we cannot be certain that the coverage is adequate to compensate for all damages that may arise. 
In addition, we cannot be certain that such insurance options will remain available to us in the future on commercially reasonable terms, 
or at all.
  Any or all of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or 
the market price of our common stock.
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
  None.
39
39  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
General
As of December 31, 2019, we had 291 properties in North America containing approximately 29.1 million RSF of operating 
properties and development and redevelopment of new Class A properties (under construction), including 36 properties that are held by 
consolidated real estate joint ventures and six properties that are held by unconsolidated real estate joint ventures. Refer to the 
definitions of “Annual Rental Revenue” and “Operating Statistics” in the “Non-GAAP Measures and Definitions” section under “Item 7. 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this annual report on Form 10-K for a 
description of the basis used to compute the aforementioned measures. The occupancy percentage of our operating properties in North 
America was 96.8% as of December 31, 2019. The exteriors of our properties typically resemble traditional office properties, but the 
interior infrastructures are designed to accommodate the needs of life science, technology, and agtech tenants. These improvements 
typically are generic rather than specific to a particular tenant. As a result, we believe that the improvements have long-term value and 
utility and are usable by a wide range of tenants. Improvements to our properties typically include:
•  Reinforced concrete floors;
•  Upgraded roof loading capacity;
•  Increased floor-to-ceiling heights;
•  Heavy-duty HVAC systems;
•  Enhanced environmental control technology;
•  Significantly upgraded electrical, gas, and plumbing infrastructure; and
•  Laboratory benches.
As of December 31, 2019, we held a fee simple interest in each of our properties, with the exception of 31 properties in North 
America that accounted for approximately 11% of our total number of properties. Of these 31 properties, we held 16 properties in the 
Greater Boston market, eight properties in the San Francisco market, two properties in the New York City market, two properties in the 
Seattle market, one property in the Maryland market, and two properties in the Research Triangle market pursuant to ground leasehold 
interests. During the year ended December 31, 2019, our ground lease rental expense aggregated 1.5% as a percentage of net 
operating income. Refer to further discussion in our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in “Item 15. Exhibits and 
Financial Statement Schedules” in this annual report on Form 10-K.
As of December 31, 2019, we had 820 leases with a total of 622 tenants, and 135, or 46%, of our 291 properties were single-
tenant properties. Leases in our multi-tenant buildings typically have initial terms of five to 11 years, while leases in our single-tenant 
buildings typically have initial terms of 10 to 19 years. As of December 31, 2019:
•  Investment-grade or publicly traded large cap tenants represented 50% of our total annual rental revenue;
•  Approximately 95% of our leases (on an RSF basis) contained effective annual rent escalations that were either fixed 
(generally ranging from approximately 3.0% to 3.5%) or indexed based on a consumer price index or other index;
•  Approximately 97% of our leases (on an RSF basis) were triple net leases, which require tenants to pay substantially all 
real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, repairs and maintenance, common area expenses, and other operating expenses 
(including increases thereto) in addition to base rent; and
•  Approximately 96% of our leases (on an RSF basis) provided for the recapture of capital expenditures (such as HVAC 
maintenance and/or replacement, roof replacement, and parking lot resurfacing) that we believe would typically be borne 
by the landlord in traditional office leases.
Our leases also typically give us the right to review and approve tenant alterations to the property. Generally, tenant-installed 
improvements to the properties are reusable generic improvements and remain our property after termination of the lease at our 
election. However, we are permitted under the terms of most of our leases to require that the tenant, at its expense, remove certain 
non-generic improvements and restore the premises to their original condition.
40
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  40
Locations of properties
The locations of our properties are diversified among a number of life science, technology, and agtech cluster markets. The 
following table sets forth the total RSF, number of properties, and annual rental revenue in effect as of December 31, 2019, in each of 
our markets in North America (dollars in thousands, except per RSF amounts):
RSF Number Annual Rental Revenue
of
Market Operating Development Redevelopment Total % of Total Properties Total % of Total Per RSF
Greater Boston 7,195,439 — 153,157 7,348,596 25% 66 $ 453,998 36% $ 63.65
San Francisco 6,829,211 841,178 347,912 8,018,301 28 55 337,801 26 58.37
New York City 1,127,580 — 140,098 1,267,678 4 5 80,119 6 72.49
San Diego 5,731,061 232,818 — 5,963,879 20 75 204,900 16 38.75
Seattle 1,458,305 100,086 — 1,558,391 6 15 75,770 6 52.65
Maryland 2,663,891 261,096 41,098 2,966,085 10 42 73,868 6 28.87
Research Triangle 1,224,904 — — 1,224,904 4 16 32,337 3 27.36
Canada 188,967 — — 188,967 1 2 4,793 — 27.07
Non-cluster markets 369,770 — — 369,770 1 12 10,597 1 35.77
Properties held for sale 191,862 — — 191,862 1 3 4,073 — N/A
North America 26,980,990 1,435,178 682,265 29,098,433 100% 291 $ 1,278,256 100% $ 51.04
2,117,443
Summary of occupancy percentages in North America
  The following table sets forth the occupancy percentages for our operating properties and our operating and redevelopment 
properties in each of our North America markets, excluding properties held for sale, as of the following dates:
  Operating Properties Operating and Redevelopment Properties
Market 12/31/19 12/31/18 12/31/17 12/31/19 12/31/18 12/31/17
Greater Boston 99.1% 98.7% 96.6% 97.1% 98.2% 95.7%
San Francisco 98.3 100.0 99.6 93.6 96.2 99.6
New York City 99.2 98.3 99.8 88.1 87.3 99.8
San Diego 92.3 (1) 94.7 94.5 92.3 94.7 90.9
Seattle 98.7 97.7 97.7 98.7 97.7 97.7
Maryland 96.7 96.8 95.2 95.2 94.7 93.2
Research Triangle 96.5 95.4 98.1 96.5 85.9 84.0
Subtotal 97.0 97.6 97.0 94.6 95.3 94.9
Canada 93.7 95.2 99.6 93.7 95.2 99.6
Non-cluster markets 80.1 79.0 78.4 80.1 79.0 78.4
North America 96.8% (2) 97.3% 96.8% 94.4% 95.1% 94.7%
(1)  Decline from December 31, 2018 primarily related to vacancy at the recently acquired SD Tech by Alexandria, partially offset by lease commencements at our Campus 
Pointe by Alexandria and University District campuses.
(2)  Includes 259,616 RSF, or 1.0%, of vacancy representing lease-up opportunities at properties recently acquired during the second half of 2019, primarily related to our 
SD Tech by Alexandria campus. Excluding these vacancies, occupancy of operating properties in North America would have been 97.8% as of December 31, 2019. 
Expected occupancy for the first quarter of 2020 includes 689,103 RSF, or 2.4%, of vacancy primarily from three buildings contributed by our partner in a recently formed 
consolidated real estate joint venture and our acquisition of SD Tech by Alexandria campus. Refer to the “Acquisitions” section under this Item 2 in this annual report on 
Form 10-K for additional information.
As of December 31, 2019 As of March 31, 2020 (projected)
Occupancy Impact Occupancy Impact
Property Submarket/Market RSF Region Consolidated RSF Region Consolidated
SD Tech by Alexandria Sorrento Mesa/San Diego 182,056 3.2% 0.7% 225,865 3.8% 0.8%
601, 611, and 651 Gateway Boulevard South San Francisco/San Francisco N/A N/A N/A 211,454 2.7% 0.7%
Other acquisitions Various 77,560 N/A 0.3 251,784 N/A 0.9%
259,616 1.0% 689,103 2.4%
Refer to the “Non-GAAP Measures and Definitions” section under Item 7 in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information.
41
41  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Top 20 tenants
80% of Top 20 Annual Rental Revenue From Investment-Grade 
(1)(2)
or Publicly Traded Large Cap Tenants
Our properties are leased to a high-quality and diverse group of tenants, with no individual tenant accounting for more than 
4.1% of our annual rental revenue in effect as of December 31, 2019. The following table sets forth information regarding leases with 
our 20 largest tenants in North America based upon annual rental revenue in effect as of December 31, 2019 (dollars in thousands, 
except average market cap):
Remaining  Percentage of  Investment-Grade Average 
Lease  Annual Aggregate  Credit Ratings Market 
Term(1)  Aggregate Rental Annual Rental  Cap(1)
Tenant (in Years) RSF Revenue(1) Revenue(1) Moody’s S&P (in billions)
1 Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 8.7 900,050 $ 52,174 4.1% A2 A+ $ 86.9
2 Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Ltd. 9.6 606,249 39,251 3.1 Baa2 BBB+ $ 57.9
3 Facebook, Inc. 12.0 903,786 38,873 3.0 — — $ 518.1
4 Illumina, Inc. 10.6 891,495 35,907 2.8 — BBB $ 45.6
5 Eli Lilly and Company 9.4 554,089 34,096 2.7 A2 A+ $ 115.9
6 Sanofi 8.5 494,693 33,845 2.6 A1 AA $ 109.7
7 Novartis AG 8.3 378,894 27,849 2.2 A1 AA- $ 224.8
8 Uber Technologies, Inc. 62.8 (3) 1,016,745 27,445 2.1 — — $ 60.3
9 Merck & Co., Inc. 11.4 421,623 24,290 1.9 A1 AA $ 211.4
10 bluebird bio, Inc. 7.4 312,805 23,076 1.8 — — $ 6.5
11 Moderna, Inc. 9.9 382,388 22,665 1.8 — — $ 6.0
12 Maxar Technologies(2) 5.5 478,000 21,577 1.7 — — $ 0.5
13 New York University 11.7 201,284 19,011 1.5 Aa2 AA- $ —
14 Roche 3.5 365,309 18,996 1.5 Aa3 AA $ 240.2
15 Pfizer Inc. 5.2 416,979 17,754 1.4 A1 AA- $ 223.3
16 Stripe, Inc. 7.8 295,333 17,736 1.4 — — $ —
17 athenahealth, Inc.(2) 12.5 409,710 17,632 1.4 — — $ 5.6
18 Massachusetts Institute of Technology 5.7 257,626 17,306 1.4 Aaa AAA $ —
19 Amgen Inc. 4.3 407,369 16,838 1.3 Baa1 A- $ 119.3
20 United States Government 8.0 284,998 16,384 1.3 Aaa AA+ $ —
Total/weighted average 11.6 (3) 9,979,425 $ 522,705 41.0%
Annual rental revenue and RSF include 100% of each property managed by us in North America. 
(1)  Based on aggregate annual rental revenue in effect as of December 31, 2019. Refer to the definitions of “Annual Rental Revenue” and “Investment-Grade or Publicly 
Traded Large Cap Tenants” in the “Non-GAAP Measures and Definitions” section under Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information on our 
methodology on annual rental revenue from unconsolidated real estate joint ventures and average daily market capitalization. 
(2)  Annual rental revenue from investment-grade or publicly traded large cap tenants includes two tenants, Maxar Technologies and athenahealth, Inc., located in properties 
acquired during the three months ended December 31, 2019. Excluding these two tenants, our annual rental revenue from investment-grade or publicly traded large cap 
tenants within our top 20 tenants was 87%.
(3)  Includes a ground lease for land at 1455 and 1515 Third Street (two buildings aggregating 422,980 RSF) and a lease at 1655 and 1725 Third Street (two buildings 
aggregating 593,765 RSF) owned by our unconsolidated joint venture in which we have an ownership interest of 10%. Annual rental revenue is presented using 100% of 
the annual rental revenue of our consolidated properties and our share of annual rental revenue of our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures. Refer to footnote 1 for 
additional information. Excluding the ground lease, the weighted-average remaining lease term for our top 20 tenants was 8.9 years as of December 31, 2019.
42
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  42
Long-Duration Cash Flows From High-Quality, Diverse, and 
Innovative Tenants
Investment-Grade or 
Long-Duration Lease Terms
Publicly Traded Large Cap Tenants
50%
8.1 Years
of ARE’s Weighted-Average
(1) (2)
Annual Rental Revenue Remaining Term
Tenant Mix
(1)
Percentage of ARE’s Annual Rental Revenue
(1)  Represents annual rental revenue in effect as of December 31, 2019. Refer to the “Non-GAAP Measures and Definitions” section under Item 7 in this annual report on 
Form 10-K for additional information.
(2)  Based on aggregate annual rental revenue in effect as of December 31, 2019. Refer to definition of “Annual Rental Revenue” in the “Non-GAAP Measures and 
Definitions” section under Item 7 in this annual report on Form 10-K for our methodology on annual rental revenue for unconsolidated real estate joint ventures.
(3)  67% of our annual rental revenue for technology tenants is from investment-grade or publicly traded large cap tenants.
43
43  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
High-Quality Cash Flows From Class A Properties in AAA Locations
Class A Properties in 
AAA Locations
AAA Locations
76%
of ARE’s
(1)
Annual Rental Revenue
Percentage of ARE’s Annual Rental Revenue(1)
Solid Demand for Class A Properties
in AAA Locations Drives Solid Occupancy
Solid Historical
(3)
Occupancy Across Key Locations
Occupancy(2)
96%
Over 10 Years
(1)  Represents annual rental revenue in effect as of December 31, 2019. Refer to the “Non-GAAP Measures and Definitions” section under Item 7 in this annual report on 
Form 10-K for additional information.
(2)  Represents average occupancy of operating properties in North America as of each December 31 for the last 10 years.
(3)  As of December 31, 2019.
(4)  Includes 259,616 RSF, or 1.0%, of vacancy representing lease-up opportunities at properties recently acquired during the second half of 2019, primarily related to our 
SD Tech by Alexandria campus. Excluding these vacancies, occupancy of operating properties in North America would have been 97.8% as of December 31, 2019. 
Refer to the “Summary of Occupancy Percentages in North America” section under this Item 2 in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information. 
44
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  44
% %
age ng andopment 98.9 99.9 81.7 99.1 100.0100.0100.0100.0100.096.8 86.6 100.0 100.0100.099.480.0100.098.5 100.0100.0100.0100.097.1
Percent OperatiRedevel
y 
c
n % %
Occupa Operating 98.9 99.9 100.0 99.1 100.0100.0100.0100.0100.099.4 86.6 100.0 100.0100.099.480.0100.098.5 100.0100.0100.0100.099.1 ails.
et
d
7 3 1 1 750307 6 6 751278 39578 nal 
e 8 8 3 3 419222 4 7 457566 44659 o
AnnualRentalRevenu $168,3 98,2 26,4 70,5 10,613,87,94,06400,7 4,6 11,8 13,88,45,13,11,143,6 1,562,74,9$453,9 K for additi
0-
1
Number ofProperties 10 7 11 10 2122146 1 8 3111115 211466 port in Form 
e
87 35 88 71 600458490961 63 82 173192307022 4645595096 nual r
4 6 2 6 256533 1 8 648324 80765 n
ds): Total 2,365, 1,181, 836, 815, 234,225,99,54,25,5,838, 87, 343, 317,200,144,82,26,1,115, 155,91,60,307,7,348, n this a
san m 7 i
u e
19 (dollars in tho SF Redevelopment — — 153,157 — —————153,157 — — —————— ————153,157 ation” section under It
0 R m
er 31, 2 opment — — — — —————— — — —————— ————— ncial Infor 45
ecemb Devel ure Fina
D nt
es as of  perating 2,365,487 1,181,635 683,131 815,671 234,260225,50499,65854,54925,3095,685,204 87,163 343,882 317,617200,431144,89282,33026,2701,115,422 155,84691,04560,759307,6507,195,439 he “Joint Ve
Property listing      The following table provides certain information about our properti  Submarket / AddressOMarket /Greater BostonCambridge/Inner Suburbs® at Kendall SquareAlexandria Center(1)(1)50, 60, 75/125, 100, and 225 Binney Street, 161 and 215 First Street, 150 Second Street, 300 Third Street, and 11 Hurley Street ®Alexandria Technology Square100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, and 700 Technology SquareThe Arsenal on the Charles311, 321, and 343 Arsenal Street, 300 and 400 North Beacon Street, 1,2, and 3 Kingsbury Avenue, and 100, 200, and 400 Talcott Avenue® Alexandria Centerat One Kendall SquareOne Kendall Square – Buildings 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600/700,1400, 1800, 2000, and 399 Binney Street480 and 500 Arsenal Street640 Memorial Drive780 and 790 Memorial Drive167 Sidney Street and 99 Erie Street79/96 13th Street (Charlestown Navy Yard)Cambridge/Inner SuburbsSeaport Innovation District5 Necco StreetRoute 128Alexandria Park at 1283 and 6/8 Preston Court, 29, 35, and 44 Hartwell Avenue, 35 and 45/47Wiggins Avenue, and 60 Westview Street225, 266, and 275 Second Avenue100 Tech Drive19 Presidential Way100 Beaver Street285 Bear Hill RoadRoute 128Route 495111 and 130 Forbes Boulevard20 Walkup Drive30 Bearfoot RoadRoute 495Greater Boston (1)    We own a partial interest in this property through a real estate joint venture. Refer to t
45  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
%% %%
ageage ng andng andopmentopment 99.899.8 100.0100.0——100.0100.0100.0100.090.690.6 99.499.489.689.6 N/AN/A100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.090.890.896.496.4 100.0100.0 N/AN/A 100.0100.067.467.4 96.996.9 100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0 100.0100.062.362.3100.0100.094.594.593.693.6
PercentPercent OperatiOperatiRedevelRedevel
y y 
cc
nn %% %%
OccupaOccupa OperatingOperating 99.899.8 100.0100.0N/AN/A100.0100.0100.0100.099.999.9 99.499.489.689.6 N/AN/A100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.090.890.896.496.4 100.0100.0 N/AN/A 100.0100.0100.0100.0 96.996.9 100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0 100.0100.062.362.3100.0100.098.698.698.398.3 ation.ation.
mm
oror
AnnualAnnualRentalRentalRevenueRevenue 88,93388,933 17,73617,736——12,12912,1295,7415,741124,539124,539 48,39448,39431,53731,537 ——9,4369,4366,6196,6196,6186,6185,4975,4974,1694,169112,270112,270 29,76529,765 —— 21,57721,57713,90213,902 11,27411,274 2,7492,7494,2574,2575,4725,472 8,0098,0092,1912,1911,7961,796100,992100,992337,801337,801 dditional infdditional inf
$$ $$ or aor a
K fK f
Number ofNumber ofPropertiesProperties 99 111111111313 5588 1122111122112121 33 22 2233 44 111122 11111121215555 n Form 10-n Form 10-
ort iort i
TotalTotal 1,997,8191,997,819 295,333295,333255,765255,765148,146148,14666,68266,6822,763,7452,763,745 919,704919,704634,466634,466 315,000315,000163,035163,035155,685155,685136,395136,395107,960107,960103,857103,8572,536,1022,536,102 772,983772,983 526,178526,178 478,000478,000282,417282,417 197,498197,498 110,000110,00099,20899,20882,46282,462 77,63477,63460,00060,00032,07432,0742,718,4542,718,4548,018,3018,018,301 s annual reps annual rep
hihi
n tn t
7 i7 i
m m 
developmentdevelopment —— ——255,765255,765————255,765255,765 ———— —————————————— —— —— ——92,14792,147 —— —————— ——————92,14792,147347,912347,912 ction under Itection under Ite
RSFRSF ReRe n” sen” se
oo
velopmentvelopment —— —————————— ———— 315,000315,000——————————315,000315,000 —— 526,178526,178 ———— —— —————— ——————526,178526,178841,178841,178 cial Informaticial Informati 4646
DeDe nannan
FiFi
e e 
OperatingOperating 1,997,8191,997,819 295,333295,333——148,146148,14666,68266,6822,507,9802,507,980 919,704919,704634,466634,466 ——163,035163,035155,685155,685136,395136,395107,960107,960103,857103,8572,221,1022,221,102 772,983772,983 —— 478,000478,000190,270190,270 197,498197,498 110,000110,00099,20899,20882,46282,462 77,63477,63460,00060,00032,07432,0742,100,1292,100,1296,829,2116,829,211 e “Joint Venture “Joint Ventur
hh
o to t
er ter t
efef
RR
Property listing (continued)Property listing (continued)  Submarket / AddressMarket / Submarket / AddressMarket /San FranciscoSan FranciscoMission Bay/SoMaMission Bay/SoMa®®Alexandria Center for Science and Technology – Mission BayAlexandria Center for Science and Technology – Mission Bay(1)(1)(1)(1)1455, 1515, 1655, and 1725 Third Street, 409 and 499 Illinois 1455, 1515, 1655, and 1725 Third Street, 409 and 499 Illinois (1)(1)(1)(1)Street, 1500 and 1700 Owens Street, and 455 Mission Bay Street, 1500 and 1700 Owens Street, and 455 Mission Bay Boulevard SouthBoulevard South510 Townsend Street510 Townsend Street945 Market Street945 Market Street505 Brannan Street505 Brannan Street260 Townsend Street260 Townsend StreetMission Bay/SoMaMission Bay/SoMaSouth San FranciscoSouth San Francisco213, 249, 259, 269, and 279 East Grand Avenue213, 249, 259, 269, and 279 East Grand Avenue®® – GatewayAlexandria Technology Center – GatewayAlexandria Technology Center600, 630, 650, 681, 685, 701, 901, and 951 Gateway Boulevard600, 630, 650, 681, 685, 701, 901, and 951 Gateway Boulevard201 Haskins Way201 Haskins Way400 and 450 East Jamie Court400 and 450 East Jamie Court(1)(1)500 Forbes Boulevard500 Forbes Boulevard7000 Shoreline Court7000 Shoreline Court341 and 343 Oyster Point Boulevard341 and 343 Oyster Point Boulevard849/863 Mitten Road/866 Malcolm Road849/863 Mitten Road/866 Malcolm RoadSouth San FranciscoSouth San FranciscoGreater StanfordGreater Stanford(1)(1)Menlo GatewayMenlo Gateway100 Independence Drive and 125 and 135 Constitution Drive100 Independence Drive and 125 and 135 Constitution DriveAlexandria District for Science and TechnologyAlexandria District for Science and Technology825 and 835 Industrial Road825 and 835 Industrial Road3825 and 3875 Fabian Way3825 and 3875 Fabian WayAlexandria Stanford Life Science DistrictAlexandria Stanford Life Science District3160, 3165, and 3170 Porter Drive3160, 3165, and 3170 Porter DriveAlexandria PARCAlexandria PARC2100, 2200, 2300, and 2400 Geng Road2100, 2200, 2300, and 2400 Geng Road960 Industrial Road960 Industrial Road2425 Garcia Avenue/2400/2450 Bayshore Parkway2425 Garcia Avenue/2400/2450 Bayshore ParkwayShoreway Science CenterShoreway Science Center75 and 125 Shoreway Road75 and 125 Shoreway Road1450 Page Mill Road1450 Page Mill Road3350 West Bayshore Road3350 West Bayshore Road2625/2627/2631 Hanover Street2625/2627/2631 Hanover StreetGreater StanfordGreater StanfordSan FranciscoSan Francisco (1)    We own a partial interest in this property through a real estate joint venture. (1)    We own a partial interest in this property through a real estate joint venture. 
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  46
% %
age ng andopment 98.8 100.020.7 88.1 100.0 83.8 99.7 100.0 —100.087.1 99.9 100.094.4 98.8
Percent OperatiRedevel
y 
c
n % %
Occupa Operating 98.8 100.0100.0 99.2 100.0 83.8 99.7 100.0 —100.087.1 99.9 100.094.4 98.8 ormation.
nf
AnnualRentalRevenue 65,096 14,0061,017 80,119 17,760 11,697 8,901 10,613 —3,67652,647 55,873 29,97718,047 103,897 or additional i
$ $ K f
0-
1
Number ofProperties 3 11 5 3 3 3 4 1115 10 68 24 ort in Form 
p
e
2 79 8 1 6 5 1 665 5 70 2 al r
Total 740,97 349,94176,75 1,267,67 336,46 294,32 236,63 220,65 116,5572,501,277,13 1,622,68 792,68547,13 2,962,50 n this annu
7 i
m 
e
elopment — —140,098 140,098 — — — — ——— — —— — ction under It
v e
e s
RSF Red mation” 
elopment — —— — — — — — ——— 232,818 —— 232,818 ancial Infor 47
ev Fin
D e 
ur
nt
2 71 0 1 6 5 1 665 7 70 4 e
Operating 740,97 349,9436,66 1,127,58 336,46 294,32 236,63 220,65 116,5572,501,277,13 1,389,86 792,68547,13 2,729,68 o the “Joint V
er t
Property listing (continued)  Submarket / AddressMarket /New York CityNew York City®Alexandria Center for Life Science – New York City430 and 450 East 29th Street219 East 42nd Street®Alexandria Center – Long Island City30-02 48th AvenueNew York City San DiegoTorrey PinesARE Spectrum3215 Merryfield Row and 3013 and 3033 Science Park RoadARE Torrey Ridge10578, 10618, and 10628 Science Center DriveARE Sunrise10931/10933 and 10975 North Torrey Pines Road, 3010 Science ParkRoad, and 10996 Torreyana RoadARE Nautilus3530 and 3550 John Hopkins Court and 3535 and 3565 GeneralAtomics Court3545 Cray Court11119 North Torrey Pines RoadTorrey PinesUniversity Town CenterCampus Pointe by Alexandria(1)(1)(1)(1),10260, 10290, and 10300 Campus Point Drive 9880, 10210(1)(1)(1)(1)(1) and 4110, 4150,4161, 4224, and 4242Campus Point Court(1)5200 Illumina WayUniversity District(1) Towne Centre Drive, 4755, 4757, and 9363, 9373, 9393, and 96254767 Nexus Center Drive and 4796 Executive DriveUniversity Town Center (1)   We own a partial interest in this property through a real estate joint venture. Ref
47  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
% %
age ng andopment 69.6 100.0 100.0100.0 100.0100.0—83.4 94.3 84.690.5 100.092.3 99.3 100.0 100.099.1100.0100.099.6 100.063.984.398.7
Percent OperatiRedevel
y 
c
n % %
Occupa Operating 69.6 100.0 100.0100.0 100.0100.0—83.4 94.3 84.690.5 100.092.3 99.3 100.0 100.099.1100.0100.099.6 100.063.984.398.7 ormation.
nf
AnnualRentalRevenue 14,916 11,077 2,6893,603 2,3642,431—37,080 5,587 2,7178,304 2,972204,900 33,818 11,702 15,2369,8901,83542572,906 1,8391,0252,86475,770 or additional i
$ $ K f
0-
1
Number ofProperties 10 4 23 11122 7 613 175 5 3 111112 12315 ort in Form 
p
e
Total 598,316 316,531 102,392101,857 82,27266,24433,8171,301,429 191,378 121,655313,033 109,7805,963,879 631,070 306,220 290,111197,13530,70518,6801,473,921 47,74636,72484,4701,558,391 n this annual r
7 i
m 
e
ment — — —— ———— — —— —— — — ————— ———— under It
p n 
o o
el cti
v e
e s
RSF Red mation” 
elopment — — —— ———— — —— —232,818 — 100,086 ————100,086 ———100,086 ancial Infor 48
ev Fin
D e 
ur
nt
6 1 27 2479 8 53 01 0 4 15505 6405 e
Operating 598,31 316,53 102,39101,85 82,2766,2433,811,301,42 191,37 121,65313,03 109,785,731,06 631,07 206,13 290,11197,1330,7018,681,373,83 47,7436,7284,471,458,30 o the “Joint V
er t
Property listing (continued)  Submarket / AddressMarket /San Diego (continued)Sorrento Mesa(1)SD Tech by Alexandria9605, 9645, 9675, 9685, 9725, 9735, 9805, and 9855 Scranton Roadand 10055 and 10075 Barnes CanyonSummers Ridge Science Park9965, 9975, 9985, and 9995 Summers Ridge Road 10121 and 10151 Barnes Canyon RoadARE Portola6175, 6225, and 6275 Nancy Ridge Drive5810/5820 Nancy Ridge Drive7330 Carroll Road5871 Oberlin DriveSorrento MesaSorrento Valley3911, 3931, 3985, 4025, 4031, 4045, and 4075 Sorrento ValleyBoulevard11025, 11035, 11045, 11055, 11065, and 11075 Roselle StreetSorrento ValleyI-15 Corridor13112 Evening Creek DriveSan Diego SeattleLake UnionThe Eastlake Life Science Campus by Alexandria – North Campus1616 and 1551 Eastlake Avenue East, 188 and 199 East Blaine Street,and 1600 Fairview Avenue EastThe Eastlake Life Science Campus by Alexandria – South Campus1165, 1201, and 1208 Eastlake Avenue East400 Dexter Avenue North2301 5th Avenue219 Terry Avenue North601 Dexter Avenue NorthLake UnionElliott Bay3000/3018 Western Avenue410 West Harrison Street and 410 Elliott Avenue WestElliott BaySeattle (1)   We own a partial interest in this property through a real estate joint venture. Ref
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  48
% %
age ng andopment 89.5100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.096.6 94.8 85.8 91.2100.0100.092.3 96.6 100.095.2
Percent OperatiRedevel
y 
c
n % %
Occupa erating 89.5100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0100.096.6 94.8 98.7 91.2100.0100.096.0 96.6 100.096.7 ation.
p m
O or
nf
42240942793 1 3 5414 3 88 nal i
e 66606131823 2 5 9096 3 36 o
AnnualRentalRevenu $13,87,83,51,82,22,42,71,81,61,339,3 15,8 7,2 1,51,01,126,8 2,5 5,1$73,8 K for additi
0-
1
Number ofProperties 841221111122 9 6 11118 1 142 port in Form 
e
5225118903705220818588 38 85 54005027 84 8685 nual r
07547185113 4 0 1096 8 10 n
Total 645,214,131,90,86,72,63,51,51,49,1,456, 613, 315, 63,50,27,1,069, 191, 248,2,966, n this a
7 i
m 
e
F edevelopment ——————————— — 41,098 ———41,098 — —41,098 on” section under It
S R ati
R m
Development 261,096—————————261,096 — — ———— — —261,096 e Financial Infor 49
ur
nt
ating 83,95614,72531,51190,48986,70372,17063,85251,52051,18149,18595,292 13,438 73,987 63,15450,00027,95028,529 91,884 48,18663,891 Joint Ve
per 321 1,1 6 2 1,0 1 22,6 he “
O o t
er t
ef
R
nd ure. 
0, a vent
roperty listing (continued)  Submarket / AddressMarket /MarylandRockville9800, 9900, 9920, and 9950 Medical Center Drive9704, 9708, 9712, and 9714 Medical Center Drive1330 Piccard Drive1500 and 1550 East Gude Drive14920 and 15010 Broschart Road1405 Research Boulevard5 Research Place5 Research Court9920 Belward Campus Drive12301 Parklawn DriveRockvilleGaithersburg®Alexandria Technology Center – Gaithersburg I9, 25, 35, 45, 50, and 55 West Watkins Mill Road and 910, 93940 Clopper Road®Alexandria Technology Center – Gaithersburg II(1)704 Quince Orchard Road, 708 Quince Orchard Road, and 19, 20, 21, and 22 Firstfield Road401 Professional Drive950 Wind River Lane620 Professional DriveGaithersburgBeltsville8000/9000/10000 Virginia Manor RoadNorthern Virginia14225 Newbrook DriveMaryland (1)    We own a partial interest in this property through a real estate joint 
P
49  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
% % %
age ng andopment 95.0 95.3 100.098.1 92.4100.0100.0100.0100.0100.054.2100.096.5 93.7 80.1 94.4 71.4
Percent OperatiRedevel
y 
c
n % % %
Occupa erating 95.0 95.3 100.098.1 92.4100.0100.0100.0100.0100.054.2100.096.5 93.7 80.1 96.8 71.4
p
O
5 1 13 961408907 3 7 3 3 6
e 5 4 88 055454743 9 9 8 7 5
AnnualRentalRevenu 3,8 5,2 4,63,6 1,93,13,61,61,32,14532,3 4,7 10,5 1,274,1 4,0 1,278,2
$ $
mber ofperties 3 1 13 1111111116 2 12 288 3 291
NuPro
0 0 75 066657024 7 0 1 2 3
7 0 15 029594220 6 7 7 6 3
8 4 44 069935119 9 7 5 8 4
otal 186, 180, 158,136, 100,96,82,81,77,61,32,30,224, 188, 369, 906, 191, 098,
T 1, 8, 9,
2 2
elopment — — —— ————————— — — 682,265 — 682,265
v
e
d
F e
S R
R
nt — — —— ————————— — — 78 — 78
me 5,1 5,1 50
p 3 3
o 4 4
vel 1, 1,
e
D
0 0 75 066657024 7 0 8 2 0
ating 86,87 80,40 58,4136,45 00,0096,6282,9981,9577,3961,5432,1230,1224,90 88,96 69,77 89,12 91,86 80,99
per 1 1 11 1 1,2 1 3 6,7 1 6,9
O 2 2
e
gl
n
a
Tri
Property listing (continued)  Submarket / AddressMarket /Research TriangleResearch Triangle®Alexandria Technology Center – Alston100, 800, and 801 Capitola Drive® for AgTech, Phase I – Research Alexandria Center5 Laboratory Drive108/110/112/114 TW Alexander Drive®Alexandria Innovation Center – Research Triangle7010, 7020, and 7030 Kit Creek Road6 Davis Drive7 Triangle Drive2525 East NC Highway 54407 Davis Drive601 Keystone Park Drive6040 George Watts Hill Drive5 Triangle Drive6101 Quadrangle DriveResearch Triangle Canada Non-cluster markets North America, excluding properties held for sale Properties held for sale Total – North America
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  50
Leasing activity
•  Executed a total of 241 leases, with a weighted-average lease term of 7.8 years, for 5.1 million RSF, including 1.4 million 
RSF related to our development and redevelopment projects, during the year ended December 31, 2019; leasing activity 
of 5.1 million RSF represents the highest annual leasing activity in Alexandria’s history; and 
•  Strong rental rate increases of 32.2% and 17.6% (cash basis), representing our highest annual increase during the past 
10 years. 
  Approximately 59% of the 241 leases executed during the year ended December 31, 2019, did not include concessions for 
free rent. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we granted tenant concessions/free rent averaging 2.4 months with respect to the 
5.1 million RSF leased.
 
  The following chart presents renewed/re-leased space and development/redevelopment/previously vacant space leased for 
the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017:
Lease structure
Our Same Properties total revenue growth of 4.1% for the year ended December 31, 2019, and our Same Properties net 
operating income and Same Properties net operating income (cash basis) increases for the year ended December 31, 2019, of 3.1% 
and 7.1%, respectively, benefited significantly from strong market fundamentals. The limited supply of Class A space in AAA locations 
and strong demand from innovative tenants drove rental rate increases of 32.2% and 17.6% (cash basis) on 2.4 million renewed/re-
leased RSF, while a favorable triple net lease structure with contractual annual rent escalations resulted in both a consistent Same 
Properties operating margin of 71% and occupancy of 96.6% across our 192 Same Properties aggregating 18.5 million RSF. As of 
December 31, 2019, approximately 97% of our leases (on an RSF basis) were triple net leases, which require tenants to pay 
substantially all real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, repairs and maintenance, common area expenses, and other operating expenses 
(including increases thereto) in addition to base rent. Additionally, approximately 95% of our leases (on an RSF basis) contained 
contractual annual rent escalations that were either fixed or based on a consumer price index or another index, and approximately 96% 
of our leases (on an RSF basis) provided for the recapture of certain capital expenditures. 
51
51  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
The following table summarizes our leasing activity at our properties for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018:
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018
Including Including 
Straight-Line Rent Cash Basis Straight-Line Rent Cash Basis
(Dollars per RSF)
Leasing activity:
Renewed/re-leased space(1)        
Rental rate changes 32.2% 17.6% 24.1% 14.1%
New rates $58.65 $56.19 $55.05 $52.79
Expiring rates $44.35 $47.79 $44.35 $46.25
RSF 2,427,108 2,088,216
Tenant improvements/leasing commissions $20.28 $20.61
Weighted-average lease term 5.7 years 6.1 years
Developed/redeveloped/previously vacant space
leased
New rates $55.95 $52.19 $58.45 $48.73
RSF 2,635,614 2,633,476
Tenant improvements/leasing commissions $13.74 $12.57
Weighted-average lease term 9.8 years 11.5 years
Leasing activity summary (totals):
New rates $57.25 $54.11 $56.94 $50.52
RSF 5,062,722 (2) 4,721,692
Tenant improvements/leasing commissions $16.88 $16.13
Weighted-average lease term 7.8 years 9.1 years
Lease expirations(1)
Expiring rates $43.43 $46.59 $42.98 $45.33
RSF 2,822,434 2,811,021
Leasing activity includes 100% of results for properties in which we have an investment in North America. Refer to the “Non-GAAP Measures and Definitions” section under 
Item 7 in this annual report on Form 10-K for a description of the basis used to compute the measures above.
(1)  Excludes month-to-month leases aggregating 41,809 RSF and 50,548 RSF as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
(2)  During the year ended December 31, 2019, we granted tenant concessions/free rent averaging 2.4 months with respect to the 5,062,722 RSF leased. 
Approximately 59% of the leases executed during the year ended December 31, 2019, did not include concessions for free rent.
52
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  52
Summary of contractual lease expirations
 
  The following table summarizes information with respect to the contractual lease expirations at our properties as of 
December 31, 2019:
Percentage of Annual Rental Revenue Percentage of Total
Year RSF Occupied RSF (Per RSF)(1) Annual Rental Revenue
(2)
2020 1,745,030 6.7% $ 35.27 4.7%
2021 1,531,070 5.9% $ 42.09 4.9%
2022 2,164,448 8.3% $ 42.07 7.0%
2023 2,564,766 9.9% $ 45.66 9.0%
2024 2,300,974 8.8% $ 46.33 8.2%
2025 1,786,892 6.9% $ 48.78 6.7%
2026 1,597,511 6.1% $ 49.33 6.0%
2027 2,366,266 9.1% $ 51.72 9.4%
2028 1,646,032 6.3% $ 60.18 7.6%
2029 1,350,014 5.2% $ 57.24 5.9%
Thereafter 6,954,809 26.8% $ 57.88 30.6%
(1)  Represents amounts in effect as of December 31, 2019.
(2)  Excludes month-to-month leases aggregating 41,809 RSF as of December 31, 2019.
  The following tables present information by market with respect to our 2020 and 2021 contractual lease expirations in North 
America as of December 31, 2019:
2020 Contractual Lease Expirations (in RSF) Annual Rental 
Negotiating/ Targeted for Remaining Revenue
Market Leased Anticipating Redevelopment Expiring Leases(1) Total(2) (Per RSF)(3)
(4)
Greater Boston 107,773 122,950 75,754 232,547 539,024 $ 41.32
(5)
San Francisco 81,493 25,569 — 174,380 281,442 44.08
New York City — — — 20,712 20,712 99.30
(6)
San Diego 37,880 — — 378,021 415,901 30.85
Seattle 12,727 — — 32,047 44,774 38.70
Maryland 16,235 33,778 — 97,317 147,330 17.40
Research Triangle 37,881 25,396 — 36,290 99,567 17.74
Canada 72,250 — — 22,343 94,593 28.22
Non-cluster markets — — — 101,687 101,687 31.29
Total 366,239 207,693 75,754 1,095,344 1,745,030 $ 35.27
Percentage of expiring leases 21% 12% 4% 63% 100%
2021 Contractual Lease Expirations (in RSF) Annual Rental 
Negotiating/ Targeted for Remaining Revenue
Market Leased Anticipating Redevelopment Expiring Leases Total (Per RSF)(3)
(4)
Greater Boston — 25,970 79,101 267,624 372,695 $ 44.10
San Francisco 24,193 9,628 — 364,747 398,568 52.99
New York City — 19,647 — 15,466 35,113 97.45
San Diego 634 74,557 — 223,991 299,182 38.81
Seattle — — — 52,320 52,320 45.48
Maryland — — — 160,439 160,439 22.51
Research Triangle 3,724 34,553 — 133,592 171,869 25.99
Canada — 4,345 — 18,612 22,957 27.13
Non-cluster markets — — — 17,927 17,927 42.50
Total 28,551 168,700 79,101 1,254,718 1,531,070 $ 42.09
Percentage of expiring leases 2% 11% 5% 82% 100%
 
(1)  The largest remaining contractual lease expiration in 2020 is 60,759 RSF in our Greater Boston market.
(2)  Excludes month-to-month leases aggregating 41,809 RSF as of December 31, 2019.
(3)  Represents amounts in effect as of December 31, 2019.
(4)  Represents office space aggregating 154,855 RSF at The Arsenal on the Charles, a campus acquired on December 17, 2019, in our Cambridge/Inner Suburbs submarket, 
that is targeted for redevelopment into office/laboratory space upon expiration of existing leases during the third quarter of 2020 and first quarter of 2021.
(5)  Includes two leases aggregating 100,560 RSF at 630 and 650 Gateway Boulevard in our South San Francisco submarket that expire during the fourth quarter of 2020. We 
are considering options to renovate these buildings into Class A office/laboratory properties, which will not be classified as a redevelopment. As such, we expect these 
properties to remain in our pool of same properties.
(6)  Includes 140,398 RSF at 9363, 9373, and 9393 Towne Centre Drive in our University Town Center submarket, a site that is under evaluation to be developed, subject to 
future market conditions.
53
53  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Investments in real estate
  A key component of our business model is our disciplined allocation of capital to the development and redevelopment of new 
Class A properties located in collaborative life science, technology, and agtech campuses in AAA urban innovation clusters. These 
projects are focused on providing high-quality, generic, and reusable spaces that meet the real estate requirements of, and are 
reusable by, a wide range of tenants. Upon completion, each value-creation project is expected to generate a significant increase in 
rental income, net operating income, and cash flows. Our development and redevelopment projects are generally in locations that are 
highly desirable to high-quality entities, which we believe results in higher occupancy levels, longer lease terms, higher rental income, 
higher returns, and greater long-term asset value. Our pre-construction activities are undertaken in order to get the property ready for 
its intended use and include entitlements, permitting, design, site work, and other activities preceding commencement of construction of 
aboveground building improvements. 
  Our investments in real estate consisted of the following as of December 31, 2019 (dollars in thousands):
Development and Redevelopment
Under Intermediate-
Operating Construction Near-Term Term Future Subtotal Total
Investments in real estate
Book value as of December 31, 2019(1) $15,278,779 $ 991,007 $ 447,798 $ 618,279 $ 182,746 $2,239,830 $17,518,609
Square footage
Operating 26,980,990 — — — — — 26,980,990
New Class A development and
redevelopment properties — 2,117,443 2,127,925 4,884,067 4,585,477 13,714,912 13,714,912
Value-creation square feet currently 
included in rental properties(2) — — — (702,012) (823,104) (1,525,116) (1,525,116)
Total square footage 26,980,990 2,117,443 2,127,925 4,182,055 3,762,373 12,189,796 39,170,786
  
(1)  Balances exclude our share of the cost basis associated with our unconsolidated properties, which is classified as investments in unconsolidated real estate joint 
ventures in our consolidated balance sheets.
(2)  Refer to the definition of “Investment in Real Estate” in the “Non-GAAP Measures and Definitions” section under Item 7 in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional 
detail on value-creation square feet currently included in rental properties.
54
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  54
ce (2)
e Pri 250 100 200 000 250 150 000 500 000 000 000 130 000 000 850
Purchas $100, 81, 73, 66, 23, 39, 252, 28, 16, 179, 255, 51, 26, 25, 37, price. 
e 
s
Unlevered Yields InitialStabilizedInitial(Cash)Stabilized 7.5%5.1% (1)(1) 7.2%5.5% 7.4%5.8% 7.2%6.6% 5.2%5.1%(1)(1) (1)(1) (1)(1) (1)(1) 6.9%6.0% N/AN/A (1)(1) (1)(1) ct the full contractual purcha
e
efl
Operating 98,626 — 82,462 66,682 — — 87,163 — — — — 314,103 138,938 — — 34,534 nt Drive to r
oi
P
sted of the following (dollars in thousands): Square Footage Operating WithFutureFutureActiveDevelopment/DevelopmentRedevelopmentRedevelopment ——— 175,000—— ——— ——— ——53,220 ——75,864 ——— 293,000—— 188,400—18,680 149,000—40,000 —255,765— ——— ——— —92,147— 135,938—— 54,000—58,814 nt of development or redevelopment.nture at 4224/4242 Campus Point Court and 10210 Campus  55
cember 31, 2019, consi Number ofOperatingPropertiesOccupancy 1100% —N/A 2100% 1100% 2100% 4100% 871% —N/A 1100% 1100% 1N/A 833% 873% 1N/A —N/A 373% bsequent to the commencemeonsolidated real estate joint ve
e uc
ear ended D Date ofPurchase 1/10/19 3/26/19 1/10/19 3/14/19 1/9/19 5/9/19 6/18/19 5/13/19 7/31/19 7/9/19 8/21/19 8/12/19 7/10/19 s in the future, sg interest in the 
Acquisitions  Our real estate asset acquisitions for the y PropertySubmarket/Market Three months ended March 31, 2019: 3170 Porter DriveGreater Stanford/San Francisco 10 Necco StreetSeaport InnovationDistrict/GreaterBoston Shoreway Science CenterGreater Stanford/San Francisco 260 Townsend StreetMission Bay/SoMa/San Francisco 3911 and 3931 Sorrento ValleySorrento Valley/BoulevardSan Diego Other Three months ended June 30, 2019: 5 Necco StreetSeaport InnovationDistrict/Greater15 Necco StreetBoston 601 Dexter Avenue NorthLake Union/Seattle 4075 Sorrento Valley BoulevardSorrento Valley/San Diego Three months ended September 30, 2019: 945 Market Street (99.5% interestMission Bay/SoMa/in consolidated JV)San Francisco 4224/4242 Campus Point CourtUniversity Townand 10210 Campus Point DriveCenter/San Diego(55% interest in consolidated JV) 25, 35, and 45 West Watkins MillGaithersburg/RoadMaryland 3160 Porter DriveGreater Stanford/San Francisco 47-50 30th StreetNew York City/New York City OtherVarious (1) We expect to provide total estimated costs and related yield(2) Includes $114.8 million related to our partner’s noncontrollin
55  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Acquisitions (continued)Acquisitions (continued) Square FootageUnlevered YieldsSquare FootageUnlevered Yields Operating WithOperating WithInitialInitialFutureFutureStabilizedDate ofNumber ofOperatingFutureActiveInitialStabilizedInitialDate ofNumber ofOperatingFutureActiveDevelopment/Development/(Cash)PropertySubmarket/MarketPurchasePropertiesOccupancyPurchase PriceDevelopmentRedevelopmentOperatingStabilized(Cash)OperatingStabilizedPropertySubmarket/MarketPurchasePropertiesOccupancyPurchase PriceDevelopmentRedevelopmentRedevelopmentRedevelopmentThree months ended December 31, 2019Three months ended December 31, 2019(1)(2)(2)(1)(2)(2)12/17/1911100%200,000153,157154,855The Arsenal on the CharlesCambridge/Inner528,276$525,50012/17/1911100%200,000153,157154,855The Arsenal on the CharlesCambridge/Inner528,276$525,500Suburbs/GreaterSuburbs/GreaterBostonBoston(3)(3)(3)(3)3825 and 3875 Fabian WayGreater Stanford/12/10/192100%——478,000—8.2%6.9%291,0003825 and 3875 Fabian WayGreater Stanford/12/10/192100%——478,000—8.2%6.9%291,000San FranciscoSan Francisco(4)(4)(4)(4)(4)(4)716.6%6.5%114,964SD Tech by Alexandria (50%Sorrento Mesa/10/30/1910%720,000——598,316716.6%6.5%114,964SD Tech by Alexandria (50%Sorrento Mesa/10/30/1910%720,000——598,316interest in consolidated JV)San Diegointerest in consolidated JV)San Diego(2)(2)(2)(2)25,00014200 Shady Grove RoadRockville/Maryland10/31/19—N/A435,000———25,00014200 Shady Grove RoadRockville/Maryland10/31/19—N/A435,000——— OtherOther(6)(6)10260 Campus Point Drive and University Town1/2/19N/AN/AN/AN/AN/AN/A65,000(5)(5)10260 Campus Point Drive and University Town1/2/19N/AN/AN/AN/AN/AN/A65,000(5)(5)4161 Campus Point CourtCenter/San Diego4161 Campus Point CourtCenter/San Diego 832019 acquisitions47%2,350,338501,069879,4331,949,100$2,274,894832019 acquisitions47%2,350,338501,069879,4331,949,100$2,274,894 1) Represents leased square footage with contractual lease expirations in the third quarter of 2020 and first quarter of 2021. Upon expiration of the existing leases, we anticipate this RSF will be redeveloped to office/laboratory space.1) Represents leased square footage with contractual lease expirations in the third quarter of 2020 and first quarter of 2021. Upon expiration of the existing leases, we anticipate this RSF will be redeveloped to office/laboratory space.2) We expect to provide total estimated costs and related yields in the future, subsequent to the commencement of development or redevelopment.2) We expect to provide total estimated costs and related yields in the future, subsequent to the commencement of development or redevelopment.3) Represents the initial stabilized yields related to the fully occupied operating properties upon closing.3) Represents the initial stabilized yields related to the fully occupied operating properties upon closing.4) The campus includes 10 operating buildings, of which we expect to renovate several vacant suites aggregating 182,056 RSF. We expect to achieve unlevered initial stabilized yields of 6.6% and 6.5% (cash basis) for the operating 4) The campus includes 10 operating buildings, of which we expect to renovate several vacant suites aggregating 182,056 RSF. We expect to achieve unlevered initial stabilized yields of 6.6% and 6.5% (cash basis) for the operating buildings, and yields for future development will be disclosed subsequent to the commencement of development.buildings, and yields for future development will be disclosed subsequent to the commencement of development.5) Refer to the “New Class A Development and Redevelopment Properties: Summary of Pipeline” subsection of this “Investments in Real Estate” section under this Item 2 for additional information.5) Refer to the “New Class A Development and Redevelopment Properties: Summary of Pipeline” subsection of this “Investments in Real Estate” section under this Item 2 for additional information.6) In December 2018, we acquired two buildings adjacent to our Campus Pointe by Alexandria campus. The total purchase price of $80.0 million was paid in two installments, $15.0 million in December 2018 and $65.0 million in January 2019. in January 2019.6) In December 2018, we acquired two buildings adjacent to our Campus Pointe by Alexandria campus. The total purchase price of $80.0 million was paid in two installments, $15.0 million in December 2018 and $65.0 million 5656
(((((((( ((((
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  56
Real estate asset sales  Our completed disposition and sales of partial interests in real estate assets during the year ended December 31, 2019, consisted of the following (dollars in thousands, except for sales price per RSF): Square FootageConsideration in Capitalization Sales Excess of Book Rate Price Capitalization Date ofInterestFuture(1)(1)(2)Value(Cash Basis)Per RSFRateSubmarket/MarketSaleSoldPropertyOperatingSales PriceDevelopment Completed disposition and sales of partial interests: 75/125 Binney StreetCambridge/Greater2/13/1960%388,270N/A4.2%4.3%$438,000$1,880$202,246Boston (3)(3)(3)(3)36,000N/AN/A10260 Campus Point Drive and University Town Center/7/26/1945%4161 Campus Point CourtSan Diego 500 Forbes BoulevardSouth San Francisco/8/1/1990%155,685N/A4.2%4.4%139,500$996$48,385San Francisco (4)5200 Illumina WayUniversity Town Center/8/21/1949%792,687451,8325.7%4.7%286,747N/A$131,864San Diego (5)6138/6150 Nancy Ridge DriveSorrento Mesa/San12/19/19100%56,698N/AN/AN/A6,625$117N/ADiego $906,872 (1) Capitalization rates are calculated based upon net operating income and net operating income (cash basis), annualized for the quarter preceding the date on which the property is sold.(2) We retained control over each of these newly formed joint ventures (except as noted in footnote 5) and therefore consolidate these properties. For consolidated joint ventures, we account for the difference between the consideration received and the book value of the interest sold as an equity transaction, with no gain or loss recognized in earnings.(3) In December 2018, we acquired two buildings adjacent to our Campus Pointe by Alexandria campus aggregating 269,048 RSF, comprising 109,164 RSF at 10260 Campus Point Drive and 159,884 RSF at 4161 Campus Point Court, for a total purchase price of $80.0 million. In July 2019, as had been contemplated at the time of the original acquisition, we completed the formation of a joint venture through the sale of a 45% noncontrolling interest to an institutional investor. (4) This transaction values 100% of the campus at $585.2 million and represents a value in excess of book basis aggregating $269.1 million.(5) Upon completion of the sale of 6138/6150 Nancy Ridge Drive, we recognized in earnings a gain on sale of real estate of $474 thousand. 57
57  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
s.
g
n
di
uil
b
d 
e
g
a
n
a
m
y 
ctl
e
dir
ur 
o
or 
alues are fuildings. 58
n.mption vnaged b
oua
cationsy m
wel certifid water cnd directl
or Fitn, anctly a
6 projects in process targeting either WELL seline. Carbon pollution, energy consumptioour total portfolio, which includes both indire
Upon completion of 2Relative to a 2015 baWaste values are for 
bility (1) (2) (3) 
a
n
ai
st
u
S
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  58
evard ancisco Tech,  Triangle
681 and 685 Gateway Boul San Francisco/South San Fr 142,400 RSF 100% Occupied ®Alexandria Center for AgPhase I Research Triangle/Research  180,400 RSF 95.3% Occupied able.
c
pli
p
cisco on, if a
279 East Grand Avenue n Francisco/South San Fran 211,405 RSF 97.5% Occupied 188 East Blaine Street Seattle/Lake Union 201,805 RSF 98.0% Occupied SF in service and under constructi
a R
S e 
h
n t
o
Ma nter ation 
1655 and 1725 Third Street San Francisco/Mission Bay/So 593,765 RSF 100% Occupied 9880 Campus Point Drive San Diego/University Town Ce 98,000 RSF 100% Occupied n” sections under this Item 2 for inform 59
o
cti
eliveries nue 28 nford er Constru
ment properties: recent d 266 and 275 Second Ave Greater Boston/Route 1 203,757 RSF 100% Occupied Alexandria PARC San Francisco/Greater Sta 197,498 RSF 96.8% Occupied opment Properties: Projects Und
p el
o v
el de
ev Re
d d 
e d n
w Class A development and r 399 Binney Street Greater Boston/Cambridge 164,000 RSF 98.3% Occupied Menlo Gateway San Francisco/Greater Stanfor 772,983 RSF 100% Occupied er to the “New Class A Development a
Ne Ref  
59  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
31, 2019 (dollars in  Unlevered Yields InitialInitialStabilizedStabilized(Cash Basis) 7.9%7.3% 8.57.1 7.86.1 (3)(3)8.48.6 8.58.2 7.16.4 7.36.2 (5)(5)6.36.4 6.76.7 8.98.8 (6)(6)7.67.5 7.4%6.9% 80, 10290, and 10300 Campus 
New Class A development and redevelopment properties: recent deliveries (continued) The following table presents value-creation development and redevelopment of new Class A properties placed into service during the year ended December housands): OurTotal ProjectRSF Placed Into ServiceOccupancy OwnershipDev/(1)1Q192Q193Q194Q19TotalRSFInvestmentPercentageInterestRedevProperty/Market/Submarket 399 Binney Street/Greater Boston/Cambridge100%Dev123,403—40,597—164,00098.3%164,000$185,000 266 and 275 Second Avenue/Greater Boston/Route 128100%Redev—12,822—19,03631,858100%203,757$91,000 1655 and 1725 Third Street/San Francisco/(2)Mission Bay/SoMa10%Dev——593,765—593,765100%593,765$77,500 (3)279 East Grand Avenue/San Francisco/South San Francisco100%Dev139,81024,39635,79711,402211,40597.5%211,405$145,000 (4)681 and 685 Gateway Boulevard/San Francisco/142,400$116,300South San Francisco100%Redev66,00076,400——142,400100% (2)Menlo Gateway/San Francisco/Greater Stanford49%Dev——520,988—520,988100%772,983$415,000 Alexandria PARC/San Francisco/Greater Stanford100%Redev48,547———48,54796.8%197,498$152,600 (5)9880 Campus Point Drive/San Diego/University Town Center100%Dev———36,28436,284100%98,000$255,000 188 East Blaine Street/Seattle/Lake Union100%Dev90,61527,16439,37244,654201,80598.0%201,805$183,000 (2)704 Quince Orchard Road/Maryland/Gaithersburg56.8%Redev10,2503,470——13,720100%80,032$13,300® for AgTech, Phase I/Alexandria CenterResearch Triangle/Research Triangle100%Redev2,61473,80930,90019,554126,87795.3%180,400$88,700 Total481,239218,0611,261,419130,9302,091,649 1) Relates to total operating RSF placed in service as of the most recent delivery.2) This property is an unconsolidated real estate joint venture. RSF represents 100% and cost and yields amounts represent our share.3) Improvements in initial stabilized yields of 60 bps and 50 bps (cash basis), are due to reduction in costs of $6 million primarily from core and shell cost savings.4) Excludes 685 Gateway Boulevard, a 15,437 RSF amenity building.5) Project costs represent aggregate development costs for 9880 Campus Point Drive and 4150 Campus Point Court. Yields represent expected aggregate returns for Campus Pointe by Alexandria, including 98Point Drive and 4150 Campus Point Court.® for AgTech – Research Triangle which consists of Phase I at 5 Laboratory Drive and Phase II at 9 Laboratory Drive.6) Yields represent aggregate returns for Alexandria Center 60
 t ((((( (
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  60
d
nfor ve
160 Porter Drive ncisco/Greater Sta 92,147 RSF Medical Center Dri aryland/Rockville 84,264 RSF
3 Fra 50  M
n  99
a
S
d
xandria District fornce and Technology ncisco/Greater Stanfor 526,178 RSF Medical Center Drive aryland/Rockville 176,832 RSF
Ale Scie n Fra 9800  M
a
S
o
c
s
nci st
a a
201 Haskins Way ncisco/South San Fr 315,000 RSF 5 Eastlake Avenue E Seattle/Lake Union 100,086 RSF 61
n a 6
ctio n Fr 11
u a
str S
n
o
c
der  Ma d nter
ment properties: projects un 945 Market Street an Francisco/Mission Bay/So 255,765 RSF 9880 Campus Point Drive an4150 Campus Point Court an Diego/University Town Ce 232,818 RSF
p S S
o
el
v
e
d
e
Class A development and r The Arsenal on the Charles Greater Boston/Cambridge/Inner Suburbs 153,157 RSF ®Alexandria Center – Long Island City New York City/New York City 140,098 RSF
w 
e
N
61  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
d
e 2
z 2 2 1 1 1 0 2 0 0 0 0
ars in thousands):  (1)Occupancy InitialStabili 2021202 4Q202021/ 3Q20202 4Q20202 4Q20202 3Q20202 4Q19202 4Q204Q2 3Q203Q2 3Q203Q2 4Q18202 ncy versus multi-tenancy.
New Class A development and redevelopment properties: projects under construction (continued) The following table sets forth a summary of our new Class A development and redevelopment properties under construction as of December 31, 2019 (doll Square FootagePercentage Dev/Leased/RedevIn ServiceCIPTotalLeasedNegotiatingProperty/Market/Submarket Developments and redevelopments under construction(2)The Arsenal on the Charles/Greater Boston/Cambridge/Inner SuburbsRedev683,131836,28882%82%153,157 945 Market Street/San Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMaRedev—255,765255,765—— 201 Haskins Way/San Francisco/South San FranciscoDev—315,000315,0003333 Alexandria District for Science and Technology/San Francisco/Greater StanfordDev—526,178526,1785665 3160 Porter Drive/San Francisco/Greater StanfordRedev—92,14792,147——®Alexandria Center – Long Island City/New York City/New York CityRedev36,661140,098176,7592121 9880 Campus Point Drive and 4150 Campus Point Court/San Diego/(3)Dev36,284232,818269,1028789University Town Center 1165 Eastlake Avenue East/Seattle/Lake UnionDev—100,086100,086100100 9800 Medical Center Drive/Maryland/RockvilleDev—176,832176,832100100 9950 Medical Center Drive/Maryland/RockvilleDev—84,26484,264100100 (4)704 Quince Orchard Road/Maryland/GaithersburgRedev38,93441,09880,0327070 Total795,0102,117,4432,912,45361%63% 1) Initial occupancy dates are subject to leasing and/or market conditions. Multi-tenant projects may have occupancy by tenants over a period of time. Stabilized occupancy may vary depending on single tena2) We expect to redevelop 154,855 RSF of occupied space into office/laboratory space upon expiration of the existing leases in the third quarter of 2020 and first quarter of 2021.3) Refer to footnote 2 on the next page.4) 704 Quince Orchard is an unconsolidated real estate joint venture. RSF represent 100%. 62
  ((((
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  62
New Class A development and redevelopment properties: projects under construction (continued) Unlevered YieldsOurOwnershipCost toTotal atInitialInitial StabilizedInterestProperty/Market/SubmarketIn ServiceCIPCompleteCompletionStabilized(Cash Basis) Developments and redevelopments under construction $62,561The Arsenal on the Charles/Greater Boston/Cambridge/Inner Suburbs100%$440,047TBD945 Market Street/San Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMa191,42499.5%— 201 Haskins Way/San Francisco/South San Francisco100%—152,333143,667296,0006.6%6.6% Alexandria District for Science and Technology/San Francisco/Greater Stanford100%—278,448298,552577,0006.5%6.2% 3160 Porter Drive/San Francisco/Greater Stanford28,759TBD100%— ®72,96295,179184,300 – Long Island City/New York City/New York City100%16,1595.5%5.6%Alexandria Center 9880 Campus Point Drive and 4150 Campus Point Court/San Diego/(2)(2)(1)(1)40,39790,301124,302255,0006.3%6.4%University Town Center(3)(3)1165 Eastlake Avenue East/Seattle/Lake Union100%—53,93184,069138,0006.5%6.3% 9800 Medical Center Drive/Maryland/Rockville100%—33,15962,24195,4007.7%7.2% 9950 Medical Center Drive/Maryland/Rockville100%—27,12927,17154,3007.3%6.8% 496,603991,007Consolidated projects(4)704 Quince Orchard Road/Maryland/Gaithersburg56.8%4,4005,5743,32613,3008.9%8.8% $501,003$996,581Total 1) Refer to the “Consolidated and Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures” section under this Item 2 for additional information.2)  Represents a two-phase development project as follows:• Initial phase represents 9880 Campus Point Drive, a 98,000 RSF project to develop Alexandria GradLabs™, a highly flexible, first-of-its-kind life science platform designed to provide post-seed-stage life science companies with turnkey, fully furnished office/laboratory suites and an accelerated, scalable path for growth. The R&D building located at 9880 Campus Point Drive was demolished and as of December 31, 2019, continues to be included in our same property performance results. Refer to the “Same Properties” subsection of the “Results of Operations” section under this Item 2 for additional information.• Subsequent phase represents 4150 Campus Point Court, a 171,102 RSF, 100% leased project with occupancy expected in 2022. • Project costs represent development costs for 9880 Campus Point Drive and 4150 Campus Point Court. Unlevered yields represent expected aggregate returns for Campus Pointe by Alexandria, including 9880, 10290, and 10300 Campus Point Drive and 4150 Campus Point Court.3) Unlevered yields represent anticipated aggregate returns for 1165 Eastlake Avenue, an amenity-rich research headquarter for Adaptive Biotechnologies Corporation, and 1208 Eastlake Avenue, an adjacent multi-tenant office/laboratory building.4) 704 Quince Orchard is an unconsolidated real estate joint venture. Cost and yields amounts represent our share. 63
(( ( (
63  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
n 
o
ent and redevelopment projects in North America as of December 31, 2019 (dollars in thousands): Square Footage Development and Redevelopment UnderIntermediate-Book ValueTotalConstructionNear-TermTermFuture 97,825153,157——200,000353,157 172,114—293,000——293,000 6,185—112,000——112,000(1)—208,965108,157——208,965 40,965——235,000—235,000 85,302——175,000—175,000 7,787———100,000100,000 ————300,000300,000 1,251———32,00032,000 9,198———41,95541,955 528,784153,157405,000618,965673,9551,851,077 152,333315,000———315,000 278,448526,178———526,178 191,424255,765———255,765 92,14728,759———92,147(2)——1,070,925199,286—1,070,925 16,777—217,000——217,000 18,124——165,000—165,000(3)—587,000105,116——587,000(3)(3)———250,000228,000478,000 5,995———90,00090,000 1,744———31,00031,000 40,465——191,00025,000216,000 1,038,4711,189,0901,287,9251,193,000374,0004,044,015 RSF.2020 s A property. RSF presented includes rentable square footage of buildings currently in operation at properties for their inherent future existing in-place leases and commencement of future construction. Refer to the definition of “Investments in Real Estate – Value-Creation under Item 7 in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information. 64
New Class A development and redevelopment properties: summary of pipeline   The following table summarizes the key information for all our developm OurOwnershipInterestProperty/Submarket Greater Boston The Arsenal on the Charles/Cambridge/Inner Suburbs100%$ 15 Necco Street/Seaport Innovation District99.3% 215 Presidential Way/Route 128100% 325 Binney Street/Cambridge100% 99 A Street/Seaport Innovation District96.2% 10 Necco Street/Seaport Innovation District100%®Alexandria Technology Square/Cambridge100% 100 Tech Drive/Route 128100% 231 Second Avenue/Route 128100% Other value-creation projects100% San Francisco 201 Haskins Way/South San Francisco100% Alexandria District for Science and Technology/Greater Stanford100% 945 Market Street/Mission Bay/SoMa99.5% 3160 Porter Drive/Greater Stanford100% 88 Bluxome Street/Mission Bay/SoMa100% 751 Gateway Boulevard/South San Francisco100% 505 Brannan Street, Phase II/Mission Bay/SoMa99.7% 960 Industrial Road/Greater Stanford100% 3825 and 3875 Fabian Way/Greater Stanford100% East Grand Avenue/South San Francisco100% Gateway Boulevard/Greater Stanford100% Other value-creation projects100% $ (1) We are seeking additional entitlements to increase the density of the site from its current 208,965 (2)     Includes a 488,899 RSF lease with Pinterest, Inc. which construction is expected to commence in (3) Represents total square footage upon completion of development or redevelopment of a new Clasdevelopment opportunities, with the intent to demolish the existing property upon expiration of the Square Footage Currently in Rental Properties” in the “Non-GAAP Measures and Definitions” secti
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  64
8 0 8 7 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 5 6 0 0 0 6
New Class A development and redevelopment properties: summary of pipeline (continued) Square Footage Development and RedevelopmentOurOwnershipUnderIntermediate-InterestBook ValueProperty/SubmarketTotalConstructionNear-TermTermFuture New York City®Alexandria Center – Long Island City/New York City100%$72,962140,098———140,09® for Life Science – New York City/New York City100%28,262——550,000—550,00Alexandria Center 47-50 30th Street/New York City100%27,120——135,938—135,93(1)219 East 42nd Street/New York City100%————579,947579,94 128,344140,098—685,938579,9471,405,98 San Diego(3)(2)Campus Pointe by Alexandria/University Town Center142,176232,818—390,164359,281982,26 3115 Merryfield Row/Torrey Pines100%38,942—125,000——125,00(3)10931 and 10933 Torrey Pines Road/Torrey Pines100%———242,000—242,00(3)(4)University District/University Town Center100%———400,000—400,00 SD Tech by Alexandria/Sorrento Mesa50%30,435——332,000388,000720,00 Townsgate by Alexandria/Del Mar Heights100%20,036——185,000—185,00 5200 Illumina Way/University Town Center51%11,772———451,832451,83 Vista Wateridge/Sorrento Mesa100%4,022———163,000163,00(3)4045 and 4075 Sorrento Valley Boulevard/Sorrento Valley100%7,554———149,000149,00 Other value-creation projects100%————50,00050,00 254,937232,818125,0001,549,1641,561,1133,468,09 Seattle 1165 Eastlake Avenue East/Lake Union100%53,931100,086———100,08 1150 Eastlake Avenue East/Lake Union100%35,916——260,000—260,00 701 Dexter Avenue North/Lake Union100%42,185——217,000—217,00(3)188,40601 Dexter Avenue North/Lake Union100%30,946———188,400 $162,978100,086—477,000188,400765,48 (1) Includes 349,947 RSF in operation with an opportunity to either convert the existing office space into office/laboratory space through future redevelopment or to expand the building by an additional 230,000 RSF through ground-up development. The building is currently occupied by Pfizer Inc. with a remaining lease term of approximately five years.(2) Refer to the “Consolidated and Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures” section under Item 7 in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information on our ownership interest.(3)  Represents total square footage upon completion of development of a new Class A property. RSF presented includes rentable square footage of buildings currently in operation at properties for their inherent future development opportunities, with the intent to demolish the existing property upon expiration of the existing in-place leases and commencement of future construction. Refer to the definition of “Investments in Real Estate – Value-Creation Square Footage Currently in Rental Properties” in the “Non-GAAP Measures and Definitions” section under Item 7 in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information.(4) Includes 140,398 RSF at the University District project in our University Town Center submarket, which is currently under evaluation for development, subject to future market conditions. 65
65  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
n 
(2) s i
Total 41,098 240,832 84,264 435,000 801,194 160,000 220,000 800,000 76,262 1,256,262 122,800 13,714,912 700,000 800,000 1,500,000 15,214,912 mation on our  n of “Investment
nfor nitio
Future — 64,000 — 145,000 209,000 — — 800,000 76,262 876,262 122,800 4,585,477 700,000 800,000 1,500,000 6,085,477 K for additional i Refer to the defimation.
New Class A development and redevelopment properties: summary of pipeline (continued) Square Footage Development and RedevelopmentOurOwnershipUnderIntermediate-InterestBook ValueProperty/SubmarketConstructionNear-TermTerm Maryland (1)41,098704 Quince Orchard Road/Gaithersburg56.8%$——— 9800 Medical Center Drive/Rockville100%34,390176,832—— 84,2649950 Medical Center Drive/Rockville100%27,129—— 14200 Shady Grove Road/Rockville100%25,902——290,000 87,421302,194—290,000 Research Triangle® for AgTech, Phase II/Research Triangle100%10,464—160,000—Alexandria Center 8 Davis Drive/Research Triangle100%4,751—150,00070,000 6 Davis Drive/Research Triangle100%15,688——— Other value-creation projects100%4,150——— 35,053—310,00070,000 Other value-creation projects100%3,842——— Total2,239,8302,117,4432,127,9254,884,067 (3)Pending acquisition/San Francisco———(3) Mercer Mega Block/Lake Union———(3)(3) Key 2020 pending acquisitions———— $2,239,8302,117,4432,127,9254,884,067 1) This property is held by an unconsolidated real estate joint venture. Refer to the “Consolidated and Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures” section under Item 7 in this annual report on Form 10-ownership interest.2)  Total rentable square footage includes 1,525,116 RSF of buildings currently in operation that will be redeveloped or replaced with new development RSF upon commencement of future construction. Real Estate – Value-Creation Square Footage Currently in Rental Properties” in the “Non-GAAP Measures and Definitions” section under Item 7 in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional infor3) Refer to the “Acquisitions” subsection of this “Investments in Real Estate” section under this Item 2 for additional information. 66
( ( (
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  66
Summary of capital expenditures
  Our construction spending for the year ended December 31, 2019, consisted of the following (in thousands):
Year Ended
Construction Spending December 31, 2019
Additions to real estate – consolidated projects $ 1,224,541
Investments in unconsolidated real estate joint ventures 102,081
Contributions from noncontrolling interests (9,156)
Construction spending (cash basis)(1) 1,317,466
Change in accrued construction (24)
Construction spending $ 1,317,442
(1)  Includes revenue-enhancing projects and non-revenue-enhancing capital expenditures.
 
  The following table summarizes the total projected construction spending for the year ending December 31, 2020, which 
includes interest, property taxes, insurance, payroll, and other indirect project costs (in thousands):
Year Ending
Projected Construction Spending December 31, 2020
Development, redevelopment, and pre-construction projects $ 1,414,000
Contributions from noncontrolling interests (consolidated real estate joint ventures) (24,000)
Generic laboratory infrastructure 166,000
Non-revenue-enhancing capital expenditures 44,000
Guidance midpoint 1,600,000
Guidance range $ 1,550,000 – 1,650,000
Non-revenue-enhancing capital expenditures
  The table below presents the average per RSF of property-related non-revenue-enhancing capital expenditures, excluding 
capital expenditures and tenant improvements that are recoverable from tenants, revenue enhancing, or related to properties that have 
undergone redevelopment (dollars in thousands, except per RSF amounts):
Year Ended December 31, 2019
Recent Average 
Non-Revenue-Enhancing Capital Expenditures(1) Amount Per RSF Per RSF(2)
Building improvements $ 11,453 $ 0.47 $ 0.50
Tenant improvements and leasing costs:
Re-tenanted space $ 32,912 $ 28.20 $ 22.74
Renewal space 16,310 12.95 13.43
Total tenant improvements and leasing costs/weighted average $ 49,222 $ 20.28 $ 17.15
(1)  Excludes amounts that are recoverable from tenants, related to revenue-enhancing capital expenditures, or related to properties that have undergone redevelopment.
(2)  Represents the average for a five-year period from 2015 to 2019.
67
67  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
To our knowledge, no legal proceedings are pending against us, other than routine actions and administrative proceedings, 
and other actions not deemed material, substantially all of which are expected to be covered by liability insurance and which, in the 
aggregate, are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
PART II
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER 
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
  Our common stock is traded on the NYSE under the symbol “ARE.” On January 15, 2020, the last reported sales price per 
share of our common stock was $162.29, and there were 552 holders of record of our common stock (excluding beneficial owners 
whose shares are held in the name of Cede & Co.). 
   To maintain our qualification as a REIT, we must make annual distributions to stockholders of at least 90% of our taxable 
income for the current taxable year, determined without regard to deductions for dividends paid and excluding any net capital gains. 
Under certain circumstances, we may be required to make distributions in excess of cash flows available for distributions to meet 
these distribution requirements. In such a case, we may borrow funds or may raise funds through the issuance of additional debt or 
equity capital. No dividends can be paid on our common stock unless we have paid full cumulative dividends on our preferred stock. 
From the date of issuance of our preferred stock through December 31, 2019, we have paid full cumulative dividends on our 
preferred stock. As of December 31, 2019, we had no outstanding shares of preferred stock. Future distributions on our common 
stock will be determined by, and made at the discretion of, our Board of Directors and will depend on a number of factors, including 
actual cash available for distribution to our stockholders, our financial condition and capital requirements, the annual distribution 
requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, restrictions under Maryland law, and such other factors as 
our Board of Directors deems relevant. We cannot assure our stockholders that we will make any future distributions.
  Refer to “Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters” in 
this annual report on Form 10-K for information on securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans.
68
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  68
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
  The following table should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing 
elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. Refer to “Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.”
Year Ended December 31,
(In thousands, except per share amounts) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Operating Data:
Revenues:
Income from rentals $ 1,516,864 $ 1,314,781 $ 1,122,325 $ 897,475 $ 817,887
Other income 14,432 12,678 5,772 24,231 25,587
Total revenues 1,531,296 1,327,459 1,128,097 921,706 843,474
Expenses:
Rental operations 445,492 381,120 325,609 278,408 261,232
General and administrative 108,823 90,405 75,009 63,884 59,621
Interest 173,675 157,495 128,645 106,953 105,813
Depreciation and amortization 544,612 477,661 416,783 313,390 261,289
Impairment of real estate 12,334 6,311 203 209,261 23,250
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 47,570 1,122 3,451 3,230 189
Total expenses 1,332,506 1,114,114 949,700 975,126 711,394
Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated real estate JVs 10,136 43,981 15,426 (184) 1,651
Investment income 194,647 136,763 — — —
Gain on sales of real estate – rental properties 474 8,704 270 3,715 12,426
Income (loss) from continuing operations 404,047 402,793 194,093 (49,889) 146,157
(Loss) income from discontinued operations(1) — — — — (43)
Gain on sales of real estate – land parcels — — 111 90 —
Net income (loss) 404,047 402,793 194,204 (49,799) 146,114
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (40,882) (23,481) (25,111) (16,102) (1,897)
Net income (loss) attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities,
Inc.’s stockholders 363,165 379,312 169,093 (65,901) 144,217
Dividends on preferred stock (3,204) (5,060) (7,666) (20,223) (24,986)
Preferred stock redemption charge (2,580) (4,240) (11,279) (61,267) —
Net income attributable to unvested restricted stock awards (6,386) (6,029) (4,753) (3,750) (2,364)
Net income (loss) attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities,
Inc.’s common stockholders $ 350,995 $ 363,983 $ 145,395 $ (151,141) $ 116,867
Net income (loss) per share attributable to Alexandria Real Estate
Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders – basic
Continuing operations $ 3.13 $ 3.53 $ 1.59 $ (1.99) $ 1.63
Discontinued operations(1) — — — — —
Net income (loss) per share $ 3.13 $ 3.53 $ 1.59 $ (1.99) $ 1.63
Net income (loss) per share attributable to Alexandria Real Estate
Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders – diluted
Continuing operations $ 3.12 $ 3.52 $ 1.58 $ (1.99) $ 1.63
Discontinued operations(1) — — — — —
Net income (loss) per share $ 3.12 $ 3.52 $ 1.58 $ (1.99) $ 1.63
Weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding – basic 112,204 103,010 91,546 76,103 71,529
Weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding – diluted 112,524 103,321 92,063 76,103 71,529
Dividends declared per share of common stock $ 4.00 $ 3.73 $ 3.45 $ 3.23 $ 3.05
Balance Sheet Data (at year end):
Investments in real estate $14,844,038 $11,913,693 $10,298,019 $ 9,077,972 $ 7,629,922
Total assets $18,390,503 $14,464,956 $12,103,953 $10,354,888 $ 8,881,017
Total debt $ 6,777,479 $ 5,478,255 $ 4,764,807 $ 4,164,025 $ 3,935,692
Total liabilities $ 8,224,025 $ 6,570,242 $ 5,620,784 $ 4,972,610 $ 4,587,053
Redeemable noncontrolling interests $ 12,300 $ 10,786 $ 11,509 $ 11,307 $ 14,218
Total equity $10,154,178 $ 7,883,928 $ 6,471,660 $ 5,370,971 $ 4,279,746
(1)  Refer to Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional 
information on discontinued operations. 
69
69  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (CONTINUED)
Year Ended December 31,
(Dollars in thousands, except per occupied RSF amounts) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Other Data:
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 683,857 $ 570,339 $ 450,882 $ 393,487 $ 342,551
Net cash used in investing activities $ 3,641,320 $ 2,161,760 $ 1,737,126 $ 1,498,406 $ 716,505
Net cash provided by financing activities $ 2,927,482 $ 1,588,433 $ 1,420,341 $ 1,093,775 $ 415,284
Number of properties – North America 291 237 213 199 191
RSF – North America (including development and
redevelopment projects under construction) 29,098,433 24,587,438 21,981,133 19,869,729 18,874,070
Occupancy of operating properties – North America 96.8% 97.3% 96.8% 96.6% 97.2%
Occupancy of operating and redevelopment properties – North
America 94.4% 95.1% 94.7% 95.7% 93.7%
Annual rental revenue per occupied RSF – North America $ 51.04 $ 48.42 $ 48.01 $ 45.15 $ 41.17
Reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to
Alexandria’s common stockholders to funds from
operations attributable to Alexandria’s common
stockholders – diluted:
 Net income (loss) attributable to Alexandria Real Estate
Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders $ 350,995 $ 363,983 $ 145,395 $ (151,141) $ 116,867
Depreciation and amortization of real estate assets  541,855 477,661 416,783 313,390 261,289
Noncontrolling share of depreciation and amortization from
consolidated real estate JVs (30,960) (16,077) (14,762) (9,349) (372)
Our share of depreciation and amortization from 
unconsolidated real estate JVs(1) 6,366 3,181 1,551 2,707 1,734
Gain on sales of real estate – rental properties (474) (8,704) (270) (3,715) (12,426)
Our share of gain on sales of real estate from unconsolidated 
real estate JVs(1) — (35,678) (14,106) — —
Gain on sales of real estate – land parcels — — (111) (90) —
Impairment of real estate – rental properties 12,334 — 203 98,194 23,250
Assumed conversion of 7.00% Series D cumulative 
convertible preferred stock(2) 3,204 5,060 — — —
Allocation to unvested restricted stock awards (5,904) (5,961) (2,920) — (1,758)
Funds from operations attributable to Alexandria’s common 
stockholders – diluted(3) 877,416 783,465 531,763 249,996 388,584
Unrealized gains on non-real estate investments (161,489) (99,634) — — —
Realized gains on non-real estate investments — (14,680) — (4,361) (13,109)
Impairment of real estate – land parcels — 6,311 — 110,474 —
Impairment of non-real estate investments 17,124 5,483 8,296 3,065 —
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 47,570 1,122 3,451 3,230 189
Loss on early termination of interest rate hedge agreements 1,702 — — — —
Our share of gain on early extinguishment of debt from 
unconsolidated real estate JVs(1) — (761) — — —
Preferred stock redemption charge 2,580 4,240 11,279 61,267 —
Removal of assumed conversion of 7.00% Series D 
cumulative convertible preferred stock(2) (3,204) (5,060) — — —
Allocation to unvested restricted stock awards 1,307 1,517 (321) (2,356) 110
Funds from operations attributable to Alexandria’s common 
stockholders – diluted, as adjusted(3) $ 783,006 $ 682,003 $ 554,468 $ 421,315 $ 375,774
(1)  Classified in equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate joint ventures in our consolidated statements of operations under Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K.
(2)  Refer to “Weighted-Average Share of Common Stock Outstanding – Diluted” in the “Non-GAAP Measures and Definitions” section under Item 7 in this annual report on Form 
10-K for additional information.
(3)  Refer to “Funds From Operations and Funds From Operations, as Adjusted, Attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s Common Stockholders” in the “Non-GAAP 
Measures and Definitions” section under Item 7 in this annual report on Form 10-K.
70
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  70
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
  The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto under 
“Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules” in this annual report on Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements involve inherent 
risks and uncertainties regarding events, conditions, and financial trends that may affect our future plans of operations, business 
strategy, results of operations, and financial position. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from 
those included within or contemplated by such forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, those described under “Item 1A. 
Risk Factors” in this annual report on Form 10-K. We do not undertake any responsibility to update any of these factors or to announce 
publicly any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements contained in this or any other document, whether as a result of new 
information, future events, or otherwise.
  As used in this annual report on Form 10-K, references to the “Company,” “Alexandria,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to 
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Executive summary
Operating results
 
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018
Net income attributable to Alexandria’s common stockholders – diluted:
In millions $ 351.0 $ 364.0
Per share $ 3.12 $ 3.52
Funds from operations attributable to Alexandria’s common stockholders – 
diluted, as adjusted:
In millions $ 783.0 $ 682.0
Per share $ 6.96 $ 6.60
 
  The operating results shown above include certain items related to corporate-level investing and financing decisions. Refer to 
the tabular presentation of these items in the “Results of Operations” section under this Item 7 for additional information.
Celebrating our 25th Anniversary; an important milestone in company history
  Since our initial launch in January 1994 as a garage startup with a strategic business plan, $19 million in Series A capital, and 
a unique vision to create a new kind of real estate company focused on serving the life science industry, we have grown into an 
investment-grade rated S&P 500® company, a recognized leader in life science cluster development, and a trusted partner to innovative 
companies, highly respected cities, and renowned institutions. From our initial public offering in May 1997 through December 31, 2019, 
we have generated a total shareholder return of 1,714% and a total market capitalization of $26.3 billion as of December 31, 2019.
A REIT industry-leading, high-quality tenant roster
•  50% of annual rental revenue from investment-grade or publicly traded large cap tenants.
•  Weighted-average remaining lease term of 8.1 years.
Continued growth in common stock dividend
  Common stock dividend declared for the three months ended December 31, 2019 of $1.03 per common share, aggregating 
$4.00 per common share for the year ended December 31, 2019, up 27 cents, or 7%, over the year ended December 31, 2018; 
continuation of our strategy to share growth in cash flows from operating activities with our stockholders while also retaining a 
significant portion for reinvestment.
71
71  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Strong internal growth; highest leasing activity in our history and highest annual rental rate increases during the past 10 years
•  Total revenues of $1.5 billion, up 15.4%, for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to $1.3 billion for the year 
ended December 31, 2018.
•  Continued strong internal growth; acquired vacancy from recent acquisitions provide opportunity to increase income from 
rentals and net operating income.
•  Net operating income (cash basis) of $951.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, increased by $121.2 million, 
or 14.6%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2018.
•  Same property net operating income growth of 3.1% and 7.1% (cash basis) for the year ended December 31, 2019, 
compared to the year ended December 31, 2018.
•  Continued strong leasing activity during 2019, representing the highest leasing activity in our history and rental rate 
growth over expiring rates on renewed and re-leased space during 2019, representing our highest annual rental rate 
increases during the past 10 years:
2019
Total leasing activity – RSF 5,062,722
Lease renewals and re-leasing of space:
RSF (included in total leasing activity above) 2,427,108
Rental rate increases 32.2%
Rental rate increases (cash basis) 17.6%
Strong external growth; disciplined allocation of capital to visible, highly leased value-creation pipeline
 
•  Since the beginning of 2019, we have placed into service 2.1 million RSF of development and redevelopment projects,  
with weighted-average initial stabilized yields of 7.4% and 6.9% (cash basis).
•  Significant near-term growth of annual net operating income (cash basis), including our share of unconsolidated real 
estate joint ventures, of $55 million upon the burn-off of initial free rent on recently delivered projects.
•  We commenced development and redevelopment projects aggregating 1.9 million RSF during the year ended 
December 31, 2019.
•  During the year ended December 31, 2019, we leased 1.4 million RSF of development and redevelopment space.
Completed acquisitions
  Refer to the “Acquisitions” subsection of the “Investments in Real Estate” section under “Item 2. Properties” in this annual 
report on Form 10-K for information on our opportunistic acquisitions.
Core operating metrics as of December 31, 2019
Percentage of annual rental revenue in effect from:
Investment-grade or publicly traded large cap tenants 50%
Class A properties in AAA locations 76%
Occupancy of operating properties in North America 96.8% (1)
Operating margin(2) 70%
Adjusted EBITDA margin(2) 68% (3)
Weighted-average remaining lease term:
All tenants 8.1 years
Top 20 tenants 11.6 years
(1)  Includes 259,616 RSF, or 1.0%, of vacancy representing lease-up opportunities at properties recently acquired during the second half of 2019, primarily related to our 
SD Tech by Alexandria campus. Excluding these vacancies, occupancy of operating properties in North America would have been 97.8% as of December 31, 2019. 
Refer to the “Summary of Occupancy Percentages in North America” section under Item 2 in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information.
(2)  Fourth quarter of 2019, annualized.
(3)  Represents an increase of 400 bps since the beginning of 2013.
72
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  72
Balance sheet management
Refer to the “Execution of Capital Strategy” section below under this Item 7 in this annual report on Form 10-K.
Industry leadership, strategic initiatives, and corporate responsibility
•  In February 2019, it was announced that we are working with Verily Life Sciences, LLC, Alphabet’s life science division, to 
build a tech-focused rehabilitation campus in Dayton, Ohio, for the full and sustained recovery of people living with opioid 
addiction. The campus will provide a comprehensive model of care that will include a behavioral health treatment center, 
rehabilitation housing, and wrap-around services, and will act as a state of the art model for opioid addiction treatment 
nationwide.
•  In February 2019, we were recognized by the Center for Active Design, which operates Fitwel®, as the inaugural Industry 
Leading Company in Fitwel’s 2018 Best in Building Health. We were selected based on our 3-Star Fitwel certification (the 
highest rating possible); our leadership in promoting and educating the real estate industry on the opportunities for and 
benefits of building design, construction, and operational practices that support high levels of occupant health and 
wellness; and our #1 global ranking in the 2018 GRESB Health & Well-Being Module.
•  In March 2019, Alexandria LaunchLabs® – Cambridge, located at the Alexandria Center® at One Kendall Square in 
Greater Boston, achieved LEED gold certification and a Fitwel 3-Star certification.
•  In April 2019, we announced the launch of a new strategic agricultural technology (agtech) business initiative and the 
opening of Phase I of the Alexandria Center® for AgTech – Research Triangle, the first and only fully integrated, amenity-
rich, multi-tenant agtech R&D and greenhouse campus, in the heart of Research Triangle, the most important, dense, and 
diverse agtech cluster in the U.S. The campus opened with a 97% leased, 180,400 RSF first phase redevelopment at 5 
Laboratory Drive.
•  In June 2019, we announced our partnership with Columbia University to open our second Alexandria LaunchLabs® in 
New York City in the spring of 2020. The full-service platform will offer member companies 13,298 RSF of highly flexible, 
turnkey office/laboratory space and feature a high-tech event center to host workshops, networking events, and 
educational opportunities for the entrepreneurial life science community.
•  In June 2019, we celebrated the opening of the first facilities within the tech-focused opioid rehabilitation campus in 
Dayton, Ohio. In partnership with Verily Life Sciences, LLC, we are leading the design and development of this 59,000 
RSF state-of-the-art campus to provide a comprehensive model of care dedicated to the recovery of people suffering from 
opioid addiction.
•  In September 2019, we achieved the following in the 2019 GRESB Real Estate Assessment: (i) GRESB 5 Star Rating (out 
of 5 stars), (ii) our third consecutive “Green Star” designation, and (iii) our second consecutive “A” disclosure score.
•  In October 2019, we accepted the 2019 Developer of the Year Award from NAIOP, the Commercial Real Estate 
Development Association. This award annually honors the development company that best exemplifies leadership and 
innovation as demonstrated by the outstanding quality of projects and services, financial consistency and stability, ability 
to adapt to market conditions, and support for the local community.
•  In November 2019, Alexandria, in collaboration with academic institutions, research hospitals, and life science industry 
partners, including Harvard University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, FUJIFILM Diosynth Biotechnologies, 
and GE Healthcare Life Sciences, announced the launch of a first-of-its-kind consortium to catalyze advanced biological 
innovation and manufacturing in Greater Boston with an aim to treat, prevent, and cure diseases.
•  In January 2020, we announced our first national $100,000 AgTech Innovation Prize competition to recognize startup and 
early-stage agtech and foodtech companies that demonstrate novel approaches to addressing agriculture-, food-, and 
nutrition-related challenges.
•  In January 2020, Alexandria Venture Investments, the company’s venture capital arm, was recognized for a third 
consecutive year as the most active biopharma investor by new deal volume by Silicon Valley Bank in its “2020 Annual 
Report: Healthcare Investments and Exits.” Alexandria’s venture activity provides us with, among other things, mission-
critical data and knowledge on innovations and trends.
•  Our philanthropy and volunteerism efforts provide mission-critical support to non-profit organizations doing meaningful 
work in areas of medical research, STEM education, military support services, and serving local communities. During 
2019, our team members volunteered more than 4,500 hours to support over 250 non-profit organizations across the 
country.
•  We value both the health and wellness of our team members as well as supporting organizations on the leading edge of 
medical innovation. In November 2019, we were honored to support 59 of our team members who completed the 2019 
New York City Marathon on behalf of Fred’s Team and raised approximately $360 thousand to support the mission-critical 
research at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. 
 
73
73  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Subsequent events
•  As of the date of this report, we completed acquisitions of four properties in 2020 for an aggregate purchase price of 
$341.2 million, comprising 800,346 RSF of operating and redevelopment opportunities strategically located across 
multiple markets.
•  In January 2020, we formed a real estate joint venture with Boston Properties, Inc., in which we are targeting a 51% 
ownership interest over time. We are the managing member with the power to direct the activities that most significantly 
affect the economic performance of the joint venture, and will consolidate this joint venture pursuant to the applicable 
accounting standards. Our partner contributed three office buildings and land supporting 260,000 square feet of future 
development, and we contributed one office building, one office/laboratory building, one amenity building, at 701, 681, and 
685 Gateway Boulevard, respectively, and land supporting 377,000 square feet of future development. This future mega 
campus in our South San Francisco submarket will aggregate 1.7 million RSF, approximately 50% of which represents 
future development and redevelopment opportunities.
•  In January 2020, we entered into forward equity sales agreements to sell an aggregate of 6.9 million shares of our 
common stock (including the exercise of an underwriters’ option) at a public offering price of $155.00 per share, before 
underwriting discounts. We expect to settle these forward equity sales agreements in 2020, and receive proceeds of 
approximately $1.0 billion, to be further adjusted as provided in the sales agreements, which will fund pending and 
recently completed acquisitions and the construction of our highly leased development projects.
•  We expect to file a new ATM program in the first quarter of 2020.
Operating summary
Same Property Net Operating 
(1)
Income Growth Favorable Lease Structure
Strategic Lease Structure by Owner and Operator of 
Collaborative Life Science, Technology, and AgTech Campuses
Increasing cash flows
Percentage of leases containing 95%
annual rent escalations
Stable cash flows
Percentage of triple  97%
net leases
Lower capex burden
Percentage of leases providing for the 96%
recapture of capital expenditures
Rental Rate Growth:
(2)
Renewed/Re-Leased Space Margins
Operating Adjusted EBITDA
70% 68%
(1)  Percentages calculated based on RSF as of December 31, 2019.
(2)  Represents percentages for the three months ended December 31, 2019.
74
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  74
Execution of capital strategy
During 2019, we continued to execute on many of the long-term components of our capital strategy. Some of our key 
accomplishments include the following:
2019 capital strategy
Key metrics as of December 31, 2019
•  $26.3 billion of total market capitalization
•  $19.5 billion of total equity capitalization
•  $2.4 billion of liquidity(1)
(1)  In January 2020, we entered into $1.0 billion of forward equity sales agreements. Including the outstanding forward equity agreements, we had proforma liquidity of 
$3.4 billion.
As of December 31, 2019
Quarter Trailing 12 Goal for Fourth Quarter of
Annualized Months 2020, Annualized
Net debt and preferred stock to Adjusted EBITDA 5.7x (1) 6.1x Less than or equal to 5.2x
Fixed-charge coverage ratio 4.2x 4.2x Greater than 4.5x
(1)  Due to the timing of two acquisitions that closed in December 2019, we had a temporary 0.4x increase above our projected net debt and preferred stock to Adjusted 
EBITDA – fourth quarter of 2019, annualized, for December 31, 2019. We remain committed to our guidance of net debt and preferred stock to Adjusted EBITDA – 
fourth quarter of 2020, annualized, of less than or equal to 5.2x.
Value-creation pipeline of new Class A development and redevelopment projects as a percentage of As of 
gross investments in real estate December 31, 2019
Under construction and 63% leased/negotiating 6%
Income-producing/potential cash flows/covered land play(1) 5%
Land 2%
(1)   Includes projects that have existing buildings which are generating or can generate operating cash flows.  Also includes development rights associated with existing 
operating campuses.
Key capital events in 2019
•  We had the following dispositions and sales of partial interests in core Class A properties (dollars in millions, except 
per RSF):
Sales Price
Interest Capitalization
Property Submarket RSF Sold Total Per RSF Rate (Cash)
5200 Illumina Way University Town Center 792,687 49% $ 286.7 N/A (1) 4.7%
75/125 Binney Street Cambridge 388,270 60% 438.0 $ 1,880 4.3%
500 Forbes Boulevard South San Francisco 155,685 90% 139.5 $ 996 4.4%
10260 Campus Point Drive University Town Center 269,048 45% 36.0 N/A N/A
and 4161 Campus Point
Court
6138/6150 Nancy Ridge Sorrento Mesa 56,698 100% 6.6 $ 117 N/A
Drive
1,662,388 $ 906.8
(1)   Represents $264.6 million, or $681 per RSF, for the operating buildings and $22.1 million, or $100 per RSF, for the developable land parcel. This
transaction values 100% of the campus at $585.2 million and represents a value in excess of book basis aggregating $269.1 million.
75
75  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
•  Our issuances and repayments of debt included the following (dollars in millions):
Effective Loss on Early
Interest Maturity Principal Extinguishment
Date Rate Date Amount of Debt
Issuances
Unsecured senior notes payable – green bond March 4.03% 1/15/24 $ 200
Unsecured senior notes payable – green bond March 3.96 4/15/26 350
Unsecured senior notes payable March 4.93 4/15/49 300
Unsecured senior notes payable July 3.48 8/15/31 750
Unsecured senior notes payable July/Sept 3.91 2/1/50 700
Unsecured senior notes payable Sept 2.87 12/15/29 400
Weighted average/total 3.77% 16.9 years $ 2,700 (1)
Repayments of debt
Secured notes payable Jan 8.15% 4/1/20 $ 107 $ 7.1
Secured construction loan March 3.29 1/28/20 193 0.3
Unsecured senior notes payable July/Aug 2.96 1/15/20 400
37.4
Unsecured senior notes payable July/Aug 4.75 4/1/22 550
Unsecured senior bank term loan July/Sept 3.62 1/2/25 350 2.8
Weighted average/total 4.11% 2.4 years $ 1,600 (1) $ 47.6
(1)  The remaining proceeds received from our debt issuances, after repayments of debt, were used to fund the construction of our value-creation pipeline 
and acquisitions completed during 2019. Refer to Note 3 – “Investments in Real Estate” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in this 
annual report on Form 10-K for additional information. 
•  In conjunction with the $350.0 million repayment of our unsecured senior bank term loan, during the three months 
ended September 30, 2019, we also terminated all of our interest rate hedge agreements aggregating $350.0 million 
with a weighted-average interest pay rate of 2.57% and reclassified the entire loss on our interest rate hedge 
agreements aggregating $1.7 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss into interest expense in our 
consolidated statements of operations.
•  In September 2019, we established a commercial paper program with the ability to issue up to $750.0 million of 
commercial paper notes with a maximum maturity of 397 days from the date of issue. Our commercial paper program 
is backed by our $2.2 billion unsecured senior line of credit, and at all times we expect to retain a minimum undrawn 
amount of borrowing capacity under our unsecured senior line of credit equal to any outstanding balance on our 
commercial paper program. We use borrowings under the program to fund short-term capital needs. As of 
December 31, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding under our commercial paper program.
•  During the year ended December 31, 2019, we issued 8.7 million shares of common stock and received net proceeds 
of $1.2 billion, as follows: 
•  Issued an aggregate of 8.1 million shares of common stock, at a weighted-average price of $139.32 per share, for 
aggregate proceeds (net of underwriters’ discounts) of approximately $1.1 billion. During the year ended 
December 31, 2019, we incurred initial issuance costs aggregating $700 thousand in connection with these 
forward equity sales agreements. 
•  Issued 602,484 shares of common stock under our ATM program, at a weighted-average price of $145.58 per 
share, for net proceeds of $86.1 million, during the three months ended June 30, 2019. As of December 31, 2019, 
we had approximately $22.5 million of gross proceeds available to be issued under our ATM program.
•  The proceeds were used to fund construction projects and 2019 acquisitions completed prior to December 2019.
•  During the year ended December 31, 2019, we repurchased, in privately negotiated transactions, 275,000 outstanding 
shares of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock at an aggregate price of $9.2 million, or $33.60 per share, and 
recognized a preferred stock redemption charge of $2.6 million.
•  In September 2019, we elected to convert the remaining 2.3 million outstanding shares of our Series D Convertible 
Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock. The Series D Convertible Preferred Stock became eligible for 
mandatory conversion at our discretion, at a set conversion rate of 0.2513 shares of common stock to one share of 
preferred stock, upon our common stock price exceeding $149.46 per share for the specified period of time required to 
cause the mandatory conversion. In October 2019, we converted the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock into 578 
thousand shares of common stock. This conversion was accounted for as an equity transaction, and we did not 
recognize a gain or loss. As of December 31, 2019, we had no outstanding shares of Series D Convertible Preferred 
Stock. 
76
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  76
Investments
  We carry our investments in publicly traded companies and certain privately held entities at fair value. During the year 
ended December 31, 2019, we had investment income of $194.6 million, comprising $50.3 million in realized gains, $17.1 million in 
impairments related to non-real estate investments in privately held entities, and $161.5 million in unrealized gains.
2020 Capital strategy
During 2020, we intend to continue to execute our capital strategy to achieve further improvements to our credit rating, 
which will allow us to further improve our cost of capital and continue our disciplined approach to capital allocation. For further 
information, refer to the “Projected Results” section below under this Item 7 in this annual report on Form 10-K.
Consistent with 2019, our capital strategy for 2020 includes the following elements:
•  Allocate capital to Class A properties located in collaborative life science, technology, and agtech campuses in AAA 
urban innovation clusters;
•  Continue to improve our credit profile;
•  Maintain prudent access to diverse sources of capital, which include cash flows from operating activities after 
dividends, incremental debt supported by our growth in EBITDA, real estate asset sales, non-real estate investment 
sales, joint venture capital, and other capital such as sales of equity;
•  Maintain commitment to long-term capital to fund growth;
•  Prudently ladder debt maturities;
•  Reduce short-term variable-rate debt;
•  Prudently manage equity investments to support corporate-level investment strategies;
•  Maintain significant balance sheet liquidity; and
•  Maintain a stable and flexible balance sheet.
  Given the anticipated delivery of significant incremental EBITDA from our development and redevelopment of new Class A 
properties, we expect to be able to debt fund a significant portion of construction on a leverage-neutral basis. We expect to continue 
to maintain access to a diverse source of debt, including unsecured senior notes payable, as well as secured construction loans for 
our development and redevelopment projects from time to time. We expect to continue to maintain a significant proportion of our net 
operating income on an unencumbered basis to allow for future flexibility for accessing both unsecured and secured debt markets, 
although we expect traditional secured mortgage notes payable will remain a small component of our capital structure. In addition to 
debt funding on a leverage-neutral basis, we intend to supplement our remaining capital needs with net cash flows from operating 
activities, after dividends and proceeds from real estate asset sales, non-real estate investment sales, partial interest sales, and 
other debt and equity capital.
Improved cost of capital
  As part of our capital strategy to continue strengthening our credit profile, we expect to complete and place into service 
development and redevelopment projects currently under construction, which we expect will deliver significant incremental EBITDA. 
The expected growth in our EBITDA in 2020 and beyond should allow us to obtain debt funding on a leverage-neutral basis and provide 
significant capital to fund our development and redevelopment projects. Additionally, the resulting expected improvement in our balance 
sheet leverage ratio should allow us to access diverse sources of capital, strengthen our credit profile, and reduce our cost of capital. In 
addition, we expect to continue to maintain a significant proportion of unencumbered net operating income. For the year ended 
December 31, 2019, our unencumbered net operating income as a percentage of total net operating income was 94%. 
77
77  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
t
n
a
e
n
t
a) e)
vst Tst
rio n-o
PC C
o
c/ ( N (
bliMix nt/Mix
u a
P n
e
T
8
7
Investments We present our equity investments at fair value whenever fair value or NAV is readily available. Adjustments for our limited partnership investments represent changes in reported NAV as a practical expedient to estimate fair value. For investments without readily available fair values, we adjust the carrying amount whenever such investments have an observable price change, and further adjustments are not made until another price change, if any, is observed. Refer to Note 7 – “Investments” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information.  December 31, 2019 Three MonthsYear Ended(In thousands)EndedYear EndedDecember 31, 2018(1)(1)(2)$4,399$33,158Realized gains$37,129 148,268161,489Unrealized gains99,634 $152,667$194,647Investment income$136,763 CarryingInvestmentsCostAdjustmentsAmount Fair value:(3)Publicly traded companies$148,109$170,528$318,637 Entities that report NAV271,276162,626433,902 Entities that do not report NAV: Entities with observableprice changes since 1/1/1842,04568,489110,534 Entities without observableprice changes277,521—277,521 December 31, 2019$738,951$401,643$1,140,594 September 30, 2019$737,078$253,376$990,454 (1) Includes realized gains for the three months and year ended December 31, 2019, of $14.4 million and $50.3 million, respectively, and impairments related to non-real estate investments in privately held entities of $10.0 million and $17.1 million, respectively.(2) Includes realized gains of $14.7 million related to two publicly traded non-real estate investments and impairment of $5.5 million primarily related to one non-real estate investment in a privately held entity. Excluding these gains and impairment, our realized gains on non-real estate investments were $27.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2018.(3) Includes gross unrealized gains and losses of $197.3 million and $26.8 million, respectively.
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  78
Results of operations
  We present a tabular comparison of items, whether gain or loss, that may facilitate a high-level understanding of our results 
and provide context for the disclosures included in our annual report on Form 10-K. We believe such tabular presentation promotes a 
better understanding for investors of the corporate-level decisions made and activities performed that significantly affect comparison of 
our operating results from period to period. We also believe this tabular presentation will supplement for investors an understanding of 
our disclosures and real estate operating results. Gains or losses on sales of real estate and impairments of held for sale assets are 
related to corporate-level decisions to dispose of real estate. Gains or losses on early extinguishment of debt, gains or losses on early 
termination of interest rate hedge agreements, and preferred stock redemption charges are related to corporate-level financing 
decisions focused on our capital structure strategy. Significant realized and unrealized gains or losses on non-real estate investments 
and impairments of real estate and non-real estate investments are not related to the operating performance of our real estate assets 
as they result from strategic, corporate-level non-real estate investment decisions and external market conditions. Impairments of non-
real estate investments are not related to the operating performance of our real estate as they represent the write-down of non-real 
estate investments when their fair values decline below their respective carrying values due to changes in general market or other 
conditions outside of our control. Significant items, whether a gain or loss, included in the tabular disclosure, for current periods are 
described in further detail under this Item 7 in this annual report on Form 10-K. Items included in net income attributable to Alexandria’s 
common stockholders were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2019 2018
(In millions, except per share amounts) Amount Per Share – Diluted
Gains on non-real estate investments(1):
Unrealized $ 161.5 $ 99.6 $ 1.44 $ 0.96
Realized — 14.7 — 0.14
Gain on sales of real estate 0.5 44.4 — 0.43
Impairment of:
Real estate(2) (12.3) (6.3) (0.11) (0.06)
Non-real estate investments(1) (17.1) (5.5) (0.15) (0.05)
Early extinguishment of debt:
Loss(3) (47.6) (1.1) (0.42) (0.01)
Our share of gain — 0.8 — 0.01
Loss on early termination of interest rate hedge agreements (1.7) — (0.02) —
Preferred stock redemption charge(4) (2.6) (4.2) (0.02) (0.04)
Allocation to unvested restricted stock awards — (2.2) — (0.02)
Total $ 80.7 $ 140.2 $ 0.72 $ 1.36
Weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding for calculation of 
EPS – diluted 112.5 103.3
 
(1)  Refer to Note 7 – “Investments” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K for more information. 
(2)  Refer to Note 3 – “Investments in Real Estate” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K for more information.
(3)  Refer to Note 10 – “Secured and Unsecured Senior Debt” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K for more 
information. 
(4)  Refer to Note 16 – “Stockholders’ Equity” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K for more information.
79
79  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Same properties
We supplement an evaluation of our results of operations with an evaluation of operating performance of certain of our 
properties, referred to as “Same Properties.” For more information on the determination of our Same Properties portfolio, refer to the 
definition of “Same Property Comparisons” in the “Non-GAAP Measures and Definitions” section under this Item 7 in this annual report 
on Form 10-K. The following table presents information regarding our Same Properties as of December 31, 2019 and 2018:
December 31,
2019 2018
Percentage change in net operating income over comparable period from prior year 3.1% 3.7%
Percentage change in net operating income (cash basis) over comparable period from prior year 7.1% 9.2%
Operating margin 71% 71%
Number of Same Properties 192 185
RSF 18,519,783 17,221,297
Occupancy – current-period average 96.6% 96.6%
Occupancy – same-period prior-year average 96.3% 96.1%
  The following table reconciles the number of Same Properties to total properties for the year ended December 31, 2019:
Development – under construction Properties Acquisitions after January 1, 2018 Properties
9800 Medical Center Drive 1 100 Tech Drive 1
9950 Medical Center Drive 1 219 East 42nd Street 1
Alexandria District for Science and Technology 2 Summers Ridge Science Park 4
201 Haskins Way 1 2301 5th Avenue 1
1165 Eastlake Avenue East 1 9704, 9708, 9712, and 9714 Medical Center
Drive 4
4150 Campus Point Court 1
9920 Belward Campus Drive 1
7
21 Firstfield Road 1
Development – placed into service after
January 1, 2018 Properties 25, 35, 45, 50, and 55 West Watkins Mill Road 5
100 Binney Street 1 10260 Campus Point Drive and 4161 Campus
Point Court 2
399 Binney Street 1
3170 Porter Drive 1
213 East Grand Avenue 1
Shoreway Science Center 2
279 East Grand Avenue 1
3911, 3931, and 4075 Sorrento Valley Boulevard 3
188 East Blaine Street 1
260 Townsend Street 1
5
5 Necco Street 1
Redevelopment – under construction Properties
601 Dexter Avenue North 1
Alexandria Center® – Long Island City 1
4224/4242 Campus Point Court and 10210
945 Market Street 1 Campus Point Drive 3
3160 Porter Drive 1 3825 and 3875 Fabian Way 2
The Arsenal on the Charles 4 SD Tech by Alexandria 10
7 The Arsenal on the Charles 7
Redevelopment – placed into service after Other 9
January 1, 2018 Properties 60
9625 Towne Centre Drive 1
Alexandria PARC 4 Unconsolidated real estate JV 6
681 and 685 Gateway Boulevard 2 Properties held for sale 3
9900 Medical Center Drive 1 Total properties excluded from Same Properties 99
266 and 275 Second Avenue 2 Same Properties 192 (1)
Alexandria Center® for AgTech, Phase I 1 Total properties in North America as of
11 December 31, 2019 291
(1)  Includes 9880 Campus Point Drive and 3545 Cray Court. The 9880 Campus Point Drive building was occupied through January 2018 and is currently in active 
development, and 3545 Cray Court is currently undergoing renovations.
80
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  80
Comparison of results for the year ended December 31, 2019, to the year ended December 31, 2018
The following table presents a comparison of the components of net operating income for our Same Properties and Non-Same 
Properties for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the year ended December 31, 2018. Refer to the “Non-GAAP 
Measures and Definitions” section under this Item 7 in this annual report on Form 10-K for definitions of “Tenant Recoveries” and “Net 
Operating Income” and their reconciliations from the most directly comparable financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP, 
income from rentals and net income, respectively. We provide a comparison of the results for the year ended December 31, 2018 to the 
year ended December 31, 2017, including a comparison of the components of net operating income for our Same Properties and Non-
Same Properties for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, within the “Results of 
Operations” section in Item 7 of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Year Ended December 31,
(Dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 $ Change % Change
Income from rentals:
Same Properties $ 927,077 $ 897,522 $ 29,555 3.3%
Non-Same Properties 238,711 113,196 125,515 110.9
Rental revenues 1,165,788 1,010,718 155,070 15.3
Same Properties 299,325 281,092 18,233 6.5
Non-Same Properties 51,751 22,971 28,780 125.3
Tenant recoveries 351,076 304,063 47,013 15.5
Income from rentals 1,516,864 1,314,781 202,083 15.4
Same Properties 448 298 150 50.3
Non-Same Properties 13,984 12,380 1,604 13.0
Other income 14,432 12,678 1,754 13.8
Same Properties 1,226,850 1,178,912 47,938 4.1
Non-Same Properties 304,446 148,547 155,899 104.9
Total revenues 1,531,296 1,327,459 203,837 15.4
Same Properties 353,431 332,051 21,380 6.4
Non-Same Properties 92,061 49,069 42,992 87.6
Rental operations 445,492 381,120 64,372 16.9
Same Properties 873,419 846,861 26,558 3.1
Non-Same Properties 212,385 99,478 112,907 113.5
Net operating income $ 1,085,804 $ 946,339 $ 139,465 14.7%
Net operating income – Same Properties $ 873,419 $ 846,861 $ 26,558 3.1%
Straight-line rent revenue (55,393) (79,475) 24,082 (30.3)
Amortization of acquired below-market leases (7,249) (10,196) 2,947 (28.9)
Net operating income – Same Properties (cash basis) $ 810,777 $ 757,190 $ 53,587 7.1%
81
81  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Income from rentals
  Total income from rentals for the year ended December 31, 2019, increased by $202.1 million, or 15.4%, to $1.5 billion, 
compared to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018, as a result of increases in rental revenues and tenant recoveries, as 
discussed below.
Rental revenues
Total rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019, increased by $155.1 million, or 15.3%, to $1.2 billion, compared 
to $1.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase was primarily due to an increase in rental revenues from our Non-
Same Properties aggregating $125.5 million related to 1.6 million RSF of development and redevelopment projects placed into service 
subsequent to January 1, 2018, and 60 operating properties aggregating 4.5 million RSF acquired subsequent to January 1, 2018.
Rental revenues from our Same Properties for the year ended December 31, 2019, increased by $29.6 million, or 3.3%, to 
$927.1 million, compared to $897.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase was primarily due to significant rental 
rate increases on lease renewals and re-leasing of space since January 1, 2018 and an increase in Same Properties’ occupancy to 
96.6% for the year ended December 31, 2019, from 96.3% for the year ended December 31, 2018. Refer to the “Leasing Activity” 
section under Item 2 in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information. 
Tenant recoveries
Tenant recoveries for the year ended December 31, 2019, increased by $47.0 million, or 15.5%, to $351.1 million, compared to 
$304.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. This increase is relatively consistent with the increase in our rental operating 
expenses of $64.4 million, or 16.9%, as discussed under “Rental Operations” below. Same Properties’ tenant recoveries for the year 
ended December 31, 2019, increased by $18.2 million, or 6.5%, primarily due to the increase in recoverable operating expenses for the 
year ended December 31, 2019, as discussed below. As of December 31, 2019, 97% of our leases (on an RSF basis) were triple net 
leases, which require tenants to pay substantially all real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, repairs and maintenance, common area 
expenses, and other operating expenses (including increases thereto) in addition to base rent.
Other income
Other income for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, was $14.4 million and $12.7 million, respectively, primarily 
consisting of construction management fees and interest income earned during each respective period. 
Rental operations
Total rental operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2019, increased by $64.4 million, or 16.9%, to $445.5 
million, compared to $381.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. Approximately $43.0 million of the increase was due to an 
increase in rental operating expenses from our Non-Same Properties, primarily related to 1.6 million RSF of development and 
redevelopment projects placed into service subsequent to January 1, 2018, and 60 operating properties aggregating 4.5 million RSF 
acquired subsequent to January 1, 2018.
Same Properties’ rental operating expenses increased by $21.4 million, or 6.4%, to $353.4 million during the year ended 
December 31, 2019, compared to the $332.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. Approximately $6.9 million of the increase 
was due to the higher tax expense stemming from a new 3.5% gross receipts tax on rental revenues by the city of San Francisco that 
went into effect on January 1, 2019, and an increase in property tax expense resulting from higher assessed values of certain of our 
properties in Greater Boston. The remaining $14.5 million increase was mainly a result of the higher repairs and maintenance 
expenses, payroll, and additional contract services incurred during the year ended December 31, 2019.
General and administrative expenses
General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2019, increased by $18.4 million, or 20.4%, to $108.8 
million, compared to $90.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2018.  Approximately $5 million of the increase reflects incremental 
leasing costs recognized in expense in the current period, resulting from our adoption of a new accounting standard on leases on 
January 1, 2019. For a detailed discussion related to this new standard, refer to the “Lease Accounting” section in Note 2 – “Summary 
of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K. 
  The remaining increase of approximately $13.4 million of general and administrative expenses was due to a 35.9% increase in 
our employee headcount since January 1, 2018, to accommodate the continued growth in the depth and breadth of our operations in 
multiple markets, including development and redevelopment projects placed into service and properties acquired subsequent to 
January 1, 2018, as discussed under “Income from Rentals” above. As a percentage of net operating income, our general and 
administrative expenses for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, were 10.0% and 9.6%, respectively.
82
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  82
Interest expense
Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, consisted of the following (dollars in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
Component 2019 2018 Change
Interest incurred $ 262,238 $ 223,715 $ 38,523
Capitalized interest (88,563) (66,220) (22,343)
Interest expense $ 173,675 $ 157,495 $ 16,180
Average debt balance outstanding(1) $ 6,416,773 $ 5,513,958 $ 902,815
Weighted-average annual interest rate(2) 4.1% 4.1% —%
(1)  Represents the average debt balance outstanding during the respective periods.
(2)  Represents total interest incurred divided by the average debt balance outstanding in the respective periods.
The net change in interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the year ended December 31, 
2018, resulted from the following (dollars in thousands):
Component Interest Rate(1) Effective Date Change
Increases in interest incurred due to:
Issuances of debt:
$650 million unsecured senior notes payable – green bond 4.03% June 2018/ $ 13,857
March 2019
$750 million unsecured senior notes payable 3.48% July 2019 11,708
$300 million unsecured senior notes payable 4.93% March 2019 11,323
$700 million unsecured senior notes payable 3.91% July/September 11,108
2019
$350 million unsecured senior notes payable – green bond 3.96% March 2019 10,386
$450 million unsecured senior notes payable 4.81% June 2018 10,003
$400 million unsecured senior notes payable 2.87% September 2019 3,349
Fluctuations in interest rate and average balance:
Commercial paper program 2,937
(2)
Reclassification of losses related to termination of interest rate  1,702
hedge agreements
Higher rates for interest rate hedge agreements in effect 3,134
Total increases 79,507
Decreases in interest incurred due to:
Repayments of debt:
$550 million unsecured senior notes payable 4.75% July/August 2019 (10,931)
$400 million unsecured senior notes payable 2.96% July/August 2019 (4,905)
Secured construction loan 3.29% March 2019 (7,288)
Secured notes payable 8.15% January 2019 (8,337)
Unsecured senior bank term loans Various Various (8,057)
Fluctuations in interest rate and average balance:
Unsecured senior line of credit (1,007)
Other decrease in interest (459)
Total decreases (40,984)
Change in interest incurred 38,523
Increase in capitalized interest (22,343)
Total change in interest expense $ 16,180
(1)  Represents the weighted-average interest rate as of the end of the applicable period, including amortization of loan fees, amortization of debt premiums (discounts), and 
other bank fees.
(2)  During the year ended December 31, 2019, we terminated all of our interest rate hedge agreements aggregating $350.0 million and reclassified a loss of $1.7 million 
from accumulated other comprehensive loss into interest expense. Refer to Note 11 – “Interest Rate Hedge Agreements” to our consolidated financial statements under 
Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information.  
83
83  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
  In anticipation of LIBOR cessation at the end of 2021, we have been actively reducing LIBOR-based borrowings outstanding 
on our loans. As of December 31, 2019, our only outstanding LIBOR-based debt, excluding debt held by our unconsolidated joint 
ventures, included an outstanding balance of $384.0 million on our unsecured senior line of credit, which represented approximately 6% 
of our total debt balance outstanding as of December 31, 2019. 
Depreciation and amortization
Depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2019, increased by $67.0 million, or 14.0%, to 
$544.6 million, compared to $477.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase is primarily due to additional 
depreciation from 1.6 million RSF of development and redevelopment projects placed into service subsequent to January 1, 2018, and 
60 operating properties aggregating 4.5 million RSF acquired subsequent to January 1, 2018.
Investment income
  During the year ended December 31, 2019, we recognized investment income of $194.6 million, which included $33.2 million 
of realized gains and $161.5 million of unrealized gains. Realized gains consisted of $50.3 million of realized gains, partially offset by 
impairment charges of $17.1 million related to investments in privately held entities that do not report NAV. Unrealized gains of $161.5 
million during the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily consisted of increases in fair values of our investments in publicly traded 
companies. For more information about our investments, refer to Note 7 – “Investments” to our consolidated financial statements under 
Item 15 in this annual report Form 10-K. For our impairments accounting policy, refer to the “Investments” section in Note 2 – “Summary 
of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in this annual report From 10-K.
  During the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized investment income aggregating $136.7 million, which included 
$37.1 million of realized gains and $99.6 million of unrealized gains. Realized gains consisted of $42.6 million of realized gains, partially 
offset by impairment charges of $5.5 million related to investments in privately held entities that do not report NAV. Unrealized gains of 
$99.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily consisted of observable price increases in our equity investments in 
privately held entities that do not report NAV aggregating $64.1 million, increases in fair values of our investments in privately held 
entities that report NAV aggregating $22.4 million, and increases in fair values of our investments in publicly traded companies 
aggregating $13.1 million.
Sales of real estate assets and impairment charges
  During the three months ended June 30, 2019, we classified as held for sale our property at 6138/6150 Nancy Ridge Drive 
aggregating 56,698 RSF, located in our Sorrento Mesa submarket. In December 2019, we completed the sale of the property for a 
sales price of $6.6 million, or $117 per RSF, and recognized a gain of $474 thousand.
  During the three months ended December 31, 2019, we decided to sell two of our real estate assets aggregating 123,862 RSF 
located in non-cluster markets to allow for reinvestment of this capital into our highly leased value-creation pipeline. Upon classification 
as held for sale, we recognized impairment charges aggregating $12.3 million to lower the carrying amounts of these real estate assets 
to their respective estimated fair value less cost to sell. For additional information, refer to Note 19 – “Assets Classified as Held for 
Sale” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K.
  During the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized an impairment of real estate of $6.3 million related to one land 
parcel located in Northern Virginia that was classified as held for sale and was subsequently sold during 2018 for a sales price of 
$6.0 million with no gain or loss.
Loss on early extinguishment of debt
  During the year ended December 31, 2019, we repaid early one secured note payable aggregating $106.7 million, which was 
originally due in 2020 and bore interest at 7.75%, and recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $7.1 million, including the 
write-off of unamortized loan fees. Additionally during the year ended December 31, 2019, we repaid early the remaining outstanding 
balance of $193.1 million under our secured construction loan related to 50/60 Binney Street and recognized a loss on early 
extinguishment of debt of $269 thousand. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we also repaid outstanding balance of our 
unsecured senior bank term loan of $350.0 million and refinanced an aggregate of $950.0 million of unsecured senior notes payable 
which included $400.0 million of 2.75% unsecured senior notes payable due 2020 and $550.0 million of 4.60% unsecured senior notes 
payable due 2022. As a result, we recognized losses of $40.2 million related to the early extinguishment of debt, including the write-off 
of unamortized loan fees.
84
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  84
  During the year ended December 31, 2018, we amended our unsecured senior line of credit and our unsecured senior bank 
term loan to, among other changes, extend the maturity dates of each to January 28, 2024. We recognized a loss on early 
extinguishment of debt of approximately $634 thousand related to the write-off of unamortized loan fees associated with these 
amendments. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2018, we repaid the remaining $200.0 million and $150.0 million 
outstanding balances under our 2019 unsecured senior bank term loan and one secured construction loan, respectively, and 
recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $189 thousand and $299 thousand, respectively, related to the write-off of 
unamortized loan fees. 
Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate joint ventures
  During the year ended December 31, 2018, we sold our remaining 27.5% ownership interest in the unconsolidated real estate 
joint venture that owned 360 Longwood Avenue, located in our Longwood Medical Area submarket, and recognized a gain of 
$35.7 million. This gain is reflected in equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate joint ventures in our consolidated statements of 
operations.
Preferred stock redemption charge
  During the year ended December 31, 2019, we repurchased, in privately negotiated transactions, 275,000 outstanding shares 
of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock and recognized a preferred stock redemption charge of $2.6 million. In September 2019, 
we elected to convert the remaining 2.3 million outstanding shares of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock into shares of our 
common stock. The Series D Convertible Preferred Stock became eligible for mandatory conversion at our discretion, at a set 
conversion rate of 0.2513 shares of common stock to one share of preferred stock, upon our common stock price exceeding $149.46 
per share for the specified period of time required to cause the mandatory conversion. In October 2019, we converted the Series D 
Convertible Preferred Stock into 578 thousand shares of common stock. This conversion was accounted for as an equity transaction, 
and we did not recognize a gain or loss. As of December 31, 2019, we had no outstanding shares of Series D Convertible Preferred 
Stock. 
  During the year ended December 31, 2018, we repurchased, in privately negotiated transactions, 402,000 outstanding shares 
of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock and recognized a preferred stock redemption charge of $4.2 million. 
Inflation
  We do not believe that our revenues and earnings from real estate operations are subject to significant risks from inflation. 
Refer to the “Inflation” subsection of the “Cash Flows” section under this Item 7 for additional information.
85
85  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Projected results
  Based on our current view of existing market conditions and certain current assumptions, we present guidance for EPS attributable 
to Alexandria’s common stockholders – diluted and funds from operations per share attributable to Alexandria’s common stockholders – 
diluted for the year ending December 31, 2020, as set forth in the table below. The tables below also provide a reconciliation of EPS 
attributable to Alexandria’s common stockholders – diluted, the most directly comparable GAAP measure, to funds from operations per 
share, non-GAAP measure, and other key assumptions included in our updated guidance for the year ending December 31, 2020. There 
can be no assurance that actual amounts will be materially higher or lower than these expectations. Refer to our discussion of “Forward-
Looking Statements” under this Item 1A.
Guidance
Summary of Key Changes in Guidance As of 2/3/20 As of 1/6/20
Occupancy percentage in North America as of December 31, 2020(1) 95.4% to 96.0% 95.7% to 96.3%
Projected 2020 Earnings per Share and Funds From Operations per Share Attributable to Alexandria’s Common
Stockholders – Diluted
Earnings per share(2) $2.17 to $2.37
Depreciation and amortization of real estate assets 5.15
Allocation of unvested restricted stock awards (0.04)
Funds from operations per share(3) $7.28 to $7.48
Midpoint $7.38
(1)  The 0.3% reduction in occupancy guidance is attributable to vacancy aggregating 71,016 RSF representing lease-up opportunities at one acquisition completed in 
January 2020. Refer to the “Summary of Occupancy Percentages in North America” section under Item 2 in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information.
(2)  Excludes unrealized gains or losses after December 31, 2019, that are required to be recognized in earnings and are excluded from funds from operations per share, as 
adjusted.
(3)  Calculated in accordance with standards established by the Advisory Board of Governors of Nareit (the “Nareit Board of Governors”). Refer to the definition of “Funds 
From Operations and Funds From Operations, As Adjusted, Attributable to Alexandria’s Common Stockholders” in the “Non-GAAP Measures and Definitions” section 
under this Item 7 in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information. 
Key Assumptions(1) 2020 Guidance
(Dollars in millions) Low High
Occupancy percentage for operating properties in North America as of December 31, 2020(2) 95.4% 96.0%
Lease renewals and re-leasing of space:
Rental rate increases 28.0% 31.0%
Rental rate increases (cash basis) 14.0% 17.0%
Same property performance:
Net operating income increase 1.5% 3.5%
Net operating income increase (cash basis) 5.0% 7.0%
Straight-line rent revenue $ 113 $ 123
General and administrative expenses $ 121 $ 126
Capitalization of interest $ 108 $ 118
Interest expense $ 169 $ 179
(1)  The completion of our development and redevelopment projects will result in an increase in interest expense and other project costs, because these project costs will no 
longer qualify for capitalization and will therefore be expensed as incurred. Our key assumptions, included in the tables above, and are subject to a number of variables 
and uncertainties, including those discussed under Item 1A and this Item 7 in this annual report on Form 10-K. To the extent our full-year earnings guidance is updated 
during the year, we will provide additional disclosure supporting reasons for any significant changes to such guidance.
(2)  The 0.3% reduction in occupancy guidance is attributable to vacancy aggregating 71,016 RSF representing lease-up opportunities at one acquisition completed in 
January 2020. Refer to the “Summary of Occupancy Percentages in North America” section under Item 2 in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information.
Key Credit Metrics 2020 Guidance
Net debt and preferred stock to Adjusted EBITDA – fourth quarter of 2020, annualized Less than or equal to 5.2x
Fixed-charge coverage ratio – fourth quarter of 2020, annualized Greater than 4.5x
86
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  86
Consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures
  We present components of balance sheet and operating results information for the noncontrolling interests’ share of our 
consolidated real estate joint ventures and for our share of investments in unconsolidated real estate joint ventures to help investors 
estimate balance sheet and operating results information related to our partially owned entities. These amounts are estimated by 
computing, for each joint venture that we consolidate in our financial statements, the noncontrolling interest percentage of each 
financial item to arrive at the cumulative noncontrolling interest share of each component presented. In addition, for our real estate joint 
ventures that we do not control and do not consolidate, we apply our economic ownership percentage to the unconsolidated real estate 
joint ventures to arrive at our proportionate share of each component presented. 
Consolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures
Noncontrolling(1)
Property/Market/Submarket Interest Share
225 Binney Street/Greater Boston/Cambridge 70.0%
75/125 Binney Street/Greater Boston/Cambridge 60.0%
409 and 499 Illinois Street/San Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMa 40.0%
1500 Owens Street/San Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMa 49.9%
500 Forbes Boulevard/San Francisco/South San Francisco 90.0%
Campus Pointe by Alexandria/San Diego/University Town Center(2) 45.0%
5200 Illumina Way/San Diego/University Town Center 49.0%
9625 Towne Centre Drive/San Diego/University Town Center 49.9%
SD Tech by Alexandria/San Diego/Sorrento Mesa 50.0%
Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures
Property/Market/Submarket Our Ownership Share(3)
1655 and 1725 Third Street/San Francisco/Mission Bay/SoMa 10.0%
Menlo Gateway/San Francisco/Greater Stanford 49.0%
1401/1413 Research Boulevard/Maryland/Rockville 65.0% (4)
704 Quince Orchard Road/Maryland/Gaithersburg 56.8% (4)
(1)  In addition to the consolidated real estate joint ventures listed, various partners hold insignificant noncontrolling interests in six other joint ventures in North America.
(2)  Excludes 9880 Campus Point Drive in our University Town Center submarket.
(3)  In addition to the unconsolidated real estate joint ventures listed, we hold an interest in one other insignificant unconsolidated real estate joint venture in North America.
(4)   Represents our ownership interest; our voting interest is limited to 50%.
  Our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures have the following non-recourse secured loans that include the following key 
terms as of December 31, 2019 (dollars in thousands):
100% at Joint Venture Level
Stated Debt  Remaining
Unconsolidated Joint Venture Our Share Maturity Date Interest Rate Interest Rate(1) Balance(2) Commitments
1401/1413 Research Boulevard 65.0% 5/17/20 L+2.50% 5.18% $ 26,158 $ 2,619
1655 and 1725 Third Street(3) 10.0% 6/29/21 L+3.70% 5.41% 309,275 65,725
704 Quince Orchard Road 56.8% 3/16/23 L+1.95% 3.94% 9,172 5,709
Menlo Gateway, Phase II 49.0% 5/1/35 4.53% 4.59% 56,321 99,529
Menlo Gateway, Phase I 49.0% 8/10/35 4.15% 4.18% 142,101 —
$ 543,027 $ 173,582
(1)  Includes interest expense and amortization of loan fees. 
(2)  Represents outstanding principal, net of unamortized deferred financing costs, as of December 31, 2019.
(3)  This unconsolidated joint venture is in the process of refinancing this loan to, among other changes, extend the maturity date and fix the interest rate. We expect to 
complete the refinancing next quarter.
87
87  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
  The following tables present information related to the operating results and financial positions of our consolidated and 
unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (in thousands):
Noncontrolling Interest Share of Our Share of Unconsolidated
Consolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures Real Estate Joint Ventures
December 31, 2019 December 31, 2019
Three Months Ended Year Ended Three Months Ended Year Ended
Total revenues $ 32,629 $ 97,989 $ 10,388 $ 22,710
Rental operations (8,935) (26,675) (1,174) (3,070)
23,694 71,314 9,214 19,640
General and administrative (127) (347) (67) (158)
Interest — — (1,668) (2,980)
Depreciation and amortization (10,176) (30,960) (2,702) (6,366)
Fixed returns allocated to redeemable 
noncontrolling interests(1) 221 875 — —
$ 13,612 $ 40,882 $ 4,777 $ 10,136
Straight-line rent and below-market
lease revenue $ 1,948 $ 5,347 $ 5,843 $ 10,172
Funds from operations(2) $ 23,788 $ 71,842 $ 7,479 $ 16,502
(1)  Represents an allocation of joint venture earnings to redeemable noncontrolling interests primarily in one property in our South San Francisco submarket. These 
redeemable noncontrolling interests earn a fixed return on their investment rather than participate in the operating results of the property.
(2)  Refer to the definition of “Funds From Operations and Funds From Operations, As Adjusted, Attributable to Alexandria’s Common Stockholders” in the “Non-GAAP 
Measures and Definitions” section under this Item 7 for the definition and the reconciliation from the most directly comparable GAAP measure. 
December 31, 2019
Noncontrolling Interest Our Share of
Share of Consolidated Unconsolidated
Real Estate Joint Ventures Real Estate Joint Ventures
Investments in real estate $ 1,186,585 $ 466,334
Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 40,128 7,865
Other assets 142,669 41,741
Secured notes payable — (149,240)
Other liabilities (68,730) (19,810)
Redeemable noncontrolling interests (12,300) —
$ 1,288,352 $ 346,890
  During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, our consolidated joint ventures distributed an aggregate of $48.2 
million and $30.7 million, respectively, to our joint venture partners. Refer to our consolidated statements of cash flows and Note 4 – 
“Consolidated and Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in this annual 
report on Form 10-K for additional information.
88
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  88
Liquidity
Net Debt and Preferred Stock to  Significant Availability on Unsecured Senior 
Adjusted EBITDA(1) Line of Credit
(in millions)
Fixed-Charge Coverage Ratio(1) Liquidity(3)
$2.4B
(In millions)
Availability under our $2.2 billion unsecured senior line of
credit $ 1,816
Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 243
Investments in publicly traded companies 319
$ 2,378 (4)
(1)  Quarter annualized.
(2)  Due to the timing of two acquisitions that closed in December 2019, we had a temporary 0.4x increase above our target for December 31, 2019 in our net debt and 
preferred stock to Adjusted EBITDA – fourth quarter of 2019, annualized. We remain committed to our guidance for net debt and preferred stock to Adjusted EBITDA – 
fourth quarter of 2020, annualized, of less than or equal to 5.2x.
(3)  As of December 31, 2019.
(4)  In January 2020, we entered into $1.0 billion of forward equity sales agreements. Including the outstanding forward equity agreements, we had proforma liquidity of 
$3.4 billion.
  We expect to meet certain long-term liquidity requirements, such as requirements for development, redevelopment, other 
construction projects, capital improvements, tenant improvements, property acquisitions, leasing costs, non-revenue-enhancing 
capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, distributions to noncontrolling interests, repurchases/redemptions of preferred 
stock, and payment of dividends through net cash provided by operating activities, periodic asset sales, strategic real estate joint 
venture capital, and long-term secured and unsecured indebtedness, including borrowings under our unsecured senior line of credit, 
commercial paper program, and issuance of additional debt and/or equity securities.
89
89  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
We expect to continue meeting our short-term liquidity and capital requirements, as further detailed in this section, 
generally through our working capital and net cash provided by operating activities. We believe that the net cash provided by 
operating activities will continue to be sufficient to enable us to make the distributions necessary to continue qualifying as a REIT.
Over the next several years, our balance sheet, capital structure, and liquidity objectives are as follows:
•  Retain positive cash flows from operating activities after payment of dividends and distributions to noncontrolling 
interests for investment in development and redevelopment projects and/or acquisitions;
•  Improve credit profile and relative long-term cost of capital;
•  Maintain diverse sources of capital, including sources from net cash provided by operating activities, unsecured debt, 
secured debt, selective real estate asset sales, partial interest sales, non-real estate investment sales, preferred stock, 
and common stock;
•  Maintain commitment to long-term capital to fund growth;
•  Maintain prudent laddering of debt maturities;
•  Maintain solid credit metrics;
•  Maintain significant balance sheet liquidity;
•  Mitigate variable-rate debt exposure through the reduction of short-term and medium-term variable-rate bank debt;
•  Maintain a large unencumbered asset pool to provide financial flexibility;
•  Fund common stock dividends and distributions to noncontrolling interests from net cash provided by operating 
activities;
•  Manage a disciplined level of value-creation projects as a percentage of our gross investments in real estate; and
•  Maintain high levels of pre-leasing and percentage leased in value-creation projects.
  The following table presents the availability under our unsecured senior line of credit less amounts outstanding on our 
commercial paper program; cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash; and investments in publicly traded companies as of 
December 31, 2019 (dollars in thousands):
Remaining
Stated  Aggregate Outstanding Commitments/
Description Rate Commitments Balance Liquidity
Availability under our unsecured senior line of credit L+0.825% $ 2,200,000 $ 384,000 $ 1,816,000
Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 242,689
Investments in publicly traded companies 318,637
Total liquidity $ 2,377,326
  Refer to Note 10 – “Secured and Unsecured Senior Debt” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in this annual 
report on Form 10-K for a discussion of our secured construction loans. 
Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash
As of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had $242.7 million and $272.1 million, respectively, of cash, cash 
equivalents, and restricted cash. We expect existing cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash, cash flows from operating activities, 
proceeds from real estate asset sales, non-real estate investment sales, borrowings under our unsecured senior line of credit and 
commercial paper program, issuances of unsecured notes payable, and issuances of common stock to continue to be sufficient to fund 
our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities, such as regular quarterly dividends, distributions to 
noncontrolling interests, scheduled debt repayments, acquisitions, and certain capital expenditures, including expenditures related to 
construction activities.
90
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  90
Cash flows
We report and analyze our cash flows based on operating activities, investing activities, and financing activities. The following 
table summarizes changes in our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 Change
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 683,857 $ 570,339 $ 113,518
Net cash used in investing activities $ (3,641,320) $ (2,161,760) $ (1,479,560)
Net cash provided by financing activities $ 2,927,482 $ 1,588,433 $ 1,339,049
Operating activities
  Cash flows provided by operating activities are primarily dependent upon the occupancy level of our asset base, the rental 
rates of our leases, the collectibility of rent and recovery of operating expenses from our tenants, the timing of completion of 
development and redevelopment projects, and the timing of acquisitions and dispositions of operating properties. Net cash provided by 
operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2019, increased to $683.9 million, compared to $570.3 million for the year ended 
December 31, 2018. This increase was primarily attributable to (i) cash flows generated from our highly leased development and 
redevelopment projects recently placed into service, (ii) income-producing acquisitions since January 1, 2018, and (iii) increases in 
rental rates on lease renewals and re-leasing of space since January 1, 2018.
Investing activities
Cash used in investing activities for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, consisted of the following (in thousands):
  Year Ended December 31,
Increase
  2019 2018 (Decrease)
Sources of cash from investing activities:
Sales of non-real estate investments $ 147,332 $ 103,679 $ 43,653
Return of capital from unconsolidated real estate joint ventures 14 68,592 (68,578)
Proceeds from sales of real estate 6,619 20,190 (13,571)
153,965 192,461 (38,496)
Uses of cash for investing activities:
Purchases of real estate 2,259,778 1,037,180 1,222,598
Additions to real estate 1,224,541 927,168 297,373
Deposits for investing activities 18,107 2,000 16,107
Acquisitions of interest in unconsolidated real estate joint ventures — 35,922 (35,922)
Investments in unconsolidated real estate joint ventures 102,081 116,008 (13,927)
Additions to non-real estate investments 190,778 235,943 (45,165)
3,795,285 2,354,221 1,441,064
Net cash used in investing activities $ 3,641,320 $ 2,161,760 $ 1,479,560
  The change in net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2019, is primarily due to an increased use 
of cash for property acquisitions and for investments in unconsolidated real estate joint ventures, partially offset by proceeds from sale 
of investments. Refer to Note 3 – “Investments in Real Estate” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in this annual 
report on Form 10-K for further information.
91
91  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Financing activities
Cash flows provided by financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, consisted of the following (in 
thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 Change
Proceeds from issuance of unsecured senior notes payable $ 2,721,169 $ 899,321 $ 1,821,848
Repayments of unsecured senior notes payable (950,000) — (950,000)
Repayments of borrowings from unsecured senior bank term loan (350,000) (200,000) (150,000)
Borrowings from secured notes payable — 17,784 (17,784)
Repayments of borrowings from secured notes payable (306,199) (156,888) (149,311)
Borrowings from unsecured senior line of credit 5,056,000 4,741,000 315,000
Repayments of borrowings from unsecured senior line of credit (4,880,000) (4,583,000) (297,000)
Proceeds from issuance of commercial paper program 2,233,000 — 2,233,000
Repayments of borrowings from commercial paper program (2,233,000) — (2,233,000)
Premium paid for early extinguishment of debt (41,351) — (41,351)
Payments of loan fees (27,182) (19,292) (7,890)
Changes related to debt 1,222,437 698,925 523,512
Contributions from and sales of noncontrolling interests 1,022,712 28,275 994,437
Distributions to and purchases of noncontrolling interests (48,225) (32,253) (15,972)
Proceeds from the issuance of common stock 1,216,445 1,293,301 (76,856)
Dividend payments (451,170) (385,839) (65,331)
Taxes paid related to net settlement of equity awards (25,477) — (25,477)
Repurchase of 7.00% Series D cumulative convertible preferred stock (9,240) (13,976) 4,736
Net cash provided by financing activities $ 2,927,482 $ 1,588,433 $ 1,339,049
Inflation
As of December 31, 2019, approximately 97% of our leases (on an RSF basis) were triple net leases, which require tenants to 
pay substantially all real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, repairs and maintenance, common area expenses, and other operating 
expenses (including increases thereto) in addition to base rent. Approximately 95% of our leases (on an RSF basis) contained effective 
annual rent escalations that were either fixed (generally ranging from 3.0% to 3.5%) or indexed based on a consumer price index or 
other indices. Accordingly, we do not believe that our cash flows or earnings from real estate operations are subject to significant risks 
from inflation. A period of inflation, however, could cause an increase in the cost of our variable-rate borrowings, including borrowings 
related to our unsecured senior line of credit and secured construction loans held by our unconsolidated joint ventures.
92
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  92
Capital resources
  We expect that our principal liquidity needs for the year ending December 31, 2020, will be satisfied by the following multiple 
sources of capital, as shown in the table below. There can be no assurance that our sources and uses of capital will not be materially 
higher or lower than these expectations. 
2020 Guidance Certain
Key Sources and Uses of Capital
Completed
(In millions) Range Midpoint Items
Sources of capital:
Net cash provided by operating activities after dividends $ 200 $ 240 $ 220
Incremental debt 400 360 380
Real estate dispositions, partial interest sales, and common equity(1) 1,850 2,050 1,950 $ 1,025 (2)
Total sources of capital $ 2,450 $ 2,650 $ 2,550
Uses of capital:
Construction $ 1,550 $ 1,650 $ 1,600
Acquisitions(1) 900 1,000 950 $ 341
Total uses of capital $ 2,450 $ 2,650 $ 2,550
Incremental debt (included above):
Issuance of unsecured senior notes payable $ 550 $ 650 $ 600
$2.2 billion unsecured senior line of credit and commercial paper
program/other (150) (290) (220)
Incremental debt $ 400 $ 360 $ 380
(1)  Excludes the formation of a consolidated joint venture with Boston Properties, Inc. through non-cash contributions of real estate. Refer to “Subsequent Events” under the 
“Executive Summary” section of this Item 7 in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information.
(2)  In January 2020, we entered into forward equity sales agreements to sell an aggregate of 6.9 million shares of our common stock (including the exercise of underwriters’ 
option) at a public offering price of $155.00 per share, before underwriting discounts. We expect to settle these forward equity sales agreements in 2020 and receive 
proceeds of approximately $1.0 billion, to be further adjusted as provided in the sales agreements.
The key assumptions behind the sources and uses of capital in the table above include a favorable capital market 
environment, performance of our core operating properties, lease-up and delivery of current and future development and 
redevelopment projects, and leasing activity. Our expected sources and uses of capital are subject to a number of variables and 
uncertainties, including those discussed under Item 1A and under this Item 7 in this annual report on Form 10-K. We expect to update 
our forecast of sources and uses of capital on a quarterly basis.
93
93  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Sources of capital
Net cash provided by operating activities after dividends
We expect to retain $200.0 million to $240.0 million of net cash flows from operating activities after payment of common stock 
dividends, and distributions to noncontrolling interests. For purposes of this calculation, changes in operating assets and liabilities are 
excluded as they represent timing differences. For the year ending December 31, 2020, we expect our recently delivered projects, our 
highly pre-leased value-creation projects expected to be completed, along with contributions from Same Properties and recently 
acquired properties, to contribute significant increases in rental revenue, net operating income, and cash flows. We anticipate 
significant contractual near-term growth in annual cash rents of $55 million related to the commencement of contractual rents on the 
projects recently placed into service that are near the end of their initial free rent period. Refer to the “Cash Flows” section under this 
Item 7 in this annual report on Form 10-K for a discussion of net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 
2019.
Debt
  In February 2019, S&P Global Ratings raised our corporate issuer credit rating to BBB+/Stable from BBB/Positive. The rating 
upgrade reflects our consistently strong operating performance and continued successful delivery of our value-creation pipeline.
  The table below reflects the maximum borrowings, outstanding balances, applicable rates, maturity dates, and facility fees for 
our unsecured senior line of credit and commercial paper program as of December 31, 2019:
Maximum Outstanding 
Borrowings Balance(1) Applicable Rate Maturity Date Facility Fee
Commercial paper program $750 million $— N/A N/A N/A
Unsecured senior line of credit $2.2 billion $384 million L+0.825% January 2024(2) 0.15%
(1)  Excludes loan fees as of December 31, 2019.
(2)  Includes two six-month extension options that we control.
  In September 2019, we established a commercial paper program with the ability to issue up to $750.0 million of commercial 
paper notes with a maximum maturity of 397 days from the date of issuance. Our commercial paper program is backed by our 
$2.2 billion unsecured senior line of credit, and at all times we expect to retain a minimum undrawn amount of borrowing capacity under 
our unsecured senior line of credit equal to any outstanding balance on our commercial paper program. We use borrowings under the 
program to fund short-term capital needs. The notes issued under our commercial paper program are sold under customary terms in 
the commercial paper market. They are typically issued at a discount to par, representing a yield to maturity dictated by market 
conditions at the time of issuance.
  We use our unsecured senior line of credit to fund working capital, construction activities, and, from time to time, acquisition of 
properties. Borrowings under the unsecured senior line of credit will bear interest at a “Eurocurrency Rate,” a “LIBOR Floating Rate,” or 
a “Base Rate” specified in the amended unsecured senior line of credit agreement plus, in any case, the Applicable Margin. The 
Eurocurrency Rate specified in the amended unsecured senior line of credit agreement is, as applicable, the rate per annum equal to 
either (i) the LIBOR or a successor rate thereto as agreed to by the administrative agent and the Company for loans denominated in a 
LIBOR quoted currency (i.e., U.S. dollars, euro, sterling, or yen), (ii) the average annual yield rates applicable to Canadian dollar 
bankers’ acceptances for loans denominated in Canadian dollars, (iii) the Bank Bill Swap Reference Bid rate for loans denominated in 
Australian dollars, or (iv) the rate designated with respect to the applicable alternative currency for loans denominated in a non-LIBOR 
quoted currency (other than Canadian or Australian dollars). The LIBOR Floating Rate means, for any day, one month LIBOR, or a 
successor rate thereto as agreed to by the administrative agent and the Company for loans denominated in U.S. dollars. The Base 
Rate means, for any day, a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the highest of (i) the federal funds rate plus 1/2 of 1.00%, (ii) the rate of 
interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its “prime rate,” and (iii) the Eurocurrency 
Rate plus 1.00%. Our unsecured senior line of credit contains a feature that allows lenders to competitively bid on the interest rate for 
borrowings under the facility. This may result in an interest rate that is below the stated rate. In addition to the cost of borrowing, the 
unsecured senior line of credit is subject to an annual facility fee of 0.15% based on the aggregate commitments outstanding. 
  We expect to fund a portion of our capital needs in 2020 from the issuance of unsecured senior notes payable and from 
borrowings under our unsecured senior line of credit and commercial paper program.
94
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  94
  During the year ended December 31, 2019, our issuances of unsecured senior notes payable and repayments of debt 
included the following (dollars in millions): 
Stated Effective
Issuance Interest Interest Maturity Principal Net
Date Rate Rate Date Amount Proceeds
Issuances
Unsecured senior notes payable – green bond March 4.00% 4.03% 1/15/24 $ 200 $ 203.0
Unsecured senior notes payable – green bond March 3.80 3.96 4/15/26 350 346.6
Unsecured senior notes payable March 4.85 4.93 4/15/49 300 296.5
Unsecured senior notes payable July 3.375 3.48 8/15/31 750 742.5
Unsecured senior notes payable July/Sept 4.00 3.91 2/1/50 700 711.1
Unsecured senior notes payable Sept 2.75 2.87 12/15/29 400 395.8
Weighted average/total 3.71% 3.77% 16.9 years $ 2,700 (1) $ 2,695.5
Repayments of debt
Secured notes payable Jan 7.75% 8.15% 4/1/20 $ 107 N/A
Secured construction loan March 3.29 3.29 1/28/20 193 N/A
Unsecured senior notes payable July/Aug 2.75 2.96 1/15/20 400 N/A
Unsecured senior notes payable July/Aug 4.60 4.75 4/1/22 550 N/A
Unsecured senior bank term loan July/Sept 3.62 3.62 1/2/25 350 N/A
Weighted average/total 3.97% 4.11% 2.4 years $ 1,600 (1)
(1)  The remaining proceeds received from our debt issuances, after repayments of debt, were used to fund the construction of our value-creation pipeline and acquisitions 
completed during 2019. Refer to Note 3 – “Investments in Real Estate” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K for 
additional information.
  Our $350.0 million of 3.80% unsecured senior notes payable and our $200.0 million of 4.00% unsecured senior notes payable 
issued in March 2019 were allocated to fund recently completed and future eligible green development and redevelopment projects, 
and to the repayment of the outstanding balance of $193.1 million under our secured construction loan related to 50/60 Binney Street, a 
recently completed Class A property, which was awarded LEED® Gold certification.
  The proceeds from our $300.0 million of 4.85% unsecured senior notes payable issued in March 2019 were primarily allocated 
to fund acquisitions completed during 2019. Refer to Note 3 – “Investments in Real Estate” to our consolidated financial statements 
under Item 15 of this report for additional information.
  The proceeds from our $750.0 million of 3.375% unsecured senior notes payable issued in July 2019 and partial proceeds 
from our $700.0 million of 4.00% unsecured senior notes payable, which were issued in two tranches of $500.0 million during July 2019 
and $200.0 million during September 2019, were primarily used to refinance $400.0 million of 2.75% unsecured senior notes payable 
due 2020 and $550.0 million of 4.60% unsecured senior notes payable due 2022, pursuant to a partial cash tender offer completed on 
July 17, 2019. We tendered $318.6 million, or 79.64%, of our outstanding 2.75% unsecured senior notes payable, and $384.9 million, 
including $135 thousand tendered via guaranteed deliveries, or 69.98%, of our outstanding 4.60% unsecured senior notes payable. A 
subsequent call for redemption for the remaining outstanding amounts was settled on August 16, 2019. Additionally, a portion of the 
proceeds from our $750.0 million of 3.375% unsecured senior notes payable, $700.0 million of 4.00% unsecured senior notes payable, 
and $400.0 million of 2.75% unsecured senior notes payable issued in September 2019 were used to complete the repayment of the 
remaining principal balance on our unsecured senior bank term loan of $350.0 million.
  As a result of our debt issuances and repayments of debt, we recognized losses of $47.6 million related to the early extinguishment 
of debt during the year ended December 31, 2019, including $40.2 million related to the refinancing of our 2.75% unsecured senior notes 
payable due 2020 and 4.60% unsecured senior notes payable and the repayment of our unsecured senior bank term loan. 
95
95  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
  In September 2019, we established a commercial paper program, which received credit ratings of A-2 from S&P Global 
Ratings and Prime-2 from Moody’s Investors Service. Under this program, we have the ability to issue up to $750.0 million of 
commercial paper notes with varying maturity lengths, with a maximum maturity of 397 days from the date of issuance. Our commercial 
paper program is backed by our $2.2 billion unsecured senior line of credit, and at all times we expect to retain a minimum undrawn 
amount of borrowing capacity under our unsecured senior line of credit equal to any outstanding balance on our commercial paper 
program. We use and expect to continue to use net proceeds from the issuances of the commercial paper notes for general working 
capital and other general corporate purposes. General corporate purposes may include the repayment of other debt and selective 
development, redevelopment, or acquisition of properties. The commercial paper notes sold during the year ended December 31, 2019, 
were issued at a yield to maturity of between 1.83% and 2.29%. As of December 31, 2019, we had no outstanding borrowings under 
our commercial paper program.
 
  Refer to Note 10 – “Secured and Unsecured Senior Debt” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in this annual 
report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding our unsecured senior notes payable.
Proactive management of transition away from LIBOR
  LIBOR has been used extensively in the U.S. and globally as a reference rate for various commercial and financial contracts, 
including variable-rate debt and interest rate swap contracts. However, it is expected that LIBOR will no longer be used after 2021. To 
address the increased risk of LIBOR discontinuation, in the U.S. the Alternative Reference Rates Committee (“ARRC”) was established 
to help ensure the successful transition from LIBOR. In June 2017, the ARRC selected the SOFR, a new index calculated by reference 
to short-term repurchase agreements backed by Treasury securities, as its preferred replacement for U.S. dollar LIBOR. We have been 
closely monitoring developments related to the transition away from LIBOR and have implemented numerous proactive measures to 
minimize the potential impact of the transition to the Company, specifically:
•  We have proactively reduced outstanding LIBOR-based borrowings under our unsecured senior bank term loans and 
secured construction loans through repayments. From January 2017 to December 2018, we retired approximately 
$942.0 million of such debt.
•  During the year ended December 31, 2019, we further reduced our exposure to LIBOR as follows:
•  Repaid the $350.0 million balance and extinguished our unsecured senior bank term loan.
•  Terminated our LIBOR-based interest rate hedge agreements aggregating $350.0 million in conjunction with the 
extinguishment of our unsecured senior bank term loan. As a result, we had no outstanding interest rate hedge 
agreements as of December 31, 2019. 
•  Fully repaid outstanding balances aggregating $193.1 million under our LIBOR-based construction loans. 
•  During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we established a commercial paper program, under which we have 
the ability to issue up to $750.0 million of commercial paper notes, which bear interest at short-term fixed rates, with a 
maximum maturity of 397 days from the date of issuance. Our commercial paper program is not subjected to LIBOR and 
is used for funding short-term working capital needs. As of December 31, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding under 
our commercial paper program.
•  We continue to prudently manage outstanding borrowings under our unsecured senior line of credit, which represented 
less than 6% of our total debt balance outstanding as of December 31, 2019. Excluding LIBOR-based debt held by our 
unconsolidated joint ventures, borrowings under our unsecured senior line of credit represented our only LIBOR-based 
debt outstanding as of December 31, 2019. 
•  Our unsecured senior line of credit contains fallback language generally consistent with the ARRC’s Amendment 
Approach, which provides a streamlined amendment approach for negotiating a benchmark replacement and introduces 
clarity with respect to the fallback trigger events and an adjustment to be applied to the successor rate.
•  We continue to monitor developments by the ARRC and other governing bodies involved in LIBOR transition.
For additional information, refer to Note 10 – “Secured and Unsecured Senior Debt” and Note 11 – “Interest Rate Hedge 
Agreements” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 and “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this annual report on Form 10-K.
Real estate dispositions and common equity
  We expect to continue the disciplined execution of select sales of operating assets. Future sales will provide an important 
source of capital to fund a portion of our highly leased value-creation development and redevelopment projects. We may also consider 
additional sales of partial interests in core Class A properties and/or development projects. For 2020, we expect real estate dispositions, 
partial interest sales, and issuances of common equity ranging from $1.9 billion to $2.1 billion. The amount of asset sales necessary to 
meet our forecasted sources of capital will vary depending upon the amount of EBITDA associated with the assets sold. In addition, the 
amount of common equity issued will be subject to market conditions.
  For additional information, refer to the “Sales of Partial Interests and Formation of Consolidated Joint Ventures in 2019” 
section in Note 4 – “Consolidated and Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures” to our consolidated financial statements under 
Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K. 
96
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  96
Common equity transactions
  During the year ended December 31, 2019, we issued 8.7 million shares of common stock and received net proceeds of 
$1.2 billion, as follows:
•  Issued an aggregate of 8.1 million shares of common stock, at a weighted-average price of $139.32 per share, for aggregate 
proceeds (net of underwriters’ discounts) of approximately $1.1 billion. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we incurred 
initial issuance costs aggregating $700 thousand in connection with these forward equity sales agreements.
•  Issued 602,484 shares of common stock under our ATM program, at a weighted-average price of $145.58 per share, for net 
proceeds of $86.1 million, during the three months ended June 30, 2019. As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 
$22.5 million of gross proceeds available to be issued under our ATM program. We expect to file a new ATM program in the 
first quarter of 2020.
•  The proceeds were used to fund construction projects and to fund 2019 acquisitions.
  In January 2020, we entered into forward equity sales agreements to sell an aggregate of 6.9 million shares of our common 
stock (including the exercise of an underwriters’ option) at a public offering price of $155.00 per share, before underwriting discounts. 
We expect to settle these forward equity sales agreements in 2020, and receive proceeds of approximately $1.0 billion, to be further 
adjusted as provided in the sales agreements, which will fund pending and recently completed acquisitions and the construction of our 
highly leased development projects.
Other sources
  Under our current shelf registration statement filed with the SEC, we may offer common stock, preferred stock, debt, and other 
securities. These securities may be issued, from time to time, at our discretion based on our needs and market conditions, including, as 
necessary, to balance our use of incremental debt capital.
Additionally, we hold interests, together with joint venture partners, in joint ventures that we consolidate in our financial 
statements. These joint venture partners may contribute equity into these entities primarily related to their share of funds for 
construction and financing-related activities. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we received $1.0 billion in contributions from 
and sales of noncontrolling interests.
Uses of capital
Summary of capital expenditures 
  One of our primary uses of capital relates to the development, redevelopment, pre-construction, and construction of properties. 
We currently have projects in our growth pipeline aggregating 2.1 million RSF of Class A office/laboratory and tech office space 
undergoing construction, 6.3 million RSF of near-term and intermediate-term development and redevelopment projects, and 3.8 million 
SF of future development projects in North America. We incur capitalized construction costs related to development, redevelopment, 
pre-construction, and other construction activities. We also incur additional capitalized project costs, including interest, property taxes, 
insurance, and other costs directly related and essential to the development, redevelopment, pre-construction, or construction of a 
project, during periods when activities necessary to prepare an asset for its intended use are in progress. Refer to the “New Class A 
Development and Redevelopment Properties: Projects Under Construction” and “Summary of Capital Expenditures” subsections of the 
“Investments in Real Estate” section under Item 2 in this annual report on Form 10-K for more information on our capital expenditures.
  We capitalize interest cost as a cost of the project only during the period for which activities necessary to prepare an asset for 
its intended use are ongoing, provided that expenditures for the asset have been made and interest cost has been incurred. Capitalized 
interest for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, of $88.6 million and $66.2 million, respectively, is classified in investments in 
real estate. Indirect project costs, including construction administration, legal fees, and office costs that clearly relate to projects under 
development or construction, are capitalized as incurred during the period an asset is undergoing activities to prepare it for its intended 
use. We capitalized payroll and other indirect project costs related to development, redevelopment, pre-construction, and construction 
projects, which aggregated $43.2 million and $32.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The 
increase in capitalized payroll and other indirect project costs for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 
2018 was primarily due to an increase in our value-creation pipeline projects undergoing construction and pre-construction activities 
aggregating 15 projects with 3.7 million RSF in 2019 over 2018. Pre-construction activities include entitlements, permitting, design, site 
work, and other activities preceding commencement of construction of aboveground building improvements. The advancement of pre-
construction efforts is focused on reducing the time required to deliver projects to prospective tenants. These critical activities add 
significant value for future ground-up development and are required for the vertical construction of buildings. Should we cease activities 
necessary to prepare an asset for its intended use, the interest, taxes, insurance, and certain other direct project costs related to this 
asset would be expensed as incurred. Expenditures for repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred.
97
97  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
  Fluctuations in our development, redevelopment, and construction activities could result in significant changes to total 
expenses and net income. For example, had we experienced a 10% reduction in development, redevelopment, and construction 
activities without a corresponding decrease in indirect project costs, including interest and payroll, total expenses would have increased 
by approximately $13.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2019.
  We use third-party brokers to assist in our leasing activity, who are paid on a contingent basis upon successful leasing. We are 
required to capitalize initial direct costs related to successful leasing transactions that result directly from and are essential to the lease 
transaction and would not have been incurred had that lease transaction not been successfully executed. During the year ended 
December 31, 2019, we capitalized total initial direct leasing costs of $73.6 million. Effective January 1, 2019, costs that we incur to 
negotiate or arrange a lease regardless of its outcome, such as fixed employee compensation, tax, or legal advice to negotiate lease 
terms, and other costs, are expensed as incurred.
Acquisitions
Refer to the “Acquisitions” section in Note 3 – “Investments in Real Estate” and to Note 4 – “Consolidated and Unconsolidated 
Real Estate Joint Ventures” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K for detailed 
information on our acquisitions.
7.00% Series D cumulative convertible preferred stock repurchases and conversion
  During the year ended December 31, 2019, we repurchased, in privately negotiated transactions, 275,000 shares of our Series 
D Convertible Preferred Stock at an aggregate price of $9.2 million, or $33.60 per share, and recognized a preferred stock redemption 
charge of $2.6 million. Additionally, we elected to convert 2.3 million outstanding shares of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock into 
shares of our common stock. The Series D Convertible Preferred Stock became eligible for mandatory conversion at our discretion, at a 
set conversion rate of 0.2513 shares of common stock to one share of preferred stock, upon our common stock price exceeding 
$149.46 per share for the specified period of time required to cause the mandatory conversion. We converted the Series D Convertible 
Preferred Stock into 578 thousand shares of common stock. This conversion was accounted for as an equity transaction, and we did 
not recognize a gain or loss. As of December 31, 2019, we had no shares of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding. 
Dividends
During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, we paid the following dividends (in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 Change
Common stock dividends $ 447,029 $ 380,632 $ 66,397
7.00% Series D cumulative convertible preferred stock dividends 4,141 5,207 (1,066)
  $ 451,170 $ 385,839 $ 65,331
The increase in dividends paid on our common stock for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the year ended 
December 31, 2018, was primarily due to an increase in number of common shares outstanding subsequent to January 1, 2018, as a 
result of issuances of common stock under our ATM program and settlement of forward equity sales agreements, and partially due to 
the increase in the related dividends to $3.94 per common share paid during the year ended December 31, 2019, from $3.66 per 
common share paid during the year ended December 31, 2018. 
  The decrease in dividends paid on our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock during the year ended December 31, 2019, 
compared to the year ended December 31, 2018, was due to a decrease in number of shares outstanding as a result of the repurchase 
of 402,000 and 275,000 outstanding shares of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock in 2018 and 2019, respectively, and the 
conversion of the remaining 2.3 million outstanding shares of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock into shares of our common 
stock during 2019. As of December 31, 2019, we had no outstanding shares of Series D Convertible Preferred Stock. 
98
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  98
Contractual obligations and commitments
Contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019, consisted of the following (in thousands):
Payments by Period
Total 2020 2021-2022 2023-2024 Thereafter
Secured and unsecured debt(1)(2) $ 6,796,440 $ 6,418 $ 14,128 $ 1,822,107 $ 4,953,787
Estimated interest payments on fixed-rate debt(3) 2,815,902 256,996 500,601 442,455 1,615,850
Ground lease obligations 674,741 13,879 28,410 28,979 603,473
Other obligations 25,198 1,253 3,988 4,506 15,451
Total $ 10,312,281 $ 278,546 $ 547,127 $ 2,298,047 $ 7,188,561
(1)  Amounts represent principal amounts due and exclude unamortized premiums (discounts) and deferred financing costs reflected on the consolidated balance sheets 
under Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K.
(2)  Payment dates reflect any extension options that we control. 
(3)  Amounts are based upon contractual interest rates, including interest payment dates and scheduled maturity dates.
Secured notes payable
Secured notes payable as of December 31, 2019, consisted of six notes secured by 11 properties. Our secured notes payable 
typically require monthly payments of principal and interest and had a weighted-average interest rate of approximately 3.57%. As of 
December 31, 2019, the total book value of our investments in real estate securing debt was approximately $1.1 billion. As of 
December 31, 2019, our entire secured notes payable balance of $349.4 million, including unamortized discounts and deferred 
financing costs, was fixed-rate debt.
Unsecured senior notes payable and unsecured senior line of credit
  The requirements of, and our actual performance with respect to, the key financial covenants under our unsecured senior 
notes payable as of December 31, 2019, were as follows:
Covenant Ratios(1) Requirement December 31, 2019
Total Debt to Total Assets Less than or equal to 60% 34%
Secured Debt to Total Assets Less than or equal to 40% 2%
Consolidated EBITDA(2) to Interest Expense Greater than or equal to 1.5x 7.0x
Unencumbered Total Asset Value to Unsecured Debt Greater than or equal to 150% 277%
(1)  All covenant ratio titles utilize terms as defined in the respective debt agreements. 
(2)  The calculation of consolidated EBITDA is based on the definitions contained in our loan agreements and is not directly comparable to the computation of EBITDA as 
described in Exchange Act Release No. 47226.
In addition, the terms of the indentures, among other things, limit the ability of the Company, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, 
L.P., and the Company’s subsidiaries to (i) consummate a merger, or consolidate or sell all or substantially all of the Company’s assets, 
and (ii) incur certain secured or unsecured indebtedness.
The requirements of, and our actual performance with respect to, the key financial covenants under our unsecured senior line 
of credit as of December 31, 2019, were as follows:
Covenant Ratios (1) Requirement December 31, 2019
Leverage Ratio Less than or equal to 60.0% 29.7%
Secured Debt Ratio Less than or equal to 45.0% 1.5%
Fixed-Charge Coverage Ratio Greater than or equal to 1.50x 3.85x
Unsecured Interest Coverage Ratio Greater than or equal to 1.75x 5.99x
(1)  All covenant ratio titles utilize terms as defined in the respective debt agreements. 
99
99  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Estimated interest payments
Estimated interest payments on our fixed-rate debt were calculated based upon contractual interest rates, including interest 
payment dates and scheduled maturity dates. As of December 31, 2019, 94% of our debt was fixed-rate debt. For additional information 
regarding our debt, refer to Note 10 – “Secured and Unsecured Senior Debt” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in 
this annual report on Form 10-K. 
Ground lease obligations
Ground lease obligations as of December 31, 2019, included leases for 31 of our properties, which accounted for 
approximately 11% of our total number of properties. Excluding one ground lease related to one operating property that expires in 2036 
with a net book value of $7.7 million as of December 31, 2019, our ground lease obligations have remaining lease terms ranging from 
approximately 34 to 95 years, including extension options. Refer to Note 5 – “Leases” to our consolidated financial statements under 
Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K for further information on our ground leases.
As of December 31, 2019, the remaining contractual payments under ground and office lease agreements in which we are the 
lessee aggregated $674.7 million and $25.2 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2019, all of our ground and office leases in which 
we are the lessee were classified as operating leases. Under the new lease accounting standard effective on January 1, 2019, 
described in detail under the “Lease Accounting” section in Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated 
financial statements under Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K, we are required to recognize a right-of-use asset and a related 
liability to account for our future obligations under operating lease arrangements in which we are the lessee. The operating lease 
liability is measured based on the present value of the remaining lease payments, including payments during the term under our 
extension options that we are reasonably certain to exercise. The right-of-use asset is equal to the corresponding operating lease 
liability, adjusted for the initial direct leasing cost and any other consideration exchanged with the landlord prior to the commencement 
of the lease, as well as adjustments to reflect favorable or unfavorable terms of an acquired lease when compared with market terms at 
the time of acquisition. As of December 31, 2019, the present value of the remaining contractual payments, aggregating $699.9 million, 
under our operating lease agreements, including our extension options that we are reasonably certain to exercise, was $271.8 million, 
which is classified in accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. As of December 31, 
2019, the weighted-average remaining lease term of operating leases in which we are the lessee was approximately 44 years, and the 
weighted-average discount rate was 5.24%. Our corresponding operating lease right-of-use assets, adjusted for initial direct leasing 
costs and other consideration exchanged with the landlord prior to the commencement of the lease, aggregated $264.7 million. We 
classify the right-of-use asset in other assets in our consolidated balance sheets.
Commitments
As of December 31, 2019, remaining aggregate costs under contract for the construction of properties undergoing 
development, redevelopment, and improvements under the terms of leases approximated $1.1 billion. We expect payments for these 
obligations to occur over one to three years, subject to capital planning adjustments from time to time. We may have the ability to cease 
the construction of certain properties, which would result in the reduction of our commitments. In addition, we have letters of credit and 
performance obligations aggregating $11.1 million primarily related to construction projects.
  We are committed to funding approximately $229.5 million for non-real estate investments primarily related to our investments 
in limited partnerships. Our funding commitments expire at various dates over the next 12 years, with a weighted-average expiration of 
8.6 years as of December 31, 2019.
Exposure to environmental liabilities
In connection with the acquisition of all of our properties, we have obtained Phase I environmental assessments to ascertain 
the existence of any environmental liabilities or other issues. The Phase I environmental assessments of our properties have not 
revealed any environmental liabilities that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of 
operations taken as a whole, nor are we aware of any material environmental liabilities that have occurred since the Phase I 
environmental assessments were completed. In addition, we carry a policy of pollution legal liability insurance covering exposure to 
certain environmental losses at substantially all of our properties.
100
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  100
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
The following table presents the changes in each component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) attributable 
to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s stockholders during the year ended December 31, 2019 (in thousands):
Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on:
Interest Rate Foreign Currency
  Hedge Agreements Translation Total
Balance as of December 31, 2018 $ 1,838 $ (12,273) $ (10,435)
Other comprehensive (loss) income before reclassifications (1,763) 2,524 761
Reclassification of amortization income to interest expense (1,777) — (1,777)
Reclassification of losses in accumulated other comprehensive
income to interest expense upon swap termination 1,702 — 1,702
Net other comprehensive (loss) income (1,838) 2,524 686
Balance as of December 31, 2019 $ — $ (9,749) $ (9,749)
Interest rate hedge agreements
  Changes in our accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) balance included the reclassification adjustments relate to 
our interest rate hedge agreements. Upon termination of our hedged variable-rate debt instruments and related interest rate hedge 
agreements during the year ended December 31, 2019, we reclassified the entire accumulated other comprehensive loss balance 
related to the terminated interest rate hedge agreements to interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations. Refer to 
Note 11 – “Interest Rate Hedge Agreements” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K 
for additional information.
Foreign currency translation
  Changes in our accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) balance relate to changes in the foreign exchange rates for 
our real estate investments in Canada and Asia. Additionally, we reclassify unrealized foreign currency translation gains and losses into 
net income as we dispose of these holdings.
Critical accounting policies
Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial 
statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of 
assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. We base these estimates, judgments, and assumptions on historical experience and on 
various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. 
We continually evaluate the policies and estimates we use to prepare our consolidated financial statements. Changes in 
estimates or policies applied could affect our financial position and specific items in our results of operations that are used by our 
stockholders, potential investors, industry analysts, and lenders in their evaluation of our performance. Our significant accounting 
policies are described in Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 
in this annual report on Form 10-K. 
REIT compliance
We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of 
highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code to our operations and financial results, and the determination of 
various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. We believe that our current organization and method of 
operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code to enable us to qualify, and continue to 
qualify, as a REIT. However, it is possible that we have been organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow us to qualify 
as a REIT, or that our future operations could cause us to fail to qualify.
If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, then we will be required to pay federal and state income taxes on our taxable 
income at regular corporate rates. If we lose our REIT status, then our net earnings available for investment or distribution to our 
stockholders will be significantly reduced for each of the years involved and we will no longer be required to make distributions to our 
stockholders.
101
101  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Investments in real estate
Recognition of real estate acquired
  We evaluate each acquisition of real estate or in-substance real estate (including equity interests in entities that predominantly 
hold real estate assets) to determine whether the integrated set of assets and activities acquired meets the definition of a business and 
needs to be accounted for as a business combination. An acquisition of an integrated set of assets and activities that does not meet the 
definition of a business is accounted for as an asset acquisition.
  For acquisitions of real estate or in-substance real estate that are accounted for as business combinations, we allocate the 
acquisition consideration (excluding acquisition costs) to the assets acquired, liabilities assumed, noncontrolling interests, and 
previously existing ownership interests at fair value as of the acquisition date. Assets include intangible assets such as tenant 
relationships, acquired in-place leases, and favorable intangibles associated with in-place leases in which we are the lessor. Liabilities 
include unfavorable intangibles associated with in-place leases in which we are the lessor. In addition, for acquired in-place finance or 
operating leases in which we are the lessee, acquisition consideration is allocated to lease liabilities and related right-of-use assets, 
adjusted to reflect favorable or unfavorable terms of the lease when compared with market terms. Any excess (deficit) of the 
consideration transferred relative to the fair value of the net assets acquired is accounted for as goodwill (bargain purchase gain). 
Acquisition costs related to business combinations are expensed as incurred.
  Generally, we expect that acquisitions of real estate or in-substance real estate will not meet the definition of a business 
because substantially all of the fair value is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets (i.e., land, 
buildings, and related intangible assets). The accounting model for asset acquisitions is similar to the accounting model for business 
combinations except that the acquisition consideration (including acquisition costs) is allocated to the individual assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed on a relative fair value basis. Any excess (deficit) of the consideration transferred relative to the sum of the fair value 
of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is allocated to the individual assets and liabilities based on their relative fair values. As a 
result, asset acquisitions do not result in the recognition of goodwill or a bargain purchase gain. Incremental and external direct 
acquisition costs (such as legal and third-party services) are capitalized.
We exercise judgment to determine the key assumptions used to allocate the purchase price of real estate acquired among its 
components. The allocation of the consideration to the various components of properties acquired during the year can have an effect on 
our net income due to the useful depreciable and amortizable lives applicable to each component and the recognition of the related 
depreciation and amortization expense in our consolidated statements of operations. We apply judgment in utilizing available 
comparable market information to assess relative fair value. We assess the relative fair values of tangible and intangible assets and 
liabilities based on available comparable market information, including estimated replacement costs, rental rates, and recent market 
transactions. In addition, we may use estimated cash flow projections that utilize appropriate discount and capitalization rates. 
Estimates of future cash flows are based on a number of factors, including the historical operating results, known and anticipated 
trends, and market/economic conditions that may affect the property.
The value of tangible assets acquired is based upon our estimation of fair value on an “as if vacant” basis. The value of 
acquired in-place leases includes the estimated costs during the hypothetical lease-up period and other costs that would have been 
incurred in the execution of similar leases under the market conditions at the acquisition date of the acquired in-place lease. The value 
of above-market lease assets and below-market lease liabilities reflects the difference between (i) the contractual rents to be paid over 
the remaining term for each in-place lease and (ii) the estimated current market lease rates using available comparable market 
information and tenant credit quality. If there is a bargain fixed-rate renewal option for the period beyond the non-cancelable lease term 
of an in-place lease, we evaluate intangible factors such as the business conditions in the industry in which the lessee operates, the 
economic conditions in the area in which the property is located, and the ability of the lessee to sublease the property during the 
renewal term, in order to determine the likelihood that the lessee will renew. When we determine there is reasonable assurance that 
such bargain purchase option will be exercised, we consider the option in determining the intangible value of such lease and its related 
amortization period. We also recognize the relative fair values of assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling 
interest in acquisitions of less than a 100% interest when the acquisition constitutes a change in control of the acquired entity.
We completed acquisitions of 47 properties for a total purchase price of $2.3 billion during the year ended December 31, 2019. 
These transactions were accounted for as asset acquisitions, and the purchase price of each was allocated based on the relative fair 
value of the asset acquired and liabilities assumed.
102
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  102
Depreciation and amortization
The values allocated to buildings and building improvements, land improvements, tenant improvements, and equipment are 
depreciated on a straight-line basis using the shorter of the respective ground lease term, estimated useful life, or up to 40 years, for 
buildings and building improvements; an estimated life, or up to 20 years, for land improvements; the respective lease term or 
estimated useful life for tenant improvements; and the shorter of the lease term or estimated useful life for equipment. The values of 
acquired in-place leases and associated favorable intangibles (i.e., acquired above-market leases) are classified in other assets in the 
accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are amortized over the remaining terms of the related leases, as a reduction of income 
from rentals in our consolidated statements of operations. The values of unfavorable intangibles (i.e., acquired below-market leases 
associated with acquired in-place leases are classified in accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities in our consolidated 
balance sheets and are amortized over the remaining terms of the related leases, as an increase in income from rentals in our 
consolidated statements of operations.
Capitalized project costs
We capitalize project costs, including pre-construction costs, interest, property taxes, insurance, and other costs directly 
related and essential to the development, redevelopment, pre-construction, or construction of a project. Capitalization of development, 
redevelopment, pre-construction, and construction costs is required while activities are ongoing to prepare an asset for its intended use. 
Fluctuations in our development, redevelopment, pre-construction, and construction activities could result in significant changes to total 
expenses and net income. Costs incurred after a project is substantially complete and ready for its intended use are expensed as 
incurred. Should development, redevelopment, pre-construction, or construction activity cease, interest, property taxes, insurance, and 
certain other costs would no longer be eligible for capitalization and would be expensed as incurred. Expenditures for repairs and 
maintenance are expensed as incurred.
Properties classified as held for sale
A property is classified as held for sale when all of the following criteria for a plan of sale have been met: (i) management, 
having the authority to approve the action, commits to a plan to sell the property; (ii) the property is available for immediate sale in its 
present condition, subject only to terms that are usual and customary; (iii) an active program to locate a buyer and other actions 
required to complete the plan to sell have been initiated; (iv) the sale of the property is probable and is expected to be completed within 
one year; (v) the property is being actively marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value; and 
(vi) actions necessary to complete the plan of sale indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the 
plan will be withdrawn. Depreciation of assets ceases upon designation of a property as held for sale.
  If the disposal of a property represents a strategic shift that has (or will have) a major effect on our operations or financial 
results, such as (i) a major line of business, (ii) a major geographic area, (iii) a major equity method investment, or (iv) other major parts 
of an entity, then the operations of the property, including any interest expense directly attributable to it, are classified as discontinued 
operations in our consolidated statements of operations, and amounts for all prior periods presented are reclassified from continuing 
operations to discontinued operations. The disposal of an individual property generally will not represent a strategic shift and therefore 
will typically not meet the criteria for classification as a discontinued operation.
Impairment of long-lived assets
Prior to and subsequent to the end of each quarter, we review current activities and changes in the business conditions of all 
of our long-lived assets to determine the existence of any triggering events or impairment indicators requiring an impairment analysis. If 
triggering events or impairment indicators are identified, we review an estimate of the future undiscounted cash flows, including, if 
necessary, a probability-weighted approach if multiple outcomes are under consideration.
Long-lived assets to be held and used, including our rental properties, CIP, land held for development, right-of-use assets 
related to operating leases in which we are the lessee, and intangibles, are individually evaluated for impairment when conditions exist 
that may indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset may not be recoverable. The carrying amount of a long-lived asset to be 
held and used is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual 
disposition of the asset. Triggering events or impairment indicators for long-lived assets to be held and used, including our rental 
properties, CIP, land held for development, and intangibles, are assessed by project and include significant fluctuations in estimated net 
operating income, occupancy changes, significant near-term lease expirations, current and historical operating and/or cash flow losses, 
construction costs, estimated completion dates, rental rates, and other market factors. We assess the expected undiscounted cash 
flows based upon numerous factors, including, but not limited to, construction costs, available market information, current and historical 
operating results, known trends, current market/economic conditions that may affect the property, and our assumptions about the use of 
the asset, including, if necessary, a probability-weighted approach if multiple outcomes are under consideration. 
Upon determination that an impairment has occurred, a write-down is recognized to reduce the carrying amount to its 
estimated fair value. If an impairment loss is not required to be recognized, the recognition of depreciation or amortization is adjusted 
prospectively, as necessary, to reduce the carrying amount of the real estate to its estimated disposition value over the remaining period 
103
103  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
that the asset is expected to be held and used. We may adjust depreciation of properties that are expected to be disposed of or 
redeveloped prior to the end of their useful lives.
We use the held for sale impairment model for our properties classified as held for sale. The held for sale impairment model is 
different from the held and used impairment model. Under the held for sale impairment model, an impairment loss is recognized if the 
carrying amount of the long-lived asset classified as held for sale exceeds its fair value less cost to sell. Because of these two different 
models, it is possible for a long-lived asset previously classified as held and used to require the recognition of an impairment charge 
upon classification as held for sale.
Equity investments
We hold investments in publicly traded companies and privately held entities primarily involved in the life science, technology, 
and agtech industries. As a REIT, we generally limit our ownership percentage in the voting stock of each individual entity to less 
than 10%.
  Our investments in publicly traded companies are classified as investments with readily determinable fair values and are 
carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in net income. The fair values for our investments in publicly traded 
companies are determined based on sales prices/quotes available on securities exchanges and therefore generally require no 
judgment to determine fair value. Investments in privately held entities that report NAV per share, such as our privately held 
investments in limited partnerships, are carried at fair value using NAV as a practical expedient, with changes in fair value recognized in 
net income. As a result, fair value estimation for these investments generally requires limited judgment. Investments in privately held 
entities that do not report NAV are measured at cost, adjusted for observable price changes and impairments, with changes recognized 
in net income. Observable price changes result from, among other things, equity transactions for the same issuer executed during the 
reporting period, including subsequent equity offerings or other reported equity transactions related to the same issuer. For these equity 
transactions to be considered observable price changes of the same issuer, we evaluate whether these transactions have similar rights 
and obligations, including voting rights, distribution preferences, conversion rights, and other factors, to the investments we hold. 
  We monitor investments in privately held entities that do not report NAV per share throughout the year for new developments, 
including operating results, prospects and results of clinical trials, new product initiatives, new collaborative agreements, capital-raising 
events, and merger and acquisition activities. These investments are evaluated on the basis of a qualitative assessment for indicators 
of impairment by monitoring the presence of the following triggering events or impairment indicators: (i) a significant deterioration in the 
earnings performance, asset quality, or business prospects of the investee; (ii) a significant adverse change in the regulatory, economic, 
or technological environment of the investee, (iii) a significant adverse change in the general market condition, including the research 
and development of technology and products that the investee is bringing or attempting to bring to the market, or (iv) significant 
concerns about the investee’s ability to continue as a going concern. If such indicators are present, we are required to estimate the 
investment’s fair value and immediately recognize an impairment loss in an amount equal to the investment’s carrying value in excess 
of its estimated fair value.
Interest rate hedge agreements
From time to time, we utilize interest rate hedge agreements to manage a portion of our exposure to variable interest rates. 
Historically, our interest rate hedge agreements primarily related to our borrowings with variable interest rates based on LIBOR. 
However, in connection with the LIBOR cessation projected by the end of 2021 and the potential replacement of this rate in the U.S. 
with the Secured Overnight Financing Rate, we have paid down the majority of our outstanding borrowings of LIBOR-based debt and 
terminated our related interest rate hedge agreements. 
We classify our interest rate hedge agreements as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. The accounting 
for changes in fair value (i.e., gains or losses) of a derivative instrument depends on whether it has been designated and qualifies as 
part of a hedging relationship and, further, on the type of hedging relationship. For those derivative instruments that are designated and 
qualify as hedging instruments, a company must designate the hedging instrument, based on the hedged exposure, as a fair value 
hedge, a cash flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation. Our interest rate hedge agreements are typically 
considered cash flow hedges because they are designated and qualify as hedges of the exposure to variability in expected future cash 
flows. Hedge accounting generally provides for the matching of the timing of gain or loss recognition on the hedging instrument with the 
recognition of the changes in the earnings effect of the hedged transactions in a cash flow hedge. 
We formally document all relationships between interest rate hedge agreements and hedged items, including the method for 
evaluating effectiveness and the risk strategy. Our interest rate hedge agreements generally meet the criteria to be deemed “highly 
effective” in reducing our exposure to variable interest rates. We make a quantitative assessment at the inception of each interest rate 
hedge agreement, and qualitatively on an ongoing basis, to determine whether these instruments are “highly effective” in offsetting 
changes in cash flows associated with the hedged items. The entire change in the fair value of our highly effective interest rate hedge 
agreements that are designated and that qualify as cash flow hedges is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income. 
Amounts classified in accumulated other comprehensive income are reclassified into earnings in the period during which the hedged 
transactions affect earnings. If our interest rate hedges did not qualify as “highly effective,” the changes in the fair values of the 
104
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  104
derivatives used as hedges would be reflected in earnings.
The fair value of an interest rate hedge agreement is determined using widely accepted valuation techniques, including 
discounted cash flow analyses on the expected cash flows of each derivative. These analyses reflect the contractual terms of the 
derivatives, including the period to maturity, and use observable market-based inputs, including interest rate curves and implied 
volatilities. The fair values of our interest rate hedge agreements are determined using the market-standard methodology of netting the 
discounted future fixed-cash payments and the discounted expected variable-cash receipts. The variable-cash receipts are based on an 
expectation of future interest rates (forward curves) derived from observable market interest rate curves. The fair value calculation also 
includes an amount for risk of non-performance of our counterparties using “significant unobservable inputs,” such as estimates of 
current credit spreads, to evaluate the likelihood of default, which we have determined to be insignificant to the overall fair value of our 
interest rate hedge agreements. As of December 31, 2019, we had no outstanding interest rate hedge agreements.
Liability and right-of-use assets related to operating leases in which we are the lessee
We have operating lease agreements in which we are the lessee consisting of ground and office leases. At the lease 
commencement date (or at the acquisition date if the lease is acquired as part of a real estate acquisition), we are required to recognize 
a liability to account for our future obligations under these operating leases, and a corresponding right-of-use asset.  
The lease liability is measured based on the present value of the future lease payments, including payments during the term 
under our extension options that we are reasonably certain to exercise. The present value of the future lease payments is calculated for 
each operating lease using each respective remaining lease term and a corresponding estimated incremental borrowing rate, which is 
the interest rate that we estimate we would have to pay to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term for an amount equal to 
the lease payments. Subsequently, the lease liability is accreted by applying a discount rate established at the lease commencement 
date to the lease liability balance as of the beginning of the period and is reduced by the payments made during the period. We classify 
the operating lease liability in accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets.
 The right-of-use asset is measured based on the corresponding lease liability, adjusted for initial direct leasing costs and any 
other consideration exchanged with the landlord prior to the commencement of the lease, as well as adjustments to reflect favorable or 
unfavorable terms of an acquired lease when compared with market terms at the time of acquisition. Subsequently, the right-of-use 
asset is amortized on a straight-line basis during the lease term. We classify the right-of-use asset in other assets in our consolidated 
balance sheets. Refer to the “Lessee Accounting” subsection of “Lease Accounting” section within Note 2 – “Summary of Significant 
Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K.
Monitoring of tenant credit quality
  During the term of each lease, we monitor the credit quality and any related material changes of our tenants by (i) monitoring 
the credit rating of tenants that are rated by a nationally recognized credit rating agency, (ii) reviewing financial statements of the 
tenants that are publicly available or that are required to be delivered to us pursuant to the applicable lease, (iii) monitoring news 
reports regarding our tenants and their respective businesses, and (iv) monitoring the timeliness of lease payments.
105
105  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Non-GAAP measures and definitions
This section contains additional information of certain non-GAAP financial measures and the reasons why we use these 
supplemental measures of performance and believe they provide useful information to investors, as well as the definitions of other 
terms used in this annual report on Form 10-K.
Funds from operations and funds from operations, as adjusted, attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common 
stockholders
  GAAP-basis accounting for real estate assets utilizes historical cost accounting and assumes that real estate values diminish 
over time. In an effort to overcome the difference between real estate values and historical cost accounting for real estate assets, the 
Nareit Board of Governors established funds from operations as an improved measurement tool. Since its introduction, funds from 
operations has become a widely used non-GAAP financial measure among equity REITs. We believe that funds from operations is 
helpful to investors as an additional measure of the performance of an equity REIT. Moreover, we believe that funds from operations, as 
adjusted, allows investors to compare our performance to the performance of other real estate companies on a consistent basis, 
without having to account for differences recognized because of real estate investment and disposition decisions, financing decisions, 
capital structure, capital market transactions, and variances resulting from the volatility of market conditions outside of our control. On 
January 1, 2019, we adopted standards established by the Nareit Board of Governors in its November 2018 White Paper (the “Nareit 
White Paper”) on a prospective basis. The Nareit White Paper defines funds from operations as net income (computed in accordance 
with GAAP), excluding gains or losses on sales of real estate, and impairments of real estate, plus depreciation and amortization of 
operating real estate assets, and after adjustments for our share of consolidated and unconsolidated partnerships and real estate joint 
ventures. Impairments represent the write-down of assets when fair value over the recoverability period is less than the carrying value 
due to changes in general market conditions and do not necessarily reflect the operating performance of the properties during the 
corresponding period.
  We compute funds from operations, as adjusted, as funds from operations calculated in accordance with the Nareit White 
Paper, excluding significant gains, losses, and impairments realized on non-real estate investments, unrealized gains or losses on non-
real estate investments, gains or losses on early extinguishment of debt, gains or losses on early termination of interest rate hedge 
agreements, preferred stock redemption charges, deal costs, the income tax effect related to such items, and the amount of such items 
that is allocable to our unvested restricted stock awards. Neither funds from operations nor funds from operations, as adjusted, should 
be considered as alternatives to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as indications of financial performance, or to cash 
flows from operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP) as measures of liquidity, nor are they indicative of the availability 
of funds for our cash needs, including our ability to make distributions. 
  The following table reconciles net income to funds from operations for the share of consolidated real estate joint ventures 
attributable to noncontrolling interests and our share of unconsolidated real estate joint ventures for the year ended December 31, 2019 
(in thousands):
Noncontrolling Interest Share of Consolidated Our Share of Unconsolidated
Real Estate Joint Ventures Real Estate Joint Ventures
December 31, 2019 December 31, 2019
Three Months Ended Year Ended Three Months Ended Year Ended
Net income $ 13,612 $ 40,882 $ 4,777 $ 10,136
Depreciation and amortization 10,176 30,960 2,702 6,366
Funds from operations $ 23,788 $ 71,842 $ 7,479 $ 16,502
 
106
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  106
  The following tables present a reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common 
stockholders, the most directly comparable financial measure presented in accordance with GAAP, including our share of amounts from 
consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures, to funds from operations attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, 
Inc.’s common stockholders – diluted, and funds from operations attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common 
stockholders – diluted, as adjusted, and the related per share amounts for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017. Per 
share amounts may not add due to rounding.
Year Ended December 31,
(In thousands) 2019 2018 2017
Net income attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common
stockholders $ 350,995 $ 363,983 $ 145,395
Depreciation and amortization of real estate assets(1) 541,855 477,661 416,783
Noncontrolling share of depreciation and amortization from consolidated real
estate JVs (30,960) (16,077) (14,762)
Our share of depreciation and amortization from unconsolidated real estate
JVs 6,366 3,181 1,551
Gain on sales of real estate – rental properties (474) (8,704) (270)
Our share of gain on sales of real estate from unconsolidated real estate JVs — (35,678) (14,106)
Gain on sales of real estate – land parcels — — (111)
Impairment of real estate – rental properties 12,334 — 203
Assumed conversion of 7.00% Series D cumulative convertible preferred
stock 3,204 5,060 —
Allocation to unvested restricted stock awards (5,904) (5,961) (2,920)
Funds from operations attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s 
common stockholders – diluted(1) 877,416 783,465 531,763
Unrealized gains on non-real estate investments (161,489) (99,634) —
Realized gains on non-real estate investments — (14,680) —
Impairment of real estate – land parcels — 6,311 —
Impairment of non-real estate investments 17,124 (2) 5,483 8,296
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 47,570 (3) 1,122 3,451
Loss on early termination of interest rate hedge agreements 1,702 (4) — —
Our share of gain on early extinguishment of debt from unconsolidated real
estate JVs — (761) —
Preferred stock redemption charge 2,580 4,240 11,279
Removal of assumed conversion of 7.00% Series D cumulative convertible
preferred stock (3,204) (5,060) —
Allocation to unvested restricted stock awards 1,307 1,517 (321)
Funds from operations attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s
common stockholders – diluted, as adjusted $ 783,006 $ 682,003 $ 554,468
(1)  Calculated in accordance with standards established by the Nareit Board of Governors.
(2)  Relates to non-real estate investments in privately held entities.
(3)  Relates to the repayment of our unsecured senior notes payable due 2020 and 2022, unsecured senior bank term loan, and one secured note payable.
(4)  Represents loss on early termination of our interest rate hedge agreements. The loss is included within interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations. 
Refer to Note 11 – “Interest Rate Hedge Agreements” to our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional 
information.  
107
107  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Year Ended December 31,
(Dollars per share) 2019 2018 2017
Net income per share attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s
common stockholders – diluted $ 3.12 $ 3.52 $ 1.58
Depreciation and amortization of real estate assets(1) 4.60 4.50 4.35
Gain on sales of real estate – rental properties — (0.08) —
Our share of gain on sales of real estate from unconsolidated real estate JVs — (0.35) (0.15)
Impairment of real estate – rental properties 0.11 — —
Allocation to unvested restricted stock awards (0.06) (0.06) —
Funds from operations per share attributable to Alexandria Real Estate 
Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders – basic and diluted(1) 7.77 7.53 5.78
Unrealized gains on non-real estate investments (1.44) (0.96) —
Realized gains on non-real estate investments — (0.14) —
Impairment of real estate – land parcels — 0.06 —
Impairment of non-real estate investments 0.15 (2) 0.05 0.09
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 0.42 (2) 0.01 0.03
Loss on early termination of interest rate hedge agreements 0.02 (2) — —
Our share of gain on early extinguishment of debt from unconsolidated real
estate JVs — (0.01) —
Preferred stock redemption charge 0.02 0.04 0.12
Allocation to unvested restricted stock awards 0.02 0.02 —
Funds from operations per share attributable to Alexandria Real Estate
Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders – diluted, as adjusted $ 6.96 $ 6.60 $ 6.02
Weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding(3) for calculations of:
EPS – diluted 112,524 103,321 92,063
Funds from operations – diluted, per share 112,966 104,048 92,063
Funds from operations – diluted, as adjusted, per share 112,524 103,321 92,063
(1)  Calculated in accordance with standards established by the Nareit Board of Governors.
(2)  Refer to footnotes 2, 3, and 4, respectively, on the previous page for additional information.
(3)  Refer to the definition of “Weighted-Average Shares of Common Stock Outstanding – Diluted” within this section of this Item 7 for additional information.
Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin
  We use Adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental performance measure of our operations, for financial and operational decision-
making, and as a supplemental means of evaluating period-to-period comparisons on a consistent basis. Adjusted EBITDA is calculated 
as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (“EBITDA”), excluding stock compensation expense, gains or losses 
on early extinguishment of debt, gains or losses on sales of real estate, and impairments of real estate. Adjusted EBITDA also excludes 
unrealized gains or losses and significant realized gains and impairments that result from our non-real estate investments. These non-
real estate investment amounts are classified in our consolidated statements of operations outside of revenues. 
 
  We believe Adjusted EBITDA provides investors with relevant and useful information as it allows investors to evaluate the 
operating performance of our business activities without having to account for differences recognized because of real estate and non-
real estate investment and disposition decisions, financing decisions, capital structure, capital market transactions, and variances 
resulting from the volatility of market conditions outside of our control. For example, we exclude gains or losses on the early 
extinguishment of debt to allow investors to measure our performance independent of our indebtedness and capital structure. We 
believe that adjusting for the effects of impairments and gains or losses on sales of real estate, and significant impairments and 
significant gains on the sale of non-real estate investments allows investors to evaluate performance from period to period on a 
consistent basis without having to account for differences recognized because of real estate and non-real estate investment and 
disposition decisions. We believe that excluding charges related to stock compensation and unrealized gains or losses facilitates for 
investors a comparison of our business activities across periods without the volatility resulting from market forces outside of our control. 
Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as a measure of our performance. Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect our historical expenditures or 
future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments. While Adjusted EBITDA is a relevant measure of performance, 
it does not represent net income or cash flows from operations calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, and it should not be 
considered as an alternative to those indicators in evaluating performance or liquidity. 
108
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  108
  Our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA margin divides Adjusted EBITDA by our revenues, as adjusted. We believe that revenues, 
as adjusted, provides a denominator for Adjusted EBITDA margin that is calculated on a basis more consistent with that of the Adjusted 
EBITDA numerator. Specifically, revenues, as adjusted, includes the same realized gains on, and impairments of, non-real estate 
investments that are included in the reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA. We believe that the consistent application of results from our 
non-real estate investments to both the numerator and denominator of Adjusted EBITDA margin provides a more useful calculation for 
the comparison across periods.
  The following table reconciles net income (loss) and revenues, the most directly comparable financial measures calculated 
and presented in accordance with GAAP, to Adjusted EBITDA and revenues, as adjusted, respectively, for the three months and years 
ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (dollars in thousands):
Three Months Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2019 2018
Net income (loss) $ 216,053 $ (18,631) $ 404,047 $ 402,793
Interest expense 45,493 40,239 173,675 157,495
Income taxes 1,269 613 4,343 3,227
Depreciation and amortization 140,518 124,990 544,612 477,661
Stock compensation expense 10,239 9,810 43,640 35,019
Loss on early extinguishment of debt — — 47,570 1,122
Our share of gain on early extinguishment of debt from
unconsolidated real estate JVs — — — (761)
Gain on sales of real estate (474) (8,704) (474) (8,704)
Our share of gain on sales of real estate from
unconsolidated real estate JVs — — — (35,678)
Significant realized gains on non-real estate
investments — (6,428) — (6,428)
Unrealized (gains) losses on non-real estate
investments (148,268) 94,850 (161,489) (99,634)
Impairment of real estate 12,334 — 12,334 6,311
Impairment of non-real estate investments 9,991 5,483 17,124 5,483
Adjusted EBITDA $ 287,155 $ 242,222 $ 1,085,382 $ 937,906
Revenues $ 408,114 $ 340,463 $ 1,531,296 $ 1,327,459
Non-real estate investments – total realized gains 4,399 11,319 33,158 37,129
Significant realized gains on non-real estate
investments — (6,428) — (6,428)
Impairment of non-real estate investments 9,991 5,483 17,124 5,483
Revenues, as adjusted $ 422,504 $ 350,837 $ 1,581,578 $ 1,363,643
Adjusted EBITDA margin 68% 69% 69% 69%
Annual rental revenue
  Annual rental revenue represents the annualized fixed base rental amount, in effect as of the end of the period, related to our 
operating RSF. Annual rental revenue is presented using 100% of the annual rental revenue of our consolidated properties and our 
share of annual rental revenue for our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures. Annual rental revenue per RSF is computed by dividing 
annual rental revenue by the sum of 100% of the RSF of our consolidated properties and our share of the RSF of properties held in 
unconsolidated real estate joint ventures. As of December 31, 2019, approximately 97% of our leases (on an RSF basis) were triple net 
leases, which require tenants to pay substantially all real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, repairs and maintenance, common area 
expenses, and other operating expenses (including increases thereto) in addition to base rent. Annual rental revenue excludes these 
operating expenses recovered from our tenants. Amounts recovered from our tenants related to these operating expenses, along with 
base rent, are classified in income from rentals in our consolidated statements of operations.
109
109  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Cash interest
Cash interest is equal to interest expense calculated in accordance with GAAP plus capitalized interest, less amortization of 
loan fees and debt premiums (discounts). Refer to the definition of “Fixed-Charge Coverage Ratio” in this section under this Item 7 in 
this annual report on 10-K for a reconciliation of interest expense, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and 
presented in accordance with GAAP, to cash interest.
Class A properties and AAA locations
 
  Class A properties are properties clustered in AAA locations that provide innovative tenants with highly dynamic and 
collaborative environments that enhance their ability to successfully recruit and retain world-class talent and inspire productivity, 
efficiency, creativity, and success. Class A properties generally command higher annual rental rates than other classes of similar 
properties.
 
  AAA locations are in close proximity to concentrations of specialized skills, knowledge, institutions, and related businesses. 
Such locations are generally characterized by high barriers to entry for new landlords, high barriers to exit for tenants, and a limited 
supply of available space.
Development, redevelopment, and pre-construction
  A key component of our business model is our disciplined allocation of capital to the development and redevelopment of new 
Class A properties, and property enhancements identified during the underwriting of certain acquired properties, located in collaborative 
life science, technology, and agtech campuses in AAA urban innovation clusters. These projects are generally focused on providing 
high-quality, generic, and reusable spaces that meet the real estate requirements of, and are reusable by, a wide range of tenants. 
Upon completion, each value-creation project is expected to generate a significant increase in rental income, net operating income, and 
cash flows. Our development and redevelopment projects are generally in locations that are highly desirable to high-quality entities, 
which we believe results in higher occupancy levels, longer lease terms, higher rental income, higher returns, and greater long-term 
asset value.
  Development projects generally consist of the ground-up development of generic and reusable facilities. Redevelopment 
projects consist of the permanent change in use of office, warehouse, and shell space into office/laboratory, tech office, or agtech 
space. We generally will not commence new development projects for aboveground construction of new Class A office/laboratory, tech 
office, and agtech space without first securing significant pre-leasing for such space, except when there is solid market demand for 
high-quality Class A properties. 
  Pre-construction activities include entitlements, permitting, design, site work, and other activities preceding commencement of 
construction of aboveground building improvements. The advancement of pre-construction efforts is focused on reducing the time 
required to deliver projects to prospective tenants. These critical activities add significant value for future ground-up development and 
are required for the vertical construction of buildings. Ultimately, these projects will provide high-quality facilities and are expected to 
generate significant revenue and cash flows.
110
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  110
Fixed-charge coverage ratio
  Fixed-charge coverage ratio is a non-GAAP financial measure representing the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to fixed charges. We 
believe this ratio is useful to investors as a supplemental measure of our ability to satisfy fixed financing obligations and preferred stock 
dividends. Cash interest is equal to interest expense calculated in accordance with GAAP plus capitalized interest, less amortization of 
loan fees and debt premiums (discounts). 
  The following table reconciles interest expense, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in 
accordance with GAAP, to cash interest and fixed charges for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (dollars in 
thousands):
Three Months Ended December 31,
2019 2018
Adjusted EBITDA $ 287,155 $ 242,222
Interest expense $ 45,493 $ 40,239
Capitalized interest 23,822 19,902
Amortization of loan fees (2,241) (2,401)
Amortization of debt premiums 907 611
Cash interest 67,981 58,351
Dividends on preferred stock — 1,155
Fixed charges $ 67,981 $ 59,506
Fixed-charge coverage ratio:
– period annualized 4.2x 4.1x
– trailing 12 months 4.2x 4.2x
Initial stabilized yield (unlevered)
  Initial stabilized yield is calculated as the estimated amounts of net operating income at stabilization divided by our investment 
in the property. Our initial stabilized yield excludes the benefit of leverage. Our cash rents related to our value-creation projects are 
generally expected to increase over time due to contractual annual rent escalations. Our estimates for initial stabilized yields, initial 
stabilized yields (cash basis), and total costs at completion represent our initial estimates at the commencement of the project. We 
expect to update this information upon completion of the project, or sooner if there are significant changes to the expected project yields 
or costs.
•  Initial stabilized yield reflects rental income, including contractual rent escalations and any rent concessions over the 
term(s) of the lease(s), calculated on a straight-line basis.
•  Initial stabilized yield (cash basis) reflects cash rents at the stabilization date after initial rental concessions, if any, have 
elapsed and our total cash investment in the property.
Investment-grade or publicly traded large cap tenants
  Investment-grade or publicly traded large cap tenants represent tenants that are investment-grade rated or publicly traded 
companies with an average daily market capitalization greater than $10 billion for the twelve months ended December 31, 2019, as 
reported by Bloomberg Professional Services. In addition, we monitor the credit quality and related material changes of our tenants. 
Material changes that cause a tenant’s market capitalization to decline below $10 billion, which are not immediately reflected in the 
twelve month average, may result in their exclusion from this measure.
111
111  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Investments in real estate – value-creation square footage currently in rental properties
  The following table represents RSF of buildings in operation as of December 31, 2019, that will be redeveloped or replaced with 
new development RSF upon commencement of future construction:
Property/Submarket RSF
Intermediate-term projects:
3825 Fabian Way/Greater Stanford 250,000
960 Industrial Road/Greater Stanford 110,000
9363, 9373, and 9393 Towne Centre Drive/University Town Center 140,398
10260 Campus Point Drive/University Town Center 109,164
10931 and 10933 North Torrey Pines Road/Torrey Pines 92,450
702,012
Future projects:
3875 Fabian Way/Greater Stanford 228,000
219 East 42nd Street/New York City 349,947
4161 Campus Point Court/University Town Center 159,884
4110 Campus Point Court/University Town Center 15,667
4045 Sorrento Valley Boulevard/Sorrento Valley 10,926
4075 Sorrento Valley Boulevard/Sorrento Valley 40,000
601 Dexter Avenue North/Lake Union 18,680
823,104
Total value-creation RSF currently included in rental properties 1,525,116
Joint venture financial information
  We present components of balance sheet and operating results information related to our joint ventures, which are not 
presented, or intended to be presented, in accordance with GAAP. We present the proportionate share of certain financial line items as 
follows: (i) for each real estate joint venture that we consolidate in our financial statements, which are controlled by us through 
contractual rights or majority voting rights, but of which we own less than 100%, we apply the noncontrolling interest economic 
ownership percentage to each financial item to arrive at the amount of such cumulative noncontrolling interest share of each component 
presented; and (ii) for each real estate joint venture that we do not control and do not consolidate, and are instead controlled jointly or 
by our joint venture partners through contractual rights or majority voting rights, we apply our economic ownership percentage to each 
financial item to arrive at our proportionate share of each component presented.
  The components of balance sheet and operating results information related to joint ventures do not represent our legal claim to 
those items. For each entity that we do not wholly own, the joint venture agreement generally determines what equity holders can 
receive upon capital events, such as sales or refinancing, or in the event of a liquidation. Equity holders are normally entitled to their 
respective legal ownership of any residual cash from a joint venture only after all liabilities, priority distributions, and claims have been 
repaid or satisfied. 
  We believe this information can help investors estimate the balance sheet and operating results information related to our 
partially owned entities. Presenting this information provides a perspective not immediately available from consolidated financial 
statements and one that can supplement an understanding of the joint venture assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses included in 
our consolidated results.
  The components of balance sheet and operating results information related to joint ventures are limited as an analytical tool as 
the overall economic ownership interest does not represent our legal claim to each of our joint ventures’ assets, liabilities, or results of 
operations. In addition, joint venture financial information may include financial information related to the unconsolidated real estate joint 
ventures that we do not control. Refer to Note 4 – “Consolidated and Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures” to our consolidated 
financial statements under Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K for more information on our unconsolidated real estate joint 
ventures. We believe that in order to facilitate for investors a clear understanding of our operating results and our total assets and 
liabilities, joint venture financial information should be examined in conjunction with our consolidated statements of operations and 
balance sheets. Joint venture financial information should not be considered an alternative to our consolidated financial statements, 
which are prepared in accordance with GAAP.
112
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  112
Net cash provided by operating activities after dividends
  Net cash provided by operating activities after dividends includes the deduction for distributions to noncontrolling interests. For 
purposes of this calculation, changes in operating assets and liabilities are excluded as they represent timing differences. 
Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA and net debt and preferred stock to Adjusted EBITDA
Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA and net debt and preferred stock to Adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures that we 
believe are useful to investors as supplemental measures in evaluating our balance sheet leverage. Net debt is equal to the sum of total 
consolidated debt less cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash. Net debt and preferred stock is equal to the sum of net debt, as 
discussed above, plus preferred stock outstanding as of the end of the period. Refer to the definition of “Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted 
EBITDA Margin” in this section under this Item 7 for further information on the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA. 
  The following table reconciles debt to net debt, and to net debt and preferred stock, and computes the ratio of each to Adjusted 
EBITDA as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 (dollars in thousands):
December 31,
2019 2018
Secured notes payable $ 349,352 $ 630,547
Unsecured senior notes payable 6,044,127 4,292,293
Unsecured senior line of credit 384,000 208,000
Unsecured senior bank term loan — 347,415
Unamortized deferred financing costs 47,299 31,413
Cash and cash equivalents (189,681) (234,181)
Restricted cash (53,008) (37,949)
Net debt $ 6,582,089 $ 5,237,538
Net debt $ 6,582,089 $ 5,237,538
7.00% Series D cumulative convertible preferred stock — (1) 64,336
Net debt and preferred stock $ 6,582,089 $ 5,301,874
Adjusted EBITDA:
– quarter annualized $ 1,148,620 $ 968,888
– trailing 12 months $ 1,085,382 $ 937,906
Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA:
– quarter annualized 5.7x 5.4x
– trailing 12 months 6.1x 5.6x
Net debt and preferred stock to Adjusted EBITDA:
– quarter annualized 5.7x 5.5x
– trailing 12 months 6.1x 5.7x
(1)  In October 2019, we completed the conversion of all 2.3 million outstanding shares of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock. Refer 
to the “7.00% Series D Convertible Preferred Stock Repurchases and Conversion” section in Note 16 – “Stockholders’ Equity” to our consolidated financial statements 
under Item 15 in this annual report for additional information.
113
113  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Net operating income, net operating income (cash basis), and operating margin
  The following table reconciles net income to net operating income, and to net operating income (cash basis) for the years 
ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017 (dollars in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
Net income $ 404,047 $ 402,793 $ 194,204
Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (10,136) (43,981) (15,426)
General and administrative expenses 108,823 90,405 75,009
Interest expense 173,675 157,495 128,645
Depreciation and amortization 544,612 477,661 416,783
Impairment of real estate 12,334 6,311 203
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 47,570 1,122 3,451
Gain on sales of real estate – rental properties (474) (8,704) (270)
Gain on sales of real estate – land parcels — — (111)
Investment income (194,647) (136,763) —
Net operating income 1,085,804 946,339 802,488
Straight-line rent revenue (104,235) (93,883) (107,643)
Amortization of acquired below-market leases (29,813) (21,938) (19,055)
Net operating income (cash basis) $ 951,756 $ 830,518 $ 675,790
Net operating income (from above) $ 1,085,804 $ 946,339 $ 802,488
Total revenues $ 1,531,296 $ 1,327,459 $ 1,128,097
Operating margin 71% 71% 71%
 
  Net operating income is a non-GAAP financial measure calculated as net income, the most directly comparable financial 
measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, excluding equity in the earnings of our unconsolidated real estate joint 
ventures, general and administrative expenses, interest expense, depreciation and amortization, impairments of real estate, gains or 
losses on early extinguishment of debt, gains or losses on sales of real estate, and investment income or loss. We believe net operating 
income provides useful information to investors regarding our financial condition and results of operations because it primarily reflects 
those income and expense items that are incurred at the property level. Therefore, we believe net operating income is a useful measure 
for investors to evaluate the operating performance of our consolidated real estate assets. Net operating income on a cash basis is net 
operating income adjusted to exclude the effect of straight-line rent and amortization of acquired above- and below-market lease 
revenue adjustments required by GAAP. We believe that net operating income on a cash basis is helpful to investors as an additional 
measure of operating performance because it eliminates straight-line rent revenue and the amortization of acquired above- and below-
market leases.
  Furthermore, we believe net operating income is useful to investors as a performance measure for our consolidated properties 
because, when compared across periods, net operating income reflects trends in occupancy rates, rental rates, and operating costs, 
which provide a perspective not immediately apparent from net income or loss. Net operating income can be used to measure the initial 
stabilized yields of our properties by calculating net operating income generated by a property divided by our investment in the property. 
Net operating income excludes certain components from net income in order to provide results that are more closely related to the 
results of operations of our properties. For example, interest expense is not necessarily linked to the operating performance of a real 
estate asset and is often incurred at the corporate level rather than at the property level. In addition, depreciation and amortization, 
because of historical cost accounting and useful life estimates, may distort comparability of operating performance at the property level. 
Impairments of real estate have been excluded in deriving net operating income because we do not consider impairments of real estate 
to be property-level operating expenses. Impairments of real estate relate to changes in the values of our assets and do not reflect the 
current operating performance with respect to related revenues or expenses. Our impairments of real estate represent the write-down in 
the value of the assets to the estimated fair value less cost to sell. These impairments result from investing decisions or a deterioration 
in market conditions. We also exclude realized and unrealized investment income or loss, which results from investment decisions that 
occur at the corporate level related to non-real estate investments in publicly traded companies and certain privately held entities. 
Therefore, we do not consider these activities to be an indication of operating performance of our real estate assets at the property 
level. Our calculation of net operating income also excludes charges incurred from changes in certain financing decisions, such as 
losses on early extinguishment of debt, as these charges often relate to corporate strategy. Property operating expenses included in 
determining net operating income primarily consist of costs that are related to our operating properties, such as utilities, repairs, and 
114
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  114
maintenance; rental expense related to ground leases; contracted services, such as janitorial, engineering, and landscaping; property 
taxes and insurance; and property-level salaries. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of accounting and corporate 
compensation, corporate insurance, professional fees, office rent, and office supplies that are incurred as part of corporate office 
management. We calculate operating margin as net operating income divided by total revenues. 
  We believe that in order to facilitate for investors a clear understanding of our operating results, net operating income should 
be examined in conjunction with net income or loss as presented in our consolidated statements of operations. Net operating income 
should not be considered as an alternative to net income or loss as an indication of our performance, nor as an alternative to cash flows 
as a measure of our liquidity or our ability to make distributions.
Operating statistics
  We present certain operating statistics related to our properties, including number of properties, RSF, occupancy percentage, 
leasing activity, and contractual lease expirations as of the end of the period. We believe these measures are useful to investors 
because they facilitate an understanding of certain trends for our properties. We compute the number of properties, RSF, occupancy 
percentage, leasing activity, and contractual lease expirations at 100% for all properties in which we have an investment, including 
properties owned by our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures. For operating metrics based on annual rental 
revenue, refer to the definition of “Annual Rental Revenue” in this “Non-GAAP Measures and Definitions” section. 
Same property comparisons
As a result of changes within our total property portfolio during the comparative periods presented, including changes from 
assets acquired or sold, properties placed into development or redevelopment, and development or redevelopment properties recently 
placed into service, the consolidated total income from rentals, as well as rental operating expenses in our operating results, can show 
significant changes from period to period. In order to supplement an evaluation of our results of operations over a given quarterly or 
annual period, we analyze the operating performance for all consolidated properties that were fully operating for the entirety of the 
comparative periods presented, referred to as same properties. We separately present quarterly and year-to-date same property results 
to align with the interim financial information required by the SEC in our management’s discussion and analysis of our financial 
condition and results of operations. These same properties are analyzed separately from properties acquired subsequent to the first 
day in the earliest comparable quarterly or year-to-date period presented, properties that underwent development or redevelopment at 
any time during the comparative periods, unconsolidated real estate joint ventures, properties classified as held for sale, and corporate 
entities (legal entities performing general and administrative functions), which are excluded from same property results. Additionally, 
lease termination fees, if any, are excluded from the results of same properties. Refer to “Same Properties” in the “Results of 
Operations” under this Item 7 in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information. 
Stabilized occupancy date
  The stabilized occupancy date represents the estimated date on which the project is expected to reach occupancy of 95% or 
greater.
Tenant recoveries
Tenant recoveries represent revenues comprising reimbursement of real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, repairs and 
maintenance, common area expenses, and other operating expenses and earned in the period during which the applicable expenses 
are incurred and the tenant’s obligation to reimburse us arises.
On January 1, 2019, we adopted a new lease accounting standard, among other practical expedients and policies, and elected 
the single component accounting policy. As a result of our election of the single component accounting policy, we account for rental 
revenues and tenant recoveries generated through the leasing of real estate assets that qualify for this policy as a single component 
and classify associated revenue in income from rentals in our consolidated statements of operations. Prior to the adoption of the new 
lease accounting standard, we presented rental revenues and tenant recoveries separately in our consolidated statements of 
operations. Refer to the “Lease Accounting” section in Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in our consolidated 
financial statements under Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information. We continue to provide investors with a 
separate presentation of rental revenues and tenant recoveries in the “Comparison of Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2019, 
to the Year Ended December 31, 2018” subsections of the “Results of Operations” section under this Item 7 because we believe it 
promotes investors’ understanding of the changes in our operating results. We believe that the presentation of tenant recoveries is 
useful to investors as a supplemental measure of our ability to recover operating expenses under our triple net leases, including 
recoveries of utilities, repairs and maintenance, insurance, property taxes, common area expenses, and other operating expenses, and 
of our ability to mitigate the effect to net income for any significant variability to components of our operating expenses. 
115
115  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
  The following table reconciles income from rentals to tenant recoveries for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017
(in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
Income from rentals $ 1,516,864 $ 1,314,781 $ 1,122,325
Rental revenues (1,165,788) (1,010,718) (863,181)
Tenant recoveries $ 351,076 $ 304,063 $ 259,144
Total market capitalization
  Total market capitalization is equal to the outstanding shares of common stock at the end of the period multiplied by the 
closing price on the last trading day of the period (i.e., total equity capitalization), plus total debt outstanding at period-end. 
Unencumbered net operating income as a percentage of total net operating income
Unencumbered net operating income as a percentage of total net operating income is a non-GAAP financial measure that we 
believe is useful to investors as a performance measure of the results of operations of our unencumbered real estate assets as it 
reflects those income and expense items that are incurred at the unencumbered property level. Unencumbered net operating income is 
derived from assets classified in continuing operations, which are not subject to any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, or other security 
interest, as of the period for which income is presented. 
The following table summarizes unencumbered net operating income as a percentage of total net operating income for the 
years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (dollars in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018
Unencumbered net operating income $ 1,024,619 $ 829,834
Encumbered net operating income 61,185 116,505
Total net operating income $ 1,085,804 $ 946,339
Unencumbered net operating income as a percentage of total net operating
income 94% 88%
Weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding – diluted
  From time to time, we enter into capital market transactions, including forward equity sales agreements, to fund acquisitions, to 
fund construction of our highly leased development and redevelopment projects, and for general working capital purposes. We are 
required to consider the potential dilutive effect of our forward equity sales agreements under the treasury stock method while the 
forward equity sales agreements are outstanding. As of December 31, 2019, we had no forward equity sales agreements outstanding. 
Prior to the conversion of our remaining outstanding shares in October 2019, we considered the effect of assumed conversion of our 
outstanding Series D Convertible Preferred Stock when determining potentially dilutive incremental shares to our common stock. When 
calculating the assumed conversion, we add back to net income or loss the dividends paid on our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock 
to the numerator and then include additional common shares assumed to have been issued (as displayed in the table below) to the 
denominator of the per share calculation. The effect of the assumed conversion is considered separately for our per share calculations 
of net income or loss; funds from operations, computed in accordance with the definition in the Nareit White Paper; and funds from 
operations, as adjusted. Prior to the conversion of our remaining outstanding shares in October 2019, our Series D Convertible 
Preferred Stock was dilutive and assumed to be converted when quarterly and annual basic EPS, funds from operations, or funds from 
operations, as adjusted, exceeded approximately $1.75 and $7.00 per share, respectively, subject to conversion ratio adjustments and 
the impact of repurchases of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock. The effect of the assumed conversion was included when it was 
dilutive on a per share basis. The dilutive effect of less than a half cent per share appears as zero in our reconciliation of EPS – diluted 
to funds from operations per share – diluted, and funds from operations per share – diluted, as adjusted, even when the dilutive effect 
to the numerator alone appears in our reconciliation. Refer to Note 13 – “Earnings per Share” and Note 16 – “Stockholders’ Equity” to 
our consolidated financial statements under Item 15 in this annual report on Form 10-K for more information related to our forward 
equity sales agreements and our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock. 
116
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  116
  The weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding used in calculating EPS – diluted, funds from operations per 
share – diluted, and funds from operations per share – diluted, as adjusted, for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, 
are calculated as follows (in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
Weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding:
Basic shares for EPS 112,204 103,010 91,546
Outstanding forward equity sales agreements 320 311 517
Series D Convertible Preferred Stock — — —
Diluted for EPS 112,524 103,321 92,063
Basic shares for EPS 112,204 103,010 91,546
Outstanding forward equity sales agreements 320 311 517
Series D Convertible Preferred Stock 442 727 —
Diluted for FFO 112,966 104,048 92,063
Basic shares for EPS 112,204 103,010 91,546
Outstanding forward equity sales agreements 320 311 517
Series D Convertible Preferred Stock — — —
Diluted for FFO, as adjusted 112,524 103,321 92,063
117
117  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
Interest rate risk
The primary market risk to which we believe we may be exposed is interest rate risk, which may result from many factors, 
including government monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political considerations, and other factors 
that are beyond our control.
In order to modify and manage the interest rate characteristics of our outstanding debt and to limit the effects of interest rate 
risks on our operations, we may utilize a variety of financial instruments, including interest rate hedge agreements, caps, floors, and 
other interest rate exchange contracts. The use of these types of instruments to hedge a portion of our exposure to changes in interest 
rates may carry additional risks, such as counterparty credit risk and the legal enforceability of hedge agreements. As of December 31, 
2019, we did not have any outstanding hedge agreements. 
Our future earnings and fair values relating to our outstanding debt are primarily dependent upon prevalent market rates of 
interest. The following table illustrates the effect of a 1% change in interest rates on our fixed- and variable-rate debt as of 
December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands):
December 31,
2019 2018
Annualized effect on future earnings due to variable-rate debt:
Rate increase of 1% $ (3,600) $ (2,524)
Rate decrease of 1% $ 3,600 $ 2,524
Effect on fair value of total consolidated debt:
Rate increase of 1% $ (527,768) $ (237,413)
Rate decrease of 1% $ 605,862 $ 254,960
These amounts are determined by considering the effect of the hypothetical interest rates on our borrowings as of 
December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. These analyses do not consider the effects of the reduced level of overall economic activity 
that could exist in such an environment. Furthermore, in the event of a change of such magnitude, we would consider taking actions to 
further mitigate our exposure to the change. Because of the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible 
effects, the sensitivity analyses assume no changes in our capital structure.
Equity price risk
We have exposure to equity price market risk because of our equity investments in publicly traded companies and privately 
held entities. All of our investments in actively traded public companies are reflected in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. 
Our investments in privately held entities that report NAV per share are measured at fair value using NAV as a practical expedient to fair 
value. Our equity investments in privately held entities that do not report NAV per share are measured at cost less impairments, 
adjusted for observable price changes during the period. Changes in fair value of public investments, changes in NAV per share 
reported by privately held entities, and observable price changes of privately held entities that do not report NAV per share are 
classified as investment income in our consolidated statements of operations. There is no assurance that future declines in value will 
not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. The following table illustrates the effect that a 10% change in the 
value of our equity investments would have on earnings as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands):
December 31,
2019 2018
Equity price risk:
Fair value increase of 10% $ 114,059 $ 89,226
Fair value decrease of 10% $ (114,059) $ (89,226)
118
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  118
Foreign currency exchange rate risk
We have exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk related to our subsidiaries operating in Canada and Asia. The 
functional currencies of our foreign subsidiaries are the local currencies in each respective country. Gains or losses resulting from the 
translation of our foreign subsidiaries’ balance sheets and statements of operations are classified in accumulated other comprehensive 
income (loss) as a separate component of total equity and are excluded from net income (loss). Gains or losses will be reflected in our 
consolidated statements of operations when there is a sale or partial sale of our investment in these operations or upon a complete or 
substantially complete liquidation of the investment. The following table illustrates the effect that a 10% change in foreign currency rates 
relative to the U.S. dollar would have on our potential future earnings and on the fair value of our net investment in foreign subsidiaries 
based on our current operating assets outside the U.S. as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands):
December 31,
2019 2018
Effect on potential future earnings due to foreign currency exchange rate:
Rate increase of 10% $ 107 $ 82
Rate decrease of 10% $ (107) $ (82)
Effect on the fair value of net investment in foreign subsidiaries due to foreign currency
exchange rate:
Rate increase of 10% $ 10,120 $ 9,658
Rate decrease of 10% $ (10,120) $ (9,658)
These sensitivity analyses assume a parallel shift of all foreign currency exchange rates with respect to the U.S. dollar; 
however, foreign currency exchange rates do not typically move in such a manner, and actual results may differ materially.
Our exposure to market risk elements for the year ended December 31, 2019, was consistent with the risk elements presented 
above, including the effects of changes in interest rates, equity prices, and foreign currency exchange rates.
119
119  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The information required by this Item is included as a separate section in this annual report on Form 10-K. Refer to “Item 15. 
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.”
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures
As of December 31, 2019, we had performed an evaluation, under the supervision of our Co-Chief Executive Officers (“Co-
CEOs”) and our Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and 
procedures. These controls and procedures have been designed to ensure that information required for disclosure is recorded, 
processed, summarized, and reported within the requisite time periods. Based on our evaluation, the Co-CEOs and the CFO concluded 
that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2019.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting
There has not been any change in our internal control over financial reporting during the three months ended December 31, 
2019, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting
The management of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) is responsible for establishing 
and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is defined in 
Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is a process designed by, or 
under the supervision of, the Co-CEOs and the CFO and effected by the Company’s Board of Directors, management, and other 
personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for 
external reporting purposes in accordance with GAAP. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies 
and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of assets; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial 
statements in accordance with GAAP, and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with the authorizations of 
the Company’s management and directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of 
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. 
Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of 
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Management has assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 
2019 and 2018. In making its assessment, management has utilized the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations 
(“COSO 2013”) of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013 framework). Management concluded 
that based on its assessment, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2019. The 
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an 
independent registered accounting firm, as stated in its report, which is included herein.
120
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  120
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on 
criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. (the Company) maintained, in 
all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), 
the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the related consolidated statements of 
operations, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders’ equity and noncontrolling interests and cash flows for each of the three 
years in the period ended December 31, 2019 and the related notes and financial statement schedule, and our report dated February 4, 
2020, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of 
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying management’s annual report on internal 
control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting 
based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the 
Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange 
Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing 
such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our 
opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the 
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the 
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in 
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect 
on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of 
any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Los Angeles, California
February 4, 2020
121
121  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION
  None.
PART III
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2020 
annual meeting of stockholders to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of our fiscal year (the “2020 Proxy 
Statement”) under the captions “Board of Directors and Executive Officers,” and “Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of 
Ethics.”
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference from our 2020 Proxy Statement under the caption 
“Executive Compensation.”
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER 
MATTERS 
The following table sets forth information on the Company’s equity compensation plan as of December 31, 2019:
Equity Compensation Plan Information
Number of securities
remaining available for
Number of securities to be Weighted-average future issuance under
issued upon exercise of exercise price of equity compensation plans
outstanding options, outstanding options, (excluding securities
warrants, and rights warrants, and rights reflected in column (a))
(a) (b) (c)
Equity Compensation Plan Approved by
Stockholders — Amended and Restated
1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan — — 1,858,673
The other information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference from our 2020 Proxy Statement under the 
caption “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.”
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference from our 2020 Proxy Statement under the captions 
“Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,” “Policies and Procedures with Respect to Related-Person Transactions,” and 
“Director Independence.”
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference from our 2020 Proxy Statement under the caption 
“Fees Billed by Independent Registered Public Accountants.”
122
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  122
PART IV
ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
  (a)(1) and (2)  Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule
  The financial statements and financial statement schedule required by this Item are included as a separate section in this 
annual report on Form 10-K beginning on page F-1.
Page
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm ......................................................................................................... F-1
Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.:
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 ........................................................................................ F-3
Consolidated Financial Statements for the Years Ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017: ............................................
Consolidated Statements of Operations ............................................................................................................................ F-4
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income ........................................................................................................ F-5
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity and Noncontrolling Interests .............................................. F-6
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows ........................................................................................................................... F-8
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements .......................................................................................................................... F-10
Schedule III – Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule of Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation ........................... F-67
  (a)(3) Exhibits
Exhibit Incorporated by
Number Exhibit Title Reference to: Date Filed
3.1* Articles of Amendment and Restatement of the Company Form 10-Q August 14, 1997
3.2* Certificate of Correction of the Company Form 10-Q August 14, 1997
3.3* Articles of Amendment of the Company, dated May 10, 2017 Form 8-K May 12, 2017
3.4* Articles Supplementary, dated June 9, 1999, relating to the 9.50% Series A  Form 10-Q August 13, 1999
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock
3.5* Articles Supplementary, dated February 10, 2000, relating to the election to  Form 8-K February 10, 2000
be subject to Subtitle 8 of Title 3 of the Maryland General Corporation Law
3.6* Articles Supplementary, dated February 10, 2000, relating to the Series A  Form 8-K February 10, 2000
Junior Participating Preferred Stock
3.7* Articles Supplementary, dated January 18, 2002, relating to the 9.10%  Form 8-A January 18, 2002
Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock
3.8* Articles Supplementary, dated June 22, 2004, relating to the 8.375%  Form 8-A June 28, 2004
Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock
3.9* Articles Supplementary, dated March 25, 2008, relating to the 7.00%  Form 8-K March 25, 2008
Series D Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock
3.10* Articles Supplementary, dated March 12, 2012, relating to the 6.45%  Form 8-K March 14, 2012
Series E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock
3.11* Articles Supplementary, dated May 10, 2017, relating to Reclassified  Form 8-K May 12, 2017
Preferred Stock
3.12* Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company (Amended July 27, 2018) Form 8-K August 2, 2018
4.1* Specimen certificate representing shares of common stock Form 10-Q May 5, 2011
4.2* Indenture, dated as of February 29, 2012, among the Company, as Issuer,  Form 8-K February 29, 2012
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, and the Bank of New 
York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee
123
123  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Exhibit Incorporated by
Number Exhibit Title Reference to: Date Filed
4.3* Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of June 7, 2013, among the  Form 8-K June 7, 2013
Company, as Issuer, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, 
and the Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee
4.4* Form of 3.90% Senior Note due 2023 (included in Exhibit 4.3 above) Form 8-K June 7, 2013
4.5* Supplemental Indenture No. 4, dated as of July 18, 2014, among the  Form 8-K July 18, 2014
Company, as Issuer, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, 
and the Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee
4.6* Form of 4.500% Senior Note due 2029 (included in Exhibit 4.5 above) Form 8-K July 18, 2014
4.7* Indenture, dated as of November 17, 2015, among the Company, as Issuer,  Form 8-K November 17, 2015
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, and Wilmington Trust, 
National Association, as Trustee
4.8* Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of November 17, 2015, among the  Form 8-K November 17, 2015
Company, as Issuer, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, 
and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as Trustee
4.9* Form of 4.30% Senior Note due 2026 (included in Exhibit 4.8 above) Form 8-K November 17, 2015
4.10* Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of June 10, 2016, among the  Form 8-K June 10, 2016
Company, as Issuer, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, 
and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as Trustee
4.11* Form of 3.95% Senior Note due 2027 (included in Exhibit 4.10 above) Form 8-K June 10, 2016
4.12* Indenture, dated as of March 3, 2017, among the Company, as Issuer  Form 8-K March 3, 2017
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, and Branch Banking 
and Trust Company, as Trustee 
4.13* Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of March 3, 2017, among the  Form 8-K March 3, 2017
Company. as Issuer, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, 
and Branch Banking and Trust Company, as Trustee 
4.14* Form of 3.95% Senior Note due 2028 (included in Exhibit 4.13 above)  Form 8-K March 3, 2017
4.15* Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of November 20, 2017, among the  Form 8-K November 20, 2017
Company, as Issuer, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, 
and Branch Banking and Trust Company, as Trustee
4.16* Form of 3.45% Senior Note due 2025 (included in Exhibit 4.15 above) Form 8-K November 20, 2017
4.17* Supplemental Indenture No. 3, dated as of June 21, 2018, among the  Form 8-K June 21, 2018
Company, as Issuer, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, 
and Branch Banking and Trust Company, as Trustee
4.18* Supplemental Indenture No. 7, dated as of March 21, 2019, among the  Form 8-K March 21, 2019
Company, as Issuer, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, 
and Branch Banking and Trust Company, as Trustee
4.19* Form of 4.000% Senior Note Due 2024 (included in Exhibit 4.17 above) Form 8-K June 21, 2018
4.20* Supplemental Indenture No.4, dated as of June 21, 2018, among the  Form 8-K June 21, 2018
Company, as Issuer, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, 
and Branch Banking and Trust Company, as Trustee
4.21* Form of 4.700% Senior Note Due 2030 (included in Exhibit 4.20 above) Form 8-K June 21, 2018
4.22* Supplemental Indenture No. 5, dated as of March 21, 2019, among the  Form 8-K March 21, 2019
Company, as Issuer, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, 
and Branch Banking and Trust Company, as Trustee
4.23* Form of 3.800% Senior Note Due 2026 (included in Exhibit 4.22 above) Form 8-K March 21, 2019
4.24* Supplemental Indenture No. 6, dated as of March 21, 2019, among the  Form 8-K March 21, 2019
Company, as Issuer, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, 
and Branch Banking and Trust Company, as Trustee
4.25* Form of 4.850% Senior Note Due 2049 (included in Exhibit 4.24 above) Form 8-K March 21, 2019
4.26* Supplemental Indenture No. 8, dated as of July 15, 2019, among the  Form 8-K July 15, 2019
Company, as Issuer, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, 
and Branch Banking and Trust Company, as Trustee
4.27* Form of 3.375% Senior Note Due 2031 (included in Exhibit 4.26 above) Form 8-K July 15, 2019
124
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  124
Exhibit Incorporated by
Number Exhibit Title Reference to: Date Filed
4.28* Supplemental Indenture No. 9, dated as of July 15, 2019, among the  Form 8-K July 15, 2019
Company, as Issuer, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, 
and Branch Banking and Trust Company, as Trustee
4.29* Supplemental Indenture No. 11 dated as of September 12, 2019, among the  Form 8-K September 12, 2019
Company, as Issuer, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as Guarantor, 
and Branch Banking and Trust Company, as Trustee
4.30* Form of 4.000% Senior Note Due 2050 (included in Exhibit 4.28 above) Form 8-K July 15, 2019
4.31* Supplemental Indenture No. 10, dated as of September 12, 2019, among  Form 8-K September 12, 2019
the Company, as Issuer, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., as 
Guarantor, and Branch Banking and Trust Company, as Trustee
4.32* Form of 2.750% Senior Note Due 2029 (included in Exhibit 4.31 above) Form 8-K September 12, 2019
4.33 Description of Registrant’s Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12 of  Filed herewith
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
10.1* Sixth Amended And Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of September 28,  Form 10-Q October 30, 2018
2018, among the Company, as the Borrower, Alexandria Real Estate 
Equities, L.P., as a Guarantor, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative 
Agent, and the Other Lenders Party thereto, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & 
Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Citibank, N.A. and 
Goldman Sachs Bank USA, as Joint Lead Arrangers Merrill Lynch, Pierce, 
Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank, 
N.A., as Joint Bookrunners, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Citibank, N.A. 
and Goldman Sachs Bank USA, as Co-Syndication Agents, and The Bank 
of Nova Scotia, Barclays Bank PLC, Capital One, National Association, 
BBVA Compass, Mizuho Bank, Ltd., Regions Bank, Royal Bank of Canada, 
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, TD Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo Bank, 
National Association and U.S. Bank National Association, as Co-
Documentation Agents
10.2* Amended and Restated 1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan of the  Form 8-K May 23, 2018
Company, dated May 22, 2018
10.3* (1) Form of Non-Employee Director Stock Option Agreement for use in  Form S-11 May 5, 1997
connection with options issued pursuant to the Amended and Restated 
1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan
10.4* (1) Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement for use in connection with  Form S-11 May 5, 1997
options issued pursuant to the Amended and Restated 1997 Stock Award 
and Incentive Plan
10.5* (1) Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement for use in connection with  Form S-11 May 5, 1997
options issued pursuant to the Amended and Restated 1997 Stock Award 
and Incentive Plan
10.6* (1) Form of Employee Restricted Stock Agreement for use in connection with  Form 10-K January 30, 2018
shares of restricted stock issued to employees pursuant to the Amended 
and Restated 1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan
10.7* (1) Form of Employee Restricted Stock Agreement (U.S. Affiliate) for use in  Form 10-K January 30, 2018
connection with shares of restricted stock issued to employees pursuant to 
the Amended and Restated 1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan
10.8* (1) Form of Independent Director Restricted Stock Agreement for use in  Form 10-K January 30, 2018
connection with shares of restricted stock issued to directors pursuant to the 
Amended and Restated 1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan
10.9* (1) Form of Independent Contractor Restricted Stock Agreement for use in  Form 10-K January 30, 2018
connection with shares of restricted stock issued to independent contractors 
pursuant to the Amended and Restated 1997 Stock Award and Incentive 
Plan
10.10* (1) The Company’s 2000 Deferred Compensation Plan, amended and restated  Form 10-K March 1, 2011
effective as of January 1, 2010
10.11* (1) The Company’s 2000 Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors, amended  Form 10-K March 1, 2011
and restated effective as of January 1, 2010
125
125  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Exhibit Incorporated by
Number Exhibit Title Reference to: Date Filed
10.12* (1) Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement, effective as of  Form 8-K April 7, 2015
January 1, 2015, by and between the Company and Joel S. Marcus
10.13* (1) Letter Amendment to Amended and Restated Executive Employment  Form 8-K July 3, 2017
Agreement, dated July 3, 2017, by and between the Company and Joel S. 
Marcus
10.14* (1) Letter Amendment to Amended and Restated Executive Employment  Form 10-Q May 1, 2018
Agreement, entered into on March 20, 2018, by and between the Company 
and Joel S. Marcus
10.15* (1) Letter Amendment to Amended and Restate Executive Employment  Form 8-K January 18, 2019
Agreement, dated January 15, 2019, by and between the Company and 
Joel S. Marcus
10.16* (1) Fifth Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement between  Form 10-Q May 1, 2018
the Company and Stephen A. Richardson, entered into on March 20, 2018 
and effective as of April 23, 2018
10.17* (1) Third Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement between  Form 10-Q July 31, 2018
the Company and Peter M. Moglia, entered into on May 22, 2018 and 
effective as of May 22, 2018
10.18* (1) Fourth Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement between  Form 10-Q May 1, 2018
the Company and Dean A. Shigenaga, entered into on March 20, 2018 and 
effective as of April 23, 2018
10.19* (1) Fourth Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement between  Form 10-Q May 1, 2018
the Company and Thomas J. Andrews, entered into on March 20, 2018 and 
effective as of April 23, 2018
10.20* (1) Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement between the  Form 10-Q May 1, 2018
Company and Jennifer J. Banks, entered into on March 19, 2018 and 
effective as of April 23, 2018
10.21* (1) Executive Employment Agreement between the Company and Daniel J.  Form 10-Q July 31, 2018
Ryan, entered into on May 22, 2018 and effective as of May 22, 2018
10.22 (1) Summary of Director Compensation Arrangements Filed herewith
10.23* (1) Anniversary Bonus Plan of the Company Form 8-K June 17, 2010
10.24* (1) Amended and Restated Consulting Agreement, dated as of September 30,  Form 10-Q November 9, 2011
2011, between the Company and James H. Richardson
10.25* (1) Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each of its  Form 10-K March 1, 2011
directors and officers
14.1 The Company’s Business Integrity Policy and Procedures for Reporting  Filed herewith
Non-Compliance (code of ethics pursuant to Item 406 of Regulation S-K)
21.1 List of Subsidiaries of the Company Filed herewith
23.1 Consent of Ernst & Young LLP Filed herewith
31.1 Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the  Filed herewith
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
31.2 Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the  Filed herewith
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
31.3 Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the  Filed herewith
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
31.4 Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the  Filed herewith
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
32.0 Certification of Principal Executive Officers and Principal Financial Officer  Filed herewith
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of 
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
126
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  126
Exhibit Incorporated by
Number Exhibit Title Reference to: Date Filed
101.1 The following materials from the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for Filed herewith
the year ended December 31, 2019, formatted in iXBRL (Inline eXtensible
Business Reporting Language): (i) Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
December 31, 2019 and 2018, (ii) Consolidated Statements of Operations
for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, (iii) Consolidated
Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31,
2019, 2018, and 2017, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Changes in
Stockholders’ Equity and Noncontrolling Interests for the years ended
December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, (v) Consolidated Statements of Cash
Flows for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, (vi) Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements, and (vii) Schedule III - Consolidated
Financial Statement Schedule of Real Estate and Accumulated
Depreciation of the Company.
104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL
document)
(*) Incorporated by reference.
(1) Management contract or compensatory arrangement.
127
127  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
SIGNATURES
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this 
annual report on Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC. 
Dated: February 4, 2020 By: /s/ Joel S. Marcus
Joel S. Marcus
Executive Chairman
(Principal Executive Officer)
 /s/ Stephen A. Richardson
Stephen A. Richardson
Co-Chief Executive Officer
(Principal Executive Officer)
 /s/ Peter M. Moglia
Co-Chief Executive Officer and Co-Chief Investment Officer
(Principal Executive Officer)
S-1
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  S-1
KNOW ALL THOSE BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Joel 
S. Marcus, as his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and 
in his or her name, place, and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this annual report on Form 10-K, and 
to file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, if any, with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission, granting unto said attorney-in-fact and agent, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing 
requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and 
confirming all that said attorney-in-fact and agent of their substitute or substitutes may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this annual report on Form 10-K has been signed below 
by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Signature Title Date
/s/ Joel S. Marcus
Executive Chairman
Joel S. Marcus (Principal Executive Officer) February 4, 2020
/s/ Stephen A. Richardson
Co-Chief Executive Officer
Stephen A. Richardson (Principal Executive Officer) February 4, 2020
/s/ Peter M. Moglia
Co-Chief Executive Officer and Co-Chief Investment Officer 
Peter M. Moglia (Principal Executive Officer) February 4, 2020
/s/ Dean A. Shigenaga
Co-President and Chief Financial Officer
Dean A. Shigenaga (Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer) February 4, 2020
/s/ Steven R. Hash
Steven R. Hash Lead Director February 4, 2020
/s/ John L. Atkins, III
John L. Atkins, III Director February 4, 2020
/s/ James P. Cain
James P. Cain Director February 4, 2020
/s/ Maria C. Freire
Maria C. Freire Director February 4, 2020
/s/ Richard H. Klein
Richard H. Klein Director February 4, 2020
/s/ James H. Richardson
James H. Richardson Director February 4, 2020
/s/ Michael A. Woronoff
Michael A. Woronoff Director February 4, 2020
S-2
S-2  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. (the Company), as of 
December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders’ 
equity and noncontrolling interests and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, and the related 
notes and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15 (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at 
December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 
December 31, 2019, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), 
the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on criteria established in Internal Control - 
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our 
report dated February 4, 2020 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Adoption of New Accounting Standard
As discussed in Notes 2 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for leases in 
the year ended December 31, 2019 due to the adoption of ASU No. 2016-02, Leases.
As discussed in Notes 2 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for certain 
equity investments in the year ended December 31, 2018 due to the adoption of ASU No. 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of 
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
Basis for Opinion 
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to 
be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and 
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit 
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. 
Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to 
error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence 
regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used 
and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe 
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
F-1
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-1
Critical Audit Matter
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that was 
communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material 
to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical 
audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by 
communicating the critical audit matter below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures 
to which it relates.
Recognition of acquired real estate – Purchase price accounting
Description As more fully disclosed in Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements, during 2019, the Company 
of the Matter completed the acquisition of 47 properties for a total purchase price of $2.3 billion. The transactions were accounted 
for as asset acquisitions, and the purchase prices were allocated based on the relative fair values of the assets 
acquired (including land, buildings and improvements, and the intangible value of acquired above-market leases, 
acquired in-place leases, tenant relationships and other intangible assets) and liabilities assumed (including 
the intangible value of acquired below-market leases and other intangible liabilities). The fair value of tangible and 
intangible assets and liabilities is based on available comparable market information, including estimated replacement 
costs, rental rates, recent market transactions, and estimated cash flow projections that utilize appropriate discount 
and capitalization rates. Estimates of future cash flows are based on a number of factors, including the historical 
operating results, known and anticipated trends, and market or economic conditions, that may affect the property.
Auditing the Company’s estimate of the fair value of the acquired tangible and intangible assets and liabilities involves 
significant estimation uncertainty due to the judgment used by management in selecting key assumptions based on 
recent comparable transactions or market data, which are primarily unobservable inputs, and the sensitivity of the 
estimates to changes in assumptions. The allocation of purchase price to the components of properties acquired could 
have an effect on the Company’s net income due to the useful depreciable and amortizable lives applicable to each 
component and the recognition of the related depreciation or amortization expense in the Company’s consolidated 
statements of operations.
How we Our audit procedures related to the key assumptions utilized in the Company’s purchase price accounting for acquired 
Addressed real estate included the following procedures, among others:
the Matter in
Our Audit We tested the design and operating effectiveness of controls over the Company’s process for determining and 
reviewing the key inputs and assumptions used in estimating the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities and 
allocating purchase price to the various components.
We evaluated the incorporation of the key assumptions in the purchase price accounting model and recalculated the 
model’s results. To test the fair values of acquired tangible and intangible assets and liabilities used in the purchase 
price allocation, we performed procedures to evaluate the valuation methods and significant assumptions used by 
management. We evaluated the completeness and accuracy of the underlying data supporting the determination of 
the various inputs. Our internal valuation specialists assisted us in evaluating the methodology used by the Company 
and considered the consistency of the land and building values, estimated replacement costs, market rental rates, 
ground lease rates and discount rates with external data sources.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1994.
Los Angeles, California
February 4, 2020
F-2
F-2  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In thousands, except share and per share amounts)
December 31,
2019 2018
Assets
Investments in real estate $ 14,844,038 $ 11,913,693
Investments in unconsolidated real estate joint ventures 346,890 237,507
Cash and cash equivalents 189,681 234,181
Restricted cash 53,008 37,949
Tenant receivables 10,691 9,798
Deferred rent 641,844 530,237
Deferred leasing costs 270,043 239,070
Investments 1,140,594 892,264
Other assets 893,714 370,257
Total assets $ 18,390,503 $ 14,464,956
Liabilities, Noncontrolling Interests, and Equity
Secured notes payable $ 349,352 $ 630,547
Unsecured senior notes payable 6,044,127 4,292,293
Unsecured senior line of credit 384,000 208,000
Unsecured senior bank term loan — 347,415
Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities 1,320,268 981,707
Dividends payable 126,278 110,280
Total liabilities 8,224,025 6,570,242
Commitments and contingencies
Redeemable noncontrolling interests 12,300 10,786
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s stockholders’ equity:
7.00% Series D cumulative convertible preferred stock, $0.01 par value per share,
10,000,000 shares authorized; 0 and 2,573,432 shares issued and outstanding as
of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively; $25 liquidation value per share — 64,336
Common stock, $0.01 par value per share, 200,000,000 shares authorized as of
December 31, 2019 and 2018; 120,800,315 and 111,011,816 shares issued and
outstanding as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively 1,208 1,110
Additional paid-in capital 8,874,367 7,286,954
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (9,749) (10,435)
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s stockholders’ equity 8,865,826 7,341,965
Noncontrolling interests 1,288,352 541,963
Total equity 10,154,178 7,883,928
Total liabilities, noncontrolling interests, and equity $ 18,390,503 $ 14,464,956
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
F-3
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-3
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Operations
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
Revenues:
Income from rentals $ 1,516,864 $ 1,314,781 $ 1,122,325
Other income 14,432 12,678 5,772
Total revenues 1,531,296 1,327,459 1,128,097
Expenses:
Rental operations 445,492 381,120 325,609
General and administrative 108,823 90,405 75,009
Interest 173,675 157,495 128,645
Depreciation and amortization 544,612 477,661 416,783
Impairment of real estate 12,334 6,311 203
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 47,570 1,122 3,451
Total expenses 1,332,506 1,114,114 949,700
Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate joint ventures 10,136 43,981 15,426
Investment income 194,647 136,763 —
Gain on sales of real estate – rental properties 474 8,704 270
Gain on sales of real estate – land parcels — — 111
Net income 404,047 402,793 194,204
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (40,882) (23,481) (25,111)
Net income attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s stockholders 363,165 379,312 169,093
Dividends on preferred stock (3,204) (5,060) (7,666)
Preferred stock redemption charge (2,580) (4,240) (11,279)
Net income attributable to unvested restricted stock awards (6,386) (6,029) (4,753)
Net income attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common
stockholders $ 350,995 $ 363,983 $ 145,395
Net income per share attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s
common stockholders:
Basic $ 3.13 $ 3.53 $ 1.59
Diluted $ 3.12 $ 3.52 $ 1.58
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
F-4
F-4  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
(In thousands)
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
Net income $ 404,047 $ 402,793 $ 194,204
Other comprehensive income (loss)
Unrealized gains on available-for-sale equity securities:
Unrealized holding gains arising during the period — — 24,360
Reclassification adjustment for losses included in net income — — 6,118
Unrealized gains on available-for-sale equity securities, net — — 30,478
Unrealized (losses) gains on interest rate hedge agreements:
Unrealized interest rate hedge (losses) gains arising during the period (1,763) 1,622 2,837
Reclassification adjustment for amortization to interest expense included in
net income (1,777) (4,941) 1,915
Reclassification of losses related to terminated interest rate hedge
instruments to interest expense included in net income 1,702 — —
Unrealized (losses) gains on interest rate hedge agreements, net (1,838) (3,319) 4,752
Unrealized gains (losses) on foreign currency translation:
Unrealized foreign currency translation gains (losses) arising during the
period 2,524 (7,369) 7,774
Reclassification adjustment for cumulative foreign currency translation
losses included in net income (loss) upon sale or liquidation — — 1,599
Unrealized gains (losses) on foreign currency translation, net 2,524 (7,369) 9,373
Total other comprehensive income (loss) 686 (10,688) 44,603
Comprehensive income 404,733 392,105 238,807
Less: comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests (40,882) (23,481) (25,045)
Comprehensive income attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s
stockholders $ 363,851 $ 368,624 $ 213,762
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
F-5
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-5
RedeemableNoncontrollingInterests $11,3071,058——(856) — ———— — — —11,509863— — (1,597)(846) 857 ——— — — —$10,786
1631)5) 5 794)0) 5) 6) —008) 0 —0) 8 086) 4) 0) —8
74040 2 9935 8 6 638 5 1 1 477 1 6 2
TotalEquity 5,370,9193,144,6(5(21,5 52,6 1,275,342,3(17,9(130,3 (329,4 (7,6 6,471,6401,9(10,6 90,7 (29,8 27,4 1,304,645,9(13,9 (398,9 (5,0 7,883,9
$ $
g 536)1)5) 8 ———— — — —48— — —0) 1 ——— — — —3
n 75640 7 91 1 6 6
ontrollierests 475,124,0((5(21,5 44,8 521,922,6 (29,8 27,1 541,9
oncInt
N $ $
s e  5—9—— — ———— — — —4—8) 1) —— — ——— — — —5)
ng Interest AccumulatedOtheromprehensivIncome 5,35 44,66 50,02 (10,68 (49,77 (10,43
olli C $ $
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.atements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity and Noncontr(Dollars in thousands) Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s Stockholders’ Equity 6.45%Series ECumulativeNumber ofAdditionalRedeemableCommonPaid-In PreferredCommonRetainedStockSharesStockCapitalEarnings 87,665,8804,672,650$130,000$877$$—169,093——————————————————— 7,747———— 11,694,1011,275,280—117—42,395—423,7054—391(5,797———)(130,0005,132(5,482)——) (329,485————) (7,666————) (179,337179,337———)99,783,6865,824,258—998—379,312————————— 140,521———— —————————— 257———— 10,915,1201,304,531—109—45,975—313,0103—314(4,240———) (398,914————) (5,060————) 111,619(111,619———)111,011,8167,286,954$—$1,110$$— F-6
solidated St 7.00%Series DCumulativeConvertiblePreferredStock 86,914$———— — ——(12,528)— — — —74,386—— — —— — ——(10,050) — — —64,336$
n
o
C alon ngs
Balance as of December 31, 2016Net incomeTotal other comprehensive income (loss)Redemption of noncontrolling interestsDistributions to noncontrolling interestsContributions from and sales of noncontrollinginterestsIssuance of common stockIssuance pursuant to stock planRepurchases of 7.00% Series D preferred stockRedemption of 6.45% Series E preferred stockDividends declared on common stock ($3.45 pershare) Dividends declared on preferred stock ($1.75 pershare of Series D and $0.403125 per share ofSeries E) Distributions in excess of earningsBalance as of December 31, 2017Net incomeTotal other comprehensive lossReclassification of net unrealized gains on non-reestate investments upon adoption of new ASU financial instruments on January 1, 2018 Redemption of noncontrolling interestsDistributions to noncontrolling interestsContributions from and sales of noncontrollinginterestsIssuance of common stockIssuance pursuant to stock planRepurchases of 7.00% Series D preferred stockDividends declared on common stock ($3.73 pershare) Dividends declared on preferred stock ($1.75 pershare) Reclassification of distributions in excess of earniBalance as of December 31, 2018
F-6  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
RedeemableNoncontrollingInterests $10,786 875 — (830) 1,469 — — — — — — — — — $12,300
8 2 6 5) 9 5 3 7) 0) 0) 4) 4) 5) — 8
2 7 8 9 3 4 1 7 4 0 6 0 2 7
TotalEquity 7,883,9 403,1 6 (47,3 1,134,9 1,216,4 67,9 (25,4 (9,2 (1 (463,9 (3,2 (3,5 0,154,1
1
$ $
ontrollingerests 541,963 40,007 — (47,395) 753,777 — — — — — — — — — 1,288,352
ed) oncInt
nu N $ $
controlling Interests (conti kholders’ Equity AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveRetainedEarningsIncome (Loss) $—$(10,435) 363,165— 686— —— —— —— —— —— (2,580)— —— (463,964)— (3,204)— (3,525)— 110,108— (9,749$—$) ed financial statements.
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.nts of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity and Non(Dollars in thousands) Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s Stoc 7.00%Series DCumulativeNumber ofAdditionalConvertibleCommonPaid-In PreferredCommonStockSharesStockCapital 64,336111,011,8161,1107,286,954$$$ ———— ———— ———— 381,162——— 8,723,0761,216,358—87 67,906—666,8367 (179,008—)(2)(25,475) 215(6,875)—— 57,355(57,461)577,5956 ———— ———— ———— (110,108———) 120,800,3151,2088,874,367$—$$ anying notes are an integral part of these consolidat F-7
e p
m m
e o
Consolidated Stat Balance as of December 31, 2018 Net income Total other comprehensive income Distributions to noncontrolling interests Contributions from and sales of noncontrolling interests Issuance of common stock Issuance pursuant to stock plan Taxes paid related to net settlement of equity awards Repurchases of 7.00% Series D preferred stock Conversion of 7.00% Series D preferred stock Dividends declared on common stock ($4.00 per share) Dividends declared on preferred stock ($1.3125 per share) Cumulative effect of adjustment upon adoption of new ASU onlease accounting on January 1, 2019 Reclassification of distributions in excess of earnings Balance as of December 31, 2019 The acc
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-7
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In thousands)
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
Operating Activities
Net income $ 404,047 $ 402,793 $ 194,204
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization 544,612 477,661 416,783
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 47,570 1,122 3,451
Impairment of real estate 12,334 6,311 203
Gain on sales of real estate – rental properties (474) (8,704) (270)
Gain on sales of real estate – land parcels — — (111)
Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (10,136) (43,981) (15,426)
Distributions of earnings from unconsolidated real estate joint ventures 2,796 430 1,618
Amortization of loan fees 9,105 10,271 11,149
Amortization of debt premiums (3,777) (2,406) (2,512)
Amortization of acquired below-market leases (29,813) (21,938) (19,055)
Deferred rent (104,235) (93,883) (107,643)
Stock compensation expense 43,640 35,019 25,610
Investment income (194,647) (136,763) (1,329)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Tenant receivables (897) 435 (502)
Deferred leasing costs (54,455) (57,088) (62,639)
Other assets (20,825) (20,849) (18,222)
Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities 39,012 21,909 25,573
Net cash provided by operating activities 683,857 570,339 450,882
Investing Activities
Proceeds from sales of real estate 6,619 20,190 15,432
Additions to real estate (1,224,541) (927,168) (893,685)
Purchases of real estate (2,259,778) (1,037,180) (675,584)
Deposits for investing activities (18,107) (2,000) (2,300)
Acquisitions of interest in unconsolidated real estate joint ventures — (35,922) (60,291)
Investments in unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (102,081) (116,008) (17,876)
Return of capital from unconsolidated real estate joint ventures 14 68,592 38,576
Additions to non-real estate investments (190,778) (235,943) (171,881)
Sales of non-real estate investments 147,332 103,679 30,483
Net cash used in investing activities $ (3,641,320) $ (2,161,760) $ (1,737,126)
F-8
F-8  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In thousands)
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
Financing Activities
Borrowings from secured notes payable $ — $ 17,784 $ 153,405
Repayments of borrowings from secured notes payable (306,199) (156,888) (396,240)
Proceeds from issuance of unsecured senior notes payable 2,721,169 899,321 1,023,262
Repayments of unsecured senior notes payable (950,000) — —
Borrowings from unsecured senior line of credit 5,056,000 4,741,000 3,858,000
Repayments of borrowings from unsecured senior line of credit (4,880,000) (4,583,000) (3,836,000)
Proceeds from issuance of commercial paper program 2,233,000 — —
Repayments of borrowings from commercial paper program (2,233,000) — —
Repayments of borrowings from unsecured senior bank term loan (350,000) (200,000) (200,000)
Premium paid for early extinguishment of debt (41,351) — —
Payments of loan fees (27,182) (19,292) (10,019)
Taxes paid related to net settlement of equity awards (25,477) — —
Repurchases of 7.00% Series D cumulative convertible preferred stock (9,240) (13,976) (17,934)
Redemption of 6.45% Series E cumulative redeemable preferred stock — — (130,350)
Proceeds from issuance of common stock 1,216,445 1,293,301 1,275,397
Dividends on common stock (447,029) (380,632) (312,131)
Dividends on preferred stock (4,141) (5,207) (9,619)
Contributions from and sales of noncontrolling interests 1,022,712 28,275 44,931
Distributions to and purchases of noncontrolling interests (48,225) (32,253) (22,361)
Net cash provided by financing activities 2,927,482 1,588,433 1,420,341
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 540 (2,068) 1,723
Net (decrease) increase in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash (29,441) (5,056) 135,820
Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash as of the beginning of period 272,130 277,186 141,366
Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash as of the end of period $ 242,689 $ 272,130 $ 277,186
Supplemental Disclosure and Non-Cash Investing and Financing Activities:
Cash paid during the period for interest, net of interest capitalized $ 146,165 $ 127,093 $ 112,113
Change in accrued construction $ (24) $ 81,177 $ (11,034)
Accrued construction for current-period additions to real estate $ 220,773 $ 244,147 $ 179,154
Assumption of secured notes payable in connection with purchase of properties $ (28,200) $ — $ —
Right-of-use asset $ 269,189 $ — $ —
Lease liability $ (275,175) $ — $ —
Payable for purchase of real estate $ — $ (65,000) $ —
Contribution of real estate to an unconsolidated real estate joint venture $ — $ — $ 6,998
Contribution of real estate from noncontrolling interests $ 115,167 $ — $ 8,597
Issuance of common stock for conversion of 7.00% Series D preferred stock $ 57,461 $ — $ —
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
F-9
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-9
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
1.  Organization and basis of presentation
  Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. (NYSE:ARE), an S&P 500® urban office REIT, is the first and longest-tenured owner, 
operator, and developer uniquely focused on collaborative life science, technology, and agtech campuses in AAA innovation cluster 
locations. As used in this annual report on Form 10-K, references to the “Company,” “Alexandria,” “ARE,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to 
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the 
accounts of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and 
transactions have been eliminated. Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation. 
Refer to the “Lease Accounting” section in Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial 
statements.
  Any references to our market capitalization, number or quality of buildings or tenants, quality of location, square footage, 
number of leases, or occupancy percentage, and any amounts derived from these values in these notes to consolidated financial 
statements are unaudited.
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies
Consolidation
On an ongoing basis, as circumstances indicate the need for reconsideration, we evaluate each legal entity that is not wholly 
owned by us in accordance with the consolidation guidance. Our evaluation considers all of our variable interests, including equity 
ownership, as well as fees paid to us for our involvement in the management of each partially owned entity. To fall within the scope of 
the consolidation guidance, an entity must meet both of the following criteria:
•  The entity has a legal structure that has been established to conduct business activities and to hold assets; such entity can 
be in the form of a partnership, limited liability company, or corporation, among others; and
•  We have a variable interest in the legal entity – i.e., variable interests that are contractual, such as equity ownership, or 
other financial interests that change with changes in the fair value of the entity’s net assets.
If an entity does not meet both criteria above, we apply other accounting literature, such as the cost or equity method of 
accounting. If an entity does meet both criteria above, we evaluate such entity for consolidation under either the variable interest model 
if the legal entity meets any of the following characteristics to qualify as a VIE, or under the voting model for all other legal entities that 
are not VIEs.
A legal entity is determined to be a VIE if it has any of the following three characteristics:
1) The entity does not have sufficient equity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support;
2) The entity is established with non-substantive voting rights (i.e., the entity deprives the majority economic interest holder(s) 
of voting rights); or
3) The equity holders, as a group, lack the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. Equity holders meet this criterion if 
they lack any of the following:
•  The power, through voting rights or similar rights, to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly influence the 
entity’s economic performance, as evidenced by:
•  Substantive participating rights in day-to-day management of the entity’s activities; or
•  Substantive kick-out rights over the party responsible for significant decisions;
•  The obligation to absorb the entity’s expected losses; or
•  The right to receive the entity’s expected residual returns.
  Our real estate joint ventures consist of limited partnerships or limited liability companies. For an entity structured as a limited 
partnership or a limited liability company, our evaluation of whether the equity holders (equity partners other than the general partner or 
the managing member of a joint venture) lack the characteristics of a controlling financial interest includes the evaluation of whether the 
limited partners or non-managing members (the noncontrolling equity holders) lack both substantive participating rights and substantive 
kick-out rights, defined as follows:
•  Participating rights provide the noncontrolling equity holders the ability to direct significant financial and operating decisions 
made in the ordinary course of business that most significantly influence the entity’s economic performance.
•  Kick-out rights allow the noncontrolling equity holders to remove the general partner or managing member without cause.
F-10
F-10  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
If we conclude that any of the three characteristics of a VIE are met, including that the equity holders lack the characteristics of 
a controlling financial interest because they lack both substantive participating rights and substantive kick-out rights, we conclude that 
the entity is a VIE and evaluate it for consolidation under the variable interest model.
Variable interest model
If an entity is determined to be a VIE, we evaluate whether we are the primary beneficiary. The primary beneficiary analysis is 
a qualitative analysis based on power and benefits. We consolidate a VIE if we have both power and benefits – that is, (i) we have the 
power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly influence the VIE’s economic performance (power), and (ii) we have the 
obligation to absorb losses of or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE (benefits). We 
consolidate VIEs whenever we determine that we are the primary beneficiary. Refer to Note 4 – “Consolidated and Unconsolidated Real 
Estate Joint Ventures” to our consolidated financial statements for information on specific joint ventures that qualify as VIEs. If we have 
a variable interest in a VIE but are not the primary beneficiary, we account for our investment using the equity method of accounting.
Voting model
If a legal entity fails to meet any of the three characteristics of a VIE (i.e., insufficiency of equity, existence of non-substantive 
voting rights, or lack of a controlling financial interest), we then evaluate such entity under the voting model. Under the voting model, we 
consolidate the entity if we determine that we, directly or indirectly, have greater than 50% of the voting shares and that other equity 
holders do not have substantive participating rights. Refer to Note 4 – “Consolidated and Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures” to 
our consolidated financial statements for further information on our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures that qualify for evaluation 
under the voting model.
Use of estimates
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and equity; the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the 
consolidated financial statements; and the amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could 
materially differ from those estimates.
Reportable segment
We are engaged in the business of providing space for lease to the life science, technology, and agtech industries. Our 
properties are similar in that they provide space for lease to the aforementioned industries, consist of improvements that are generic 
and reusable, are primarily located in AAA urban innovation cluster locations, and have similar economic characteristics. Our chief 
operating decision makers review financial information for our entire consolidated operations when making decisions related to 
assessing our operating performance, and review financial information for our individual properties when determining how to allocate 
resources related to capital expenditures. We have aggregated the properties into one reportable segment as the properties share 
similar long-term economic characteristics and have other similarities, including the fact that they are operated using consistent 
business strategies, are typically located in major metropolitan areas, and have similar tenant mixes. The financial information disclosed 
herein represents all of the financial information related to our one reportable segment.
Investments in real estate
Evaluation of business combination or asset acquisition
  We evaluate each acquisition of real estate or in-substance real estate (including equity interests in entities that predominantly 
hold real estate assets) to determine whether the integrated set of assets and activities acquired meets the definition of a business and 
needs to be accounted for as a business combination. An acquisition of an integrated set of assets and activities that does not meet the 
definition of a business is accounted for as an asset acquisition. If either of the following criteria is met, the integrated set of assets and 
activities acquired would not qualify as a business:
•  Substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in either a single identifiable asset or a 
group of similar identifiable assets; or
•  The integrated set of assets and activities is lacking, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together 
significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs (i.e., revenue generated before and after the transaction).
An acquired process is considered substantive if:
•  The process includes an organized workforce (or includes an acquired contract that provides access to an organized 
workforce) that is skilled, knowledgeable, and experienced in performing the process;
•  The process cannot be replaced without significant cost, effort, or delay; or
•  The process is considered unique or scarce.
F-11
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-11
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Generally, our acquisitions of real estate or in-substance real estate do not meet the definition of a business because 
substantially all of the fair value is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets (i.e., land, buildings, 
and related intangible assets) or because the acquisition does not include a substantive process in the form of an acquired workforce or 
an acquired contract that cannot be replaced without significant cost, effort, or delay. When evaluating acquired service or management 
contracts, we consider the nature of the services performed, the terms of the contract relative to similar arm’s-length contracts, and the 
availability of comparable vendors in evaluating whether the acquired contract constitutes a substantive process.
Recognition of real estate acquired
  We evaluate each acquisition of real estate or in-substance real estate (including equity interests in entities that predominantly 
hold real estate assets) to determine whether the integrated set of assets and activities acquired meets the definition of a business and 
needs to be accounted for as a business combination. An acquisition of an integrated set of assets and activities that does not meet the 
definition of a business is accounted for as an asset acquisition.
  For acquisitions of real estate or in-substance real estate that are accounted for as business combinations, we allocate the 
acquisition consideration (excluding acquisition costs) to the assets acquired, liabilities assumed, noncontrolling interests, and 
previously existing ownership interests at fair value as of the acquisition date. Assets include intangible assets such as tenant 
relationships, acquired in-place leases, and favorable intangibles associated with in-place leases in which we are the lessor. Liabilities 
include unfavorable intangibles associated with in-place leases in which we are the lessor. In addition, for acquired in-place finance or 
operating leases in which we are the lessee, acquisition consideration is allocated to lease liabilities and related right-of-use assets, 
adjusted to reflect favorable or unfavorable terms of the lease when compared with market terms. Any excess (deficit) of the 
consideration transferred relative to the fair value of the net assets acquired is accounted for as goodwill (bargain purchase gain). 
Acquisition costs related to business combinations are expensed as incurred.
  Generally, we expect that acquisitions of real estate or in-substance real estate will not meet the definition of a business 
because substantially all of the fair value is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets (i.e., land, 
buildings, and related intangible assets). The accounting model for asset acquisitions is similar to the accounting model for business 
combinations, except that the acquisition consideration (including acquisition costs) is allocated to the individual assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed on a relative fair value basis. Any excess (deficit) of the consideration transferred relative to the sum of the fair value 
of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is allocated to the individual assets and liabilities based on their relative fair values. As a 
result, asset acquisitions do not result in the recognition of goodwill or a bargain purchase gain. Incremental and external direct 
acquisition costs (such as legal and third-party services) are capitalized.
We exercise judgment to determine the key assumptions used to allocate the purchase price of real estate acquired among its 
components. The allocation of the consideration to the various components of properties acquired during the year can have an effect on 
our net income due to the useful depreciable and amortizable lives applicable to each component and the recognition of the related 
depreciation and amortization expense in our consolidated statements of operations. We apply judgment in utilizing available 
comparable market information to assess relative fair value. We assess the relative fair values of tangible and intangible assets and 
liabilities based on available comparable market information, including estimated replacement costs, rental rates, and recent market 
transactions. In addition, we may use estimated cash flow projections that utilize appropriate discount and capitalization rates. 
Estimates of future cash flows are based on a number of factors, including the historical operating results, known and anticipated 
trends, and market/economic conditions that may affect the property.
The value of tangible assets acquired is based upon our estimation of fair value on an “as if vacant” basis. The value of 
acquired in-place leases includes the estimated costs during the hypothetical lease-up period and other costs that would have been 
incurred in the execution of similar leases under the market conditions at the acquisition date of the acquired in-place lease. If there is a 
bargain fixed-rate renewal option for the period beyond the non-cancelable lease term of an in-place lease, we evaluate intangible 
factors such as the business conditions in the industry in which the lessee operates, the economic conditions in the area in which the 
property is located, and the ability of the lessee to sublease the property during the renewal term, in order to determine the likelihood 
that the lessee will renew. When we determine there is reasonable assurance that such bargain purchase option will be exercised, we 
consider the option in determining the intangible value of such lease and its related amortization period. We also recognize the relative 
fair values of assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in acquisitions of less than a 100% interest when 
the acquisition constitutes a change in control of the acquired entity.
F-12
F-12  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
The values allocated to buildings and building improvements, land improvements, tenant improvements, and equipment are 
depreciated on a straight-line basis using the shorter of the respective ground lease term, estimated useful life, or up to 40 years, for 
buildings and building improvements, an estimated life, or up to 20 years, for land improvements; the respective lease term or 
estimated useful life for tenant improvements; and the shorter of the lease term or estimated useful life for equipment. The values of 
acquired in-place leases and associated favorable intangibles (i.e., acquired above-market leases) are classified in other assets in the 
accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are amortized over the remaining terms of the related leases, as a reduction of income 
from rentals in our consolidated statements of operations. The values of unfavorable intangibles (i.e., acquired below-market leases) 
associated with acquired in-place leases are classified in accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities in our consolidated 
balance sheets and are amortized over the remaining terms of the related leases, as an increase in income from rentals in our 
consolidated statements of operations.
Capitalized project costs
We capitalize project costs, including pre-construction costs, interest, property taxes, insurance, and other costs directly 
related and essential to the development, redevelopment, pre-construction, or construction of a project. Capitalization of development, 
redevelopment, pre-construction, and construction costs is required while activities are ongoing to prepare an asset for its intended use. 
Fluctuations in our development, redevelopment, pre-construction, and construction activities could result in significant changes to total 
expenses and net income. Costs incurred after a project is substantially complete and ready for its intended use are expensed as 
incurred. Should development, redevelopment, pre-construction, or construction activity cease, interest, property taxes, insurance, and 
certain other costs would no longer be eligible for capitalization and would be expensed as incurred. Expenditures for repairs and 
maintenance are expensed as incurred.
Real estate sales
A property is classified as held for sale when all of the following criteria for a plan of sale have been met: (i) management, 
having the authority to approve the action, commits to a plan to sell the property; (ii) the property is available for immediate sale in its 
present condition, subject only to terms that are usual and customary; (iii) an active program to locate a buyer and other actions 
required to complete the plan to sell have been initiated; (iv) the sale of the property is probable and is expected to be completed within 
one year; (v) the property is being actively marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value; and 
(vi) actions necessary to complete the plan of sale indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the 
plan will be withdrawn. Depreciation of assets ceases upon designation of a property as held for sale.
  If the disposal of a property represents a strategic shift that has (or will have) a major effect on our operations or financial 
results, such as (i) a major line of business, (ii) a major geographic area, (iii) a major equity method investment, or (iv) other major parts 
of an entity, then the operations of the property, including any interest expense directly attributable to it, are classified as discontinued 
operations in our consolidated statements of operations, and amounts for all prior periods presented are reclassified from continuing 
operations to discontinued operations. The disposal of an individual property generally will not represent a strategic shift and therefore 
will typically not meet the criteria for classification as a discontinued operation.
  We recognize gains/losses on real estate sales in accordance with the accounting standard on the derecognition of 
nonfinancial assets arising from contracts with noncustomers. Our ordinary output activities consist of the leasing of space to our 
tenants in our operating properties, not the sales of real estate. Therefore, sales of real estate (in which we are the seller) qualify as 
contracts with noncustomers. In our transactions with noncustomers, we apply certain recognition and measurement principles 
consistent with our method of recognizing revenue arising from contracts with customers. Derecognition of the asset is based on the 
transfer of control. If a real estate sales contract includes our ongoing involvement with the property, then we evaluate each promised 
good or service under the contract to determine whether it represents a separate performance obligation, constitutes a guarantee, or 
prevents the transfer of control. If a good or service is considered a separate performance obligation, an allocated portion of the 
transaction price is recognized as revenue as we transfer the related good or service to the buyer.
  The recognition of gain or loss on the sale of a partial interest also depends on whether we retain a controlling or 
noncontrolling interest. If we retain a controlling interest upon completion of the sale, we continue to reflect the asset at its book value, 
record a noncontrolling interest for the book value of the partial interest sold, and recognize additional paid-in capital for the difference 
between the consideration received and the partial interest at book value. Conversely, if we retain a noncontrolling interest upon 
completion of the partial sale of real estate, we would recognize a gain or loss as if 100% of the real estate were sold.
Impairment of long-lived assets
Prior to and subsequent to the end of each quarter, we review current activities and changes in the business conditions of all 
of our long-lived assets to determine the existence of any triggering events or impairment indicators requiring an impairment analysis. If 
triggering events or impairment indicators are identified, we review an estimate of the future undiscounted cash flows, including, if 
necessary, a probability-weighted approach if multiple outcomes are under consideration.
F-13
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-13
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Long-lived assets to be held and used, including our rental properties, CIP, land held for development, right-of-use assets 
related to operating leases in which we are the lessee, and intangibles, are individually evaluated for impairment when conditions exist 
that may indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset may not be recoverable. The carrying amount of a long-lived asset to be 
held and used is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual 
disposition of the asset. Triggering events or impairment indicators for long-lived assets to be held and used are assessed by project 
and include significant fluctuations in estimated net operating income, occupancy changes, significant near-term lease expirations, 
current and historical operating and/or cash flow losses, construction costs, estimated completion dates, rental rates, and other market 
factors. We assess the expected undiscounted cash flows based upon numerous factors, including, but not limited to, construction 
costs, available market information, current and historical operating results, known trends, current market/economic conditions that may 
affect the asset, and our assumptions about the use of the asset, including, if necessary, a probability-weighted approach if multiple 
outcomes are under consideration. 
Upon determination that an impairment has occurred, a write-down is recognized to reduce the carrying amount to its 
estimated fair value. If an impairment loss is not required to be recognized, the recognition of depreciation or amortization is adjusted 
prospectively, as necessary, to reduce the carrying amount of the real estate to its estimated disposition value over the remaining period 
that the asset is expected to be held and used. We may adjust depreciation of properties that are expected to be disposed of or 
redeveloped prior to the end of their useful lives.
We use the held for sale impairment model for our properties classified as held for sale. The held for sale impairment model is 
different from the held and used impairment model. Under the held for sale impairment model, an impairment loss is recognized if the 
carrying amount of the long-lived asset classified as held for sale exceeds its fair value less cost to sell. Because of these two different 
models, it is possible for a long-lived asset previously classified as held and used to require the recognition of an impairment charge 
upon classification as held for sale.
International operations
In addition to operating properties in the U.S., we have three operating properties in Canada and one operating property in 
China. The functional currency for our subsidiaries operating in the U.S. is the U.S. dollar. The functional currencies for our foreign 
subsidiaries are the local currencies in each respective country. The assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into 
U.S. dollars at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. Revenue and expense accounts of our foreign subsidiaries 
are translated using the weighted-average exchange rate for the periods presented. Gains or losses resulting from the translation are 
classified in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of total equity and are excluded from net income.
Whenever a foreign investment meets the criteria for classification as held for sale, we evaluate the recoverability of the 
investment under the held for sale impairment model. We may recognize an impairment charge if the carrying amount of the investment 
exceeds its fair value less cost to sell. In determining an investment’s carrying amount, we consider its net book value and any 
cumulative unrealized foreign currency translation adjustment related to the investment.
The appropriate amounts of foreign exchange rate gains or losses classified in accumulated other comprehensive income are 
reclassified to net income when realized upon the sale of our investment or upon the complete or substantially complete liquidation of 
our investment.
Investments
We hold investments in publicly traded companies and privately held entities primarily involved in the life science, technology, 
and agtech industries. As a REIT, we generally limit our ownership percentage in the voting stock of each individual entity to less than 
10%.
  Our equity investments (except those accounted for under the equity method and those that result in consolidation of the 
investee) are measured as follows:
•  Investments in publicly traded companies are classified as investments with readily determinable fair values. These 
investments are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in net income. The fair values for our 
investments in publicly traded companies are determined based on sales prices/quotes available on securities exchanges.
•  Investments in privately held entities without readily determinable fair values fall into two categories:
•  Investments in privately held entities that report NAV per share, such as our privately held investments in limited 
partnerships, are carried at fair value using NAV as a practical expedient, with changes in fair value recognized in net 
income. We use NAV per share reported by limited partnerships generally without adjustment, unless we are aware of 
information indicating that the NAV per share reported by a limited partnership does not accurately reflect the fair 
value of the investment at our reporting date. We disclose the timing of liquidation of an investee’s assets and the 
date when redemption restrictions will lapse (or indicate if this timing is unknown) if the investee has communicated 
this information to us or has announced it publicly.
F-14
F-14  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
•  Investments in privately held entities that do not report NAV per share are accounted for using a measurement 
alternative under which these investments are measured at cost, adjusted for observable price changes and 
impairments, with changes recognized in net income.
  For investments in privately held entities that do not report NAV per share, an observable price is a price observed in an 
orderly transaction for an identical or similar investment of the same issuer. Observable price changes result from, among other things, 
equity transactions for the same issuer executed during the reporting period, including subsequent equity offerings or other reported 
equity transactions related to the same issuer. For these transactions to be considered observable price changes of the same issuer, 
we evaluate whether these transactions have similar rights and obligations, including voting rights, distribution preferences, conversion 
rights, and other factors, to the investments we hold.
  We monitor investments in privately held entities that do not report NAV per share throughout the year for new developments, 
including operating results, prospects and results of clinical trials, new product initiatives, new collaborative agreements, capital-raising 
events, and merger and acquisition activities. These investments are evaluated on the basis of a qualitative assessment for indicators 
of impairment by monitoring the presence of the following triggering events or impairment indicators: (i) a significant deterioration in the 
earnings performance, asset quality, or business prospects of the investee; (ii) a significant adverse change in the regulatory, economic, 
or technological environment of the investee, (iii) a significant adverse change in the general market condition, including the research 
and development of technology and products that the investee is bringing or attempting to bring to the market, or (iv) significant 
concerns about the investee’s ability to continue as a going concern. If such indicators are present, we are required to estimate the 
investment’s fair value and immediately recognize an impairment loss in an amount equal to the investment’s carrying value in excess 
of its estimated fair value.
  Investments in privately held entities are accounted for under the equity method, unless our interest in the entity is deemed to 
be so minor that we have virtually no influence over the entity’s operating and financial policies. Under the equity method of accounting, 
we initially recognize our investment at cost and adjust the carrying amount of the investment to recognize our share of the earnings or 
losses of the investee subsequent to the date of our investment. We had no investments accounted for under the equity method as of 
December 31, 2019.
  We recognize both realized and unrealized gains and losses in our consolidated statements of operations, classified within 
investment income. Unrealized gains and losses represent changes in fair value for investments in publicly traded companies, changes 
in NAV, as a practical expedient to estimate fair value, for investments in privately held entities that report NAV per share, and 
observable price changes on our investments in privately held entities that do not report NAV per share. Impairments are realized 
losses, which result in an adjusted cost, and represent charges to reduce the carrying values of investments in privately held entities 
that do not report NAV per share to their estimated fair value. Realized gains and losses represent the difference between proceeds 
received upon disposition of investments and their historical or adjusted cost.
Revenues
  The table below provides detail of our consolidated total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019 (in thousands):
Year Ended
December 31, 2019
Income from rentals:
Revenues subject to the new lease accounting standard:
Operating leases $ 1,465,692
Direct financing lease 2,421
Revenues subject to the new lease accounting standard 1,468,113
Revenues subject to the revenue recognition accounting standard 48,751
Income from rentals 1,516,864
Other income 14,432
Total revenues $ 1,531,296
  During the year ended December 31, 2019, revenues that were subject to the new lease accounting standard aggregated $1.5 
billion and represented 95.9% of our total revenues. 
  During the year ended December 31, 2019, our total revenues also included $63.2 million, or 4.1%, subject to other 
accounting guidance. For a detailed discussion related to our revenue streams, refer to the “Lease Accounting” and “Recognition of 
Revenue Arising From Contracts With Customers” sections within this Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.
F-15
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-15
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Lease accounting
Transition
On January 1, 2019, we adopted a new lease accounting standard that sets out the principles for the recognition, 
measurement, presentation, and disclosure of leases for both parties to a lease agreement (i.e., lessees and lessors). The new lease 
accounting standard requires the use of the modified retrospective transition method. Upon adoption of the new lease accounting 
standard, we elected the following practical expedients and accounting policies provided by this lease standard:
•  Package of practical expedients – requires us not to reevaluate our existing or expired leases as of January 1, 2019, 
under the new lease accounting standard.
•  Optional transition method practical expedient – requires us to apply the new lease accounting standard prospectively 
from the adoption date of January 1, 2019.
•  Single component accounting policy – requires us to account for lease and nonlease components within a lease under the 
new lease accounting standard if certain criteria are met.
•  Land easements practical expedient – requires us to continue to account for land easements existing as of January 1, 
2019, under the accounting standards applied to them prior to January 1, 2019.
•  Short-term lease accounting policy – requires us not to record the related lease liabilities and right-of-use assets for 
operating leases in which we are the lessee with a term of 12 months or less.
Upon adoption of the new lease accounting standard, we elected the package of practical expedients and the optional 
transition method, which permitted January 1, 2019, to be our initial application date. Our election of the package of practical 
expedients and the optional transition method allowed us not to reassess: 
•  Whether any contracts effective prior to January 1, 2019, are leases or contain leases. This practical expedient is 
primarily applicable to entities that have contracts containing embedded leases. As of December 31, 2018, we had no 
such contracts; therefore, this practical expedient had no effect on us. 
•  The lease classification for any leases that commenced prior to January 1, 2019. Our election of the package of 
practical expedients requires us not to revisit the classification of our leases that commenced prior to January 1, 2019. For 
example, all of our leases that were classified as operating leases in accordance with the lease accounting standards in 
effect prior to January 1, 2019, continue to be classified as operating leases after adoption of the new lease accounting 
standard. 
•  Previously capitalized initial direct costs for any leases that commenced prior to January 1, 2019. Our election of 
the package of practical expedients and the optional transition method requires us not to reassess whether initial direct 
leasing costs capitalized prior to the adoption of the new lease accounting standard in connection with the leases that 
commenced prior to January 1, 2019, qualify for capitalization under the new lease accounting standard.
We applied the package of practical expedients consistently to all leases (i.e., in which we are the lessee or the lessor) that 
commenced before January 1, 2019. The election of this package permits us to “run off” our leases that commenced before January 1, 
2019, for the remainder of their lease terms and to apply the new lease accounting standard to leases commencing or modified after 
January 1, 2019.
  For our leases that commenced prior to January 1, 2019, under the package of practical expedients and optional transition 
method, we are not required to reassess whether initial direct leasing costs capitalized prior to the adoption of the new lease accounting 
standard in connection with such leases qualify for capitalization under the new lease accounting standard. Therefore, we continue to 
amortize these initial direct leasing costs over their respective lease terms. 
  On January 1, 2019, as required by the new lease accounting standard, we recognized a cumulative adjustment to retained 
earnings aggregating $3.5 million to write off initial direct leasing costs that were capitalized in connection with leases that were 
executed but had not commenced before January 1, 2019. These costs were capitalized in accordance with the lease accounting 
standards existing prior to January 1, 2019, and would not qualify for capitalization under the new lease accounting standard.
 
F-16
F-16  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
  Under the package of practical expedients that we elected upon adoption of the new lease accounting standard, all of our 
operating leases existing as of January 1, 2019, in which we are the lessee, continue to be classified as operating leases subsequent to 
the adoption of the new lease accounting standard. In accordance with the new lease accounting standard, we were required to classify 
in our consolidated balance sheets the present value of remaining future rental payments aggregating $590.3 million related to ground 
and office leases in which we are the lessee existing as of January 1, 2019. Consequently, on January 1, 2019, we recognized a lease 
liability aggregating $218.7 million classified within accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities in our consolidated 
balance sheets, which included approximately $27.0 million reclassified out of the deferred rent liabilities balance in accordance with 
the new lease standard. We have also recognized a corresponding right-of-use asset, which was classified within other assets in our 
consolidated balance sheets. The present value of the remaining lease payments was calculated for each operating lease existing as of 
January 1, 2019, in which we were the lessee by using each respective remaining lease term and a corresponding estimated 
incremental borrowing rate. The incremental borrowing rate is the interest rate that we estimated we would have to pay to borrow on a 
collateralized basis over a similar term for an amount equal to the lease payments.
Subsequent application of the new lease accounting guidance
  Definition of a lease
Effective January 1, 2019, when we enter into a contract or amend an existing contract, we evaluate whether the contract 
meets the definition of a lease. To meet the definition of a lease, the contract must meet all three criteria: 
(i)  One party (lessor) must hold an identified asset;
(ii)  The counterparty (lessee) must have the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of the asset 
throughout the period of the contract; and 
(iii)  The counterparty (lessee) must have the right to direct the use of the identified asset throughout the period of the contract. 
Lease classification
The new lease accounting standard also sets new criteria for determining the classification of finance leases for lessees and 
sales-type leases for lessors. The criteria to determine whether a lease should be accounted for as a finance/sales-type lease include 
any of the following: 
(i)  Ownership is transferred from lessor to lessee by the end of the lease term; 
(ii)  An option to purchase is reasonably certain to be exercised;
(iii)  The lease term is for the major part of the underlying asset’s remaining economic life; 
(iv)  The present value of lease payments equals or exceeds substantially all of the fair value of the underlying asset; or 
(v)  The underlying asset is specialized and is expected to have no alternative use at the end of the lease term. 
  If any of these criteria is met, a lease is classified as a finance lease by the lessee and as a sales-type lease by the lessor. If 
none of the criteria are met, a lease is classified as an operating lease by the lessee but may still qualify as a direct financing lease or 
an operating lease for the lessor. The existence of a residual value guarantee from an unrelated third party other than the lessee may 
qualify the lease as a direct financing lease by the lessor. Otherwise, the lease is classified as an operating lease by the lessor. 
Therefore, under the new lease accounting standard, lessees apply a dual approach by classifying leases as either finance or operating 
leases based on the principle of whether the lease is effectively a financed purchase of the leased asset by the lessee. This 
classification will determine whether the lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis 
over the term of the lease, which corresponds to a similar evaluation performed by lessors.
Lessor accounting
Costs to execute leases
The new lease accounting standard requires that lessors (and, if applicable, lessees) capitalize, as initial direct costs, only 
incremental costs of a lease that would not have been incurred if the lease had not been obtained. Costs that we incur to negotiate or 
arrange a lease, regardless of its outcome, such as for fixed employee compensation, tax, or legal advice to negotiate lease terms, and 
other costs, are expensed as incurred.
F-17
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-17
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Operating leases
We account for the revenue from our lease contracts by utilizing the single component accounting policy. This policy requires 
us to account for, by class of underlying asset, the lease component and nonlease component(s) associated with each lease as a single 
component if two criteria are met: 
(i)  The timing and pattern of transfer of the lease component and the nonlease component(s) are the same; and 
(ii)  The lease component would be classified as an operating lease if it were accounted for separately. 
Lease components consist primarily of fixed rental payments, which represent scheduled rental amounts due under our 
leases, and contingent rental payments. Nonlease components consist primarily of tenant recoveries representing reimbursements of 
rental operating expenses under our triple net lease structure, including recoveries for utilities, repairs and maintenance, and common 
area expenses. 
If the lease component is the predominant component, we account for all revenues under such lease as a single component in 
accordance with the new lease accounting standard. Conversely, if the nonlease component is the predominant component, all 
revenues under such lease are accounted for in accordance with the revenue recognition accounting standard. Our operating leases 
qualify for the single component accounting, and the lease component in each of our leases is predominant. Therefore, we account for 
all revenues from our operating leases under the new lease accounting standard and classify these revenues as income from rentals in 
our consolidated statements of operations.
We commence recognition of income from rentals related to the operating leases at the date the property is ready for its 
intended use by the tenant and the tenant takes possession, or controls the physical use, of the leased asset. Income from rentals 
related to fixed rental payments under operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the respective operating lease terms. 
We classify amounts expected to be received in later periods as deferred rent in our consolidated balance sheets. Amounts received 
currently but recognized as revenue in future periods are classified in accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities in our 
consolidated balance sheets. 
 Income from rentals related to variable payments includes tenant recoveries and contingent rental payments. Tenant 
recoveries, including reimbursements of utilities, repairs and maintenance, common area expenses, real estate taxes and insurance, 
and other operating expenses, are recognized as revenue in the period during which the applicable expenses are incurred and the 
tenant’s obligation to reimburse us arises. Income from rentals related to other variable payments is recognized when associated 
contingencies are removed.
We assess collectibility from our tenants of future lease payments for each of our operating leases. If we determine that 
collectibility is probable, we recognize income from rentals based on the methodology described above. If we determine that 
collectibility is not probable, we recognize an adjustment to lower our income from rentals. As of December 31, 2019, we assessed the 
collectibility of remaining lease payments under each operating lease in which we are the lessor and determined that collectibility of 
each lease was probable.
Reclassification of the prior-year presentation of rental revenues and tenant recoveries
  As described above, rental revenues and tenant recoveries related to operating leases in which we are the lessor qualified for 
the single component practical expedient and were classified as income from rentals in our consolidated statements of operations. Prior 
to the adoption of the new lease accounting standard, we classified rental revenues and tenant recoveries separately in our 
consolidated statements of operations, in accordance with the guidance in effect prior to January 1, 2019. Upon adoption of the new 
lease accounting standard, our comparative statements of operations of prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the new 
single component presentation of rental revenues and tenant recoveries.
The table below provides a reconciliation of the prior-period presentation of the line items that were reclassified in our 
consolidated statements of operations to conform to the current-period presentation, pursuant to our adoption of the new lease 
accounting standard and election of the single component practical expedient (in thousands):
Year Ended
2018 2017
Rental revenues (presentation prior to January 1, 2019) $ 1,010,718 $ 863,181
Tenant recoveries (presentation prior to January 1, 2019) 304,063 259,144
Income from rentals (presentation effective January 1, 2019) $ 1,314,781 $ 1,122,325
F-18
F-18  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Direct financing and sales-type leases
As of December 31, 2019, we had one direct financing lease and no sales-type leases. Income from rentals related to our 
direct financing lease is recognized over the lease term using the effective interest rate method. At lease commencement, we record an 
asset within other assets in our consolidated balance sheets, which represents our net investment in the direct financing lease. This 
initial net investment is determined by aggregating the total future lease payments attributable to the direct financing lease and the 
estimated residual value of the property less unearned income. Over the lease term, the investment in the direct financing lease is 
reduced and rental income is recognized as income from rentals in our consolidated statements of operations, producing a constant 
periodic rate of return on the net investment in the direct financing lease.
Subsequent to lease commencement, we assess collectibility from our tenants of future lease payments. If we determine that 
collectibility is probable, we recognize income from rentals based on the methodology described above. If we determine that 
collectibility is not probable, we evaluate our net investment in the direct financing lease for impairment. Upon determination that an 
impairment has occurred, an impairment charge is recognized to reduce the carrying balance in the net investment in the direct 
financing lease to its estimated fair value. As of December 31, 2019, we assessed the collectibility of future lease payments under our 
direct financing lease and determined that collectibility was probable.
Lessee accounting
We have operating lease agreements in which we are the lessee consisting of ground and office leases. At the lease 
commencement date (or at the acquisition date if the lease is acquired as part of a real estate acquisition), we are required to recognize 
a liability to account for our future obligations under these operating leases, and a corresponding right-of-use asset.  
The lease liability is measured based on the present value of the future lease payments, including payments during the term 
under our extension options that we are reasonably certain to exercise. The present value of the future lease payments is calculated for 
each operating lease using each respective remaining lease term and a corresponding estimated incremental borrowing rate, which is 
the interest rate that we estimate we would have to pay to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term for an amount equal to 
the lease payments. Subsequently, the lease liability is accreted by applying a discount rate established at the lease commencement 
date to the lease liability balance as of the beginning of the period and is reduced by the payments made during the period. We classify 
the operating lease liability in accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets.
 The right-of-use asset is measured based on the corresponding lease liability, adjusted for initial direct leasing costs and any 
other consideration exchanged with the landlord prior to the commencement of the lease, as well as adjustments to reflect favorable or 
unfavorable terms of an acquired lease when compared with market terms at the time of acquisition. Subsequently, the right-of-use 
asset is amortized on a straight-line basis during the lease term. We classify the right-of-use asset in other assets in our consolidated 
balance sheets.
Recognition of revenue arising from contracts with customers
  We recognize revenues associated with transactions arising from contracts with customers, excluding revenues subject to the 
new lease accounting standard discussed in the “Lease Accounting” section above, in accordance with the revenue recognition 
accounting standard. A customer is distinguished from a noncustomer by the nature of the goods or services that are transferred. 
Customers are provided with goods or services that are generated by a company’s ordinary output activities, whereas noncustomers 
are provided with nonfinancial assets that are outside of a company’s ordinary output activities.
 
  We generally recognize revenue representing the transfer of goods and services to customers in an amount that reflects the 
consideration to which we expect to be entitled in the exchange. In order to determine the recognition of revenue from customer 
contracts, we use a five-step model to (i) identify the contract with the customer, (ii) identify the performance obligations in the contract, 
(iii) determine the transaction price, including variable consideration to the extent that it is probable that a significant future reversal will 
not occur, (iv) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and (v) recognize revenue when (or as) we 
satisfy the performance obligation.
  We identify contractual performance obligations and determine whether revenue should be recognized at a point in time or 
over time, based on when control of goods and services transfers to a customer. We consider whether we control the goods or services 
prior to the transfer to the customer in order to determine whether we should account for the arrangement as a principal or agent. If we 
determine that we control the goods or services provided to the customer, then we are the principal to the transaction, and we 
recognize the gross amount of consideration expected in the exchange. If we simply arrange but do not control the goods or services 
being transferred to the customer, then we are considered to be an agent to the transaction, and we recognize the net amount of 
consideration we are entitled to retain in the exchange. 
F-19
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-19
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
  Total revenues subject to the revenue recognition accounting standard for the year ended December 31, 2019, included 
$48.8 million primarily related to short-term parking revenues associated with long-term lease agreements. These revenues are 
classified within income from rentals in our consolidated statements of operations. Short-term parking revenues do not qualify for the 
single lease component practical expedient, discussed in the “Lessor Accounting” subsection of the “Lease Accounting” section within 
this Note 2, due to the difference in the timing and pattern of transfer of our parking service obligations and associated lease 
components within the same lease agreement. We recognize short-term parking revenues in accordance with the revenue recognition 
accounting standard when the service is provided and the performance obligation is satisfied, which normally occurs at a point in time.
Monitoring of tenant credit quality
  During the term of each lease, we monitor the credit quality and any related material changes of our tenants by (i) monitoring 
the credit rating of tenants that are rated by a nationally recognized credit rating agency, (ii) reviewing financial statements of the 
tenants that are publicly available or that are required to be delivered to us pursuant to the applicable lease, (iii) monitoring news 
reports regarding our tenants and their respective businesses, and (iv) monitoring the timeliness of lease payments.
Income taxes
We are organized and operate as a REIT pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”). Under the Code, a REIT that 
distributes at least 90% of its REIT taxable income to its stockholders annually (excluding net capital gains) and meets certain other 
conditions is not subject to federal income tax on its distributed taxable income, but could be subject to certain federal, foreign, state, 
and local taxes. We distribute 100% of our taxable income annually; therefore, a provision for federal income taxes is not required. In 
addition to our REIT returns, we file federal, foreign, state, and local tax returns for our subsidiaries. We file with jurisdictions located in 
the U.S., Canada, India, China, and other international locations. Our tax returns are subject to routine examination in various 
jurisdictions for the 2013 through 2018 calendar years.
Employee and non-employee share-based payments
  We have implemented an entity-wide accounting policy to account for forfeitures of share-based awards granted to employees 
and non-employees when they occur. As a result of this policy, we recognize expense on share-based awards with time-based vesting 
conditions without reductions for an estimate of forfeitures. This accounting policy only applies to service condition awards. For 
performance condition awards, we continue to assess the probability that such conditions will be achieved. Expenses related to 
forfeited awards are reversed as forfeitures occur. In addition, all nonforfeitable dividends paid on share-based payment awards are 
initially classified in retained earnings and reclassified to compensation cost only if forfeitures of the underlying awards occur. Our 
employee and non-employee share-based awards are measured on the grant date and recognized over the required service period of 
the recipient.
Forward equity sales agreements
  We account for our forward equity sales agreements in accordance with the accounting guidance governing financial 
instruments and derivatives. During 2019, none of our forward equity sales agreements were deemed to be liabilities as they did not 
embody obligations to repurchase our shares, nor did they embody obligations to issue a variable number of shares for which the 
monetary value was predominantly fixed, varied with something other than the fair value of our shares, or varied inversely in relation to 
our shares. We then evaluated whether the agreements met the derivatives and hedging guidance scope exception to be accounted for 
as equity instruments and concluded that the agreements can be classified as equity contracts based on the following assessment: 
(i) none of the agreements’ exercise contingencies were based on observable markets or indices besides those related to the market 
for our own stock price and operations; and (ii) none of the settlement provisions precluded the agreements from being indexed to our 
own stock. As of December 31, 2019, we had no forward equity sales agreements outstanding. 
Loan fees
Fees incurred in obtaining long-term financing are capitalized and classified with the corresponding debt instrument appearing 
on our consolidated balance sheet. Loan fees related to our unsecured senior line of credit are classified within other assets. 
Capitalized amounts are amortized over the term of the related loan, and the amortization is classified in interest expense in our 
consolidated statements of operations.
F-20
F-20  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Hedge accounting
  From time to time, we utilize interest rate hedge agreements to manage a portion of our exposure to variable interest rates. 
Historically, our interest rate hedge agreements have primarily related to our borrowings with variable interest rates based on LIBOR. 
However, in connection with the LIBOR cessation projected by the end of 2021 and the potential replacement of this rate in the U.S. 
with the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”), we have paid down the majority of our outstanding LIBOR-based borrowings and 
terminated our related interest rate hedge agreements to minimize our exposure to LIBOR. As a result, as of December 31, 2019, we 
had no outstanding interest rate hedge agreements and no LIBOR-based borrowings other than borrowings of $384.0 million 
outstanding under our unsecured senior line of credit. 
  In October 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard that expanded the list of U.S. benchmark interest rates permitted in 
the application of hedge accounting to include the overnight index swap rate based on SOFR. The accounting standard became 
effective for us and was adopted on January 1, 2019. Upon adoption on January 1, 2019, and during the year ended December 31, 
2019, we had no hedges based on SOFR; therefore, the adoption of this accounting standard had no effect on our consolidated 
financial statements. Should we issue variable interest rate debt in the future, including SOFR-based debt, and enter into related 
interest rate hedge agreements to manage our exposure to variable interest rates, we will continue applying the interest hedge 
accounting policy, described below, that had been applied to our interest rate hedge agreements based on LIBOR.  
  When we issue variable interest rate debt, we may enter into interest rate hedge agreements to manage our exposure to 
variable interest rates. As a result, our interest rate hedge agreements are generally designated as cash flow hedges. At the inception 
of a hedge agreement, we are required to perform an initial quantitative assessment to determine whether a hedge is highly effective in 
offsetting changes in cash flows associated with the hedged item. For cash flow hedges that are highly effective at inception and 
continue to be highly effective, we record all changes (effective and ineffective components) in the fair value of our hedges, including 
accrued interest and adjustments for non-performance risk, in accumulated other comprehensive income within total equity and 
reclassify them into earnings when the hedged item affects earnings. Subsequently, we may perform only a qualitative assessment, 
unless facts and circumstances change.
The fair value of each interest rate hedge agreement is determined using widely accepted valuation techniques, including 
discounted cash flow analyses on the expected cash flows of each derivative. These analyses reflect the contractual terms of the 
derivatives, including the period to maturity, and use observable market-based inputs, including interest rate curves and implied 
volatilities. The fair values of our interest rate hedge agreements are determined using the market-standard methodology of netting the 
discounted future fixed-cash payments and the discounted expected variable-cash receipts. The variable-cash receipts are based on an 
expectation of future interest rates (forward curves) derived from observable market interest rate curves. The fair value calculation also 
includes an amount for risk of non-performance of our counterparties using “significant unobservable inputs,” such as estimates of 
current credit spreads, to evaluate the likelihood of default.
  We classify fair values of our interest rate hedge agreements in asset positions within other assets, and the fair values of our 
interest rate hedge agreements in liability positions within accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities, without any 
offsetting pursuant to master netting agreements. In agreements with certain of our derivative counterparties, we may have provisions 
wherein we could be declared in default on our derivative obligations if (i) repayment of the underlying indebtedness is accelerated by 
the lender due to our default on the indebtedness or (ii) we default on any of its indebtedness, including default where repayment of the 
indebtedness has not been accelerated by the lender. 
Joint venture distributions
  We use the “nature of the distribution” approach to determine the classification within our statement of cash flows of cash 
distributions received from equity method investments, including our unconsolidated joint ventures. Under this approach, distributions 
are classified based on the nature of the underlying activity that generated the cash distributions. If we lack the information necessary to 
apply this approach in the future, we will be required to apply the “cumulative earnings” approach as an accounting change on a 
retrospective basis. Under the cumulative earnings approach, distributions up to the amount of cumulative equity in earnings 
recognized are classified as cash inflows from operating activities, and those in excess of that amount are classified as cash inflows 
from investing activities.
Cash and cash equivalents
We consider all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less when purchased to be cash and cash 
equivalents. The majority of our cash and cash equivalents are held at major commercial banks in accounts that may at times exceed 
the FDIC-insured limit of $250,000. We have not experienced any losses to date on our invested cash.
F-21
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-21
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Restricted cash
  We present cash and cash equivalents separately from restricted cash within our consolidated balance sheets. We include 
restricted cash with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown in the 
consolidated statements of cash flows. We provide a reconciliation between the balance sheet and statement of cash flows, as required 
when the balance includes more than one line item for cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash. We also provide a disclosure of the 
nature of the restrictions related to material restricted cash balances. 
Recent accounting pronouncements
Allowance for credit losses
  In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard (further clarified with subsequently issued updates) that requires 
companies to estimate and recognize lifetime expected losses, rather than incurred losses, resulting in the earlier recognition of credit 
losses even if the expected risk of credit loss is remote. The accounting standard applies to most financial assets measured at 
amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities, net 
investments in leases arising from sales-type and direct financing leases, and off-balance-sheet credit exposures (e.g., loan 
commitments). The standard does not apply to the receivables arising from operating leases. An assessment of the collectibility of 
operating lease payments and the recognition of an adjustment to lease income based on this assessment is governed by the lease 
accounting standard discussed in the “Lease Accounting” section earlier within this Note 2. 
  The accounting standard became effective for us and was adopted on January 1, 2020. Upon adoption, we had one lease 
subject to this standard classified as a direct financing lease with a net investment balance aggregating $39.9 million prior to the credit 
loss adjustment. In this direct financing lease, the payment obligation of the lessee is collateralized by real estate property. Historically, 
we have had no collection issues related to this direct financing lease; therefore, we assessed the probability of default on this lease 
based on the lessee’s financial condition, credit rating, business prospects, remaining term of the lease, expected value of the 
underlying collateral upon its repossession, and our historical loss experience related to other leases in which we are the lessor. Based 
on the aforementioned considerations, we estimated a credit loss adjustment related to this direct financing lease totaling $2.2 million, 
which was recognized as a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings and as a reduction of the investment in direct financing lease 
balance from $39.9 million to $37.7 million in our consolidated balance sheets on January 1, 2020.
  In addition to direct financing lease, the accounting standard on credit losses applies to our receivables that result from 
revenue transactions within the scope of the revenue recognition standard discussed in the “Recognition of Revenue Arising From 
Contracts With Customers” section earlier within this Note 2. Upon adoption of the standard on January 1, 2020, our receivables 
resulting from revenue transactions within the scope of revenue recognition standard aggregated $16.1 million. Among other factors, we 
considered the short-term nature of these receivables, our positive assessment of the financial condition and business prospects of the 
payors, and minimal historical collectibility issues. Based on the aforementioned considerations, we estimated the credit loss related to 
our trade receivables to approximate $259,000, which was recognized as a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings and as a 
reduction of the tenant receivables balance in our consolidated balance sheets on January 1, 2020.
Recognition and measurement of financial instruments
  In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard (further clarified with subsequently issued updates) that updated 
the framework for companies to account for financial instruments. We adopted this accounting standard on January 1, 2018. 
Subsequently in April 2019, the FASB issued an accounting standard that amends the financial instruments standard by clarifying that 
all adjustments made under the measurement alternative elected for equity securities without readily determinable fair values represent 
nonrecurring fair value measurement adjustments and therefore require applicable fair value disclosures, including disclosures about 
the level of the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurements are categorized. The standard is effective for reporting 
periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted. We adopted this standard on January 1, 2020. The adoption 
of this standard is not expected to impact our operating results. The footnotes to our consolidated financial statements will contain the 
incremental fair value disclosures related to our investments in privately held entities that do not report NAV, beginning with our 
quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the three months ending March 31, 2020. 
F-22
F-22  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
3.  Investments in real estate
Our consolidated investments in real estate, including real estate assets held for sale as described in Note 19 – “Assets 
Classified as Held for Sale” to our consolidated financial statements, consisted of the following as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in 
thousands):
December 31,
2019 2018
Rental properties:
Land (related to rental properties) $ 2,225,785 $ 1,625,349
Buildings and building improvements 11,775,132 9,986,635
Other improvements 1,277,862 976,627
Rental properties 15,278,779 12,588,611
Development and redevelopment of new Class A properties:
Development and redevelopment projects 2,057,084 1,460,814
Future development projects 182,746 98,802
Gross investments in real estate 17,518,609 14,148,227
Less: accumulated depreciation (2,704,657) (2,263,797)
Net investments in real estate – North America 14,813,952 11,884,430
Net investments in real estate – Asia 30,086 29,263
Investments in real estate $ 14,844,038 $ 11,913,693
Acquisitions
  Our real estate asset acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2019, consisted of the following (dollars in thousands):
Square Footage
Number Operating With Future
of Future Active Development/ Purchase
Market Properties Development Redevelopment Redevelopment Operating Price
Greater Boston 12 668,000 153,157 154,855 615,439 $ 858,600
San Francisco 8 — 347,912 478,000 247,770 735,450
New York City — 135,938 — — — 25,000
San Diego 16 869,000 — 93,220 912,419 474,214 (1)
Seattle 1 188,400 — 18,680 — 28,500
Maryland 3 435,000 — — 138,938 76,130
Other 7 54,000 — 134,678 34,534 77,000
Year ended December 31, 2019 47 2,350,338 501,069 879,433 1,949,100 $ 2,274,894
(1)  Includes $65.0 million paid in January 2019 for two properties at 10260 Campus Point Drive and 4161 Campus Point Court that we acquired in December 2018. The 
total purchase price was $80.0 million, of which $15.0 million was paid in December 2018. Also includes $114.8 million related to our partner’s noncontrolling interest in 
the consolidated real estate joint venture at 4224/4242 Campus Point Court and 10210 Campus Point Drive to reflect the full contractual purchase price. 
We evaluated each acquisition to determine whether the integrated set of assets and activities acquired met the definition of a 
business. Acquisitions that do not meet the definition of a business are accounted for as asset acquisitions. An integrated set of assets 
and activities does not qualify as a business if substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets is concentrated in either a single 
identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets, or if the acquired assets do not include a substantive process. 
  Based upon our evaluation of each acquisition, we determined that substantially all of the fair value related to each acquisition 
is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets, or is associated with a land parcel with no 
operations. Accordingly, each transaction did not meet the definition of a business and consequently was accounted for as an asset 
acquisition. In each of these transactions, we allocated the total consideration for each acquisition to the individual assets and liabilities 
acquired on a relative fair value basis.
F-23
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-23
3.   Investments in real estate (continued)
  During the year ended December 31, 2019, we acquired 47 properties for an aggregate purchase price of $2.3 billion. In 
connection with our acquisitions, we recorded in-place leases aggregating $197.8 million and below-market leases in which we are the 
lessor aggregating $90.2 million. As of December 31, 2019, the weighted-average amortization period remaining on our acquired in-
place and below-market leases related to properties acquired in 2019 was 9.0 years and 11.9 years, respectively, and 9.9 years in total.
Acquired below-market leases
The balances of acquired below-market tenant leases, and related accumulated amortization, classified in accounts payable, 
accrued expenses, and other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, were as follows (in 
thousands):
December 31,
2019 2018
Acquired below-market leases $ 326,255 $ 236,026
Accumulated amortization (131,482) (101,218)
$ 194,773 $ 134,808
For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, we recognized in rental revenues approximately $30.3 million, 
$22.3 million, and $19.3 million, respectively, related to the amortization of acquired below-market leases. 
The amounts in the table above excludes the balances of acquired below-market ground leases, and related accumulated 
amortization, classified in other assets in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2019 and 2018. Refer to Note 8 – “Other 
Assets” to our consolidated financial statements.
The weighted-average amortization period of the value of acquired below-market leases was approximately 5.1 years, and the 
estimated annual amortization of the value of acquired below-market leases as of December 31, 2019, is as follows (in thousands):
Year Amount
2020 $ 44,269
2021 20,698
2022 19,503
2023 18,635
2024 16,940
Thereafter 74,728
Total $ 194,773
Acquired in-place leases
The balances of acquired in-place leases, and related accumulated amortization, are classified in other assets in our 
consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, these amounts were as follows (in thousands): 
December 31,
2019 2018
Acquired in-place leases $ 426,280 $ 229,095
Accumulated amortization (144,630) (96,189)
$ 281,650 $ 132,906
F-24
F-24  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
3.   Investments in real estate (continued)
Amortization for these intangible assets, classified in depreciation and amortization expense in our consolidated statements of 
operations, was approximately $49.1 million, $34.3 million, and $19.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, 
respectively. The weighted-average amortization period of the value of acquired in-place leases was approximately 5.9 years, and the 
estimated annual amortization of the value of acquired in-place leases as of December 31, 2019, is as follows (in thousands):
Year Amount
2020 $ 54,757
2021 49,878
2022 37,006
2023 31,885
2024 24,001
Thereafter 84,123
Total $ 281,650
Sales of real estate assets and impairment charges
  For the discussion of our sales of partial interests in 75/125 Binney Street, 5200 Illumina Way, and 500 Forbes Boulevard in 
2019 and the formation of consolidated joint ventures that own these properties, refer to “Sales of Partial Interests and Formation of 
Consolidated Joint Ventures in 2019” section within Note 4 – “Consolidated and Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures” to our 
consolidated financial statements. 
 
6138/6150 Nancy Ridge Drive
  During the three months ended June 30, 2019, we classified as held for sale 6138/6150 Nancy Ridge Drive aggregating 
56,698 RSF, located in our Sorrento Mesa submarket. In December 2019, we completed the sale of the property for a sales price of 
$6.6 million, or $117 per RSF, and recognized a gain of $474 thousand.
Impairment charges 
  In December 2019, we decided to sell two of our real estate assets aggregating 123,862 RSF located in non-cluster markets to 
allow for reinvestment of this capital into our highly leased value-creation pipeline. We evaluated these assets under the held for sale 
impairment model and determined that these investments met the criteria for classification as held for sale but did not meet the criteria 
for classification as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements. Upon classification as held for sale, we 
recognized impairment charges aggregating $12.3 million to lower the carrying amounts to their respective estimated fair value less 
cost to sell. For additional information, refer to Note 19 – “Assets Classified as Held for Sale” to our consolidated financial statements.
F-25
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-25
4.  Consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures
  From time to time, we enter into joint venture agreements through which we own a partial interest in real estate entities that 
own, develop, and operate real estate properties. As of December 31, 2019, our real estate joint ventures held the following properties:
Our Ownership 
Property Market Submarket Interest (1)
Consolidated joint ventures(2):
225 Binney Street Greater Boston Cambridge 30.0%
75/125 Binney Street Greater Boston Cambridge 40.0%
409 and 499 Illinois Street San Francisco Mission Bay/SoMa 60.0%
1500 Owens Street San Francisco Mission Bay/SoMa 50.1%
500 Forbes Boulevard San Francisco South San Francisco 10.0%
Campus Pointe by Alexandria(3) San Diego University Town Center 55.0%
5200 Illumina Way San Diego University Town Center 51.0%
9625 Towne Centre Drive San Diego University Town Center 50.1%
SD Tech by Alexandria San Diego Sorrento Mesa 50.0%
Unconsolidated joint ventures(2):
Menlo Gateway San Francisco Greater Stanford 49.0%
1401/1413 Research Boulevard Maryland Rockville 65.0% (4)
704 Quince Orchard Road Maryland Gaithersburg 56.8% (4)
1655 and 1725 Third Street San Francisco Mission Bay/SoMa 10.0%
(1)   Refer to the table on the next page that shows our categorization of our existing significant joint ventures under the consolidation framework. 
(2)   In addition to the consolidated real estate joint ventures listed, various partners hold insignificant noncontrolling interests in six other joint ventures in North America and 
we hold an interest in one other insignificant unconsolidated real estate joint venture in North America. 
(3)  Excludes 9880 Campus Point Drive in our University Town Center submarket.
(4)   Represents our ownership interest; our voting interest is limited to 50%.
  Our consolidation policy is fully described under the “Consolidation” section in Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting 
Policies” to our consolidated financial statements. Consolidation accounting is highly technical, but its framework is primarily based on 
the controlling financial interests and benefits of the joint ventures. 
  We generally consolidate a joint venture that is a legal entity that we control (i.e., we have the power to direct the activities of 
the joint venture that most significantly affect its economic performance) through contractual rights, regardless of our ownership 
interest, and where we determine that we have benefits through the allocation of earnings or losses and fees paid to us that could be 
significant to the joint venture (the “VIE model”).
  We also generally consolidate joint ventures when we have a controlling financial interest through voting rights and where our 
voting interest is greater than 50% (the “voting model”). Voting interest differs from ownership interest for some joint ventures.
  We account for joint ventures that do not meet the consolidation criteria under the equity method of accounting by recognizing 
our share of income and losses. 
F-26
F-26  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
4.  Consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (continued)
  The table below shows our categorization of our existing significant joint ventures under the consolidation framework:
Consolidation
Property Model Voting Interest Consolidation Analysis Conclusion
225 Binney Street We have:
75/125 Binney Street (i) The power to direct the activities of 
the joint venture that most 
409 and 499 Illinois Street
significantly affect its economic 
1500 Owens Street performance; and 
500 Forbes Boulevard   Consolidated
Not applicable
VIE model
Campus Pointe by Alexandria under the (ii) Benefits that can be significant to
VIE model
5200 Illumina Way the joint venture.
9625 Towne Centre Drive
Therefore, we are the primary beneficiary
SD Tech by Alexandria of each VIE
Menlo Gateway We do not control the joint venture and
1401/1413 Research Boulevard are therefore not the primary beneficiary Equity method
704 Quince Orchard Road Does not of accounting
Voting model Our voting interest is 50% or less
1655 and 1725 Third Street exceed 50%
Sales of partial interests and formation of consolidated joint ventures in 2019 
75/125 Binney Street
  In February 2019, we completed a partial sale of a 60% interest in 75/125 Binney Street, a Class A property in our Cambridge 
submarket, aggregating 388,270 RSF, for a sales price of $438.0 million, or $1,880 per RSF. We accounted for the $202.2 million 
difference between the consideration received and the book value of the 60% interest sold as an equity transaction, with no gain 
recognized in earnings.
  We formed a joint venture with the buyer of the partial interest in 75/125 Binney Street. We hold a 40% ownership interest in 
this joint venture. As part of the joint venture agreement, we are responsible for operations that most significantly impact the economic 
performance of the joint venture. Our joint venture partner lacks kick-out rights over our role as property manager. Also, our partner 
lacks substantive participating rights that would allow it to significantly impact the economic performance of the joint venture, and can 
affect the operations of the joint venture primarily through the exercise of its protective rights. Therefore, we determined that we are the 
primary beneficiary of the joint venture. Accordingly, we have consolidated the joint venture under the variable interest model. Refer to 
the “Consolidation” section in Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements for 
additional information.
500 Forbes Boulevard
  In August 2019, we completed the sale of a 90% interest in 500 Forbes Boulevard, located in our South San Francisco 
submarket, aggregating 155,685 RSF for a sales price of $139.5 million, or $996 per RSF. We accounted for the $48.4 million difference 
between the consideration received and the book value of the 90% interest sold as an equity transaction with no gain recognized in 
earnings. The property has been leased to a single investment-grade tenant since 2009. 
  We formed a joint venture with the buyer of the partial interest in 500 Forbes Boulevard. We hold a 10% ownership interest in 
this joint venture. As part of the joint venture agreement, we are responsible for operations that most significantly impact the economic 
performance of the joint venture. Our joint venture partner lacks kick-out rights over our role as property manager. Also, our partner 
lacks substantive participating rights that would allow it to significantly impact the economic performance of the joint venture, and can 
affect the operations of the joint venture primarily through the exercise of its protective rights. Therefore, we determined that we are the 
primary beneficiary of the joint venture. Accordingly, we have consolidated the joint venture under the variable interest model. Refer to 
the “Consolidation” section in Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements for 
additional information.
F-27
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-27
4.  Consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (continued)
5200 Illumina Way
  In August 2019, we completed the sale of a 49% interest in 5200 Illumina Way, a Class A campus in our University Town 
Center submarket of San Diego, aggregating 792,687 RSF across six operating buildings and a land parcel available for future 
development. The total sales price of $286.7 million for the 49% partial interest comprises $264.6 million, or $681 per RSF, for the 
operating buildings and $22.1 million, or $100 per RSF, for the developable land parcel. The operating buildings are 100% occupied by 
Illumina, Inc. with a remaining lease term of 12 years. This transaction values 100% of the campus at $585.2 million and represents a 
value in excess of book basis aggregating $269.1 million, or $131.9 million for the 49% interest sold. We accounted for the 
$131.9 million difference between the consideration received and the book value of the 49% interest sold as an equity transaction, with 
no gain recognized in earnings.
  We formed a joint venture with the buyer of the partial interest in 5200 Illumina Way. We hold a 51% ownership interest in this 
joint venture. As part of the joint venture agreement, we are responsible for operations that most significantly impact the economic 
performance of the joint venture. Our joint venture partner lacks kick-out rights over our role as property manager. Also, our partner 
lacks substantive participating rights that would allow them to significantly impact the economic performance of the joint venture, 
and can affect the operations of the joint venture primarily through the exercise of their protective rights. As a result, we have 
determined that we are the primary beneficiary of the joint venture. Accordingly, we have consolidated the joint venture under the 
variable interest model. Refer to the “Consolidation” section in Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our 
consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Consolidated VIEs’ balance sheet information
  The table below aggregates the balance sheet information of our consolidated VIEs as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in 
thousands):
December 31,
2019 2018
Investments in real estate $ 2,678,476 $ 1,108,385
Cash and cash equivalents 81,021 42,178
Other assets 280,343 74,901
Total assets $ 3,039,840 $ 1,225,464
Secured notes payable $ — $ —
Other liabilities 149,471 59,336
Total liabilities 149,471 59,336
Redeemable noncontrolling interests 2,388 874
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s share of equity 1,600,729 624,349
Noncontrolling interests’ share of equity 1,287,252 540,905
Total liabilities and equity $ 3,039,840 $ 1,225,464
  In determining whether to aggregate the balance sheet information of our consolidated VIEs, we considered the similarity of 
each VIE, including the primary purpose of these entities to own, manage, operate, and lease real estate properties owned by the VIEs, 
and the similar nature of our involvement in each VIE as a managing member. Due to the similarity of the characteristics, we present 
the balance sheet information of these entities on an aggregated basis. For each of our consolidated VIEs, none of its assets have 
restrictions that limit their use to settle specific obligations of the VIE. There are no creditors or other partners of our consolidated VIEs 
that have recourse to our general credit. Our maximum exposure to our consolidated VIEs is limited to our variable interests in each 
VIE.
F-28
F-28  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
4.  Consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (continued)
Unconsolidated real estate joint ventures
  Our investments in unconsolidated real estate joint ventures, accounted for under the equity method of accounting presented 
in our consolidated balance sheets of December 31, 2019 and 2018, consisted of the following (in thousands): 
December 31,
Property 2019 2018
Menlo Gateway $ 288,408 $ 186,504
1401/1413 Research Boulevard 7,696 8,197
704 Quince Orchard Road 4,748 4,547
1655 and 1725 Third Street 37,016 34,917
Other 9,022 3,342
$ 346,890 $ 237,507
 
  Our maximum exposure to our unconsolidated VIEs is limited to our investment in each VIE.
 
  Our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures have the following non-recourse secured loans that include the following key 
terms as of December 31, 2019 (dollars in thousands):
100% at Joint Venture Level
Debt  Remaining
Unconsolidated Joint Venture Our Share Maturity Date Stated Rate Interest Rate(1) Balance(2) Commitments
1401/1413 Research Boulevard 65.0% 5/17/20 L+2.50% 5.18% $ 26,158 $ 2,619
1655 and 1725 Third Street 10.0% 6/29/21 L+3.70% 5.41% 309,275 65,725
704 Quince Orchard Road 56.8% 3/16/23 L+1.95% 3.94% 9,172 5,709
Menlo Gateway, Phase II 49.0% 5/1/35 4.53% 4.59% 56,321 99,529
Menlo Gateway, Phase I 49.0% 8/10/35 4.15% 4.18% 142,101 —
$ 543,027 $ 173,582
(1)  Includes interest expense and amortization of loan fees. 
(2)  Represents outstanding principal, net of unamortized deferred financing costs, as of December 31, 2019.
5.  Leases
  On January 1, 2019, we adopted a new lease accounting standard that sets out the principles for the recognition, 
measurement, presentation, and disclosure of leases for both parties to a lease agreement (i.e., lessees and lessors). 
  As a lessor, we are required to disclose, among other things, the following:
•  A description of the nature of leases, including terms for any variable payments, options to extend or terminate, and 
options to purchase the underlying asset;
•  Tabular presentation of undiscounted cash flows to be received over the next five years and thereafter separately for 
operating leases and direct financing leases;
•  The amount of lease income and its location on the statements of operations;
•  Income classified separately for operating leases and direct financing leases; and
•  Our risk management strategy to mitigate declines in residual value of the leased assets.
  As a lessee, we are required to disclose, among other things, the following:
•  A description of the nature of leases, including terms for any variable payments, options to extend or terminate, and 
options to purchase the underlying asset;
•  The amounts of lease liabilities and corresponding right-of-use assets and their respective locations in the balance sheet;
•  The weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate of leases;
•  Tabular presentation of undiscounted cash flows of our remaining lease payment obligations over the next five years and 
thereafter; and
•  Total lease costs, including cash paid, amounts expensed, and amounts capitalized.
  Refer to the “Lease Accounting” section in Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” for additional information.
F-29
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-29
5.  Leases (continued)
Leases in which we are the lessor
  As of December 31, 2019, we had 291 properties aggregating 27.0 million operating RSF located in key locations, including 
Greater Boston, San Francisco, New York City, San Diego, Seattle, Maryland, and Research Triangle. We focus on developing Class A 
properties in AAA innovation cluster locations, which we consider to be highly desirable for tenancy by life science, technology, and 
agtech entities. Such locations are generally characterized by high barriers to entry for new landlords, high barriers to exit for tenants, 
and a limited supply of available space. As of December 31, 2019, all leases in which we are the lessor were classified as operating 
leases with the exception of one direct financing lease. Our operating leases and direct financing lease are described below. 
Operating leases
As of December 31, 2019, our 291 properties were subject to operating lease agreements. Two of these properties, 
representing two land parcels, are subject to lease agreements that each contain an option for the lessee to purchase the underlying 
asset from us at fair market value during each of the 30-day periods commencing on the dates that are 15 years, 30 years, and 74.5 
years after the rent commencement date of October 1, 2017. The remaining lease term related to each of the two land parcels is 72.9 
years. Our leases generally contain options to extend lease terms at prevailing market rates at the time of expiration. Certain operating 
leases contain early termination options that require advance notification and payment of a penalty, which in most cases is substantial 
enough to be deemed economically disadvantageous by a tenant to exercise. Future lease payments to be received under the terms of 
our operating lease agreements, excluding expense reimbursements, in effect as of December 31, 2019, are outlined in the table below 
(in thousands):
Year Amount
2020 $ 1,074,698
2021 1,090,837
2022 1,076,898
2023 1,024,652
2024 948,223
Thereafter 6,238,082
Total $ 11,453,390
  Refer to Note 3 – “Investments in Real Estate” to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our owned 
real estate assets, which are the underlying assets under our operating leases.
Direct financing lease
As of December 31, 2019, we had one direct financing lease agreement for a parking structure with a remaining lease term of 
72.9 years. The lessee has an option to purchase the underlying asset at fair market value during each of the 30-day periods 
commencing on the dates that are 15 years, 30 years, and 74.5 years after the rent commencement date of October 1, 2017. The 
components of our net investment in our direct financing lease as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, are summarized in the table below 
(in thousands):
December 31,
2019 2018
Gross investment in direct financing lease $ 260,457 $ 262,111
Less: unearned income (220,541) (222,962)
Net investment in direct financing lease $ 39,916 $ 39,149
F-30
F-30  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
5.  Leases (continued)
Future lease payments to be received under the terms of our direct financing lease as of December 31, 2019, are outlined in 
the table below (in thousands):
Year Total
2020 $ 1,705
2021 1,756
2022 1,809
2023 1,863
2024 1,919
Thereafter 251,405
Total $ 260,457
Income from rentals
  Our total income from rentals includes revenue related to agreements for rental of our investments in real estate, which 
primarily includes revenues subject to the guidance of the new lease accounting standard and revenues subject to the revenue 
recognition accounting standard as summarized below (in thousands):
Year Ended
December 31, 2019
Income from rentals:
Revenues subject to the new lease accounting standard:
Operating leases $ 1,465,692
Direct financing lease 2,421
Revenues subject to the new lease accounting standard 1,468,113
Revenues subject to the revenue recognition accounting standard 48,751
Income from rentals $ 1,516,864
  Our revenues that are subject to the revenue recognition accounting standard and are classified in income from rentals relate 
primarily to parking revenues, which consist of short-term rental revenues that are not considered lease revenue under the new lease 
accounting standard. Refer to the “Revenues” and “Recognition of revenue arising from contracts with customers” sections in Note 2 – 
“Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Deferred leasing costs
The following table summarizes our deferred leasing costs as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands):
December 31,
2019 2018
Deferred leasing costs $ 631,416 $ 557,791
Accumulated amortization (361,373) (318,721)
Deferred leasing costs, net $ 270,043 $ 239,070
Residual value risk management strategy
  Our leases do not have guarantees of residual value on the underlying assets. We manage risk associated with the residual 
value of our leased assets by (i) evaluating each potential acquisition of real estate to determine whether it meets our business 
objective to primarily invest in high-demand markets with limited supply of available space, (ii) directly managing our leased properties, 
conducting frequent property inspections, proactively addressing potential maintenance issues before they arise, and timely resolving 
any occurring issues, (iii) carefully selecting our tenants and monitoring their credit quality throughout their respective lease terms, and 
(iv) focusing on making continuous improvements to our sustainability efforts and achievement of our sustainability goals for ground-up 
development of new buildings, which are targeting Gold or Platinum LEED® certification. Our environmentally focused design decisions, 
careful selection of construction materials, and continuous monitoring of our properties throughout their lives are expected to promote 
the durability of building infrastructure and enhance residual value of our properties. 
F-31
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-31
5.  Leases (continued)
Leases in which we are the lessee
We have operating lease agreements in which we are the lessee consisting of ground and office leases. Certain of these 
leases have options to extend or terminate the contract terms upon meeting certain criteria. There are no notable restrictions or 
covenants imposed by the leases, nor guarantees of residual value.
Under the new lease accounting standard, we are required to recognize a right-of-use asset and a related liability to account 
for our future obligations under ground and office lease arrangements in which we are the lessee. Refer to the “Lessee Accounting” 
section in Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements.
As of December 31, 2019, the present value of the remaining contractual payments, aggregating $699.9 million, under our 
operating lease agreements, including our extension options that we are reasonably certain to exercise, was $271.8 million. Our 
corresponding operating lease right-of-use assets, adjusted for initial direct leasing costs and other consideration exchanged with the 
landlord prior to the commencement of the lease, aggregated $264.7 million. As of December 31, 2019, the weighted-average 
remaining lease term of operating leases in which we are the lessee was approximately 44 years, and the weighted-average discount 
rate was 5.24%. The weighted-average discount date is based on the incremental borrowing rate estimated for each lease, which is the 
interest rate that we estimate we would have to pay to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term for an amount equal to the 
lease payments.
Ground lease obligations as of December 31, 2019, included leases for 31 of our properties, which accounted for 
approximately 11% of our total number of properties. Excluding one ground lease that expires in 2036 related to one operating property 
with a net book value of $7.7 million as of December 31, 2019, our ground lease obligations have remaining lease terms ranging from 
approximately 34 years to 95 years, including extension options that we are reasonably certain to exercise. 
The reconciliation of future lease payments, under non-cancelable operating ground and office leases in which we are the 
lessee, to the operating lease liability reflected in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2019, is presented in the table 
below (in thousands):
Year Total
2020 $ 15,132
2021 15,931
2022 16,467
2023 16,628
2024 16,857
Thereafter 618,924
Total future payments under our operating leases in which we are the lessee 699,939
Effect of discounting (428,131)
Operating lease liability $ 271,808
Lessee operating costs
Operating lease costs relate to our ground and office leases in which we are the lessee. Ground leases generally require fixed 
annual rent payments and may also include escalation clauses and renewal options. Our operating lease obligations related to our 
office leases have remaining terms of up to 15 years, exclusive of extension options. For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, 
and 2017, our costs for operating leases in which we are the lessee were as follows (in thousands): 
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
Gross operating lease costs $ 19,740 $ 16,102 $ 14,307
Capitalized lease costs (1,452) (340) (340)
Expenses for operating leases in which we are the lessee $ 18,288 $ 15,762 $ 13,967
For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, amounts paid and classified as operating activities in our 
consolidated statements of cash flows for leases in which we are the lessee, were $17.7 million, $14.8 million, and $14.6 million, 
respectively.
F-32
F-32  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
6.   Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash
Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash consisted of the following as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands):
December 31,
  2019 2018
Cash and cash equivalents $ 189,681 $ 234,181
Restricted cash:
Funds held in trust under the terms of certain secured notes payable 24,331 22,681
Funds held in escrow related to construction projects and investing activities 23,252 10,558
Other 5,425 4,710
53,008 37,949
Total $ 242,689 $ 272,130
7.  Investments
  We hold investments in publicly traded companies and privately held entities primarily involved in the life science, technology, 
and agtech industries. Investments in publicly traded companies are classified as investments with readily determinable fair values, and 
are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value classified in net income. Our investments in privately held entities consist of (i) 
investments that report NAV, such as our privately held investments in limited partnerships, which are carried at fair value using NAV as 
a practical expedient, with changes in fair value classified in net income, and (ii) investments in privately held entities that do not report 
NAV, which are measured at cost, adjusted for observable price changes and impairments, with changes recognized in net income. 
Effective January 1, 2018:
•  Investments in publicly traded companies are presented at fair value in our consolidated balance sheet, with changes in fair 
value recognized in net income.
•  Investments in privately held entities without readily determinable fair values previously accounted for under the cost method 
are accounted for as follows:
•  Investments in privately held entities that report NAV are presented at fair value using NAV as a practical expedient, with 
changes in fair value recognized in net income. We use NAV reported by limited partnerships generally without 
adjustment, unless we are aware of information indicating that the NAV reported by a limited partnership does not 
accurately reflect the fair value of the investment at our reporting date.
•  Investments in privately held entities that do not report NAV are carried at cost, adjusted for observable price changes and 
impairments, with changes recognized in net income. These investments continue to be evaluated on the basis of a 
qualitative assessment for indicators of impairment by utilizing the same monitoring criteria described in the “Investments” 
section in Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements, and by 
monitoring the presence of the following impairment indicators: (i) a significant deterioration in the earnings performance, 
credit rating, asset quality, or business prospects of the investee; (ii) a significant adverse change in the regulatory, 
economic, or technological environment of the investee, (iii) a significant adverse change in the general market condition 
of either the geographical area or the industry in which the investee operates, (iv) significant concerns about the 
investee’s ability to continue as a going concern. If such indicators are present, we are required to estimate the 
investment’s fair value and immediately recognize an impairment loss, without consideration as to whether the impairment 
is other-than-temporary, in an amount equal to the investment’s carrying value in excess of its estimated fair value.
•  Investments in privately held entities continue to require accounting under the equity method unless our interest in the entity is 
deemed to be so minor that we have virtually no influence over the entity’s operating and financial policies. Under the equity 
method of accounting, we initially recognize our investment at cost and adjust the carrying amount of the investment to 
recognize our share of the earnings or losses of the investee subsequent to the date of our investment. We had no 
investments accounted for under the equity method as of December 31, 2019.
  We classify unrealized and realized gains and losses on our equity investments within investment income in our consolidated 
statements of operations.
F-33
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-33
7.   Investments (continued)
  Unrealized gains and losses represent (i) changes in fair value for investments in publicly traded companies, (ii) changes in NAV, 
as a practical expedient to estimate fair value, for investments in privately held entities that report NAV, and (iii) observable price changes 
of our investments in privately held entities that do not report NAV. An observable price is a price observed in an orderly transaction for an 
identical or similar investment of the same issuer. Observable price changes result from, among other things, equity transactions for the 
same issuer executed during the reporting period, including subsequent equity offerings or other reported equity transactions related to 
the same issuer. For these transactions to be considered observable price changes, we evaluate whether these transactions have similar 
rights and obligations, including voting rights, distribution preferences, conversion rights, and other factors, to the investments we hold.
  Realized gains and losses represent the difference between proceeds received upon disposition of investments and their 
historical or adjusted cost. Impairments are realized losses, which result in an adjusted cost, and represent charges to reduce the 
carrying values of investments in privately held entities that do not report NAV to their estimated fair value.
  The following tables summarize our investments as of December 31, 2019, and 2018 (in thousands):
December 31, 2019
Cost Adjustments Carrying Amount
Investments:
Publicly traded companies $ 148,109 $ 170,528 $ 318,637
Entities that report NAV 271,276 162,626 433,902
Entities that do not report NAV:
Entities with observable price changes 42,045 68,489 110,534
Entities without observable price changes 277,521 — 277,521
Total investments $ 738,951 $ 401,643 $ 1,140,594
December 31, 2018
Cost Adjustments Carrying Amount
Investments:
Publicly traded companies $ 121,121 $ 62,884 $ 184,005
Entities that report NAV 204,646 113,159 317,805
Entities that do not report NAV:
Entities with observable price changes 39,421 64,112 103,533
Entities without observable price changes 286,921 — 286,921
Total investments $ 652,109 $ 240,155 $ 892,264
  Cumulative adjustments recognized on investments in privately held entities that do not report NAV held as of December 31, 
2019, aggregated $68.5 million, which consisted of upward adjustments representing unrealized gains of $69.5 million and downward 
adjustments representing unrealized losses of $1.0 million. 
  During the year ended December 31, 2019, adjustments recognized on investments in privately held entities that do not report 
NAV aggregated $4.4 million, which consisted of upward adjustments of $5.2 million primarily representing unrealized gains, and 
downward adjustments of $832 thousand representing unrealized losses. Additionally, we recognized an impairment charge of 
$17.1 million related to investments in privately held entities that do not report NAV. Refer to the “Investments” section of Note 2 – 
“Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements for further details.
F-34
F-34  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
7.   Investments (continued)
  Our investment income for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, consisted of the following (in thousands):
Year Ended December 31, 2019
Unrealized Realized 
Gains (Losses) Gains (Losses) Total
Investments held at December 31, 2019:
Publicly traded companies $ 130,802 $ — $ 130,802
Entities that report NAV 49,440 — 49,440
Entities that do not report NAV, held at period end 4,378 (17,124) (12,746)
Total investments held at December 31, 2019 184,620 (17,124) 167,496
Investment dispositions during the year ended December 31, 2019:
Recognized in the current period — 27,151 27,151
Previously recognized gains (23,131) 23,131 —
Total investment dispositions during the year ended December 31, 2019 (23,131) 50,282 27,151
Investment income $ 161,489 $ 33,158 $ 194,647
Year Ended December 31, 2018
Unrealized Realized
Gains (Losses) Gains Total
Investments held at December 31, 2018:
Publicly traded companies $ 27,944 $ — $ 27,944
Entities that report NAV 22,389 — 22,389
Entities that do not report NAV, held at period end 64,112 (5,483) 58,629
Total investments held at December 31, 2018 114,445 (5,483) 108,962
Investment dispositions during the year ended December 31, 2018:
Recognized in the current period — 27,801 27,801
Previously recognized gains (14,811) 14,811 —
Total investment dispositions during the year ended December 31, 2018 (14,811) 42,612 27,801
Investment income $ 99,634 $ 37,129 $ 136,763
Investments in privately held entities that report NAV
Investments in privately held entities that report NAV consist primarily of investments in limited partnerships. We are committed 
to funding approximately $229.5 million for all investments primarily related to our investments in limited partnerships. Our funding 
commitments expire at various dates over the next 12 years, with a weighted-average expiration of 8.6 years as of December 31, 2019. 
These investments are not redeemable by us, but we normally receive distributions from these investments throughout their 
term. Our investments in privately held entities that report NAV generally have expected initial terms in excess of 10 years. The 
weighted-average remaining term during which these investments are expected to be liquidated was 5.5 years as of December 31, 
2019. 
F-35
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-35
8.   Other assets
The following table summarizes the components of other assets as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands):
December 31,
2019 2018
Acquired in-place leases $ 281,650 $ 132,906
Acquired below-market leases in which we are the lessee(1) — 17,434
Deferred compensation plan 22,225 19,238
Deferred financing costs – unsecured senior line of credit 13,064 16,060
Deposits 31,028 12,974
Furniture, fixtures, and equipment 23,031 14,787
Interest rate hedge assets — 2,606
Net investment in direct financing lease 39,916 39,149
Notes receivable 435 528
Operating lease right-of-use asset(1) 264,709 —
Other assets 32,040 19,861
Prepaid expenses 11,324 13,690
Property, plant, and equipment 174,292 81,024
Total $ 893,714 $ 370,257
(1)  Upon the adoption of new lease accounting standards on January 1, 2019, the balance related to the acquired below-market leases in which we are the lessee was 
included in the calculation of our operating lease right-of-use asset. Refer to Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 5 – “Leases” to our 
consolidated financial statements for additional information.
9.  Fair value measurements
We provide fair value information about all financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate fair value. We measure 
and disclose the estimated fair value of financial assets and liabilities by utilizing a fair value hierarchy that distinguishes between data 
obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity and the reporting entity’s own assumptions about market participant 
assumptions. This hierarchy consists of three broad levels, as follows: (i) quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities 
(Level 1), (ii) significant other observable inputs (Level 2), and (iii) significant unobservable inputs (Level 3). Significant other observable 
inputs can include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, as well as inputs that are observable for the asset or 
liability, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and yield curves. Significant unobservable inputs are typically based on an 
entity’s own assumptions, since there is little, if any, related market activity. In instances in which the determination of the fair value 
measurement is based on inputs from different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the 
entire fair value measurement falls is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. 
Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment and considers 
factors specific to the asset or liability. There were no transfers between the levels in the fair value hierarchy during the years ended 
December 31, 2019 and 2018.
F-36
F-36  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
9.  Fair value measurements (continued)
The following tables set forth the assets and liabilities that we measure at fair value on a recurring basis by level within the fair 
value hierarchy as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands):
December 31, 2019
Quoted Prices in Significant
Active Markets Other Significant
for Identical Observable Unobservable
Assets Inputs Inputs
Description Total (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Assets:
Investments in publicly traded companies $ 318,637 $ 318,637 $ — $ —
December 31, 2018
Quoted Prices in Significant
Active Markets Other Significant
for Identical Observable Unobservable
Assets Inputs Inputs
Description Total (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3)
Assets:
Investments in publicly traded companies $ 184,005 $ 184,005 $ — $ —
Interest rate hedge agreements $ 2,606 $ — $ 2,606 $ —
Liabilities:
Interest rate hedge agreements $ 768 $ — $ 768 $ —
Our investments in publicly traded companies represent investments with readily determinable fair values, and are carried at 
fair value, with changes in fair value classified in net income. We also hold investments in privately held entities, which consist of 
(i) investments that report NAV, and (ii) investments that do not report NAV, further described below. 
  Our investments in privately held entities that report NAV, such as our privately held investments in limited partnerships, are 
carried at fair value using NAV as a practical expedient, with changes in fair value classified in net income. As of December 31, 2019 
and 2018, the carrying values of investments in privately held entities that report NAV aggregated $433.9 million and $317.8 million, 
respectively. These investments are excluded from the fair value hierarchy above as required by the fair value standards. We estimate 
the fair value of each of our investments in limited partnerships based on the most recent NAV reported by each limited partnership. As 
a result, the determination of fair values of our investments in privately held entities that report NAV generally does not involve 
significant estimates, assumptions, or judgments.
Our investments in privately held entities that do not report NAV are measured at cost, adjusted for observable price changes 
and impairments, with changes recognized in net income. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the carrying values of investments in 
privately held entities that do not report NAV aggregated $388.1 million and $390.5 million, respectively. These investments are 
evaluated on a nonrecurring basis based on the observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or similar investment 
of the same issuer. Further adjustments are not made until another observable transaction occurs. Therefore, the determination of fair 
values of our investments in privately held entities that do not report NAV does not involve significant estimates and assumptions or 
subjective and complex judgments. 
We also subject our investments in privately held entities that do not report NAV to a qualitative assessment for indicators of 
impairment. If indicators of impairment are present, we are required to estimate the investment’s fair value and immediately recognize 
an impairment loss in an amount equal to the investment’s carrying value in excess of its estimated fair value. For further details about 
our investments in privately held entities that do not report NAV and related impairment monitoring criteria refer to the “Investments” 
section in Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 7 – “Investments” to our consolidated financial statements. 
Effective on January 1, 2020, in accordance with the new accounting standard described within “Recognition and 
Measurement of Financial Instruments” subsection of “Recent Accounting Pronouncements” section within Note 2 – “Summary of 
Significant Accounting Policies,” for all investments in privately held entities that do not report NAV that are adjusted during the period 
under the measurement alternative elected for equity securities without readily determinable fair values, we will provide fair value 
disclosures, including disclosures about the level in the fair value hierarchy. 
  During the year ended December 31, 2019, in conjunction with the full repayment of our $350.0 million unsecured senior bank 
term loan described in Note 10 – “Secured and Unsecured Senior Debt” to our consolidated financial statements, we also terminated all 
of our interest rate hedge agreements aggregating $350.0 million with a weighted-average interest pay rate of 2.57%. Refer to Note 11 
– “Interest Rate Hedge Agreements” to our consolidated financial statements for further details.
F-37
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-37
9.  Fair value measurements (continued)
The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, tenant receivables, other assets, accounts payable, 
accrued expenses, and other liabilities approximate their fair value. 
The fair values of our secured notes payable, unsecured senior notes payable, unsecured senior line of credit, and unsecured 
senior bank term loans were estimated using widely accepted valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow analyses using 
significant other observable inputs such as available market information on discount and borrowing rates with similar terms, maturities, 
and credit ratings. Because the valuations of our financial instruments are based on these types of estimates, the actual fair value of 
our financial instruments may differ materially if our estimates do not prove to be accurate. Additionally, the use of different market 
assumptions or estimation methods may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.
As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the book and estimated fair values of our secured notes payable, unsecured senior notes 
payable, unsecured senior line of credit and unsecured senior bank term loan were as follows (in thousands):
December 31,
2019 2018
Book Value Fair Value Book Value Fair Value
Liabilities:
Secured notes payable $ 349,352 $ 363,344 $ 630,547 $ 638,860
Unsecured senior notes payable $ 6,044,127 $ 6,571,668 $ 4,292,293 $ 4,288,335
Unsecured senior line of credit $ 384,000 $ 383,928 $ 208,000 $ 208,106
Unsecured senior bank term loan $ — $ — $ 347,415 $ 350,240
Nonrecurring fair value measurements
  Refer to “Sales of Partial Interests and Formation of Consolidated Joint Ventures in 2019” in Note 4 – “Consolidated and 
Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures,” Note 7 – “Investments,” and Note 19 – “Assets Classified as Held for Sale” to our 
consolidated financial statements for further discussion.
10. Secured and unsecured senior debt
  The following table summarizes our secured and unsecured senior debt as of December 31, 2019 (dollars in thousands):
Weighted-Average
Remaining 
Fixed Rate Variable-Rate  Interest  Term
Debt Debt Total Percentage Rate(1) (in years)
Secured notes payable $ 349,352 $ — $ 349,352 5.2% 3.57% 4.0
Unsecured senior notes payable 6,044,127 — 6,044,127 89.1 3.99 11.2
Commercial paper program — — — — N/A N/A
$2.2 billion unsecured senior line of credit — 384,000 384,000 5.7 2.89 4.1
Total/weighted average $ 6,393,479 $ 384,000 $ 6,777,479 100.0% 3.91% 10.4
Percentage of total debt 94% 6% 100%
(1)  Represents the weighted-average interest rate as of the end of the applicable period, including amortization of loan fees, amortization of debt premiums (discounts), and 
other bank fees.
F-38
F-38  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
ands): Unamortized(DeferredFinancingCost),(Discount)PrincipalTotalPremium $31,674$(198)$31,476 79,4041,77181,175 197,43410,978208,412 28,200(639)27,561 728728— 337,44011,912349,352 ——— 384,000—384,000 500,000(2,065)497,935 650,000(548)649,452 600,000(4,667)595,333 300,000(2,942)297,058 350,000(3,081)346,919 350,000(3,552)346,448 425,000(3,403)421,597 300,000(2,126)297,874 400,000(4,089)395,911 450,000(3,903)446,097 750,000(7,527)742,473 300,000(3,446)296,554 700,00010,476710,476 6,459,000(30,873)6,428,127 $6,796,440$(18,961)$6,777,479 e date of issuance. Borrowings under the program s equal to or more favorable than those under the were issued at a yield to maturity of between 1.83% 
10. Secured and unsecured senior debt (continued) The following table summarizes our outstanding indebtedness and respective principal payments as of December 31, 2019 (dollars in thous Principal Payments Remaining for the Periods Ending December 31,Maturity Stated Interest (1)(2)RateRate Debt20202021202220232024ThereafterDate  Secured notes payable San Diego4.66%4.90%1/1/23$1,621$1,852$1,942$26,259$—$— Greater Boston3.93%3.193/10/231,5651,6291,69374,517—— Greater Boston4.82%3.402/6/243,2073,3943,5643,742183,527— San Francisco4.14%4.427/1/26—————28,200 587San Francisco6.50%6.507/1/362526283230 Secured debt weighted-average interest rate/4.55%3.576,4186,9017,227104,548183,55928,787subtotal (3)(3)N/AN/AN/A——————Commercial paper program $2.2 billion unsecured senior line of creditL+0.825%2.891/28/24————384,000— Unsecured senior notes payable3.90%4.046/15/23———500,000—— Unsecured senior notes payable – green bond4.00%4.031/15/24————650,000— Unsecured senior notes payable3.45%3.624/30/25—————600,000 Unsecured senior notes payable4.30%4.501/15/26—————300,000 Unsecured senior notes payable – green bond3.80%3.964/15/26—————350,000 Unsecured senior notes payable3.95%4.131/15/27—————350,000 Unsecured senior notes payable3.95%4.071/15/28—————425,000 Unsecured senior notes payable4.50%4.607/30/29—————300,000 Unsecured senior notes payable2.75%2.8712/15/29—————400,000 Unsecured senior notes payable4.70%4.817/1/30—————450,000 Unsecured senior notes payable3.375%3.488/15/31—————750,000 Unsecured senior notes payable4.85%4.934/15/49—————300,000 Unsecured senior notes payable4.00%3.912/1/50—————700,000 Unsecured debt weighted-average interest rate/3.93———500,0001,034,0004,925,000subtotal Weighted-average interest rate/total3.91%$6,418$6,901$7,227$604,548$1,217,559$4,953,787 1) Represents the weighted-average interest rate as of the end of the applicable period, including amortization of loan fees, amortization of debt premiums (discounts), and other bank fees.2) Reflects any extension options that we control.3) In September 2019, we established a commercial paper program that has the ability to issue up to $750.0 million of commercial paper notes with a maximum maturity of 397 days from thwill be used to fund short-term capital needs and are backed by our $2.2 billion unsecured senior line of credit. In the event we are unable to refinance outstanding borrowings under termunsecured senior line of credit, we expect to borrow under the unsecured senior line of credit at L+0.825%. The commercial paper notes sold during the year ended December 31, 2019, and 2.29%. F-39
  (((
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-39
10. Secured and unsecured senior debt (continued)
$2.2 billion unsecured senior line of credit
We use our unsecured senior line of credit to fund working capital, construction activities, and, from time to time, acquisition of 
properties. Borrowings under the unsecured senior line of credit will bear interest at a “Eurocurrency Rate,” a “LIBOR Floating Rate,” or 
a “Base Rate” specified in the amended unsecured senior line of credit agreement plus, in any case, the Applicable Margin. The 
Eurocurrency Rate specified in the amended unsecured senior line of credit agreement is, as applicable, the rate per annum equal to 
either (i) the LIBOR or a successor rate thereto as agreed to by the administrative agent and the Company for loans denominated in a 
LIBOR quoted currency (i.e., U.S. dollars, euro, sterling, or yen), (ii) the average annual yield rates applicable to Canadian dollar 
bankers’ acceptances for loans denominated in Canadian dollars, (iii) the Bank Bill Swap Reference Bid rate for loans denominated in 
Australian dollars, or (iv) the rate designated with respect to the applicable alternative currency for loans denominated in a non-LIBOR 
quoted currency (other than Canadian or Australian dollars). The LIBOR Floating Rate means, for any day, one month LIBOR, or a 
successor rate thereto as agreed to by the administrative agent and the Company for loans denominated in U.S. dollars. The Base 
Rate means, for any day, a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the highest of (i) the federal funds rate plus 1/2 of 1.00%, (ii) the rate of 
interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its “prime rate,” and (iii) the Eurocurrency 
Rate plus 1.00%. Our unsecured senior line of credit contains a feature that allows lenders to competitively bid on the interest rate for 
borrowings under the facility. This may result in an interest rate that is below the stated rate. In addition to the cost of borrowing, the 
facility is subject to an annual facility fee of 0.15% based on the aggregate commitments outstanding. 
$750.0 million commercial paper program
  In September 2019, we established a commercial paper program, which received credit ratings of A-2 from S&P Global 
Ratings and Prime-2 from Moody’s Investors Service. Under this program, we have the ability to issue up to $750.0 million of 
commercial paper notes with a maximum maturity of 397 days from the date of issuance. Our commercial paper program is backed by 
our $2.2 billion unsecured senior line of credit, and at all times we expect to retain a minimum undrawn amount of borrowing capacity 
under our unsecured senior line of credit equal to any outstanding balance on our commercial paper program. The net proceeds of the 
issuances of the notes are expected to be used for general working capital and other general corporate purposes. General corporate 
purposes may include, but are not limited to, the repayment of other debt and selective development, redevelopment, or acquisition of 
properties. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the commercial paper notes were issued at a yield to maturity of between 1.83% 
and 2.29%. As of December 31, 2019, we had no outstanding borrowings under our commercial paper program.
Unsecured senior notes payable
  As of December 31, 2019, we have unsecured senior notes payable aggregating $6.1 billion, which are unsecured obligations 
of the Company and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., a 100% owned subsidiary of the 
Company. The unsecured senior notes payable rank equally in right of payment with all other senior unsecured indebtedness. However, 
the unsecured senior notes payable are subordinate to existing and future mortgages and other secured indebtedness (to the extent of 
the value of the collateral securing such indebtedness) and to all existing and future preferred equity and liabilities, whether secured or 
unsecured, of the Company’s subsidiaries, other than Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P. In addition, the terms of the indentures, 
among other things, limit the ability of the Company, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P., and the Company’s subsidiaries to 
(i) consummate a merger, or consolidate or sell all or substantially all of the Company’s assets, and (ii) incur certain secured or 
unsecured indebtedness.
F-40
F-40  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
10. Secured and unsecured senior debt (continued)
  During the year ended December 31, 2019, our issuances of unsecured senior notes payable and repayments of debt 
included the following (dollars in millions): 
Stated Effective
Issuance Interest Interest Maturity Principal Net
Date Rate Rate Date Amount Proceeds
Issuances
Unsecured senior notes payable – green bond March 4.00% 4.03% 1/15/24 $ 200 $ 203.0
Unsecured senior notes payable – green bond March 3.80 3.96 4/15/26 350 346.6
Unsecured senior notes payable March 4.85 4.93 4/15/49 300 296.5
Unsecured senior notes payable July 3.375 3.48 8/15/31 750 742.5
Unsecured senior notes payable July/Sept 4.00 3.91 2/1/50 700 711.1
Unsecured senior notes payable Sept 2.75 2.87 12/15/29 400 395.8
3.71% 3.77% 16.9 years $ 2,700 (1) $ 2,695.5
Repayments of debt
Secured notes payable Jan 7.75% 8.15% 4/1/20 $ 107 N/A
Secured construction loan March 3.29 3.29 1/28/20 193 N/A
Unsecured senior notes payable July/Aug 2.75 2.96 1/15/20 400 N/A
Unsecured senior notes payable July/Aug 4.60 4.75 4/1/22 550 N/A
Unsecured senior bank term loan July/Sept 3.62 3.62 1/2/25 350 N/A
Weighted average/total 3.97% 4.11% 2.4 years $ 1,600 (1)
(1)  The remaining proceeds received from our debt issuances, after repayments of debt, were used to fund the construction of our value-creation pipeline and acquisitions 
completed during 2019. Refer to Note 3 – “Investments in Real Estate” to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
  Our $350.0 million of 3.80% unsecured senior notes payable and our $200.0 million of 4.00% unsecured senior notes payable 
issued in March 2019 were allocated to fund recently completed and future eligible green development and redevelopment projects, 
and to the repayment of the outstanding balance of $193.1 million under our secured construction loan related to 50/60 Binney Street, a 
recently completed Class A property, which was awarded LEED® Gold certification.
  The proceeds from our $300.0 million of 4.85% unsecured senior notes payable issued in March 2019 were primarily allocated 
to fund acquisitions completed during 2019. Refer to Note 3 – “Investments in Real Estate” to our consolidated financial statements for 
additional information.
  
  The proceeds from our $750.0 million of 3.375% unsecured senior notes payable issued in July 2019 and partial proceeds 
from our $700.0 million of 4.00% unsecured senior notes payable, which was issued in two tranches of $500.0 million during July 2019 
and $200.0 million during September 2019, were primarily used to refinance $400.0 million of 2.75% unsecured senior notes payable 
due 2020 and $550.0 million of 4.60% unsecured senior notes payable due 2022, pursuant to a partial cash tender offer completed on 
July 17, 2019, and a subsequent call for redemption for the remaining outstanding amounts. The redemption was settled on August 16, 
2019. Additionally, a portion of the proceeds from our $750.0 million of 3.375% unsecured senior notes payable, $700.0 million of 
4.00% unsecured senior notes payable, and $400.0 million of 2.75% unsecured senior notes payable issued in September 2019 were 
used to complete the repayment of the remaining principal balance on our unsecured senior bank term loan of $350.0 million.
  As a result of our debt issuances and repayments of debt, we recognized losses of $47.6 million related to the early 
extinguishment of debt during the year ended December 31, 2019, including $40.2 million related to the refinancing of our 2.75% 
unsecured senior notes payable due 2020 and 4.60% unsecured senior notes payable and the repayment of our unsecured senior bank 
term loan. 
Repayment of secured notes payable
  In January 2019, we repaid early one secured note payable aggregating $106.7 million, which was originally due in 2020 and 
bore interest at 7.75%, and recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $7.1 million, including the write-off of unamortized loan 
fees.
  In March 2019, we repaid early the remaining outstanding balance of $193.1 million under our secured construction loan related 
to 50/60 Binney Street, which was due in 2020 and bore interest at LIBOR+1.5%, and recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt 
of $269 thousand, including the write-off of unamortized loan fees.
F-41
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-41
10. Secured and unsecured senior debt (continued)
Interest expense
Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, consisted of the following (dollars in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
Interest incurred $ 262,238 $ 223,715 $ 186,867
Capitalized interest (88,563) (66,220) (58,222)
Interest expense $ 173,675 $ 157,495 $ 128,645
11.  Interest rate hedge agreements
Hedge accounting
  From time to time, we utilize interest rate hedge agreements to manage a portion of our exposure to variable interest rates. As 
a result, our interest rate hedge agreements are generally designated as cash flow hedges. At inception of a hedge agreement, we are 
required to perform an initial quantitative assessment to determine whether a hedge is highly effective in offsetting changes in cash 
flows associated with the hedged item. For cash flow hedges that are highly effective at inception and continue to be highly effective, 
we record all changes (effective and ineffective components) in fair value of our hedges, including accrued interest and adjustments for 
non-performance risk, in accumulated other comprehensive income within total equity and reclassify them into earnings when the 
hedged item affects earnings. Refer to the “Hedge Accounting” section in Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our 
consolidated financial statements for further information about our accounting policy for interest-rate hedge instruments.  
  Historically, our interest rate hedge agreements have primarily related to our borrowings with variable interest rates based on 
LIBOR. However, in connection with the LIBOR cessation projected by the end of 2021 and potential replacement of this rate in the 
U.S. with SOFR, we have implemented numerous proactive measures to minimize the potential impact of the transition to the 
Company, specifically:
•  We have proactively reduced outstanding LIBOR-based borrowings under our unsecured senior bank term loans and secured 
construction loans through repayments. From January 2017 to December 2018, we retired approximately $942.0 million of 
such debt.
•  During the year ended December 31, 2019, we further reduced our exposure to LIBOR as follows:
•  Repaid the $350.0 million balance and extinguished our unsecured senior bank term loan.
•  Fully repaid outstanding balances aggregating $193.1 million under our LIBOR-based construction loans.
•  During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we established a commercial paper program, under which we have the 
ability to issue up to $750.0 million of commercial paper notes, bearing interest at short-term fixed rates, with a maximum 
maturity of 397 days from the date of issuance. Our commercial paper program is not subject to LIBOR and is used for funding 
short-term working capital needs. As of December 31, 2019, we had no outstanding borrowings under our commercial paper 
program.
•  We continue to prudently manage outstanding borrowings under our unsecured senior line of credit, which represented less 
than 6% of our total debt balance outstanding as of December 31, 2019. Excluding LIBOR-based debt held by our 
unconsolidated joint ventures, borrowings under our unsecured senior line of credit represented our only LIBOR-based debt 
outstanding as of December 31, 2019. 
  In conjunction with the $350.0 million repayment of our unsecured senior bank term loan, as discussed above, during the three 
months ended September 30, 2019, we also terminated all of our interest rate hedge agreements with an aggregate notional balance of 
$350.0 million and a weighted-average interest pay rate of 2.57%. Upon discontinuation of the hedging relationship as required by the 
applicable accounting standards, we evaluated the probability of our making variable interest payments on LIBOR-based borrowing by 
the date the hedging relationship was originally designated to mature, and determined that it was probable that variable interest 
payments on LIBOR-based borrowing would not occur. As a result, we reclassified the entire loss on our interest rate hedge 
agreements aggregating $1.7 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss into interest expense in our consolidated statements 
of operations. As of December 31, 2019, we had no outstanding interest rate hedge agreements. 
F-42
F-42  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
12.  Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities
The following table summarizes the components of accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities as of 
December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands):
December 31,
2019 2018
Accounts payable and accrued expenses $ 198,994 $ 215,539
Accrued construction 275,818 275,882
Acquired below-market leases 194,773 134,808
Conditional asset retirement obligations 14,037 10,343
Deferred rent liabilities(1) 2,897 29,547
Interest rate hedge liabilities — 768
Operating lease liability(1) 271,808 —
Unearned rent and tenant security deposits 275,863 250,923
Other liabilities 86,078 63,897
Total $ 1,320,268 $ 981,707
(1)  Refer to Note 2 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 5 – “Leases” to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Some of our properties may contain asbestos, which, under certain conditions, requires remediation. Although we believe that 
the asbestos is appropriately contained in accordance with environmental regulations, our practice is to remediate the asbestos upon 
the development or redevelopment of the affected property. We recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement 
obligation (including asbestos) when the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. For certain properties, we do not 
recognize an asset retirement obligation when there is an indeterminate settlement date for the obligation because the period in which 
we may remediate the obligation may not be estimated with any level of precision to provide a meaningful estimate of the retirement 
obligation. 
F-43
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-43
13. Earnings per share
  From time to time, we enter into forward equity sales agreements, discussed in Note 16 – “Stockholders’ Equity” to our 
consolidated financial statements. We considered the potential dilution resulting from the forward equity sales agreements on the EPS 
calculations. At inception, the agreements do not have an effect on the computation of basic EPS as no shares are delivered until 
settlement. The common shares issued upon the settlement of the forward equity sales agreements, weighted for the period these 
common shares were outstanding, are included in the denominator of basic EPS. To determine the dilution resulting from the forward 
equity sales agreements during the period of time prior to settlement, we calculate the number of weighted-average shares outstanding 
– diluted using the treasury stock method. 
  During the year ended December 31, 2019, we repurchased, in privately negotiated transactions, 275,000 shares of our 7.00% 
Series D cumulative convertible preferred stock (“Series D Convertible Preferred Stock”). Additionally, in October 2019 we elected to 
convert 2.3 million outstanding shares of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock. As of 
December 31, 2019, we had no shares of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding. Refer to “7.00% Series D Cumulative 
Convertible Preferred Stock Repurchases and Conversion” in Note 16 – “Stockholders’ Equity” to our consolidated financial statements 
for further detail. For the period during which our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock was outstanding, we calculated the number of 
weighted-average shares outstanding – diluted using the if-converted method. Shares of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s 
common shares issued upon conversion, weighted for the period the common shares were outstanding, were included in the 
denominator for the period after the date of conversion. For purposes of calculating diluted EPS, we did not assume conversion of our 
Series D Convertible Preferred Stock for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, since the result was antidilutive to EPS 
attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders from continuing operations during those periods. 
We account for unvested restricted stock awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends as participating securities and 
include these securities in the computation of EPS using the two-class method. Our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock and forward 
equity sales agreements are not participating securities and are therefore not included in the computation of EPS using the two-class 
method. Under the two-class method, we allocate net income (after amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests, dividends on 
preferred stock, and preferred stock redemption charge) to common stockholders and unvested restricted stock awards by using the 
weighted-average shares of each class outstanding for quarter-to-date and year-to-date periods independently, based on their 
respective participation rights to dividends declared (or accumulated) and undistributed earnings.
The table below is a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted EPS computations for the 
years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017 (in thousands, except per share amounts):
Year Ended December 31,
2019 2018 2017
Net income $ 404,047 $ 402,793 $ 194,204
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (40,882) (23,481) (25,111)
Dividends on preferred stock (3,204) (5,060) (7,666)
Preferred stock redemption charge (2,580) (4,240) (11,279)
Net income attributable to unvested restricted stock awards (6,386) (6,029) (4,753)
 Numerator for basic and diluted EPS – net income attributable to Alexandria
Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders $ 350,995 $ 363,983 $ 145,395
Denominator for basic EPS – weighted-average shares of common stock
outstanding 112,204 103,010 91,546
Dilutive effect of forward equity sales agreements 320 311 517
Denominator for diluted EPS – weighted-average shares of common stock
outstanding 112,524 103,321 92,063
Net income per share attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s
common stockholders:
Basic $ 3.13 $ 3.53 $ 1.59
Diluted $ 3.12 $ 3.52 $ 1.58
F-44
F-44  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
14.  Income taxes
We have elected to be taxed as a REIT, under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. We believe we 
have qualified and continue to qualify as a REIT. Under the Code, a REIT that distributes at least 90% of its REIT taxable income to its 
shareholders annually and meets certain other conditions is not subject to federal income taxes, but could be subject to certain state, 
local, and foreign taxes. We distribute 100% of our taxable income annually; therefore, a provision for federal income taxes is not 
required. 
We distributed all of our REIT taxable income in 2018 and 2017 and, as a result, did not incur federal income tax in those 
years on such income. For the year ended December 31, 2019, we expect our distributions to exceed our REIT taxable income and, as 
a result, do not expect to incur federal income tax. We expect to finalize our 2019 REIT taxable income when we file our 2019 federal 
income tax return in 2020.
The income tax treatment of distributions and dividends declared on our common stock, our Series D Convertible Preferred 
Stock, and our Series E Redeemable Preferred Stock for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, were as follows 
(unaudited):
Series E Redeemable 
Common Stock Series D Convertible Preferred Stock(1) Preferred Stock(1)
  Year Ended December 31,
  2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 2017
Ordinary income 62.4% 69.9% 62.1% 64.4% 72.7% 85.3% 85.3%
Return of capital 3.2 3.8 27.2 — — — —
Capital gains at 25% 2.2 0.1 0.7 2.2 0.1 1.0 1.0
Capital gains at 20% 32.2 26.2 10.0 33.4 27.2 13.7 13.7
Total 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
Dividends declared $ 4.00 $ 3.73 $ 3.45 $ 1.3125 $ 1.75 $ 1.75 $ 0.4031
(1)   Refer to Note 16 - “Stockholders’ Equity” to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding the conversion of our Series D Preferred Stock and 
redemption of our Series E Preferred Stock.
  Beginning in 2018, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 added Section 199A to allow for a new tax deduction based on certain 
qualified business income. Section 199A provides eligible individual taxpayers a deduction of up to 20 percent of their qualified REIT 
dividends.
Our dividends declared in a given quarter are generally paid during the subsequent quarter. The taxability information 
presented above for our dividends paid in 2019 is based upon management’s estimate. Our federal tax return for 2019 is due on or 
before October 15, 2020, assuming we file for an extension of the due date. Our federal tax returns for previous tax years have not 
been examined by the IRS. Consequently, the taxability of distributions and dividends is subject to change. The income tax treatment of 
distributions and dividends noted above for the year ended December 31, 2019, is inclusive of the changes to taxable income related to 
our 2019 real estate transactions described in Note 3 – “Investments in Real Estate” to our consolidated financial statements.
In addition to our REIT tax returns, we file federal, state, and local tax returns for our subsidiaries. We file with jurisdictions 
located in the U.S., Canada, India, China, and other international locations and may be subject to audits, assessments, or other actions 
by local taxing authorities. We recognize tax benefits of uncertain tax positions only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will 
be sustained, based solely on its technical merits, with the taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. The 
measurement of a tax benefit for an uncertain tax position that meets the “more likely than not” threshold is based on a cumulative 
probability model under which the largest amount of tax benefit recognized is the amount with a greater than 50% likelihood of being 
realized upon ultimate settlement with the taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information.
As of December 31, 2019, there were no material unrecognized tax benefits. We do not anticipate a significant change to the 
total amount of unrecognized tax benefits within the next 12 months.
Interest expense and penalties, if any, are recognized in the first period during which the interest or penalties begin accruing, 
according to the provisions of the relevant tax law at the applicable statutory rate of interest. We did not incur any significant tax-related 
interest expense or penalties for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017.
F-45
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-45
14.  Income taxes (continued)
The following reconciles net income (loss) (determined in accordance to GAAP) to taxable income as filed with the IRS for the 
years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands and unaudited):
Year Ended December 31,
2018 2017
Net income $ 402,793 $ 194,204
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (23,481) (25,111)
Book/tax differences:
Rental revenue recognition (65,901) (121,589)
Depreciation and amortization 161,514 137,576
Share-based compensation 30,771 23,466
Interest expense (6,414) (5,256)
Sales of property (39,393) 12,166
Impairments — 9,011
Unrealized (gains)/losses on non-real estate investments (95,757) —
Other (5,043) 3,642
Taxable income before dividend deduction 359,089 228,109
Dividend deduction necessary to eliminate taxable income(1) (359,089) (228,109)
Estimated income subject to federal income tax $ — $ —
(1)  Total common stock and preferred stock dividend distributions paid were approximately $385.8 million and $321.8 million during the years ended December 31, 2018 
and 2017, respectively.
15. Commitments and contingencies
Employee retirement savings plan
We have a retirement savings plan pursuant to Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code) whereby our 
employees may contribute a portion of their compensation to their respective retirement accounts in an amount not to exceed the 
maximum allowed under the Code. In addition to employee contributions, we have elected to provide company discretionary profit-
sharing contributions (subject to statutory limitations), which amounted to approximately $4.9 million, $4.1 million, and $3.2 million for 
the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Employees who participate in the plan are immediately vested in 
their contributions and in the contributions made on their behalf by the Company.
Concentration of credit risk
We maintain our cash and cash equivalents at insured financial institutions. The combined account balances at each institution 
periodically exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance coverage of $250,000, and, as a result, there is a 
concentration of credit risk related to amounts in excess of FDIC insurance coverage. We have not experienced any losses to date on 
our invested cash.
We are dependent on rental revenue from relatively few tenants. The inability of any single tenant to make its lease payments 
could adversely affect our operations. As of December 31, 2019, we had 820 leases with a total of 622 tenants, and 135, or 46%, of our 
291 properties were each leased to a single tenant. As of December 31, 2019, our three largest tenants, accounted for  4.1%, 3.1%, 
and 3.0% of our aggregate annual rental revenue individually, or 10.2% in the aggregate. 
Commitments
As of December 31, 2019, remaining aggregate costs under contract for the construction of properties undergoing 
development, redevelopment, and improvements under the terms of leases approximated $1.1 billion. We expect payments for these 
obligations to occur over one year to three years, subject to capital planning adjustments from time to time. We may have the ability to 
cease the construction of certain properties, which would result in the reduction of our commitments. In addition, we have letters of 
credit and performance obligations aggregating $11.1 million primarily related to construction projects.
  We are committed to funding approximately $229.5 million for non-real estate investments primarily related to our investments 
in limited partnerships. Our funding commitments expire at various dates over the next 12 years, with a weighted-average remaining 
period of 8.6 years as of December 31, 2019. 
F-46
F-46  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
16. Stockholders’ equity
Common equity transactions
 
  During the year ended December 31, 2019, we issued 8.7 million shares of common stock and received net proceeds of 
$1.2 billion, as follows: 
•  Issued an aggregate of 8.1 million shares of common stock, at a weighted-average price of $139.32 per share, for aggregate 
proceeds (net of underwriters’ discounts) of approximately $1.1 billion. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we incurred 
initial issuance costs aggregating $700 thousand in connection with these forward equity sales agreements. 
•  Issued 602,484 shares of common stock under our ATM program, at a weighted-average price of $145.58 per share, for net 
proceeds of $86.1 million, during the three months ended June 30, 2019. As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 
$22.5 million of gross proceeds available to be issued under our ATM program.
•  The proceeds were used to fund construction projects and to fund 2019 acquisitions completed prior to December 2019.
  In January 2020, we entered into forward equity sales agreements to sell an aggregate of 6.9 million shares of our common 
stock (including the exercise of underwriters’ option) at a public offering price of $155.00 per share, before underwriting discounts. We 
expect to settle these forward equity sales agreements in 2020 and receive proceeds of approximately $1.0 billion, to be further 
adjusted as provided in the sales agreements, which will fund pending and recently completed acquisitions and the construction of our 
highly leased development projects. 
7.00% Series D cumulative convertible preferred stock repurchases and conversion
  As of December 31, 2019, we had no outstanding shares of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock remaining. During the 
year ended December 31, 2019, we repurchased, in privately negotiated transactions, 275,000 outstanding shares of our Series D 
Convertible Preferred Stock at an aggregate price of $9.2 million, or $33.60 per share. We recognized a preferred stock redemption 
charge of $2.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2019, including the write-off of original issuance costs of approximately 
$215 thousand. Additionally, in September 2019, we elected to convert the remaining 2.3 million outstanding shares of our Series D 
Convertible Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock. The Series D Convertible Preferred Stock became eligible for mandatory 
conversion at our discretion, at a set conversion rate of 0.2513 shares of common stock to one share of preferred stock, upon our 
common stock price exceeding $149.46 per share for the specified period of time required to cause the mandatory conversion. In 
October 2019, we converted the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock into 578 thousand shares of common stock. This conversion was 
accounted for as an equity transaction, and we did not recognize a gain or loss.
  As of December 31, 2018, we had 2.6 million shares of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock issued and outstanding. 
During the year ended December 31, 2018, we repurchased, in privately negotiated transactions, 402,000 outstanding shares for an 
aggregate price of $14.0 million, or $34.77 per share. We recognized a preferred stock redemption charge of $4.2 million during the 
year ended December 31, 2018, including the write-off of original issuance costs of approximately $314 thousand. 
  As of December 31, 2017, we had 3.0 million shares of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock issued and outstanding. 
During the year ended December 31, 2017, we repurchased, in privately negotiated transactions, 501,115 outstanding shares for an 
aggregate price of $17.9 million, or $35.79 per share. We recognized a preferred stock redemption charge of $5.8 million during the 
year ended December 31, 2017, including the write-off of original issuance costs of approximately $391 thousand.
  During the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, we declared cash dividends on our Series D Convertible 
Preferred Stock aggregating $3.2 million, or $1.3125 per share, $5.1 million, or $1.75 per share, and $5.2 million, or $1.75 per share, 
respectively. 
  The dividends on our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock were cumulative and accrued from the date of original issuance. 
We paid dividends quarterly in arrears at an annual rate of $1.75 per share. Our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock had no stated 
maturity and was not subject to any sinking fund or mandatory redemption provisions. We were not allowed to redeem our Series D 
Convertible Preferred Stock, except to preserve our status as a REIT, but could at our option, cause some or all of our Series D 
Convertible Preferred Stock to be automatically converted if the closing sale price per share of our common stock equaled or exceeded 
150% of the then-applicable conversion price of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock for at least 20 trading days in a period of 30 
consecutive trading days ending on the trading day immediately prior to our issuance of a press release announcing the exercise of our 
conversion option. Investors in our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock generally had no voting rights, and could at any time and from 
time to time, convert some or all of their outstanding shares initially at a conversion rate of 0.2477 shares of common stock per $25.00 
liquidation preference, which was equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $100.93 per share of common stock. The 
conversion rate for the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock was subject to adjustments for certain events, including, but not limited to, 
certain dividends on our common stock in excess of $0.78 per share per quarter and dividends on our common stock payable in shares 
of our common stock. 
F-47
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-47
16. Stockholders’ equity (continued)
6.45% Series E cumulative redeemable preferred stock redemption
  In March 2017, we announced the redemption of our Series E Redeemable Preferred Stock and recognized a preferred stock 
redemption charge of $5.5 million related to the write-off of original issuance costs. On April 14, 2017, we completed the redemption of 
all 5.2 million outstanding shares of our Series E Redeemable Preferred Stock at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, or an 
aggregate of $130.0 million, plus accrued dividends, using funds primarily from the proceeds of our March 2017 common stock offering.
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
The following table presents the changes in each component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) attributable 
to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s stockholders during the year ended December 31, 2019 (in thousands):
Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on:
Interest Rate Foreign Currency
  Hedge Agreements Translation Total
Balance as of December 31, 2018 $ 1,838 $ (12,273) $ (10,435)
Other comprehensive (loss) income before reclassifications (1,763) 2,524 761
Reclassification of amortization income to interest expense (1,777) — (1,777)
Reclassification of losses in accumulated other comprehensive
income to interest expense upon swap termination 1,702 — 1,702
Net other comprehensive (loss) income (1,838) 2,524 686
Balance as of December 31, 2019 $ — $ (9,749) $ (9,749)
Common stock, preferred stock, and excess stock authorizations
Our charter authorizes the issuance of 200.0 million shares of common stock, of which 120.8 million shares were issued and 
outstanding as of December 31, 2019. Our charter also authorizes the issuance of up to 100.0 million shares of preferred stock, none of 
which were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2019. In addition, 200.0 million shares of “excess stock” (as defined in our 
charter) are authorized, none of which were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2019.
Additional paid-in capital
  During 2019, we sold partial interests in three of our properties at 75/125 Binney Street, 500 Forbes Boulevard, and 5200 
Illumina Way. Upon completion of the partial interest sales of these properties aggregating 1.3 million RSF for an aggregate sales price 
of $864.2 million, we formed real estate joint ventures with our respective joint venture partners in each transaction. Since we retained 
controlling interests in all of the resulting joint ventures, we continued to consolidate these entities. Accordingly, we accounted for the 
difference between consideration in excess of book value received and the book value of the interests sold as equity financing 
transactions, and the amounts were recorded as adjustments to additional paid-in capital in 2019, with no gain or loss recognized in 
earnings. These transactions did not qualify as sales of real estate and did not result in purchase accounting adjustments to the 
carrying value. Accordingly, the carrying amounts of our partner’s share of assets and liabilities are reported at historical cost.
F-48
F-48  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
17. Share-based compensation
Stock plan
For the purpose of attracting and retaining the highest-quality personnel, providing for additional incentives, and promoting the 
success of our Company, we have historically issued two forms of share-based compensation under our equity incentive plan: (i) 
options to purchase common stock and (ii) restricted stock. We have not granted any options since 2002. Each restricted share issued 
reduced the share reserve by three shares (3:1 ratio) prior to March 23, 2018, and by one share (1:1 ratio) on and after March 23, 2018. 
As of December 31, 2019, there were 1,858,673 shares reserved for the granting of future options and stock awards under the equity 
incentive plan.
In addition, the stock plan permits us to issue share awards to our employees, non-employees, and non-employee directors. A 
share award is an award of common stock that (i) may be fully vested upon issuance or (ii) may be subject to the risk of forfeiture under 
Section 83 of the Internal Revenue Code. Shares issued generally vest over a four-year period from the date of issuance, and the sale 
of the shares is restricted prior to the date of vesting. The unearned portion of time-based awards is amortized as stock compensation 
expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Certain restricted share awards are subject to vesting based upon the 
satisfaction of levels of performance and market conditions. Failure to satisfy the threshold performance conditions will result in the 
forfeiture of shares. Forfeiture of share awards with time-based or performance-based restrictions results in a reversal of previously 
recognized share-based compensation expense. Forfeiture of share awards with market-based restrictions does not result in a reversal 
of previously recognized share-based compensation expense.
The following is a summary of the stock awards activity under our equity incentive plan and related information for the years 
ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017:
Weighted-Average 
Number of Share Grant Date 
Awards Fair Value Per Share
Outstanding at December 31, 2016 1,135,788 $ 87.21
Granted 688,295 $ 108.22
Vested (423,705) $ 85.16
Forfeited (5,796) $ 101.45
Outstanding at December 31, 2017 1,394,582 $ 95.79
Granted 741,244 $ 121.20
Vested (403,120) $ 103.83
Forfeited (20,330) $ 106.38
Outstanding at December 31, 2018 1,712,376 $ 105.22
Granted 768,625 $ 134.70
Vested (666,836) $ 96.77
Forfeited (14,480) $ 119.88
Outstanding at December 31, 2019 1,799,685 $ 119.59
Year Ended December 31,
(In thousands) 2019 2018 2017
Total grant date fair value of stock awards vested $ 64,530 $ 41,854 $ 36,083
Total gross compensation recognized for stock awards $ 68,036 $ 57,341 $ 42,292
Capitalized stock compensation $ 24,396 $ 22,322 $ 16,682
Certain restricted stock awards granted during 2016 through 2019 are subject to performance and market conditions. The 
grant date fair value of these awards is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation pricing model using the following assumptions for 
2019 and 2018, respectively: (i) expected term of 3.0 years and 3.0 years (equal to the remaining performance measurement period at 
the grant date), (ii) volatility of 18.0% and 16.0% (approximating a blended average of implied and historical volatilities), (iii) dividend 
yield of 3.2% and 3.1%, and (iv) risk-free rate of 2.60% and 2.15%.
As of December 31, 2019, there was $168.5 million of unrecognized compensation related to unvested share awards under 
the equity incentive plan, which is expected to be recognized over the next four years and has a weighted-average vesting period of 
approximately 19 months.
F-49
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-49
18. Noncontrolling interests
Noncontrolling interests represent the third-party interests in certain entities in which we have a controlling interest. These 
entities owned 36 properties as of December 31, 2019, and are included in our consolidated financial statements. Noncontrolling 
interests are adjusted for additional contributions and distributions, the proportionate share of the net earnings or losses, and other 
comprehensive income or loss. Distributions, profits, and losses related to these entities are allocated in accordance with the respective 
operating agreements. During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, we distributed $48.2 million and $30.7 million, 
respectively, to our consolidated real estate joint venture partners.
Certain of our noncontrolling interests have the right to require us to redeem their ownership interests in the respective entities. 
We classify these ownership interests in the entities as redeemable noncontrolling interests outside of total equity in our consolidated 
balance sheets. Redeemable noncontrolling interests are adjusted for additional contributions and distributions, the proportionate share 
of the net earnings or losses, and other comprehensive income or loss. If the amount of a redeemable noncontrolling interest is less 
than the maximum redemption value at the balance sheet date, such amount is adjusted to the maximum redemption value. 
Subsequent declines in the redemption value are recognized only to the extent that previous increases have been recognized.
19. Assets classified as held for sale
  In December 2019, we decided to sell two of our real estate investments aggregating 123,862 RSF located in non-cluster 
markets to allow for reinvestment of this capital into our highly leased value-creation pipeline. We evaluated these assets under the 
held for sale impairment model and determined that these investments met the criteria for classification as held for sale but did not meet 
the criteria for classification as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements. Upon classification as held for sale, we 
recognized impairment charges aggregating $12.3 million to lower the carrying amounts to their respective estimated fair values less 
cost to sell. The fair value considered in the impairment of each investment was determined based on several factors, including 
significant other observable inputs such as the consideration of fair values of comparable assets in the market, and discounted cash 
flow analyses.
  As of December 31, 2019, four properties aggregating 526,006 RSF were classified as held for sale and did not meet the 
criteria for classification as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements.
  The following is a summary of net assets as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, for our real estate investments that were 
classified as held for sale as of each respective date (in thousands):
December 31,
2019 2018
Total assets $ 59,412 $ 31,260
Total liabilities (2,860) (2,476)
Total accumulated other comprehensive loss 536 768
Net assets classified as held for sale $ 57,088 $ 29,552
F-50
F-50  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
20. Quarterly financial data (unaudited)
The following is a summary of consolidated financial information on a quarterly basis for 2019 and 2018 (in thousands, except 
per share amounts): 
Quarter
2019 First Second Third Fourth
Total revenues $ 358,842 $ 373,856 $ 390,484 $ 408,114
Net income (loss) attributable to Alexandria Real Estate Equities,
Inc.’s common stockholders $ 123,598 $ 76,330 $ (49,773) $ 199,618
Net income (loss) per share attributable to Alexandria Real
Estate Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders:
Basic(1) $ 1.11 $ 0.68 $ (0.44) $ 1.75
Diluted(1) $ 1.11 $ 0.68 $ (0.44) $ 1.74
Quarter
2018 First Second Third Fourth
Total revenues $ 320,139 $ 325,034 $ 341,823 $ 340,463
 Net income (loss) attributable to Alexandria Real Estate
Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders $ 132,387 $ 52,016 $ 208,940 $ (31,740)
 Net income (loss) per share attributable to Alexandria Real
Estate Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders:
Basic(1) $ 1.33 $ 0.51 $ 2.01 $ (0.30)
Diluted(1) $ 1.32 $ 0.51 $ 1.99 $ (0.30)
(1)  Quarterly earnings per common share amounts may not total to the annual amounts due to rounding and due to the increase in the weighted-average shares of common 
stock outstanding.
21. Subsequent events
Real estate asset acquired in January 2020
  In January 2020, we completed acquisitions of four properties for an aggregate purchase price of $341.2 million, comprising 
800,346 RSF of operating and redevelopment opportunities strategically located across multiple markets.
Consolidated real estate joint venture with Boston Properties, Inc.  
  In January 2020, we formed a real estate joint venture with Boston Properties, Inc., through a non-cash contribution, and are 
targeting a 51% ownership interest over time. We are the managing member with the power to direct the activities that most 
significantly affect the economic performance of the joint venture, and will consolidate this joint venture pursuant to the applicable 
accounting standards. Our partner contributed three office buildings and land supporting 260,000 square feet of future development, 
and we contributed one office building, one office/laboratory building, one amenity building, at 701, 681, and 685 Gateway Boulevard, 
respectively, and land supporting 377,000 square feet of future development. This future mega campus in our South San Francisco 
submarket will aggregate 1.7 million RSF, approximately 50% of which represents future development and redevelopment 
opportunities.
Forward equity sales agreements
In January 2020, we entered into forward equity sales agreements to sell an aggregate of 6.9 million shares of our common 
stock (including the exercise of underwriters’ option) at a public offering price of $155.00 per share, before underwriting discounts. Refer 
to Note 16 – “Stockholders’ Equity” to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
F-51
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-51
22. Condensed consolidating financial information
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. (the “Issuer”) has sold certain debt securities registered under the Securities Act of 1933, 
as amended, that are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P. (the “LP” or the “Guarantor 
Subsidiary”), an indirectly 100% owned subsidiary of the Issuer. The Issuer’s other subsidiaries, including, but not limited to, the 
subsidiaries that own substantially all of its real estate (collectively, the “Combined Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries”), will not provide a 
guarantee of such securities, including the subsidiaries that are partially or 100% owned by the LP. The following condensed 
consolidating financial information presents the condensed consolidating balance sheets as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the 
condensed consolidating statements of operations, comprehensive income, and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2019, 
2018, and 2017, for the Issuer, the Guarantor Subsidiary, and the Combined Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries, as well as the eliminations 
necessary to arrive at the information on a consolidated basis. In presenting the condensed consolidating financial statements, the 
equity method of accounting has been applied to (i) the Issuer’s interests in the Guarantor Subsidiary and the Combined Non-Guarantor 
Subsidiaries, (ii) the Guarantor Subsidiary’s interests in the Combined Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries, and (iii) the Combined Non-
Guarantor Subsidiaries’ interests in the Guarantor Subsidiary, where applicable, even though all such subsidiaries meet the 
requirements to be consolidated under GAAP. All intercompany balances and transactions between the Issuer, the Guarantor 
Subsidiary, and the Combined Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries have been eliminated, as shown in the column “Eliminations.” All assets and 
liabilities have been allocated to the Issuer, the Guarantor Subsidiary, and the Combined Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries generally based 
on legal entity ownership.
F-52
F-52  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
22. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet
as of December 31, 2019 
(In thousands)
Alexandria
Alexandria  Real Estate Combined
Real Estate  Equities, L.P. Non-
Equities, Inc. (Guarantor Guarantor
(Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Assets
Investments in real estate $ — $ — $ 14,844,038 $ — $ 14,844,038
Investments in unconsolidated real estate JVs — — 346,890 — 346,890
Cash and cash equivalents 4,202 — 185,479 — 189,681
Restricted cash 230 — 52,778 — 53,008
Tenant receivables — — 10,691 — 10,691
Deferred rent — — 641,844 — 641,844
Deferred leasing costs — — 270,043 — 270,043
Investments — 1,014 1,139,580 — 1,140,594
Investments in and advances to affiliates 15,498,357 13,950,850 284,207 (29,733,414) —
Other assets 70,022 — 823,692 — 893,714
Total assets $ 15,572,811 $ 13,951,864 $ 18,599,242 $ (29,733,414) $ 18,390,503
Liabilities, Noncontrolling Interests, and Equity
Secured notes payable $ — $ — $ 349,352 $ — $ 349,352
Unsecured senior notes payable 6,044,127 — — — 6,044,127
Unsecured senior line of credit 384,000 — — — 384,000
Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and 
other liabilities 152,580 — 1,167,688 — 1,320,268
Dividends payable 126,278 — — — 126,278
Total liabilities 6,706,985 — 1,517,040 — 8,224,025
Redeemable noncontrolling interests — — 12,300 — 12,300
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s 
stockholders’ equity 8,865,826 13,951,864 15,781,550 (29,733,414) 8,865,826
Noncontrolling interests — — 1,288,352 — 1,288,352
Total equity 8,865,826 13,951,864 17,069,902 (29,733,414) 10,154,178
Total liabilities, noncontrolling interests, and equity $ 15,572,811 $ 13,951,864 $ 18,599,242 $ (29,733,414) $ 18,390,503
F-53
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-53
22. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet
as of December 31, 2018 
(In thousands)
Alexandria
Alexandria Real Estate Combined
Real Estate Equities, L.P. Non-
Equities, Inc. (Guarantor Guarantor
(Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Assets
Investments in real estate $ — $ — $ 11,913,693 $ — $ 11,913,693
Investments in unconsolidated real estate JVs — — 237,507 — 237,507
Cash and cash equivalents 119,112 — 115,069 — 234,181
Restricted cash 193 — 37,756 — 37,949
Tenant receivables — — 9,798 — 9,798
Deferred rent — — 530,237 — 530,237
Deferred leasing costs — — 239,070 — 239,070
Investments — 1,262 891,002 — 892,264
Investments in and advances to affiliates 12,235,577 10,949,631 222,983 (23,408,191) —
Other assets 56,353 — 313,904 — 370,257
Total assets $ 12,411,235 $ 10,950,893 $ 14,511,019 $ (23,408,191) $ 14,464,956
Liabilities, Noncontrolling Interests, and Equity
Secured notes payable $ — $ — $ 630,547 $ — $ 630,547
Unsecured senior notes payable 4,292,293 — — — 4,292,293
Unsecured senior line of credit 208,000 — — — 208,000
Unsecured senior bank term loan 347,415 — — — 347,415
Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other
liabilities 111,282 — 870,425 — 981,707
Dividends payable 110,280 — — — 110,280
Total liabilities 5,069,270 — 1,500,972 — 6,570,242
Redeemable noncontrolling interests — — 10,786 — 10,786
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s stockholders’
equity 7,341,965 10,950,893 12,457,298 (23,408,191) 7,341,965
Noncontrolling interests — — 541,963 — 541,963
Total equity 7,341,965 10,950,893 12,999,261 (23,408,191) 7,883,928
Total liabilities, noncontrolling interests, and equity $ 12,411,235 $ 10,950,893 $ 14,511,019 $ (23,408,191) $ 14,464,956
F-54
F-54  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
22. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Operations
for the Year Ended December 31, 2019 
(In thousands)
Alexandria
Alexandria Real Estate Combined
Real Estate Equities, L.P. Non-
Equities, Inc. (Guarantor Guarantor
(Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Revenues:
Income from rentals $ — $ — $ 1,516,864 $ — $ 1,516,864
Other income 22,731 — 14,684 (22,983) 14,432
Total revenues 22,731 — 1,531,548 (22,983) 1,531,296
Expenses:
Rental operations — — 445,492 — 445,492
General and administrative 106,523 — 25,283 (22,983) 108,823
Interest 164,249 — 9,426 — 173,675
Depreciation and amortization 6,949 — 537,663 — 544,612
Impairment of real estate — — 12,334 — 12,334
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 40,209 — 7,361 — 47,570
Total expenses 317,930 — 1,037,559 (22,983) 1,332,506
Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate JVs — — 10,136 — 10,136
Equity in earnings of affiliates 658,364 490,393 9,644 (1,158,401) —
Investment income — 34 194,613 — 194,647
Gain on sales of real estate — — 474 — 474
Net income 363,165 490,427 708,856 (1,158,401) 404,047
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests — — (40,882) — (40,882)
Net income attributable to Alexandria Real Estate
Equities, Inc.’s stockholders 363,165 490,427 667,974 (1,158,401) 363,165
Dividends on preferred stock (3,204) — — — (3,204)
Preferred stock redemption charge (2,580) — — — (2,580)
Net income attributable to unvested restricted stock
awards (6,386) — — — (6,386)
Net income attributable to Alexandria Real Estate
Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders $ 350,995 $ 490,427 $ 667,974 $ (1,158,401) $ 350,995
F-55
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-55
22. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Operations
for the Year Ended December 31, 2018 
(In thousands)
Alexandria
Alexandria Real Estate Combined
Real Estate Equities, L.P. Non-
Equities, Inc. (Guarantor Guarantor
(Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Revenues:
Income from rentals $ — $ — $ 1,314,781 $ — $ 1,314,781
Other income 19,275 — 14,941 (21,538) 12,678
Total revenues 19,275 — 1,329,722 (21,538) 1,327,459
Expenses:
Rental operations — — 381,120 — 381,120
General and administrative 88,707 — 23,236 (21,538) 90,405
Interest 136,036 — 21,459 — 157,495
Depreciation and amortization 6,339 — 471,322 — 477,661
Impairment of real estate — — 6,311 — 6,311
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 823 — 299 — 1,122
Total expenses 231,905 — 903,747 (21,538) 1,114,114
Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate JVs — — 43,981 — 43,981
Equity in earnings of affiliates 591,942 455,574 9,057 (1,056,573) —
Investment income — 528 136,235 — 136,763
Gain on sales of real estate — — 8,704 — 8,704
Net income 379,312 456,102 623,952 (1,056,573) 402,793
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests — — (23,481) — (23,481)
Net income attributable to Alexandria Real Estate
Equities, Inc.’s stockholders 379,312 456,102 600,471 (1,056,573) 379,312
Dividends on preferred stock (5,060) — — — (5,060)
Preferred stock redemption charge (4,240) — — — (4,240)
Net income attributable to unvested restricted stock
awards (6,029) — — — (6,029)
Net income attributable to Alexandria Real Estate
Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders $ 363,983 $ 456,102 $ 600,471 $ (1,056,573) $ 363,983
F-56
F-56  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
22. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Operations
for the Year Ended December 31, 2017 
(In thousands)
Alexandria
Alexandria Real Estate Combined
Real Estate Equities, L.P. Non-
Equities, Inc. (Guarantor Guarantor
(Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Revenues:
Income from rentals $ — $ — $ 1,122,325 $ — $ 1,122,325
Other income (loss) 15,238 (2,575) 11,278 (18,169) 5,772
Total revenues 15,238 (2,575) 1,133,603 (18,169) 1,128,097
Expenses:
Rental operations — — 325,609 — 325,609
General and administrative 73,897 — 19,281 (18,169) 75,009
Interest 101,876 — 26,769 — 128,645
Depreciation and amortization 7,625 — 409,158 — 416,783
Impairment of real estate — — 203 — 203
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 670 — 2,781 — 3,451
Total expenses 184,068 — 783,801 (18,169) 949,700
Equity in losses of unconsolidated real estate JVs — — 15,426 — 15,426
Equity in earnings of affiliates 337,923 328,230 6,384 (672,537) —
Gain on sale of real estate – rental properties — — 270 — 270
Gain on sales of real estate – land parcels — — 111 — 111
Net income 169,093 325,655 371,993 (672,537) 194,204
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests — — (25,111) — (25,111)
Net income attributable to Alexandria Real Estate
Equities, Inc.’s stockholders 169,093 325,655 346,882 (672,537) 169,093
Dividends on preferred stock (7,666) — — — (7,666)
Preferred stock redemption charge (11,279) — — — (11,279)
Net income attributable to unvested restricted stock
awards (4,753) — — — (4,753)
Net income attributable to Alexandria Real Estate
Equities, Inc.’s common stockholders $ 145,395 $ 325,655 $ 346,882 $ (672,537) $ 145,395
F-57
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-57
22. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the Year Ended December 31, 2019 
(In thousands)
Alexandria
Alexandria Real Estate Combined
Real Estate Equities, L.P. Non-
Equities, Inc. (Guarantor Guarantor
(Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Net income $ 363,165 $ 490,427 $ 708,856 $ (1,158,401) $ 404,047
Other comprehensive (loss) income
Unrealized losses on interest rate hedge
agreements:
Unrealized interest rate hedge losses arising
during the period (1,763) — — — (1,763)
Reclassification adjustment for amortization to
interest expense included in net income (1,777) — — — (1,777)
Reclassification of losses related to terminated
interest rate hedge instruments to interest
expense included in net income 1,702 — — — 1,702
Unrealized losses on interest rate hedge
agreements, net (1,838) — — — (1,838)
Unrealized gains on foreign currency translation:
Unrealized foreign currency translation gains
arising during the period — — 2,524 — 2,524
Unrealized gains on foreign currency translation, net — — 2,524 — 2,524
Total other comprehensive (loss) income (1,838) — 2,524 — 686
Comprehensive income 361,327 490,427 711,380 (1,158,401) 404,733
Less: comprehensive income attributable to
noncontrolling interests — — (40,882) — (40,882)
Comprehensive income attributable to Alexandria Real
Estate Equities, Inc.’s stockholders $ 361,327 $ 490,427 $ 670,498 $ (1,158,401) $ 363,851
F-58
F-58  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
22. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the Year Ended December 31, 2018 
(In thousands)
Alexandria
Alexandria Real Estate Combined
Real Estate Equities, L.P. Non-
Equities, Inc. (Guarantor Guarantor
(Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Net income $ 379,312 $ 456,102 $ 623,952 $ (1,056,573) $ 402,793
Other comprehensive loss
Unrealized losses on interest rate hedge
agreements:
Unrealized interest rate hedge gains arising
during the period 1,622 — — — 1,622
Reclassification adjustment for amortization to
interest expense included in net income (4,941) — — — (4,941)
Unrealized losses on interest rate hedge
agreements, net (3,319) — — — (3,319)
Unrealized losses on foreign currency translation:
Unrealized foreign currency translation losses
arising during the period — — (7,369) — (7,369)
Unrealized losses on foreign currency translation,
net — — (7,369) — (7,369)
Total other comprehensive loss (3,319) — (7,369) — (10,688)
Comprehensive income 375,993 456,102 616,583 (1,056,573) 392,105
Less: comprehensive income attributable to
noncontrolling interests — — (23,481) — (23,481)
Comprehensive income attributable to Alexandria
Real Estate Equities, Inc.’s stockholders $ 375,993 $ 456,102 $ 593,102 $ (1,056,573) $ 368,624
F-59
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-59
22. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the Year Ended December 31, 2017 
(In thousands)
Alexandria
Alexandria Real Estate Combined
Real Estate Equities, L.P. Non-
Equities, Inc. (Guarantor Guarantor
(Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Net income $ 169,093 $ 325,655 $ 371,993 $ (672,537) $ 194,204
Other comprehensive income (loss)
Unrealized (losses) gains on available-for-sale equity
securities:
Unrealized holding (losses) gains arising during
the period — (5) 24,365 — 24,360
Reclassification adjustment for losses included in
net income — 2 6,116 — 6,118
Unrealized (losses) gains on available-for-sale equity
securities, net — (3) 30,481 — 30,478
Unrealized gains (losses) on interest rate hedge
agreements:
Unrealized interest rate hedge gains (losses)
arising during the period 3,025 — (188) — 2,837
Reclassification adjustment for amortization to
interest expense included in net income 1,914 — 1 — 1,915
Unrealized gains (losses) on interest rate hedge
agreements, net 4,939 — (187) — 4,752
Unrealized gains on foreign currency translation:
Unrealized foreign currency translation gains
arising during the period — — 7,774 — 7,774
Reclassification adjustment for cumulative foreign
currency translation losses included in net
income upon sale or liquidation — — 1,599 — 1,599
Unrealized gains on foreign currency translation, net — — 9,373 — 9,373
Total other comprehensive income (loss) 4,939 (3) 39,667 — 44,603
Comprehensive income 174,032 325,652 411,660 (672,537) 238,807
Less: comprehensive income attributable to
noncontrolling interests — — (25,045) — (25,045)
Comprehensive income attributable to Alexandria Real
Estate Equities, Inc.’s stockholders $ 174,032 $ 325,652 $ 386,615 $ (672,537) $ 213,762
F-60
F-60  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
22. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows
for the Year Ended December 31, 2019 
(In thousands)
Alexandria Real Combined
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Non-
Estate Equities, L.P. (Guarantor Guarantor
Inc. (Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Operating Activities
Net income $ 363,165 $ 490,427 $ 708,856 $ (1,158,401) $ 404,047
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash (used in) provided by
operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization 6,949 — 537,663 — 544,612
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 40,209 — 7,361 — 47,570
Impairment of real estate — — 12,334 — 12,334
Gain on sales of real estate – rental properties — — (474) — (474)
Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate JVs — — (10,136) — (10,136)
Distributions of earnings from unconsolidated real estate JVs — — 2,796 — 2,796
Amortization of loan fees 8,780 — 325 — 9,105
Amortization of debt premiums (573) — (3,204) — (3,777)
Amortization of acquired below-market leases — — (29,813) — (29,813)
Deferred rent — — (104,235) — (104,235)
Stock compensation expense 43,640 — — — 43,640
Equity in earnings of affiliates (658,364) (490,393) (9,644) 1,158,401 —
Investment income — (34) (194,613) — (194,647)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Tenant receivables — — (897) — (897)
Deferred leasing costs — — (54,455) — (54,455)
Other assets (7,171) — (13,654) — (20,825)
Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities 22,076 — 16,936 — 39,012
Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities (181,289) — 865,146 — 683,857
Investing Activities
Proceeds from sales of real estate — — 6,619 — 6,619
Additions to real estate — — (1,224,541) — (1,224,541)
Purchases of real estate — — (2,259,778) — (2,259,778)
Deposits for investing activities — — (18,107) — (18,107)
Investments in subsidiaries (2,604,416) (2,510,826) (51,580) 5,166,822 —
Investments in unconsolidated real estate JVs — — (102,081) — (102,081)
Return of capital from unconsolidated real estate JVs — — 14 — 14
Additions to non-real estate investments — — (190,778) — (190,778)
Sales of non-real estate investments — 282 147,050 — 147,332
Net cash used in investing activities $ (2,604,416) $ (2,510,544) $ (3,693,182) $ 5,166,822 $ (3,641,320)
F-61
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-61
22. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows (continued)
for the Year Ended December 31, 2019
(In thousands)
Alexandria Real Combined
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Non-
Estate Equities, L.P. (Guarantor Guarantor
Inc. (Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Financing Activities
Repayments of borrowings from secured notes payable $ — $ — $ (306,199) $ — $ (306,199)
Proceeds from issuance of unsecured senior notes payable 2,721,169 — — — 2,721,169
Repayments of unsecured senior notes payable (950,000) — — — (950,000)
Borrowings from unsecured senior line of credit 5,056,000 — — — 5,056,000
Repayments of borrowings from unsecured senior line of credit (4,880,000) — — — (4,880,000)
Proceeds from issuance of commercial paper program 2,233,000 — — — 2,233,000
Repayments of borrowings from commercial paper program (2,233,000) — — — (2,233,000)
Repayments of borrowings from unsecured senior bank term loan (350,000) — — — (350,000)
Premium paid for early extinguishment of debt (34,677) — (6,674) — (41,351)
Transfer to/from parent company 404,556 2,510,544 2,251,722 (5,166,822) —
Payments of loan fees (26,774) — (408) — (27,182)
Taxes paid related to net settlement of equity awards (25,477) — — — (25,477)
Repurchases of 7.00% Series D cumulative convertible preferred
stock (9,240) — — — (9,240)
Proceeds from the issuance of common stock 1,216,445 — — — 1,216,445
Dividends on common stock (447,029) — — — (447,029)
Dividends on preferred stock (4,141) — — — (4,141)
Contributions from and sales of noncontrolling interests — — 1,022,712 — 1,022,712
Distributions to and purchase of noncontrolling interests — — (48,225) — (48,225)
Net cash provided by financing activities 2,670,832 2,510,544 2,912,928 (5,166,822) 2,927,482
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents — — 540 — 540
Net (decrease) increase in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash (114,873) — 85,432 — (29,441)
Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash as of the beginning of
period 119,305 — 152,825 — 272,130
Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash as of the end of period $ 4,432 $ — $ 238,257 $ — $ 242,689
Supplemental Disclosure and Non-Cash Investing and Financing
Activities:
Cash paid during the period for interest, net of interest capitalized $ 133,033 $ — $ 13,132 $ — $ 146,165
Change in accrued construction $ — $ — $ (24) $ — $ (24)
Accrued construction for current-period additions to real estate $ — $ — $ 220,773 $ — $ 220,773
Assumption of secured notes payable in connection with purchase
of properties $ — $ — $ (28,200) $ — $ (28,200)
Right-of-use asset $ — $ — $ 269,189 $ — $ 269,189
Lease liability $ — $ — $ (275,175) $ — $ (275,175)
Contribution of real estate from noncontrolling interests $ — $ — $ 115,167 $ — $ 115,167
Issuance of common stock for conversion of 7.00% Series D
preferred stock $ 57,461 $ — $ — $ — $ 57,461
F-62
F-62  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
22. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows
for the Year Ended December 31, 2018 
(In thousands)
Alexandria Real Combined
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Non-
Estate Equities, L.P. (Guarantor Guarantor
Inc. (Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Operating Activities
Net income $ 379,312 $ 456,102 $ 623,952 $ (1,056,573) $ 402,793
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash (used in) provided by
operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization 6,339 — 471,322 — 477,661
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 823 — 299 — 1,122
Impairment of real estate — — 6,311 — 6,311
Gain on sales of real estate – rental properties — — (8,704) — (8,704)
Equity in earnings from unconsolidated real estate JVs — — (43,981) — (43,981)
Distributions of earnings from unconsolidated real estate JVs — — 430 — 430
Amortization of loan fees 8,777 — 1,494 — 10,271
Amortization of debt discounts (premiums) 797 — (3,203) — (2,406)
Amortization of acquired below-market leases — — (21,938) — (21,938)
Deferred rent — — (93,883) — (93,883)
Stock compensation expense 35,019 — — — 35,019
Equity in earnings of affiliates (591,942) (455,574) (9,057) 1,056,573 —
Investment income — (528) (136,235) — (136,763)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Tenant receivables — — 435 — 435
Deferred leasing costs — — (57,088) — (57,088)
Other assets (14,701) — (6,148) — (20,849)
Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities 20,663 — 1,246 — 21,909
Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities (154,913) — 725,252 — 570,339
Investing Activities
Proceeds from sales of real estate — — 20,190 — 20,190
Additions to real estate — — (927,168) — (927,168)
Purchases of real estate — — (1,037,180) — (1,037,180)
Deposits for investing activities — — (2,000) — (2,000)
Investments in subsidiaries (1,693,774) (1,463,063) (30,076) 3,186,913 —
Acquisitions of interest in unconsolidated real estate JVs — — (35,922) — (35,922)
Investments in unconsolidated real estate JVs — — (116,008) — (116,008)
Return of capital from unconsolidated real estate JVs — — 68,592 — 68,592
Additions to non-real estate investments — — (235,943) — (235,943)
Sales of non-real estate investments — 956 102,723 — 103,679
Net cash used in investing activities $ (1,693,774) $ (1,462,107) $ (2,192,792) $ 3,186,913 $ (2,161,760)
F-63
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-63
22. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows (continued)
for the Year Ended December 31, 2018 
(In thousands)
Alexandria Real Combined
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Non-
Estate Equities, L.P. (Guarantor Guarantor
Inc. (Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Financing Activities
Borrowings from secured notes payable $ — $ — $ 17,784 $ — $ 17,784
Repayments of borrowings from secured notes payable — — (156,888) — (156,888)
Proceeds from issuance of unsecured senior notes payable 899,321 — — — 899,321
Borrowings from unsecured senior line of credit 4,741,000 — — — 4,741,000
Repayments of borrowings from unsecured senior line of credit (4,583,000) — — — (4,583,000)
Repayment of borrowings from unsecured senior bank term loan (200,000) — — — (200,000)
Transfer to/from parent company 105,961 1,462,098 1,618,854 (3,186,913) —
Payments of loan fees (19,292) — — — (19,292)
Repurchases of 7.00% Series D cumulative convertible preferred stock (13,976) — — — (13,976)
Proceeds from the issuance of common stock 1,293,301 — — — 1,293,301
Dividends on common stock (380,632) — — — (380,632)
Dividends on preferred stock (5,207) — — — (5,207)
Contributions from and sales of noncontrolling interests — — 28,275 — 28,275
Distributions to and purchase of noncontrolling interests — — (32,253) — (32,253)
Net cash provided by financing activities 1,837,476 1,462,098 1,475,772 (3,186,913) 1,588,433
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents — — (2,068) — (2,068)
Net (decrease) increase in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash (11,211) (9) 6,164 — (5,056)
Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash as of the beginning of period 130,516 9 146,661 — 277,186
Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash as of the end of period $ 119,305 $ — $ 152,825 $ — $ 272,130
Supplemental Disclosure and Non-Cash Investing and Financing
Activities:
Cash paid during the period for interest, net of interest capitalized $ 104,935 $ — $ 22,158 $ — $ 127,093
Change in accrued construction $ — $ — $ 81,177 $ — $ 81,177
Accrued construction for current-period additions to real estate $ — $ — $ 244,147 $ — $ 244,147
Payable for purchase of real estate $ — $ — $ (65,000) $ — $ (65,000)
F-64
F-64  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
22. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows
for the Year Ended December 31, 2017 
(In thousands)
Alexandria Real Combined
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Non-
Estate Equities, L.P. (Guarantor Guarantor
Inc. (Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Operating Activities
Net income $ 169,093 $ 325,655 $ 371,993 $ (672,537) $ 194,204
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash (used in) provided by
operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization 7,625 — 409,158 — 416,783
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 670 — 2,781 — 3,451
Impairment of real estate — — 203 — 203
Gains on sales of real estate – rental properties — — (270) — (270)
Gains on sales of real estate – land parcels — — (111) — (111)
Equity in earnings from unconsolidated real estate JVs — — (15,426) — (15,426)
Distributions of earnings from unconsolidated real estate JVs — — 1,618 — 1,618
Amortization of loan fees 7,627 — 3,522 — 11,149
Amortization of debt discounts (premiums) 608 — (3,120) — (2,512)
Amortization of acquired below-market leases — — (19,055) — (19,055)
Deferred rent — — (107,643) — (107,643)
Stock compensation expense 25,610 — — — 25,610
Equity in earnings of affiliates (337,923) (328,230) (6,384) 672,537 —
Investment income — 2,575 (3,904) — (1,329)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Tenant receivables — — (502) — (502)
Deferred leasing costs — — (62,639) — (62,639)
Other assets (9,343) — (8,879) — (18,222)
Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities (10,524) — 36,097 — 25,573
Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities (146,557) — 597,439 — 450,882
Investing Activities
Proceeds from sales of real estate — — 15,432 — 15,432
Additions to real estate — — (893,685) — (893,685)
Purchases of real estate — — (675,584) — (675,584)
Deposits for investing activities — — (2,300) — (2,300)
Investments in subsidiaries (1,458,973) (1,257,845) (25,872) 2,742,690 —
Acquisition of interest in unconsolidated real estate JVs — — (60,291) — (60,291)
Investments in unconsolidated real estate joint ventures — — (17,876) — (17,876)
Return of capital from unconsolidated real estate JVs — — 38,576 — 38,576
Additions to non-real estate investments — — (171,881) — (171,881)
Sales of non-real estate investments — 208 30,275 — 30,483
Net cash used in investing activities $ (1,458,973) $ (1,257,637) $ (1,763,206) $ 2,742,690 $ (1,737,126)
F-65
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-65
22. Condensed consolidating financial information (continued)
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows (continued)
for the Year Ended December 31, 2017 
(In thousands)
Alexandria Real Combined
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Non-
Estate Equities, L.P. (Guarantor Guarantor
Inc. (Issuer) Subsidiary) Subsidiaries Eliminations Consolidated
Financing Activities
Borrowings from secured notes payable $ — $ — $ 153,405 $ — $ 153,405
Repayments of borrowings from secured notes payable — — (396,240) — (396,240)
Proceeds from issuance of unsecured senior notes payable 1,023,262 — — — 1,023,262
Borrowings from unsecured senior line of credit 3,858,000 — — — 3,858,000
Repayments of borrowings from unsecured senior line of credit (3,836,000) — — — (3,836,000)
Repayment of borrowings from unsecured senior bank term loan (200,000) — — — (200,000)
Transfer to/from parent company 64,156 1,257,646 1,420,888 (2,742,690) —
Payments of loan fees (9,440) — (579) — (10,019)
Repurchases of 7.00% Series D cumulative convertible preferred
stock (17,934) — — — (17,934)
Redemption of 6.45% Series E cumulative redeemable preferred
stock (130,350) — — — (130,350)
Proceeds from the issuance of common stock 1,275,397 — — — 1,275,397
Dividends on common stock (312,131) — — — (312,131)
Dividends on preferred stock (9,619) — — — (9,619)
Contributions from and sales of noncontrolling interests — — 44,931 — 44,931
Distributions to and purchases of noncontrolling interests — — (22,361) — (22,361)
Net cash provided by financing activities 1,705,341 1,257,646 1,200,044 (2,742,690) 1,420,341
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents — — 1,723 — 1,723
Net increase in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 99,811 9 36,000 — 135,820
Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash as of the beginning of
period 30,705 — 110,661 — 141,366
Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash as of the end of period $ 130,516 $ 9 $ 146,661 $ — $ 277,186
Supplemental Disclosure and Non-Cash Investing and Financing
Activities:
Cash paid during the period for interest, net of interest capitalized $ 85,705 $ — $ 26,408 $ — $ 112,113
Change in accrued construction $ — $ — $ (11,034) $ — $ (11,034)
Accrued construction for current-period additions to real estate $ — $ — $ 179,154 $ — $ 179,154
Contribution of real estate from noncontrolling interests $ — $ — $ 8,597 $ — $ 8,597
Contribution of real estate to an unconsolidated real estate JV $ — $ — $ 6,998 $ — $ 6,998
F-66
F-66  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
5 7 1 6 8 7 7 7
Date Acquired 005 - 201 2006 2019 016 - 201 000 - 200 2015 2001 005 - 200 1998 2019 2019 2019 2018 998 - 200 014 - 201 2018 2005 2005 2011 006 - 200 2006 2005 004 - 201 2014 2019 2015 2019 2017 2004
2 2 2 2 1 2 2 2
Date of (3)Construction 2000 - 2017 2001 - 2012 2000 - 2017 1985 - 2019 2001 - 2003 2011 2002 2006 - 2012 2012 2019 N/A N/A 1968 1997 - 2010 2014 - 2018 2015 1999 2006 2013 2006 2012 2000 2007 - 2014 2017 2016 2017 2017 N/A 2008 - 2019
3 2 2 1 3 1 3 3 2 6 7 4 7 3 8 7 5 4 8 2 6 1 0 8 4 5 0 6 8
Net CostBasis 1,684,30 602,95 537,87 1,035,47 70,08 139,02 30,10 18,96 9,29 83,83 85,04 172,11 40,91 87,18 128,55 93,06 46,18 25,58 8,44 15,75 14,55 2,12 719,44 213,63 191,42 135,19 60,07 214,40 553,81
$
on Accumulated (2)Depreciation $(241,801) (251,017) — (80,606) (40,689) (36,598) (24,387) (7,383) (5,661) (250) (255) — (938) (44,353) (19,074) (4,765) (17,114) (7,129) (2,417) (6,284) (3,833) (21,533) (145,182) (12,754) — (6,726) (714) (7,951) (47,537)
ati
ci 04 69 72 77 72 19 90 46 53 86 02 14 55 36 32 32 99 13 65 36 89 54 22 92 24 21 84 57 55
pre (1)al 26,1 53,9 37,8 16,0 10,7 75,6 54,4 26,3 14,9 84,0 85,3 72,1 41,8 31,5 47,6 97,8 63,2 32,7 10,8 22,0 18,3 23,6 64,6 26,3 91,4 41,9 60,7 22,3 01,3
De Tot 1,9 8 5 1,1 1 1 1 1 1 8 2 1 1 2 6
d  $
e
sidiaries Accumulat Total Costs Buildings &mprovements 1,646,436 853,969 356,075 766,125 100,999 175,619 54,490 26,346 14,953 42,128 17,559 172,114 10,184 121,097 130,546 85,855 50,466 31,247 10,443 18,890 16,128 22,434 653,172 174,287 92,130 110,211 34,392 73,806 542,156
ndria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and SubSchedule IIIStatement Schedule of Real Estate and December 31, 2019 (Dollars in thousands) CostsCapitalizedSubsequent toal CostsAcquisitions Buildings &Buildings &ImprovementsImprovementsLandI 279,668$205,491$1,440,945$$ 619,658234,311— 181,797354,6111,464 349,952483,816282,309 9,77312,77388,226 174,878741— —54,490— 12,61313,733— 6,2478,706— 41,54658241,958 13,3574,20267,743 —172,114— 8789,30631,671 41,59679,50110,439 69,99460,55217,086 85,62023511,977 27,33323,13312,833 1,4669,04622,201 3,5386,905422 3,14615,7253,165 2,2617,0999,029 1,22022,37559 211,450210,211442,961 —174,28752,105 86,3605,77099,294 2,540107,67131,710 33,92147126,392 148,55121,51452,292 —542,15659,199 F-67
Alexa ancial  Initi Land 279,668 — 181,797 349,952 9,773 — — — — 41,958 67,743 — 31,671 10,439 17,086 11,977 12,833 1,466 422 3,146 2,261 1,220 211,450 52,105 99,294 31,710 26,392 148,551 59,199
n
Fi $
ed  es — — — 11 — 75 — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — 61 — —
olidat mbranc 208,4 81,1 27,5
ns ncu
o E $
C
Market Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston Greater Boston San Francisco San Francisco San Francisco San Francisco San Francisco San Francisco San Francisco
Schedule III Property ®Alexandria Center at Kendall Square ®Alexandria Technology Square The Arsenal on the Charles ®Alexandria Center at One Kendall Square 480 and 500 Arsenal Street 640 Memorial Drive 780 and 790 Memorial Drive 167 Sidney Street and 99 Erie Street 79/96 13th Street (Charlestown Navy Yard) 5 Necco Street 10 Necco Street 15 Necco Street 99 A Street Alexandria Park at 128 225, 266, and 275 Second Avenue 100 Tech Drive 19 Presidential Way 100 Beaver Street 285 Bear Hill Road 111 and 130 Forbes Boulevard 20 Walkup Drive 30 Bearfoot Road ®Alexandria Center for Science and Technology – Mission Bay 510 Townsend Street 945 Market Street 505 Brannan Street 260 Townsend Street 88 Bluxome Street 213, 249, 259, 269, and 279 East Grand Avenue
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-67
7 9 7 4 7 9 4
Date Acquired 002 - 201 2017 2002 2007 2004 2000 1998 2017 2019 003 - 201 2018 2017 1999 2019 2017 2005 1999 2006 2018 2019 2018 007 - 201 2016 994 - 200 994 - 199 2014 2007 010 - 201 2010 998 - 201 2019 2018 2013
2 2 2 1 1 2 1
Date of (3)Construction 1998 - 2019 N/A 2012 2001 2001 2009 - 2013 2012 N/A 1969 - 2014 1998 - 2017 1984 - 2019 N/A 2008 2016 2017 1982 2000 2010 - 2016 1995 1942 N/A 2008 - 2017 2003 - 2004 2000 - 2015 2009 - 2012 1998 2012 1988 - 2019 2004 - 2017 1989 - 2018 2014 2005 1988 - 2014
2 8 1 4 9 1 8 7 6 5 0 4 9 3 1 2 4 6 4 0 3 7 2 6 9 1 1 8 2 8 5 4 5
et CostBasis 275,04 150,88 70,19 95,02 46,87 32,83 22,62 278,44 249,69 146,72 139,54 100,26 26,45 67,49 78,98 26,09 8,11 677,94 193,15 27,12 88,75 261,71 194,73 55,08 113,05 31,90 60,44 812,46 281,10 187,90 228,40 121,41 24,71
N
Accumulated (2)Depreciation (65,979) (1,445) (47,091) (27,166) (19,317) (17,640) (13,318) — (119) (11,248) (3,265) (4,852) (22,637) (1,262) (5,590) (5,726) (10,424) (170,156) (13,573) — (369) (55,306) (32,702) (51,853) (44,910) (40,636) (20,799) (110,603) (49,000) (82,398) (563) (5,277) (4,103)
1 3 2 0 6 1 6 7 5 3 5 6 6 5 1 8 8 2 7 0 2 3 4 9 9 7 0 1 2 6 8 1 8
2 3 8 9 9 7 4 4 1 7 0 1 9 5 7 1 3 0 2 2 2 2 3 3 6 3 4 7 0 0 6 9 1
(1)al 41,0 52,3 17,2 22,1 66,1 50,4 35,9 78,4 49,8 57,9 42,8 05,1 49,0 68,7 84,5 31,8 18,5 48,1 06,7 27,1 89,1 17,0 27,4 06,9 57,9 72,5 81,2 23,0 30,1 70,3 28,9 26,6 28,8
Tot 3 1 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 8 2 3 2 1 1 9 3 2 2 1
Total Costs Buildings &mprovements 270,016 120,088 117,282 86,594 59,158 43,433 32,735 190,881 55,391 157,973 69,946 25,147 47,584 48,706 84,571 27,018 18,538 848,102 65,461 2,120 66,376 284,662 205,310 100,821 151,285 65,481 71,246 835,055 291,762 252,085 174,320 105,537 24,210
I
5 5 — 6 8 8 1 6 4 — 9 9 2 9 — 0 — — 6 0 6 1 4 8 4 6 4 6 0 1 8 4 8
0 4 9 3 3 1 6 2 5 6 1 4 0 6 0 4 6 2 1 8 5 9 1 4 2 4 5 0
Land 71,0 32,2 35,5 7,0 7,0 3,2 87,5 194,4 72,8 79,9 1,5 20,0 4,8 141,2 25,0 22,7 32,3 22,1 6,1 6,6 7,0 9,9 88,0 38,3 18,2 54,6 21,1 4,6
CostsCapitalizedubsequent toAcquisitions Buildings &mprovements 101,122 118,801 117,282 17,503 19,454 43,433 24,070 190,881 872 5,536 16,637 19,589 26,261 152 104 20,325 11,910 848,102 2,149 2,120 13,283 203,705 52,470 82,874 123,685 11,537 34,147 441,342 195,156 203,245 4,835 3,491 19,110 F-68
S I
osts Buildings &mprovements 168,894 1,287 — 69,091 39,704 — 8,665 — 54,519 152,437 53,309 5,558 21,323 48,554 84,467 6,693 6,628 — 63,312 — 53,093 80,957 152,840 17,947 27,600 53,944 37,099 393,713 96,606 48,840 169,485 102,046 5,100
al C I
niti 05 45 — 96 38 38 11 66 24 — 59 69 12 49 — 00 — — 66 00 46 61 24 18 84 56 94 16 40 21 48 54 08
I Land 71,0 32,2 35,5 7,0 7,0 3,2 87,5 194,4 72,8 79,9 1,5 20,0 4,8 141,2 25,0 22,7 32,3 22,1 6,1 6,6 7,0 9,9 88,0 38,3 18,2 54,6 21,1 4,6
es — — — — — — — — — — — — 28 — — — — — — — — — — — — 77 — — — — — — —
c 7 4
bran 31,
m
u
c
n
E
Market n Francisco n Francisco n Francisco n Francisco n Francisco n Francisco n Francisco n Francisco n Francisco n Francisco n Francisco n Francisco n Francisco n Francisco n Francisco n Francisco n Francisco w York City w York City w York City w York City n Diego n Diego n Diego n Diego n Diego n Diego n Diego n Diego n Diego n Diego n Diego n Diego
a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a e e e e a a a a a a a a a a a a
S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S N N N N S S S S S S S S S S S S
y
Schedule III (continued) Property ®Alexandria Technology Center – Gateway 201 Haskins Way 400 and 450 East Jamie Court 500 Forbes Boulevard 7000 Shoreline Court 341 and 343 Oyster Point Boulevard 849/863 Mitten Road/866 Malcolm Road Alexandria District for Science and Technology 3825 and 3875 Fabian Way Alexandria Stanford Life Science District Alexandria PARC 960 Industrial Road 2425 Garcia Avenue & 2400/2450 Bayshore Parkway Shoreway Science Center 1450 Page Mill Road 3350 West Bayshore Road 2625/2627/2631 Hanover Street ®Alexandria Center for Life Science 219 East 42nd Street 47-50 30th Street ®Alexandria Center – Long Island Cit ARE Spectrum ARE Torrey Ridge ARE Sunrise ARE Nautilus 3545 Cray Court 11119 North Torrey Pines Road Campus Pointe by Alexandria 5200 Illumina Way University District SD Tech by Alexandria Summers Ridge Science Park 10121 and 10151 Barnes Canyon Road
F-68  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
44 99 44 55 88 77 00 99 88
Date Date AcquiredAcquired 20072007 003 - 200003 - 200 20102010 20102010 20172017 010 - 201010 - 201 997 - 201997 - 201 20072007 20182018 003 - 201003 - 201 002 - 200002 - 200 20072007 20182018 20072007 20192019 20182018 19981998 20042004 004 - 201004 - 201 20182018 19971997 19971997 004 - 201004 - 201 19971997 20012001 20042004 20182018 20042004 20192019 997 - 201997 - 201 997 - 201997 - 201
22 22 11 22 22 22 22 11 11
Date of Date of (3)(3)ConstructionConstruction 2005 - 20122005 - 2012 2000 - 20012000 - 2001 20072007 20042004 N/AN/A 2007 - 20152007 - 2015 2006 - 20142006 - 2014 20072007 N/AN/A 2007 - 20192007 - 2019 19971997 20172017 20022002 20122012 19851985 19841984 20002000 2006 - 20082006 - 2008 1985 - 20181985 - 2018 20152015 20052005 1995 - 20031995 - 2003 1998 - 19991998 - 1999 20062006 20102010 20072007 20072007 20072007 N/AN/A 1992 - 20191992 - 2019 2000 - 20152000 - 2015
88 99 00 22 11 55 99 00 66 99 33 44 33 00 11 44 33 55 11 88 66 00 22 77 77 66 99 88 33 77 66
et Costet CostBasisBasis 59,6459,64 23,9623,96 18,5818,58 13,1513,15 4,024,02 60,6960,69 46,2146,21 22,5222,52 20,0320,03 365,39365,39 125,59125,59 202,08202,08 80,8780,87 16,8716,87 31,3631,36 41,8441,84 16,8216,82 11,4011,40 237,03237,03 81,9681,96 30,4330,43 6,726,72 20,2420,24 22,5822,58 21,3821,38 24,5824,58 14,5814,58 6,976,97 25,9025,90 146,52146,52 46,9646,96
NN
mulated mulated (2)(2)ciationciation (12,389)(12,389) (10,137)(10,137) (5,860)(5,860) (2,232)(2,232) —— (24,580)(24,580) (12,252)(12,252) (13,055)(13,055) —— (85,863)(85,863) (45,301)(45,301) (20,303)(20,303) (2,980)(2,980) (7,143)(7,143) —— (340)(340) (16,287)(16,287) (5,707)(5,707) (76,214)(76,214) (3,229)(3,229) (18,830)(18,830) (8,979)(8,979) (5,979)(5,979) (14,621)(14,621) (14,768)(14,768) (14,379)(14,379) (527)(527) (2,949)(2,949) —— (36,204)(36,204) (27,742)(27,742)
AccuAccuDepreDepre
77 66 00 44 11 55 11 55 66 22 44 77 33 33 11 44 00 22 55 77 66 99 11 88 55 55 66 77 33 11 88
33 00 44 88 22 77 77 77 33 66 99 88 55 11 66 88 11 11 44 99 66 99 22 00 55 66 11 22 00 33 00
(1)(1)alal 72,072,0 34,134,1 24,424,4 15,315,3 4,04,0 85,285,2 58,458,4 35,535,5 20,020,0 51,251,2 70,870,8 22,322,3 83,883,8 24,024,0 31,331,3 42,142,1 33,133,1 17,117,1 13,213,2 85,185,1 49,249,2 15,615,6 26,226,2 37,237,2 36,136,1 38,938,9 15,115,1 9,99,9 25,925,9 82,782,7 74,774,7
TotTot 44 11 22 33 11
Total CostsTotal Costs Buildings &Buildings &mprovementsmprovements 65,04665,046 28,63028,630 21,79021,790 14,03514,035 735735 67,09867,098 54,31554,315 28,18228,182 3,6203,620 427,057427,057 147,907147,907 211,045211,045 77,31077,310 22,19422,194 1,9491,949 6,8686,868 31,67831,678 13,25513,255 293,026293,026 74,93974,939 46,46646,466 14,17614,176 21,31721,317 36,30936,309 34,68934,689 37,31837,318 12,38412,384 8,4518,451 903903 161,751161,751 67,77067,770
II
11 66 00 99 66 77 66 33 66 55 77 22 33 99 22 66 22 77 99 88 00 33 44 99 66 77 22 66 00 00 88
99 77 55 44 88 77 55 99 11 00 88 44 44 11 11 11 33 55 11 55 00 22 00 99 66 44 33 77 00 88 33
andand 6,96,9 5,45,4 2,62,6 1,31,3 3,23,2 18,118,1 4,14,1 7,37,3 16,416,4 24,224,2 22,922,9 11,311,3 6,56,5 1,81,8 29,429,4 35,335,3 1,41,4 3,83,8 20,220,2 10,210,2 2,82,8 1,51,5 4,94,9 88 1,41,4 1,61,6 2,72,7 1,41,4 25,025,0 20,920,9 6,96,9
LL
CostsCostsCapitalizedCapitalizedubsequent toubsequent toAcquisitionsAcquisitions Buildings &Buildings &mprovementsmprovements 39,89339,893 (52)(52) 1,9121,912 6,0196,019 735735 31,92031,920 42,74442,744 232232 3,6203,620 391,761391,761 100,758100,758 211,045211,045 1,1301,130 19,89219,892 1,5411,541 6,1496,149 24,18124,181 11,26611,266 180,483180,483 766766 34,93334,933 6,4456,445 5,4715,471 14,36314,363 28,98128,981 24,06024,060 7676 1,1841,184 903903 39,79939,799 33,08533,085 F-69F-69
SS II
ostsosts Buildings &Buildings &mprovementsmprovements 25,15325,153 28,68228,682 19,87819,878 8,0168,016 —— 35,17835,178 11,57111,571 27,95027,950 —— 35,29635,296 47,14947,149 —— 76,18076,180 2,3022,302 408408 719719 7,4977,497 1,9891,989 112,543112,543 74,17374,173 11,53311,533 7,7317,731 15,84615,846 21,94621,946 5,7085,708 13,25813,258 12,30812,308 7,2677,267 —— 121,952121,952 34,68534,685
al Cal C II
nitiniti 9191 7676 5050 4949 8686 7777 5656 9393 1616 0505 8787 4242 4343 1919 1212 1616 3232 5757 1919 5858 0000 2323 0404 9999 6666 4747 3232 7676 0000 8080 3838
II andand 6,96,9 5,45,4 2,62,6 1,31,3 3,23,2 18,118,1 4,14,1 7,37,3 16,416,4 24,224,2 22,922,9 11,311,3 6,56,5 1,81,8 29,429,4 35,335,3 1,41,4 3,83,8 20,220,2 10,210,2 2,82,8 1,51,5 4,94,9 88 1,41,4 1,61,6 2,72,7 1,41,4 25,025,0 20,920,9 6,96,9
LL
ss —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— —— ——
ee
cc
nn
aa
brbr
mm
uu
cc
nn
EE
etet
MarkMark San DiegoSan Diego San DiegoSan Diego San DiegoSan Diego San DiegoSan Diego San DiegoSan Diego San DiegoSan Diego San DiegoSan Diego San DiegoSan Diego San DiegoSan Diego SeattleSeattle SeattleSeattle SeattleSeattle SeattleSeattle SeattleSeattle SeattleSeattle SeattleSeattle SeattleSeattle SeattleSeattle MarylandMaryland MarylandMaryland MarylandMaryland MarylandMaryland MarylandMaryland MarylandMaryland MarylandMaryland MarylandMaryland MarylandMaryland MarylandMaryland MarylandMaryland MarylandMaryland MarylandMaryland
Schedule III (continued)Schedule III (continued) PropertyProperty ARE PortolaARE Portola 5810/5820 Nancy Ridge Drive5810/5820 Nancy Ridge Drive 7330 Carroll Road7330 Carroll Road 5871 Oberlin Drive5871 Oberlin Drive Vista Wateridge I & IIVista Wateridge I & II 3911, 3931, 3985, 4025, 4031, 4045, 3911, 3931, 3985, 4025, 4031, 4045, and 4075 Sorrento Valley and 4075 Sorrento Valley BoulevardBoulevard 11025, 11035, 11045, 11055, 11065, 11025, 11035, 11045, 11055, 11065, and 11075 Roselle Streetand 11075 Roselle Street 13112 Evening Creek Drive13112 Evening Creek Drive Townsgate by AlexandriaTownsgate by Alexandria The Eastlake Life Science Campus by The Eastlake Life Science Campus by Alexandria - North CampusAlexandria - North Campus The Eastlake Life Science Campus by The Eastlake Life Science Campus by Alexandria - South CampusAlexandria - South Campus 400 Dexter Avenue North400 Dexter Avenue North 2301 5th Avenue2301 5th Avenue 219 Terry Avenue North219 Terry Avenue North 601 Dexter Avenue North601 Dexter Avenue North 701 Dexter Avenue North701 Dexter Avenue North 3000/3018 Western Avenue3000/3018 Western Avenue 410 West Harrison/410 Elliott Avenue 410 West Harrison/410 Elliott Avenue WestWest 9800, 9900, 9920 and 9950 Medical 9800, 9900, 9920 and 9950 Medical Center DriveCenter Drive 9704, 9708, 9712, and 9714 Medical 9704, 9708, 9712, and 9714 Medical Center DriveCenter Drive 1330 Piccard Drive1330 Piccard Drive 1500 and 1550 East Gude Drive1500 and 1550 East Gude Drive 14920 and 15010 Broschart Road14920 and 15010 Broschart Road 1405 Research Boulevard1405 Research Boulevard 5 Research Place5 Research Place 5 Research Court5 Research Court 9920 Belward Campus Drive9920 Belward Campus Drive 12301 Parklawn Drive12301 Parklawn Drive 14200 Shady Grove Road14200 Shady Grove Road® ® Alexandria Technology Center– Alexandria Technology Center– Gaithersburg IGaithersburg I®®Alexandria Technology Center – Alexandria Technology Center – Gaithersburg IIGaithersburg II
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-69
7
Date Acquired 1996 2010 2005 1998 1997 1998 2017 2018 1999 2000 2012 2005 2004 2013 2006 2014 1998 2008 005 - 200 Various 2008
2
Date of (3)Construction 2007 2009 2012 2003 2006 1985 - 2009 2018 N/A 2000 2005 - 2008 2012 2011 1995 1998 2009 2015 1981 2012 2004 - 2012 Various 2015
3 2 2 8 7 5 7 3 1 3 5 4 1 5 0 7 5 8 7 3 2 6 8
Net CostBasis 11,00 10,72 7,35 10,40 26,63 26,31 77,05 10,46 23,92 33,82 27,14 25,91 24,81 16,22 13,40 23,21 6,25 12,79 47,19 337,64 14,813,95 30,08 14,844,03
$
Accumulated (2)Depreciation (7,192) (3,348) (5,490) (10,460) (17,364) (23,693) (1,562) — (19,650) (18,709) (12,914) (7,289) (9,480) (3,449) (6,034) (3,127) (5,248) (3,281) (22,245) (58,994) (2,704,657) (4,261) $(2,708,918)
5 0 2 8 1 8 9 3 1 2 9 3 1 4 4 4 3 9 2 7 9 7 6
9 7 4 6 0 0 1 6 7 3 5 0 9 7 3 4 0 7 4 3 0 4 5
(1)al 18,1 14,0 12,8 20,8 44,0 50,0 78,6 10,4 43,5 52,5 40,0 33,2 34,2 19,6 19,4 26,3 11,5 16,0 69,4 96,6 18,6 34,3 52,9
Tot 3 7,5 7,5
1 1
$
Total Costs Buildings &mprovements 17,066 11,670 12,058 20,868 39,201 48,578 76,619 9,663 43,571 51,467 31,030 32,502 33,578 18,445 18,649 26,344 11,342 15,128 59,092 332,461 14,344,696 34,347 14,379,043
I $
9 0 4 — 0 0 0 0 — 5 9 1 3 9 5 — 1 1 0 6 3 — 3
2 0 8 0 3 0 0 6 2 0 1 2 8 6 5 5 7 1 1
Land 1,1 2,4 7 4,8 1,4 2,0 8 1,0 9,0 7 7 1,2 7 1 9 10,3 64,1 3,173,9 3,173,9
$
CostsCapitalizedubsequent toAcquisitions Buildings &mprovements 10,125 1,050 7,353 7,189 11,562 31,096 69,863 9,663 43,195 30,249 20,318 32,502 20,751 712 7,103 26,344 7,933 11,146 15,208 217,354 8,662,711 34,347 8,697,058 F-70
S I $
osts Buildings &mprovements 6,941 10,620 4,705 13,679 27,639 17,482 6,756 — 376 21,218 10,712 — 12,827 17,733 11,546 — 3,409 3,982 43,884 115,107 5,681,985 — 5,681,985
al C I $
niti 29 00 84 — 00 30 00 00 — 65 29 01 13 29 85 — 61 51 50 76 13 — 13
I Land 1,1 2,4 7 4,8 1,4 2,0 8 1,0 9,0 7 7 1,2 7 1 9 10,3 64,1 3,173,9 3,173,9
$
es — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — 52 — 52
c 3 3
bran 349, 349,
m
u
c
n
E $
e e e e e e e e e e e e e
gl gl gl gl gl gl gl gl gl gl gl gl gl
n n n n n n n n n n n n n
a a a a a a a a a a a a a
Market Maryland Maryland Maryland Maryland Maryland Research Tri Research Tri Research Tri Research Tri Research Tri Research Tri Research Tri Research Tri Research Tri Research Tri Research Tri Research Tri Research Tri Canada Various
Schedule III (continued) Property 401 Professional Drive 950 Wind River Lane 620 Professional Drive 8000/9000/10000 Virginia Manor Road 14225 Newbrook Drive ® Alexandria Technology Center– Alston ®Alexandria Center for AgTech, Phase I – Research Triangle ®Alexandria Center for AgTech, Phase II – Research Triangle 108/110/112/114 TW Alexander Drive ®Alexandria Innovation Center – Research Triangle 6 Davis Drive 7 Triangle Drive 2525 East NC Highway 54 407 Davis Drive 601 Keystone Park Drive 6040 George Watts Hill Drive 5 Triangle Drive 6101 Quadrangle Drive Canada Various Total – North America Asia
F-70  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Schedule III (continued)
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule of Rental Properties and Accumulated Depreciation
December 31, 2019
(Dollars in thousands)
(1)  The aggregate cost of real estate for federal income tax purposes is not materially different from the cost basis under GAAP 
(unaudited).
(2)  The depreciable life ranges up to 40 years for buildings and improvements, up to 20 years for land improvements, and the term 
of the respective lease for tenant improvements.
(3)  Represents the later of the date of original construction or the date of the latest renovation.
F-71
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-71
Schedule III (continued)
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule of Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
December 31, 2019
(In thousands)
  A summary of activity of consolidated investments in real estate and accumulated depreciation is as follows:
December 31,
Real Estate 2019 2018 2017
Balance at beginning of period $ 14,181,780 $ 12,178,255 $ 10,632,518
Acquisitions (including real estate, land, and joint venture consolidation) 2,240,376 1,057,036 707,522
Additions to real estate 1,143,035 959,410 881,463
Deductions (including dispositions and direct financing leases) (12,235) (12,921) (43,248)
Balance at end of period $ 17,552,956 $ 14,181,780 $ 12,178,255
December 31,
Accumulated Depreciation 2019 2018 2017
Balance at beginning of period $ 2,268,087 $ 1,880,236 $ 1,554,546
Depreciation expense on properties 448,661 390,471 348,064
Sale of properties (7,830) (2,620) (22,374)
Balance at end of period $ 2,708,918 $ 2,268,087 $ 1,880,236
F-72
F-72  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
EXHIBIT 4.33
DESCRIPTION OF REGISTRANT’S SECURITIES 
REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 OF 
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
The following is a brief description of the securities of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. (the “Company” or “we,” “us” or “our”) 
registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). This description of 
the terms of our stock does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the applicable 
provisions of Maryland General Corporation Law (“MGCL”), and the full text of our charter and our amended and restated bylaws 
(“bylaws”). 
General 
Our charter provides that we may issue up to 
•  200,000,000 shares of common stock, $.01 par value per share (“common stock”); 
•  100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, $.01 par value per share (“preferred stock”); and 
•  200,000,000 shares of excess stock, $.01 par value per share, or excess stock (as described below).
As of December 31, 2019, the following securities were issued and outstanding:
•  120,800,315 shares of our common stock; and
•  No shares of our preferred stock.
Under Maryland law, stockholders generally are not liable for a corporation’s debts or obligations. 
Common Stock 
As of December 31, 2019 and the date hereof, our common stock is the only class of our securities registered under Section 12 
of the Exchange Act.
Dividends. Subject to the preferential rights of any other class or series of our stock and to the provisions of our charter 
regarding restrictions on ownership and transfer of our stock, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends on 
such shares if, as and when authorized by our board of directors (“Board”) and declared by us out of assets legally available 
therefor. Our holders of common stock are also entitled to share ratably in our assets legally available for distribution to our 
stockholders in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up after payment of or adequate provision for all our known 
debts and liabilities. 
Voting. Subject to the provisions of our charter regarding the restrictions on ownership and transfer of our stock, each 
outstanding share of common stock entitles the holder thereof to one vote on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, 
including the election of directors, and, except as provided with respect to any other class or series of our stock, the holders of 
such shares will possess the exclusive voting power. In uncontested elections of directors, the affirmative vote of a majority of 
the total votes cast “for” or “against,” or withheld as to a director nominee is sufficient to elect such director nominee. In 
contested elections, a plurality of votes cast is required for the election of a director. There is no cumulative voting in the election 
of directors, which means that the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock can elect all of the 
directors then standing for election, and the holders of the remaining shares will not be able to elect any directors. 
Other Rights. Holders of shares of our common stock generally have no preference, conversion, exchange, sinking fund or 
appraisal rights and have no preemptive rights to subscribe for any of our securities. Subject to the provisions of our charter 
regarding restrictions on ownership and transfer of our stock, shares of our common stock will each have equal distribution, 
liquidation and other rights. 
Reclassification. Our charter authorizes our Board to reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock into other classes or 
series of classes of stock and to establish the number of shares in each class or series and to set the preferences, conversion or 
other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or other distributions, qualifications and terms and conditions 
of redemption for each such class or series. Thus, our Board could authorize the issuance of shares of common stock or 
preferred stock with terms and conditions which could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a 
change in control that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in their best interest. 
Listing. Our outstanding shares of common stock are listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “ARE.” Any 
additional shares of common stock we issue will also be listed on the New York Stock Exchange upon official notice of issuance. 
Preferred Stock 
As of December 31, 2019 and the date hereof, we have no outstanding shares of preferred stock.
Our charter authorizes our Board, without the approval of our stockholders, to classify any unissued shares of preferred stock 
and to reclassify any previously classified but unissued shares of preferred stock of any series. Prior to the issuance of shares of 
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-73
any series, our Board is required by the MGCL and our charter to set, subject to the provisions of our charter regarding 
restrictions on transfer of our stock, the terms, preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as 
to dividends or other distributions, qualifications or terms or conditions of redemption for each such series, all of which will be set 
forth in articles supplementary to our charter adopted for that purpose by our Board or a duly authorized special committee 
thereof. Using this authority, our Board could authorize the issuance of shares of preferred stock with terms and conditions that 
could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for holders of our common 
stock or for other reasons be desired by them. 
Upon issuance against full payment of the purchase price therefor, shares of preferred stock will be fully paid and 
nonassessable. The specific terms of a particular class or series of preferred stock to be issued will be set forth in articles 
supplementary or an amendment to our charter and will be described in a prospectus, prospectus supplement or other offering 
material (collectively, “offering materials”) relating to that class or series, including information providing that preferred stock may 
be issuable upon the exercise of warrants or conversion of other securities issued by us. 
Power to Issue Additional Shares of Common Stock and Preferred Stock 
We believe that the power of our Board to authorize us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common stock or 
preferred stock and to classify or reclassify unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and thereafter to cause us 
to issue such classified or reclassified shares of stock will provide us with increased flexibility in structuring possible future 
financing and acquisition transactions and in meeting other needs that may arise. The additional classes or series of our 
preferred stock, as well as our common stock, will be available for issuance without further action by our stockholders, unless 
further action is required by applicable law or the rules of any stock exchange or automated quotation system on which our 
securities may be listed or traded. Although our Board has no present intention to do so, it could authorize us to issue a class or 
series of stock that could, depending upon the terms of such class or series, delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in 
control that might involve a premium price for holders of common stock or for other reasons be desired by them. 
Restrictions on Ownership and Transfer 
In order to qualify as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”) under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), 
not more than 50% of the value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or constructively, by five or fewer individuals or 
certain tax-exempt entities (as set forth in the Code) during the last half of a taxable year (other than the first year for which an 
election to be a REIT has been made). Furthermore, shares of our outstanding stock must be beneficially owned by 100 or more 
persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months (other than the first year for which an election to be a REIT has 
been made) or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year. 
In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, among other purposes, our charter provides for an ownership limit, which 
prohibits, with certain exceptions, direct or constructive ownership of shares of stock representing more than 9.8% of the 
combined total value of our outstanding shares of stock by any person, as defined in our charter. 
Our Board, in its sole discretion, may waive the ownership limit for any person. However, our Board may not grant such waiver if, 
after giving effect to such waiver, five individuals could beneficially own, in the aggregate, more than 49.9% of the value of our 
outstanding stock. As a condition to waiving the ownership limit, our Board may require a ruling from the Internal Revenue 
Service (the “IRS”) or an opinion of counsel in order to determine our status as a REIT. Notwithstanding the receipt of any such 
ruling or opinion, our Board may impose such conditions or restrictions as it deems appropriate in connection with granting a 
waiver. 
Our charter further prohibits any person from:
•  beneficially or constructively owning shares of our stock that would result in us being “closely held” under Section 
856(h) of the Code; and
•  transferring shares of our stock if such transfer would result in shares of our stock being owned by fewer than 100 
persons.
Any transfer in violation of any of these restrictions is void ab initio. Any person who acquires or attempts to acquire beneficial or 
constructive ownership of shares of our stock in violation of the foregoing restrictions on ownership and transfer is required to 
give us notice immediately and provide us with such other information as we may request in order to determine the effect of such 
transfer on our status as a REIT. The foregoing restrictions on ownership and transfer will not apply if our Board determines that 
it is no longer in our best interests to continue to qualify, or to attempt to qualify, as a REIT. 
If any transfer of shares of our stock or other event occurs that would result in any person beneficially or constructively becoming 
the owner of shares of our stock in excess or in violation of the above ownership or transfer limitations, or becoming a prohibited 
owner, then that number of shares of our stock (rounded up to the nearest whole share) the beneficial or constructive ownership 
of which otherwise would cause such person to violate such limitations shall be automatically exchanged for an equal number of 
shares of excess stock. Those shares of excess stock will be automatically transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of one 
or more charitable beneficiaries, and the prohibited owner will generally not acquire any rights in such shares. This automatic 
exchange will be deemed to be effective as of the close of business on the business day prior to the date of such violative 
transfer. Shares of excess stock held in the trust will be issued and outstanding shares of our stock. The prohibited owner will 
not:
•  benefit economically from ownership of any shares of excess stock held in the trust; 
•  have any rights to distributions thereon; or 
•  possess any rights to vote or other rights attributable to the shares of excess stock held in the trust.
F-74  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
The trustee of the trust will have all voting rights and rights to dividends or other distributions with respect to shares of stock held 
in the trust, which rights shall be exercised for the exclusive benefit of the charitable beneficiary. Any dividend or other 
distribution paid prior to the discovery by us that shares of stock have been transferred to the trustee will be paid by the recipient 
of such dividend or distribution to us upon demand, or, at our sole election, will be offset against any future dividends or 
distributions payable to the purported transferee or holder, and any dividend or distribution authorized but unpaid will be 
rescinded as void ab initio with respect to such shares of stock and promptly thereafter paid over to the trustee with respect to 
such shares of excess stock, as trustee of the trust for the exclusive benefit of the charitable beneficiary. The prohibited owner 
will have no voting rights with respect to shares of excess stock held in the trust and, subject to Maryland law, effective as of the 
date that such shares of stock have been transferred to the trustee, the trustee will have the authority (at the trustee’s sole 
discretion) to:
•  rescind as void any vote cast by a prohibited owner prior to the discovery by us that such shares have been transferred 
to the trustee, and 
•  recast such vote in accordance with the desires of the trustee acting for the benefit of the charitable beneficiary.
However, if we have already taken irreversible corporate action, then the trustee will not have the authority to rescind and recast 
such vote. 
Within 180 days after the date of the event that resulted in shares of our excess stock being transferred to the trust (or as soon 
as possible thereafter if the trustee did not learn of such event within such period), the trustee shall sell the shares of stock held 
in the trust to a person, designated by the trustee, whose ownership of the shares will not violate the ownership and transfer 
limitations set forth in our charter. Upon such sale, the interest of the charitable beneficiary in the shares sold will terminate and 
those shares of excess stock will be automatically exchanged for an equal number of shares of the same class or series of stock 
that originally were exchanged for the excess stock. 
The trustee shall distribute to the prohibited owner, as appropriate:
•  the price paid by the prohibited owner for the shares; 
•  if the prohibited owner did not give value for the shares in connection with the event causing the shares to be held in 
the trust (e.g., a gift, devise or other such transaction), the “market price” (as defined in our charter) of such shares on 
the day of the event causing the shares to be held in the trust; or 
•  if the exchange for excess stock did not arise as a result of a purported transfer, the market price of such shares on the 
day of the other event causing the shares to be held in the trust.
If such shares are sold by a prohibited owner, then to the extent that the prohibited owner received an amount for such shares 
that exceeds the amount that such prohibited owner was entitled to receive pursuant to the aforementioned requirement, such 
excess shall be paid to the trustee. 
All certificates representing shares of common stock and preferred stock will bear a legend referring to the restrictions described 
above. 
Every owner of more than 5% (or such lower percentage as may be required by our charter, the Code or the Treasury 
regulations promulgated thereunder) of all classes or series of our stock, including shares of common stock, within 30 days after 
the end of each taxable year, is required to give written notice to us stating the name and address of such owner, the number of 
shares of each class and series of our stock which the owner beneficially owns and a description of the manner in which such 
shares are held. Each such owner must provide us such additional information as we may reasonably request in order to 
determine the effect, if any, of such beneficial ownership on our status as a REIT. In addition, each stockholder will be required 
upon demand to provide us such information as we may reasonably request in order to determine our status as a REIT, to 
comply with the requirements of any taxing authority or governmental authority or to determine such compliance, or to comply 
with the REIT provisions of the Code. 
These ownership limits could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for 
the holders of our common stock, or might otherwise be desired by such holders. 
Certain Provisions of Maryland Law and of Our Charter and Bylaws 
The following summary of certain provisions of MGCL and of our charter and bylaws does not purport to be complete and is 
subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to MGCL and our charter and bylaws. 
Board of Directors 
Our bylaws provide that the number of our directors may be established by our Board, but may not be fewer than the minimum 
number required by the MGCL, which is one, nor more than 15. All directors are elected to serve until the next annual meeting of 
our stockholders and until their successors are duly elected and qualify. 
Our charter and bylaws provide that our stockholders may remove any director by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all the 
votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Our charter and bylaws further provide that our Board may fill board vacancies and that 
any director elected to fill a vacancy may hold office for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the 
vacancy occurred. Holders of shares of common stock will have no right to cumulative voting in the election of directors. 
Consequently, at each annual meeting of stockholders, the holders of a majority of the shares of common stock will be able to 
elect all of the directors then standing for election. 
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-75
Business Combinations 
Under the MGCL, specified “business combinations” (including a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in specified 
circumstances, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities) between a Maryland corporation and an 
interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which 
the 10% or more beneficial owner acquires such status. An interested stockholder is defined as:
•  any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock; or 
•  an affiliate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial 
owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then-outstanding voting stock of the corporation.
A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approved in advance the transaction by 
which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. In approving a transaction, the board of directors may provide 
that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the 
board. 
After the five year period, any such business combination between the Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder must 
be recommended by the board of directors of such corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least:
•  80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation; and 
•  two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the 
interested stockholder with whom, or with whose affiliate, the business combination is to be effected, or held by an 
affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder.
These super-majority vote requirements do not apply if the corporation’s common stockholders receive “a minimum price” (as 
defined in the MGCL) for their shares; and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the 
10% or more beneficial owner for its shares. 
These provisions of the MGCL do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by the board of 
directors of the corporation prior to the time before the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Our Board has 
adopted a resolution providing that the “business combination” provisions of the MGCL shall not apply to us generally and that 
such resolution is irrevocable unless revocation, in whole or in part, is approved by the holders of a majority of the outstanding 
shares of common stock, but revocation will not affect any business combination consummated, or any business combination 
contemplated by any agreement entered into, prior to the revocation. As a result of the foregoing, any person who becomes a 
10% or more beneficial owner may be able to enter into business combinations with us that may not be in the best interest of the 
stockholders, without our compliance with the business combination provisions of the MGCL. 
Control Share Acquisitions 
The MGCL provides that control shares of a Maryland corporation acquired in a control share acquisition have no voting rights 
except to the extent approved by the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, 
excluding shares of stock owned by the acquiror, by officers or by directors who are employees of the corporation. Control 
shares are voting shares of stock which, if aggregated with all other such shares of stock previously acquired by the acquiror or 
in respect of which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable 
proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power:
•  one-tenth or more but less than one-third; 
•  one-third or more but less than a majority; or 
•  a majority or more of all voting power.
Control shares do not include shares the acquiring person is then entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained 
stockholder approval. A control share acquisition means the acquisition of control shares, subject to specified exceptions. 
Under Maryland law, a person who has made or proposes to make a control share acquisition, upon satisfaction of specified 
conditions (including an undertaking to pay expenses of the meeting), may compel the board of directors of the corporation to 
call a special meeting of stockholders to be held within 50 days of demand to consider the voting rights of the shares. If no 
request for a meeting is made, the corporation may itself present the question at any meeting of the stockholders. 
If voting rights are not approved at the meeting or if the acquiring person does not deliver an acquiring person statement as 
required by the statute, then, subject to specified conditions and limitations, the corporation may redeem any or all of the control 
shares (except those for which voting rights have previously been approved) for fair value determined, without regard to the 
absence of voting rights for the control shares, as of the date of the last control share acquisition by the acquiror or of any 
meeting of stockholders at which the voting rights of such shares are considered and not approved. If voting rights for control 
shares are approved at a meeting of the stockholders and the acquiror becomes entitled to vote a majority of the shares entitled 
to vote, all other stockholders may exercise appraisal rights. The fair value of the shares as determined for purposes of such 
appraisal rights may not be less than the highest price per share paid by the acquiror in the control share acquisition. 
The control share acquisition statute does not apply (a) to shares acquired in a merger, consolidation or share exchange if the 
corporation is a party to the transaction, or (b) to acquisitions approved or exempted by the charter or bylaws of the corporation. 
Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the control share acquisition statute any acquisition by any person of shares of 
our stock. Our Board has resolved that, subject to Maryland law, this provision may not be amended or repealed without the 
approval of holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock. There can be no assurance, however, that 
F-76  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
the provision will not be amended or eliminated in the future or that the resolution is enforceable under Maryland law. 
Advance Notice of Director Nominations and New Business and Proxy Access 
Our bylaws provide that:
•  with respect to an annual meeting of stockholders, nominations of individuals for election to our Board and the proposal 
of business to be considered by stockholders may be made only: 
•  pursuant to our notice of the meeting; 
•  by or at the direction of our Board; or
•  by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures set forth in 
the bylaws; and 
•  with respect to special meetings of stockholders, only the business specified in our notice of meeting may be brought 
before the special meeting of stockholders. Nominations of persons for election to our Board may be made at a special 
meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected only: 
  by or at the direction of our Board; or 
  provided that our Board has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by a stockholder who 
is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice provisions set forth in the bylaws.
Our bylaws permit qualifying stockholders, or a qualifying group of no more than 20 stockholders, that have continuously owned 
at least 3% of our outstanding common stock throughout at least a three-year period to nominate and to require us to include in 
its proxy materials director nominees constituting up to the greater of two director nominees or 25% of the number of directors 
serving on the Board, provided that the stockholder(s) and the nominee(s) satisfy the requirements specified in our bylaws and 
subject to the terms and conditions therein.
Amendment to Our Bylaws 
Our Board has the exclusive power to adopt, alter, repeal or amend our bylaws. 
Extraordinary Actions 
Under the MGCL, a Maryland corporation generally cannot dissolve, amend its charter, merge, sell all or substantially all of its 
assets, engage in a share exchange, convert or engage in similar transactions outside the ordinary course of business unless 
advised by the board of directors and approved by the affirmative vote of stockholders holding at least two-thirds of the shares 
entitled to vote on the matter unless a lesser percentage (but not less than a majority of all of the votes entitled to be cast on the 
matter) is set forth in the corporation’s charter. Our charter provides for approval of such matters by the affirmative vote of a 
majority of all of the votes entitled to be cast thereon. Maryland law permits a corporation to transfer all or substantially all of its 
assets without the approval of the stockholders of the corporation to one or more persons if all of the equity interests of the 
person or persons are owned, directly or indirectly, by the corporation. Maryland law also does not require approval of the 
stockholders of a parent corporation to merge or sell all or substantially all of the assets of a subsidiary entity. Because operating 
assets may be held by a corporation’s subsidiaries, as in our situation, this may mean that a subsidiary may be able to merge or 
to sell all or substantially all of its assets without a vote of the corporation’s stockholders. 
Subtitle 8 
Subtitle 8 of Title 3 of the MGCL permits a Maryland corporation with a class of equity securities registered under the Exchange 
Act and at least three independent directors to elect to be subject, by provision in its charter or bylaws or a resolution of its board 
of directors and notwithstanding any contrary provision in the charter or bylaws, to any or all of five provisions:
•  a classified board; 
•  a two-thirds vote requirement for removing a director; 
•  a requirement that the number of directors be fixed only by vote of the directors; 
•  a requirement that a vacancy on the board be filled only by the remaining directors and for the remainder of the full term 
of the class of directors in which the vacancy occurred; and 
•  a majority vote requirement for the calling by stockholders of a special meeting of stockholders.
Through provisions in our charter and bylaws unrelated to Subtitle 8, we already:
•  vest in the board the exclusive power to fix the number of directorships and
•  require, unless called by our chairman of the board, our president, our chief executive officer or the board, the request 
of holders of a majority of outstanding shares to call a special meeting.
We have also elected to be subject to the provisions of Subtitle 8 relating to:
•  a two-thirds vote requirement for the removal of any director from the board and 
•  the filling of vacancies on the board.
Exclusive Forum
Our bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, 
Maryland, or, if that court does not have jurisdiction, the United States District Court for the District of Maryland, Baltimore 
Division, will be the sole and exclusive forum for (a) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (b) any action 
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-77
asserting a claim of breach of any duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or to our stockholders, (c) 
any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees arising pursuant to any provision of 
the MGCL or our charter or bylaws or (d) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other 
employees that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine.
Anti-Takeover Effect of Certain Provisions of Maryland Law, Our Charter and Our Bylaws 
The possible future application of the business combination, the control share acquisition and Subtitle 8 provisions of the MGCL 
and the current Subtitle 8 elections and advance notice provisions of our bylaws may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a 
change in control that might involve a premium price for holders of common stock or for other reasons be desired by them. 
F-78  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
EXHIBIT 10.22
 
SUMMARY OF DIRECTOR COMPENSATION ARRANGEMENTS
 
Independent non-employee directors of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. (the “Company”) will receive the following 
compensation in 2020:
An annual retainer fee of $110,000.
The committee chairpersons will receive additional annual fees as follows:
Lead Independent Director $ 50,000
Audit Committee Chairperson $ 35,000
Compensation Committee Chairperson $ 35,000
Nominating & Governance Committee Chairperson $ 35,000
Science and Technology Committee Chairperson $ 20,000
 
The committee members, other than the chairpersons, will receive additional annual fees as follows:
Audit Committee Member $ 20,000
Compensation Committee Member $ 20,000
Nominating & Governance Committee Member $ 20,000
Science and Technology Committee Member $ 6,000
Pricing Committee Member $ 6,000
Reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses incurred to attend related meetings.
A restricted stock grant of 863 shares of common stock on January 15, 2020, under the Company’s Amended and 
Restated 1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan. Such shares vest over a period from March 31, 2020 to March 31, 2023.
The Company’s independent non-employee directors may elect to defer all or any portion of the fees above in 
accordance with the Company’s deferred compensation plan for its directors.
Directors who are also employees of the Company will not receive any compensation for their services as directors of 
the Company.
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-79
EXHIBIT 14.1
ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
Business Integrity Policy
and Procedures for Reporting Non-Compliance
PURPOSE AND SCOPE
The purposes of this Business Integrity Policy and Procedures for Reporting Non-Compliance (the “Policy”) are to ensure that 
all employees, officers, directors and consultants of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. and its affiliates and subsidiaries 
(collectively, “ARE” or the “Company”) understand that it is the intent of the Company to comply with all laws and regulations 
and to transact business in accordance with the highest moral and ethical standards, including the requirements of Section 406 
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and to provide procedures for employees, officers and directors to report instances of non-
compliance with this Policy. For the purpose of this Policy, “employees” includes all full-time and part-time employees of the 
Company, including temporary employees employed through third parties.
Any violation of this Policy will result in prompt disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment and, in appropriate 
cases, civil action or referral for criminal prosecution.
POLICY SUMMARY
ARE has always sought to maintain a highly ethical and professional posture in the conduct of its business and operations, and 
to remain in strict compliance with all applicable legal requirements. ARE employees, officers, directors and consultants must 
not be subject to undue influences, interests or relationships that will conflict with the best interests of ARE. All applicable laws 
and regulations must be complied with in both form and substance in all transactions and activities. ARE’s accounting and financial 
records must be accurate and complete and maintained in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and internal 
accounting controls must be adhered to at all times. The making of false or misleading entries on such records, whether they 
relate to financial results or expenses, is strictly prohibited. In addition, public disclosures of financial and business information 
must be accurate, timely and in compliance with all laws, regulations and applicable Company policies. Compliance with these 
basic principles directly contributes to the value of ARE, its stature as a public company, and its reputation as a leader in its 
niche. Any employee, officer, director or consultant who may become aware of any known or possible instance of non-compliance 
with this Policy has the affirmative duty to promptly disclose such possible non-compliance in accordance with procedures 
described in this Policy.
ARE’S BUSINESS INTEGRITY PRINCIPLES
The following principles and guidelines are provided to assist all ARE employees, officers, directors and consultants in the conduct 
of ARE’s business and operations:
Conflicts of Interest. Conflicts of interest are prohibited.  A “conflict of interest” occurs when an individual’s private interest 
interferes with or undermines, or appears to interfere with or undermine, the interests of ARE as a whole. This can arise when 
an employee, officer, director or consultant takes actions or has interests that make it difficult to perform his or her work objectively 
and effectively. Conflicts of interest also include obtaining improper personal benefits, or providing improper personal benefits 
to others, as a result of a person’s position with ARE. For example, a potential conflict of interest could arise if an employee 
causes ARE to hire a vendor in which that same employee or his or her close friend and/or relative has a financial interest.
Factors to be considered by an employee, officer, director or consultant in evaluating whether an activity presents a potential 
conflict of interest include:
•  Could my outside business interests affect my job performance or my judgment on behalf of ARE or affect others with 
whom I work?
•  Can I reasonably conduct the activity outside of normal work hours?
•  Will I be using ARE equipment, materials or proprietary or confidential information in my activities?
•  Could the activity have any potential adverse or beneficial impact on ARE’s business or its relationships with tenants, 
partners or other entities with which ARE does business?
•  Could the activity result in personal financial gain or other direct or indirect benefit to me or a member of my immediate 
family at the expense of ARE or its tenants, partners or other entities with which ARE does business?
F-80  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
•  Could the activity appear improper to an outside observer?
Corporate Opportunities. No employee, officer, director or consultant may take personal advantage of any opportunity that he 
or she discovers, or that is presented to him or her, as a result of his or her position with ARE or through access to Company 
information. Similarly, no person subject to this Policy may use ARE property or information or his or her position with ARE for 
personal gain or for any third party’s personal gain.
Loyalty. All employees, officers, directors and consultants have a duty to ARE to advance its legitimate business interests and 
should not compete with ARE, nor should they own an interest in any entity that competes with ARE, other than passive investments 
(i.e., less than 1% of outstanding securities) in publicly traded companies.
Confidentiality. Subject to the specific terms of any Employee Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement between an 
employee and ARE, all confidential and/or proprietary information about ARE and its business or operations that a person receives 
as a result of his or her position with ARE, including information about our tenants and other entities and/or persons with whom 
we do business or come into contact in the course of our work for ARE, should be held in strict confidence, except when disclosure 
of that information is authorized or legally required, and then only if approved by a duly authorized officer of ARE. ARE business 
matters and confidential and/or proprietary information should not be discussed with anyone outside ARE, other than ARE’s 
advisors and other persons who have a legitimate need to know the information and who are under an obligation of confidentiality, 
and should not be discussed in any public place. The obligation to treat certain information as confidential does not end when  
an employee, officer, director or consultant leaves ARE. Accordingly, employees, officers, directors and consultants may not 
disclose any confidential information to a new employer or to others, or use any confidential information, after ceasing to be an 
ARE employee, officer, director or consultant, unless such disclosure or use is expressly authorized in advance by a duly 
authorized officer of the Company.
Fair Dealing. We must all deal fairly with our tenants, vendors and other parties with whom ARE has a business relationship 
and with each other. No one associated with ARE should attempt to take unfair advantage of anyone through manipulation, 
concealment, abuse of confidential and/or proprietary information, misrepresentation of facts or any other unfair practice.
Protection and Proper Use of ARE Assets. All employees, officers, directors and consultants should protect ARE’s assets and 
use them efficiently and only for legitimate business purposes. Theft, misappropriation, unauthorized disclosures, carelessness 
and waste have a direct impact on ARE’s profitability and are contrary to the interests of ARE and its shareholders. It is important 
that appropriate measures are taken to ensure the security of ARE computers and any computer or voicemail passwords. 
Whenever you use an ARE computer, phone or other communications device to send a text message, e-mail or voicemail or to 
access Internet services, remember that you are acting as a representative of the Company. In addition, all text messages, e-
mail, voicemail and personal files stored on ARE computers, phones and other communications devices are ARE’s property. 
Employees, officers, directors and consultants  have no expectation of privacy in connection with these resources. The use of 
electronic systems and other technological resources must be consistent with all other ARE policies, including but not limited to 
those policies relating to systems usage, sexual harassment, privacy and confidential information.
Compliance with Law. All laws, rules and regulations must be complied with, including (without limitation) laws prohibiting fraud, 
embezzlement, and corruption. We expect  employees to understand the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to their 
business units and areas of responsibility. Further, our employees, officers, directors and consultants are expected to comply 
with the applicable laws in all countries to which they travel, in which they operate and where we otherwise do business. You 
must also comply with the securities laws prohibiting trading on the basis of non-public information. Insider trading is both unethical 
and illegal and will result in prompt disciplinary action by ARE, as well as the possibility of regulatory or criminal enforcement 
actions and private litigation.
Child, Forced or Compulsory Labor. Alexandria employs individuals that are of legal  working age who willingly agree to work 
for the Company. While not typically germane to ARE’s core business, it should be noted that Alexandria:
•  Will not tolerate the use of child (under the age of 15), forced or compulsory labor in any of its global operations and 
facilities.
•  Will not tolerate the engagement of any worker in unacceptably hazardous work, nor the physical punishment, abuse, 
or involuntary servitude of any worker.
•  Expects our suppliers and contractors with whom we do business to uphold the same standards. Should a pattern of 
violation of these principles become known to Alexandria and not corrected, we shall discontinue the business 
relationship.
Accurate, Fair and Timely Financial Reporting. ARE and each of its employees, officers, directors and consultants are 
responsible for assuring that all reports and other documents that we file with or submit to the Securities and Exchange Commission 
or other government agencies contain full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable financial statements and descriptions of 
ARE’s business. All personnel who are requested to assist in preparing any such reports or other communications, including 
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-81
both the collection of information and review of drafts of any such reports or other communications, should do so diligently and 
in full compliance with ARE’s disclosure controls and procedures.
Anti-Corruption Compliance. You are strictly prohibited from engaging in any act or omission that would result in a violation 
of any applicable anti-corruption or kickback law or regulation. The Company does not tolerate the provision or acceptance of 
any improper payments or advantages in relation to its business. Improper benefits can raise significant accounting and internal 
controls concerns for the Company. Violations of these prohibitions can also result in criminal liability for you and the Company. 
You must review and comply with the Company’s Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Anti-Corruption Policy. You can obtain a 
copy of that policy from the Company’s General Counsel if you do not already have one.
Diversity and Equal Employment Opportunity. The Company strives to foster a fair and inclusive workplace that respects the 
rights of our employees. ARE provides equal employment and advancement opportunities to all individuals. Our Equal 
Employment Opportunity policy is part of our Employee Handbook that all employees acknowledge upon hiring, and Alexandria’s 
Talent Development team provides diversity and equal opportunity in the training it provides for hiring managers.
It is the Company’s policy to provide a work environment free of discrimination and harassment, and the Company does not 
tolerate harassment of employees, contractors, consultants, or others by managers, supervisors, employees, agents of the 
Company, or any other third party. The Company also maintains a written affirmative action plan, which sets forth the policies, 
practices, and procedures to which the Company is committed, in order to ensure that our policy of nondiscrimination and 
affirmative action is followed. Alexandria respects the rights of our employees and seeks to provide a safe, respectful, and 
productive work environment that helps our employees succeed and advance in their careers.
EXCEPTIONS TO POLICY
Waivers of the specific requirements of this Policy will only be approved in exceptional cases in which it is determined that the 
requested waiver would not involve a departure from our fundamental commitment to conducting business in compliance with 
applicable law and the highest ethical standards. Waivers may only be granted by authorized officers or, in the case of any waiver 
involving an executive officer or director, by the Board of Directors or a duly appointed committee of the Board. Any waivers of, 
or amendments or changes to, this Policy involving executive officers or directors of ARE will be disclosed through the filing of 
a Current Report on Form 8-K or other authorized method in accordance with applicable law and the rules of the New York Stock 
Exchange.
SEEKING HELP AND INFORMATION
This Policy is not intended to be a comprehensive rulebook and cannot address every situation you may face. If you feel 
uncomfortable about a situation or have any doubts about whether it is consistent with ARE’s ethical standards, we encourage 
you to seek help. We suggest you  contact your supervisor for help first. If your supervisor cannot answer your question or if  you 
do not feel comfortable contacting your supervisor, please contact the General Counsel or the Chairperson of the Audit Committee 
of the Board of Directors. The email address for the Chairperson of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is rklein@are.com.
REPORTING OF EVENTS OF KNOWN OR POSSIBLE NON-COMPLIANCE
Facts or events that directly or indirectly conflict with the proper application of this Policy could adversely affect the value and 
reputation of ARE. Each employee, officer, director and consultant shares in the responsibility for ensuring compliance with this 
Policy and conducting herself or himself in a manner that is in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, the highest 
ethical standards, this Policy and other Company policies and procedures.
Should an employee, officer, director or consultant become aware of any known or possible instance of non-compliance with 
this Policy, the employee, officer, director or consultant has the affirmative duty to promptly report such possible non-compliance 
to her/his supervisor, local management, the General Counsel or the Chairperson of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.  
An employee, officer, director or consultant must promptly report any complaint he  or she may have or receive from any employee, 
officer, director or consultant or any client or other person regarding material accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing 
matters.  Any such reports made will be forwarded to the Chairperson of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
If you believe that the person to whom you have reported material non-compliance with this Policy has not taken appropriate 
action, you should contact the Chairperson of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors directly. The email address for the 
Chairperson of the  Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is rklein@are.com.
Violation of this Policy, and failure to report material non-compliance with this Policy, may be detrimental to ARE and will subject 
the employee, officer, director or consultant to disciplinary action, up to and including termination or removal. In some instances, 
civil or criminal proceedings may be pursued.
It is most helpful if you identify yourself and provide contact information when reporting any instance of possible non-compliance 
with this Policy so that ARE may contact you if further information is needed to pursue an investigation. All information provided 
F-82  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
will be kept confidential to the extent practicable under the circumstances (including as consistent with the needs of a thorough 
investigation). If you are uncomfortable providing your identity, you may also anonymously disclose instances of possible non-
compliance with this Policy by submitting your concerns in writing to the Chairperson of the Audit Committee or the General 
Counsel. In either case, an employee, officer, director or consultant who discloses instances of possible noncompliance should 
keep all information related to the matter in strict confidence and not discuss such information with anyone other than ARE 
officials conducting the investigation or other persons authorized by them, except as required by applicable law.
If you are involved in an event of non-compliance with this Policy, the fact that you voluntarily report such non-compliance in 
good faith, together with the degree of cooperation displayed by you and whether the non-compliance was intentional or 
unintentional, will be given appropriate consideration by ARE in its investigation and any resulting disciplinary action.
INVESTIGATIONS OF POSSIBLE EVENTS OF NON-COMPLIANCE
All reports concerning possible events of non-compliance with this Policy will be promptly, fairly and independently investigated 
and will be treated confidentially to the extent practicable under the circumstances.
It is imperative that persons disclosing possible non-compliance with this Policy not attempt to conduct their own 
investigations. Investigations may involve complex legal issues. Acting on one’s own may compromise the integrity of ARE’s 
investigation and adversely affect both the employee, officer, director or consultant and ARE. However, measures should be 
taken  promptly to preserve documents and other items relevant to any investigation.
Employees, officers, directors and consultants are expected to cooperate in the investigation of any possible non-compliance 
with this Policy. If the result of the investigation indicates that corrective action is required, ARE will decide what steps it should 
take to rectify the problem and avoid its recurrence.
The Chairperson of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors will lead any required investigation and, if deemed necessary, 
appoint additional individuals to assist in the process. The Chairperson of the Audit Committee will coordinate the investigation, 
findings and recommendations with ARE management and, if appropriate, the Talent Management & Operations Department 
before action is taken and the file is closed. The Chairperson of the  Audit Committee will report the status and results of any 
reports received and any resulting investigation to the Audit Committee, which will then take appropriate action with respect to 
the matter.
If a report of an instance of possible non-compliance with this Policy involves an individual who would normally participate in an 
investigation, that individual generally will not be notified of the investigation, except as may be necessary to conduct a full and 
fair investigation of the facts, and such individual will not be allowed to participate in conducting or reviewing the investigation.
All information obtained during an investigation shall be considered confidential and shall be disseminated only on a need-to-
know basis, unless otherwise required by law. No information relating to an investigation shall be disposed of or destroyed without 
the prior written approval of the Chairperson of the Audit Committee and the General Counsel.
It is ARE’s objective that all investigations be completed and resolved promptly and, if possible, within 60 days of the Company’s 
receipt of the complaint.
RETALIATION NOT PERMITTED
Retaliation against any person who in good faith reports any instance of non-compliance or possible non-compliance with this 
Policy or any potential violation of law, who assists another to make a good faith report, or who participates in good faith in an 
investigation of a report, is strictly prohibited and will not be tolerated. This includes (without limitation) retaliation relating to 
reports or complaints received from any source regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters relating 
to ARE or any concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing. This policy also protects those individuals who cooperate 
in investigations  conducted by ARE or any government agency, or who provide information concerning suspected non-compliance 
or legal violations. In addition, ARE prohibits retaliation against any person  who refuses to participate in an act that would result 
in a violation of state or federal statute, rule or regulation, or who reports any suspected violations of law at a former employer. 
Any instance of retaliation will result in prompt disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment with ARE, in 
addition to any penalty or liability under applicable law. However, any person who makes a report known to be false or provides 
information known to be false may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination or removal.
OBLIGATIONS OF EMPLOYEES, OFFICERS, DIRECTORS AND CONSULTANTS
Read and understand the Policy. Employees, officers, directors and consultants are expected to read and understand this 
Policy and comply fully with its terms. Please discuss any questions  you may have regarding this Policy with your direct supervisor 
or the General Counsel to ensure that you understand the Policy.
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-83
Follow the Policy. Employees, officers, directors and consultants must act in accordance with this Policy. ARE may periodically 
require employees, officers, directors and consultants to certify in writing their compliance with this Policy.
Report known or possible violations of the Policy. If you become aware of known or possible instances of non-compliance 
with this Policy, you must report such instances to your supervisor, local management, the General Counsel or the Chairperson 
of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors (anonymously or otherwise), as appropriate. In addition, you may report suspected 
violations of law to the California Attorney General or other state or federal agencies, or foreign government authorities that have 
competent jurisdiction over ARE at any time.
F-84  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
EXHIBIT 21.1
List of Subsidiaries of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
The list below excludes subsidiaries in the same line of business (ownership and operation of commercial real estate) 
and includes the immediate parent of each excluded subsidiary. The list also excludes subsidiaries that in the aggregate, as a 
single subsidiary, would not constitute a significant subsidiary as of December 31, 2019.  A total of 429 subsidiaries have been 
excluded.
Name of Subsidiary Jurisdiction of Organization
ARE - QRS Corp. Maryland
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, L.P. Delaware
Alexandria Venture Investments, LLC Maryland
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-85
EXHIBIT 23.1
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration statements: 
•  Registration Statements pertaining to the Amended and Restated 1997 Stock Award and Incentive Plan of Alexandria Real 
Estate Equities, Inc. (Form S-8 No. 333-34223, Form S-8 No. 333-60075, Form S-8 No. 333-152433, Form S-8 No. 
333-167889, Form S-8 No. 333-197212, Form S-8 No. 333-212385, and Form S-8 No. 333-226129);
•  Registration Statement (Form S-3/A No. 333-56449) and related Prospectus of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.;
•  Registration Statement (Form S-3/A No. 333-81985) and related Prospectus of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.; and
•  Registration Statement (Form S-3ASR No. 333-222136) and related Prospectus of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.;
of our reports dated February 4, 2020 with respect to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of 
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc., and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Alexandria Real Estate 
Equities, Inc., included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2019. 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Los Angeles, California
February 4, 2020
F-86  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
EXHIBIT 31.1
 
CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER
PURSUANT TO
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002
 
I, Joel S. Marcus, certify that:
 
1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.;
 
2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact 
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not 
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
 
3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all 
material respects the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods 
presented in this report;
 
4.  The registrant’s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and 
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as 
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:
 
a.  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed 
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated 
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is 
being prepared;
 
b.  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be 
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the 
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
 
c.  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our 
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by 
this report based on such evaluation; and
 
d.  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the 
registrant’s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has 
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting; 
and
 
5.  The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over 
financial reporting, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant’s board of directors (or persons 
performing the equivalent functions):
 
a.  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting 
which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial 
information; and
 
b.  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the 
registrant’s internal control over financial reporting.
 
Date: February 4, 2020 
 
  /s/ Joel S. Marcus
  Joel S. Marcus
  Executive Chairman
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-87
EXHIBIT 31.2
 
CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER
PURSUANT TO
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002
 
I, Stephen A. Richardson, certify that:
 
1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.;
 
2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact 
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not 
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
 
3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all 
material respects the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods 
presented in this report;
 
4.  The registrant’s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and 
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as 
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:
 
a.  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed 
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated 
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is 
being prepared;
 
b.  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be 
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the 
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
 
c.  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our 
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by 
this report based on such evaluation; and
 
d.  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the 
registrant’s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has 
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting; 
and
 
5.  The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over 
financial reporting, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant’s board of directors (or persons 
performing the equivalent functions):
 
a.  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting 
which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial 
information; and
 
b.  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the 
registrant’s internal control over financial reporting.
 
Date: February 4, 2020 
 
  /s/ Stephen A. Richardson
  Stephen A. Richardson
  Co-Chief Executive Officer
F-88  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
EXHIBIT 31.3
 
CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER
PURSUANT TO
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002
 
I, Peter M. Moglia, certify that:
 
1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.;
 
2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact 
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not 
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
 
3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all 
material respects the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods 
presented in this report;
 
4.  The registrant’s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and 
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as 
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:
 
a.  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed 
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated 
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is 
being prepared;
 
b.  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be 
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the 
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
 
c.  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our 
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by 
this report based on such evaluation; and
 
d.  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the 
registrant’s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has 
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting; 
and
 
5.  The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over 
financial reporting, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant’s board of directors (or persons 
performing the equivalent functions):
 
a.  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting 
which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial 
information; and
 
b.  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the 
registrant’s internal control over financial reporting.
 
Date: February 4, 2020 
 
  /s/ Peter M. Moglia
  Peter M. Moglia
  Co-Chief Executive Officer and Co-Chief Investment Officer
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-89
EXHIBIT 31.4
 
CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER
PURSUANT TO
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002
 
I, Dean A. Shigenaga, certify that:
 
1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.;
 
2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact 
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not 
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
 
3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all 
material respects the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods 
presented in this report;
 
4.  The registrant’s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and 
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as 
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  
 
a.  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed 
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated 
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is 
being prepared;
 
b.  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be 
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the 
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
 
c.  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our 
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by 
this report based on such evaluation; and
 
d.  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the 
registrant’s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has 
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting; 
and
 
5.  The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over 
financial reporting, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant’s board of directors (or persons 
performing the equivalent functions):
 
a.  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting 
which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial 
information; and
 
b.  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the 
registrant’s internal control over financial reporting.
 
Date: February 4, 2020 
 
  /s/ Dean A. Shigenaga
  Dean A. Shigenaga
  Co-President and Chief Financial Officer
F-90  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
EXHIBIT 32.0
 
CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER
PURSUANT TO
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350.
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002
 
I, Joel S. Marcus, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002, that the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2019, fully 
complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and that the 
information contained in such report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of 
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Date: February 4, 2020 
  /s/ Joel S. Marcus
  Joel S. Marcus
  Executive Chairman
I, Stephen A. Richardson, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act of 2002, that the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. for the year ended 
December 31, 2019, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as 
amended, and that the information contained in such report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and 
results of operations of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Date: February 4, 2020 
  /s/ Stephen A. Richardson
  Stephen A. Richardson
  Co-Chief Executive Officer
I, Peter M. Moglia, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002, that the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2019, fully 
complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and that the 
information contained in such report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of 
Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
 
Date: February 4, 2020 
  /s/ Peter M. Moglia
  Peter M. Moglia
  Co-Chief Executive Officer and Co-Chief Investment Officer
I, Dean A. Shigenaga, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act of 2002, that the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 
2019, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and 
that the information contained in such report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of 
operations of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc.
Date: February 4, 2020  
  /s/ Dean A. Shigenaga
  Dean A. Shigenaga
  Co-President and Chief Financial Officer
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  F-91
PPEERRFFOORRMMAANNCCEE  GGRRAAPPHH
TThhee  ffoolllloowwiinngg  ppeerrffoorrmmaannccee  ggrraapphh  ccoommppaarreess  tthhee  ccuummuullaattiivvee  ttoottaall  rreettuurrnn  oonn  oouurr  ccoommmmoonn    
ssttoocckk  oovveerr  tthhee  fifivvee--yyeeaarr  ppeerriioodd  eennddeedd  DDeecceemmbbeerr  3311,,  22001199,,  ttoo  tthhee  ccuummuullaattiivvee  ttoottaall  rreettuurrnn  o f the  
So&f thPe 5 S0&0 PIn 5d0e0x ,I nthdee Ex,q tuhiet yR Ousfsfieclel  2In0d0e0x I pnrdeepxa,r tehde  bEyq tuhiety F OTSffiEc aen Idn dNeaxr perite (p“aFrTedS Eby N thaere  it  
EFTquSiEty a Ondf fiNcaer Ienidt (e“xF”T),S tEhe N Raursesite Ell q2u0i0ty0  OInfdfiecxe, I anndde xth”e), U aSn dR tEhIeT U OS fRfiEceI TIn Odeffix cper Ienpdaerxed   by  
Sp&repPa Grelodb bayl  SM&aPrk Gelto Ibnatel lMligaernkceet  (I“nSteNllLig UenSc Re E(“ISTN OLf fiUcSe R InEdIeTx O”)f. fiTchee I ngrdaepxh” )a.s Tsuhme gersa tphha t   
$as1s0u0m weas st hinavt e$s1t0ed0  owna Ds iencveemstbeedr o 3n1 D, 2e0c1e4m, bine ro 3u1r ,c 2o0m1m4,o inn  ostuorc cko, mthme So&n sPt o5c0k0,  Itnhde e x, the  
FS&TSPE 5 N00a rIenidt Eexq,u tihtey  FOTfSfiEce N Inadreeixt ,E tqhue iRtyu Ossfefillc 2e0 In0d0e Ixn,d tehxe, R anudss tehlle 2 S0N0L0  UInSd RexE,I aTn Od tfhfiec e  Index, 
aSNndL t hUaSt  RalEl dITiv Oidfefincdes I wndereex r, eainndv etshtaetd a. lTl dhiev riedteunrdnss w sheorew rnei onnv etshtee gdr. aTphhe a rreet unront sn sehcoewssnar  ily 
ionnd tihcae tgivraep ohf  faurteu nroet p neercfoesrsmarainlyc ein.dicative of future performance.
$230 index value 
$220
$210 ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
$200
$190
$180
$170 S&P 500 INDEX
$160
$150
RUSSELL 2000 INDEX
$140
$130 FTSE NAREIT EQUITY OFFICE INDEX 
$120
SNL US REIT OFFICE INDEX  
$110
$100
$90
12/31/14 12/31/15 12/31/16 12/31/17 12/31/18 12/31/19
period ended
index 12/31/14 12/31/15 12/31/16 12/31/17 12/31/18 12/31/19
alexandria real estate equities, inc. $100.00 $105.30 $133.68 $161.69 $147.18 $211.99
s&p 500 index $100.00 $101.38 $113.51 $138.29 $132.23 $173.86
russell 2000 index  $100.00 $ 95.59 $115.95 $132.94 $118.30 $148.49
ftse nareit equity ofﬁce index $100.00 $100.29 $113.49 $119.45 $102.13 $134.22
snl us reit ofﬁce index    $100.00 $100.88 $112.58 $115.61 $   95.36 $121.57
Source: S&P Global Market Intelligence © 2020
I  ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC.
CCOORRPPOORRAATTEE  IINNFFOORRMMAATTIIOONN
CCOOMMMMOONN  SSTTOOCCKK AANNNNUUAALL  MMEEEETTIINNGG
LLiisstteedd  oonn  tthhee  NNeeww  YYoorrkk TThhee  aannnnuuaall  mmeeeettiinngg  wwiillll  bbee  hheelldd
SSttoocckk  EExxcchhaannggee,, aatt  1111::0000  aa..mm..,,  PPaacciifificc  DDaayylliigghhtt  TTiimmee,,
SSyymmbbooll::  AARREE MMaayy  55,,  22002200,,  aatt
TThhee  LLaanngghhaamm  HHootteell
CCOORRPPOORRAATTEE  OOFFFFIICCEE 11440011  SSoouutthh  OOaakk  KKnnoollll  AAvveennuuee
2266  NNoorrtthh  EEuucclliidd  AAvveennuuee PPaassaaddeennaa,,  CCaalliiffoorrnniiaa  9911110066
PPaassaaddeennaa,,  CCaalliiffoorrnniiaa  9911110011
((662266))  557788--00777777 SSEECC  FFOORRMM  1100--KK
AA  ccooppyy  ooff  tthhee  CCoommppaannyy’’ss  AAnnnnuuaall  RReeppoorrtt  oonn  
TTRRAANNSSFFEERR  AAGGEENNTT FFoorrmm  1100--KK,,  aass  fifilleedd  wwiitthh  tthhee  SSeeccuurriittiieess  aanndd  
AAmmeerriiccaann  SSttoocckk  TTrraannssffeerr  && EExxcchhaannggee  CCoommmmiissssiioonn,,  iiss  aavvaaiillaabbllee  wwiitthhoouutt  
TTrruusstt  CCoommppaannyy,,  LLLLCC cchhaarrggee,,  uuppoonn  wwrriitttteenn  rreeqquueesstt  ttoo::
66220011  1155tthh  AAvveennuuee
BBrrooookkllyynn,,  NNeeww  YYoorrkk  1111221199 AAlleexxaannddrriiaa  RReeaall  EEssttaattee  EEqquuiittiieess,,  IInncc..
((880000))  993377--55444499 2266  NNoorrtthh  EEuucclliidd  AAvveennuuee
PPaassaaddeennaa,,  CCaalliiffoorrnniiaa  9911110011
LLEEGGAALL  CCOOUUNNSSEELL
((662266))  339966--44882288
MMoorrrriissoonn  &&  FFooeerrsstteerr  LLLLPP
wwwwww..aarree..ccoomm
LLooss  AAnnggeelleess,,  CCaalliiffoorrnniiaa
IINNDDEEPPEENNDDEENNTT  RREEGGIISSTTEERREEDD
PPUUBBLLIICC  AACCCCOOUUNNTTIINNGG  FFIIRRMM
EErrnnsstt  &&  YYoouunngg  LLLLPP
LLooss  AAnnggeelleess,,  CCaalliiffoorrnniiaa
  
  2019 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  II
iii K01_la83182 1
1
DDIIRREECCTTOORRSSAANNDDOOFFFFIICCEERRSS
2
8
1
3
8
a
l_
1
0
K
 iii
BBOOAARRDDOOFFDDIIRREECCTTOORRSS EEXXEECCUUTTIIVVEEOOFFFFIICCEERRSS
JJooeellSS..MMaarrccuuss JJooeellSS..MMaarrccuuss TereziaC.Nemeth
EExxeeccuuttiivveeCChhaaiirrmmaannaannddFFoouunnddeerr EExxeeccuuttiivveeCChhaaiirrmmaannaannddFFoouunnddeerr Executive Vice Presidentand
AAlleexxaannddrriiaaRReeaallEEssttaatteeEEqquuiittiieess,,IInncc.. RegionalMarketDirector–
SStteepphheennAA..RRiicchhaarrddssoonn SanFrancisco
SStteevveennRR..HHaasshh CCoo--CChhiieeffEExxeeccuuttiivveeOOfffificceerr
PPrreessiiddeennttaannddCChhiieeffOOppeerraattiinnggOOfffificceerr Marc E. Binda
RReennaaiissssaanncceeMMaaccrrooRReesseeaarrcchh,,LLLLCC PPeetteerrMM..MMoogglliiaa Executive Vice President–
CCoo--CChhiieeffEExxeeccuuttiivveeOOfffificceerraanndd FinanceandTreasurer
JJoohhnnLL..AAttkkiinnss,,IIIIII CCoo--CChhiieeffIInnvveessttmmeennttOOfffificceerr
CChhaaiirrmmaannaannddCChhiieeffEExxeeccuuttiivveeOOfffificceerr AndresR.Gavinet
OO’’BBrriieennAAttkkiinnssAAssssoocciiaatteess,,PPAA DDeeaannAA..SShhiiggeennaaggaa ChiefAccountingOfficer
CCoo--PPrreessiiddeennttaannddCChhiieeffFFiinnaanncciiaallOOfffificceerr
JJaammeessPP..CCaaiinn JosephHakman
MMaannaaggiinnggPPaarrttnneerr TThhoommaassJJ..AAnnddrreewwss ChiefStrategicTransactionsOfficer
CCaaiinnGGlloobbaallPPaarrttnneerrss,,LLLLCC CCoo--PPrreessiiddeennttaannddRReeggiioonnaallMMaarrkkeett
DDiirreeccttoorr––GGrreeaatteerrBBoossttoonn
MMaarriiaaCC..FFrreeiirree,,PPhhDD
PPrreessiiddeennttaannddEExxeeccuuttiivveeDDiirreeccttoorr DDaanniieellJJ..RRyyaann
FFoouunnddaattiioonnffoorrtthheeNNaattiioonnaallIInnssttiittuutteess CCoo--CChhiieeffIInnvveessttmmeennttOOfffificceerraanndd
ooffHHeeaalltthh RReeggiioonnaallMMaarrkkeettDDiirreeccttoorr––SSaannDDiieeggoo
RJeincnhiafredrFHr.ieKllGeionl,dCstPeAin JJeennnniiffeerrJJ..BBaannkkss
CHheaiedfoFfinBaunsciniaelsOsDffiecveerlopment, CCoo--CChhiieeffOOppeerraattiinnggOOfffificceerr,,
ITnedcuhsntorilaolgRyeaanldtyHGeraoluthpc,aLrLeC GGeenneerraallCCoouunnsseell,,aannddCCoorrppoorraatteeSSeeccrreettaarryy
SiliconValleyBank
JamesH.Richardson LLaawwrreenncceeJJ..DDiiaammoonndd
SReinchioarrdMHan.Kagleeimn,eCntPCAonsultant CCoo--CChhiieeffOOppeerraattiinnggOOfffificceerraanndd
ChiefFinancialOfficer RReeggiioonnaallMMaarrkkeettDDiirreeccttoorr––MMaarryyllaanndd
MIndicuhsatreilaAlR.WeaolrtyonGorfofup,LLC
Partner VViinncceennttRR..CCiirruuzzzzii
KJaimrkelsaHnd.R&icEhlalirsdLsLonP CChhiieeffDDeevveellooppmmeennttOOfffificceerr
SeniorManagementConsultant
JJoohhnnHH..CCuunnnniinngghhaamm
MichaelA.Woronoff EExxeeccuuttiivvee  VViiccee  PPrreessiiddeennttaanndd
Partner RReeggiioonnaallMMaarrkkeettDDiirreeccttoorr––
Kirkland&EllisLLP NNeewwYYoorrkkCCiittyy
Marc E. Binda
Executive Vice President–
FinanceandTreasurer
JosephHakman K iii
ChiefStrategicTransactionsOfficer 0
1
_
al
8
3
1
8
2
III ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC. 1
1 28138al_10K iii
28138al_10K.indd 3 3/26/20 4:51PM
03.26.2020 16:53PM 28138al
K 9.000 in x 11.000 in Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc
awallerstein (sa1) 28138al_10K iii
rcalvopina file://sanjfs5.sa1.com/Sandy2/28138al
ALEXANDRIA REAL ESTATE EQUITIES, INC. (NYSE:ARE), an S&P 500® urban office REIT, is the first,  Alexandria®, Lighthouse Design® logo,
Building the Future of Life-Changing
longest-tenured, and pioneering owner, operator, and developer uniquely focused on 
Innovation™, Alexandria Center®, Alexandria 
collaborative life science, technology, and agtech campuses in AAA innovation cluster locations,  Technology Square®, Alexandria Technology 
with a total market capitalization of $26.3 billion as of December 31, 2019, and an asset base in  Center®, Alexandria Innovation Center®, 
LaunchLabs®, and GradLabs™ are trademarks 
North America of 39.2 million square feet. The asset base in North America includes 27.0 million 
of Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. All 
RSF of operating properties and 2.1 million RSF of Class A properties undergoing construction,  other company names, trademarks, and logos 
6.3 million RSF of near-term and intermediate-term development and redevelopment projects,  referenced herein are the property of their 
respective owners.
and 3.8 million square feet of future development projects. Founded in 1994, Alexandria 
pioneered this niche and has since established a significant market presence in key locations, 
including Greater Boston, San Francisco, New York City, San Diego, Seattle, Maryland, and 
Research Triangle. Alexandria has a longstanding and proven track record of developing Class A 
properties clustered in urban life science, technology, and agtech campuses that provide our 
innovative tenants with highly dynamic and collaborative environments that enhance their ability 
to successfully recruit and retain world-class talent and inspire productivity, efficiency, creativity, 
and success. Alexandria also provides strategic capital to transformative life science, technology, 
and agtech companies through our venture capital arm. We believe our unique business model 
and diligent underwriting ensure a high-quality and diverse tenant base that results in higher 
occupancy levels, longer lease terms, higher rental income, higher returns, and greater long-term 
asset value. For additional information on Alexandria, please visit www.are.com.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS: This document includes “forward-looking statements” within 
the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements include, without 
limitation, statements regarding our 2020 earnings per share attributable to Alexandria’s common 
stockholders – diluted, 2020 funds from operations per share attributable to Alexandria’s 
common stockholders – diluted, net operating income, our projected sources and uses of 
capital, and 2025 sustainability goals. You can identify the forward-looking statements by their 
use of forward-looking words, such as “forecast,” “guidance,” “goals,” “projects,” “estimates,” 
“anticipates,” “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “plans,” “seeks,” “should,” or “will,” or the 
negative of those words or similar words. These forward-looking statements are based on our 
current expectations, beliefs, projections, future plans and strategies, anticipated events or trends, 
and similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts, as well as a number of 
assumptions concerning future events. There can be no assurance that actual results will not 
be materially higher or lower than these expectations. These statements are subject to risks, 
uncertainties, assumptions, and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ 
materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause 
such a difference include, without limitation, our failure to obtain capital (debt, construction 
financing, and/or equity) or refinance debt maturities, increased interest rates and operating 
costs, adverse economic or real estate developments in our markets, our failure to successfully 
place into service and lease any properties undergoing development or redevelopment and our 
existing space held for future development or redevelopment (including new properties acquired 
for that purpose), our failure to successfully operate or lease acquired properties, decreased 
rental rates, increased vacancy rates or failure to renew or replace expiring leases, defaults 
on or non-renewal of leases by tenants, adverse general and local economic conditions, an 
unfavorable capital market environment, decreased leasing activity or lease renewals, and other 
risks and uncertainties detailed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. 
All forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this document, and unless otherwise 
stated, we assume no obligation to update this information and expressly disclaim any obligation 
to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future 
events, or otherwise. For more discussion relating to risks and uncertainties that could cause 
actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in our forward-looking statements, and 
risks to our business in general, please refer to our SEC filings, including our most recent annual 
report on Form 10-K and any subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
