
NEUBERGER BERMAN
2017 Annual Report
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO   3 QUANTITATIVE AND MULTI-ASSET CLASS  47
PERSPECTIVES: ESG INTEGRATION  21 PERSPECTIVES: CLIENT ENGAGEMENT  50
EQUITY  23 PRIVATE CLIENT  51
PERSPECTIVES: INNOVATION  29 PERSPECTIVES: CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  57
FIXED INCOME  31 CLIENT COVERAGE  59
PERSPECTIVES: ACCOUNTIBILITY  37  PERSPECTIVES: FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT  65
ALTERNATIVES  39  FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS  65
PERSPECTIVES:  RISK MANAGEMENT  45  LEADERSHIP  66
OUR MISSION
Neuberger Berman was founded in 1939 to 
do one thing: deliver compelling investment  
results for our clients over the long term. 
This remains our singular purpose today, driven by a culture rooted  CLIENT ALIGNMENT
in deep fundamental research, the pursuit of investment insight and 
100% Deferred cash compensation  
continuous innovation on behalf of clients, and facilitated by the free  directly linked to team and  
exchange of ideas across the organization. firm strategies     
As a private, independent, employee-owned investment manager,  
PARTNERSHIP AND INNOVATION
Neuberger Berman is structurally aligned with the long-term interests 
of our clients. We have no external parent or public shareholders to  75+ Years spent collaborating  
with our clients to overcome  
serve, nor other lines of business to distract us from our core mission. 
their challenges
And with our employees and their families invested alongside our  
clients—plus 100% of employee deferred cash compensation directly  
linked to team and firm strategies—we are truly in this together. EXPERIENCE AND STABILITY
96% Annualized retention rate of  
From offices in 31 cities worldwide, Neuberger Berman manages  senior investment professionals* 
since becoming an independent 
a range of equity, fixed income, private equity and hedge fund 
company in 2009    
strategies on behalf of institutions, advisors and individual investors 
worldwide. With more than 500 investment professionals and over 
BREADTH OF PERSPECTIVE
1,900 employees in total, Neuberger Berman has built a diverse 
team of individuals united in their commitment to client outcomes  500+ Investment professionals offering 
unique insights on securities, 
and investment excellence. Our culture has afforded us enviable 
markets and strategies
retention rates among our senior investment staff and has earned us 
citations in the top-ranked firms (among those with 1,000 or more 
employees) in the Pensions & Investments “Best Places to Work in 
Money Management” survey each year since 2013.
* Managing Directors and Senior Vice Presidents    
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 1
OUR INVESTMENT PLATFORM
EQUITY  FIXED INCOME ALTERNATIVES
$104bn $130bn $69bn
AUM $295BN1
AUM and Committed Capital
INVESTMENT   223 159 139
PROFESSIONALS
Global/EAFE Global Investment Grade Private Equity: Hedge Funds:
U.S. Value/Core/Growth Global Non-Investment Grade – Primaries – Multi-Manager
Emerging Markets Emerging Markets, Regional EM, China – Co-Investments – Equity Long/Short
FUNDAMENTAL Regional EM, China Opportunistic/Unconstrained  – Secondaries – Credit Long/Short
– Specialty Strategies  – Event Driven
Sustainable Equity Municipals
–  Minority Stakes in  
Income Strategies: Specialty Strategies: 
Alternative Firms/Dyal 
– MLP – CLO Mezzanine
Alternative Credit:
– REITs – Currency
– Corporate Hybrids – Private Credit
– Residential Loans
– Special Situations
Global  Risk Premia
QUANTITATIVE U.S.  Options
Emerging Markets Global Macro
Custom Beta Commodities
MULTI-ASSET CLASS SOLUTIONS AND STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS
FUNDAMENTAL Global Relative and Absolute Return QUANTITATIVE Risk Parity
Income Focused Global Tactical Asset Allocation
Inflation Management
Liability Aware
1   As of December 31, 2017. Firm assets under management (AUM) includes $103.8 billion in Equity assets, $130.1 billion in Fixed Income assets and $61.3 billion in Alternatives assets under management.  
Alternatives AUM includes AUM & Committed Capital since inception, which reflects contractual commitments to fund investments advised by NB Alternatives Advisers LLC, including those still in documentation, 
since inception (the oldest mandate of which was founded in 1981) (“Committed Capital”).  
2 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
GEORGE H. WALKER
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
A Message from Our CEO
2017 was an extraordinary year in the financial markets. Equities were notably robust; for example, the S&P 500 delivered a 
positive return in each month of the year—the first time it has ever done so—and closed at a record high 62 times. Dollar- 
based returns of non-U.S. developed and emerging markets stock indexes were even stronger. With global central banks 
remaining broadly accommodative, investors took their cues throughout 2017 from meaningful data like synchronized global 
economic growth and improving corporate earnings rather than being distracted by the noise of discordant headlines. Nothing 
gold can stay, however; though we entered 2018 with the expectation that global GDP and corporate earnings growth would 
continue, financial conditions are likely to grow increasingly normal—i.e., more volatile—as global central banks raise bench-
mark lending rates and trim asset purchases. A new regime is near on the horizon. 
2017 also was an extraordinary year for Neuberger Berman. While the  next five years. Debt reduction and continued earnings growth has 
firm delivered compelling results by virtually any metric, most significant  resulted in improvements to our interest coverage and debt to  
was the continued strength of our long-term investment performance  Adjusted EBITDA ratios, yielding us another round of upgrades to our 
across asset classes and geographies, against both benchmarks and  investment grade ratings from both Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s. 
our peers. Robust investment results fueled record client-retention  We also invested heavily in our capabilities during the year, adding 
rates, driving a 16% increase in the implied average holding period  talent and making major commitments across products, geographies and 
of client accounts. Such results also attracted $13 billion of net client  technologies, as I’ll discuss in detail on the pages that follow. 
inflows, helping propel the firm to a record-high $295 billion in assets 
In our most recent equity offering we added 68 new employee owners, 
under management as of year-end. The firm’s revenue and earnings, 
which brought the number of current employee owners to 503.  
consequently, exceeded all prior periods. 
Combined with deferred cash compensation directly linked to client 
We used the tailwind of a strong 2017 as an opportunity to prepare for  returns, Neuberger Berman employees and their families have  
the more volatile conditions that lie ahead. On the risk front, we continued  approximately $3 billion invested alongside our clients, epitomizing  
to move the firm to a more conservative capital structure, reducing our  our commitment to alignment.1 The alignment of interests—not only 
debt outstanding to $600 million with notes that mature in 2027 and  between our employees and our clients, but also between the firm  
2045, fully redeeming those that had been scheduled to mature in the  and our employees—is fundamental to our success as a private, 
1Employee assets include current and former employees and their family members.
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 3
ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT   Neuberger Berman
$295 Billion 
AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017
Neuberger Berman Group
EQUITY $104bn
45%  U.S. Core independent, employee-owned investment manager. It also serves as a self-selection 
17%  Global / International mechanism through which we attract those individuals who share our passion for 
15%  U.S. Value delivering compelling long-term investment results on behalf of our clients; testament 
  8%  Income to this is a 96% annualized retention rate among senior investment professionals 
  6%  U.S. Growth since we became an independent company in 2009. 
  5%  Sustainable Equity
Retention is vital in our industry. Investment management is a team sport; for clients, 
  4%  Quantitative
there’s confidence in knowing that the players in the lineup today are the same ones 
that have been knocking the ball out of the park all season long, and that these play-
FIXED INCOME $130bn
ers are more likely to be wearing the same jerseys in the years to come than is the 
case at most firms. I’m proud of the team we have assembled, and I’m not alone; we 
40%  Global Investment Grade
have been cited as a top-ranked firm (among those with 1,000 or more employees) 
32%  Global Non-Investment Grade Credit
in the Pension & Investments “Best Places to Work in Money Management” survey 
13%  Emerging Markets Debt
annually since 2013, ranking second in 2017.
  8%  Municipals
  7%  Multi-Sector and Opportunistic 
ALIGNMENT WITH AN ARRAY OF STAKEHOLDERS 
At Neuberger Berman we have long believed that material environmental, social and 
ALTERNATIVES $69bn
governance (ESG) characteristics are an important driver of long-term investment 
returns, from both an opportunity and a risk-mitigation perspective. The investment 
24%  Primaries1 
management industry over time increasingly has accepted this concept, and we now 
20%  Hedge Funds / Options
find that many clients expect a robust investment process, regardless of asset class, to 
 18%  Co-Investments1
integrate material ESG characteristics. We expect this trend to continue as a greater 
13%   Minority stakes in alternative  
number of investors—from giant institutions to individuals—embrace the opportuni-
firms / Dyal
ties of ESG, with some seeking to align their investment approach with their impact 
13%  Secondaries1
objectives. 
  7%  Alternative Credit2
  5%  Specialty Strategies
1  Includes estimated allocations of dry powder for diversified portfolios consisting of 
primaries, secondaries, and co-investments. Therefore, AUM may vary depending 
on how mandates are invested over time. 
2  Includes commitments from public investment company registered under the laws 
of Guemsey.
AUM BY CLIENT REGION AUM BY CLIENT TYPE
70% AMERICAS 65% PENSION FUNDS, SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS AND OTHER INSTITUTIONS
14% EUROPE/MIDDLE EAST 19% FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, RIAs AND ADVISORS
16% ASIA PACIFIC 16% PRIVATE CLIENTS
4 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
ESG ACCOUNTS FOR AN INCREASING SHARE OF GLOBAL ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT
U.S. Dollars in Billions
$25,000
$22,090
Europe – $12,040 
$20,000 $18,276
U.S. – $8,723 
$15,000 $13,261 Canada – $1,086 
2016 by Region
Australia/NZ – $516 
$10,000
Asia ex-Japan – $52 
$5,000 Japan – $474 
$0
2012 2014 2016
Source: Global Sustainable Investment Alliance.  
We have a deep history in ESG investing and have continually sought to  Engagement with corporate managements on material ESG issues—
bolster our capabilities in this area in accordance with client demand;  from business strategy and governance to environmental and social 
we first applied avoidance screens to an investment process in the early  concerns—is key to the ongoing alignment of our business with 
1940s and several of our investment teams, including Emerging Markets  the interests of our clients. In a world gone increasingly passive, 
Debt and Sustainable Equity, have been integrating ESG factors into  active investment managers must play an outsized role in supporting 
their processes since the 1990s. In 2017 we created an ESG Investing  and defending shareholder interests through engagement with the 
unit, which reflects not a minor enhancement to our existing capabili- companies in which we hold stakes. Shareholder engagement is an 
ties but rather a significant leap in functionality across the firm—think  area in which active management has an inherent advantage over 
Neuberger Berman ESG 2.0. Led by Jonathan Bailey, the ESG Investing  the passive competition. Clients understand that passive managers 
team is charged with working with our investment groups to deepen the  do not have the resources to engage across all their holdings. As 
sophistication and consistency of ESG factor integration in the context  such, engagement is an area in which passive can benefit from the 
of their particular portfolio strategy. All teams at Neuberger Berman now  work of active managers like Neuberger Berman, following the lead 
have access to a range of proprietary ESG data; strategies representing  we take based on the work of our hundreds of portfolio managers 
approximately 45% of our AUM had integrated ESG factors into the   and research analysts, many with decades of experience analyzing 
investment process as of December 31, 2017, and we expect this number  particular companies and industries. In short, we don’t just have a 
to increase materially in 2018. We also have been developing innovative  stewardship team, we are an organization of stewards dedicated to 
new strategies that seek to make investments that support positive  representing the interests of our clients.
environmental and social outcomes alongside competitive risk-adjusted 
market-rate returns, including the Municipal Impact and Private Equity 
Impact strategies. 
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 5
While we are engaged, we are not a traditional “activist investor.” We  ration with our Global Equity Research and Fixed Income Research teams. 
don’t initiate positions with the intention of fixing a broken company,  In addition, our first-ever firm-wide Proxy Voting and Engagement Report 
nor do we seek public battles with those companies we elect to engage.  provides details on the scale and depth of our engagement—including  
We believe strongly that ongoing dialogue helps resolve differences in  examples drawn from the more than 590 structured engagements and 
a constructive manner, positively influencing corporate behaviors and  over 2,500 meetings with management teams that we conducted in 2017.
driving long-term, sustainable returns for our clients. Such positions entail 
When it comes to engagement, judgment matters. The judgment to resist 
continual scrutiny of and interaction with a company over time, not just 
the temptation of “window-dressing” in favor of supporting measures that 
when things go wrong or when a proxy vote comes up. 
we believe can fundamentally improve a company’s ability to compete. The 
When private dialogue fails or when industry dynamics require urgent  judgment to focus on germane issues that have the potential to improve 
attention, we deliberate on the best course of action in support of our  shareholder outcomes, rather than just ticking off boxes. For example, an 
clients’ interests. This includes the potential to bring our concerns public.  ESG analysis of a brewer like Anheuser-Busch InBev would focus more 
Take, for example, Whole Foods Market, where we saw a great business  on factors like water stewardship and responsible marketing and less on 
hamstrung by a strategic plan that was generating lower same-store  things like product affordability, while the approach toward a social media 
sales, declining margins and increasing voluntary employee turnover.  company such as Facebook would emphasize data security, consumer 
Disappointed with the retailer’s execution despite its phenomenal  privacy and workforce diversity over supply-chain management. 
brand, favorable consumer demographics and dominant prepared foods 
Such judgment also extends to the awareness that our business deserves 
business, Charles Kantor and Marc Regenbaum, portfolio managers 
the same scrutiny and that we must hold ourselves accountable to the 
with responsibilities that cover both mutual funds and individual clients, 
same standards as our portfolio companies. To this point, we believe that 
actively engaged with management to promote changes that would 
issues surrounding human capital represent one of the most significant 
improve performance and thereby unlock languishing shareholder value. 
risks and opportunities for companies worldwide, including Neuberger 
The depth of interaction with both Whole Foods senior management 
Berman. With broad unemployment levels low and companies in many 
and with members of its board was evident through numerous confer-
industries facing hyper-competitive talent markets, creating and main-
ence calls, store visits, emails, letters and in-person meetings—all in 
taining an environment that attracts and retains effective employees is 
an effort to impress upon them the need for action. To management’s 
essential for sustainable long-term success. An attractive and productive 
credit, Whole Foods implemented a number of our suggestions, including 
working environment is a function of any number of factors—including 
eliminating its dual CEO structure, appointing a new CFO and adding 
compensation and benefits, the availability of training, mobility, advance-
directors with retail and governance experience. Ultimately, Whole Foods 
ment, flexibility, diversity and inclusion, and pay equity. Nurturing an 
was purchased by Amazon in a landmark deal that closed in August, a 
inclusive and motivating culture in the face of today’s rapidly changing 
transaction we believe creates long-term value for all stakeholders. In 
workforce demographics and societal mores presents a particular chal-
December, Amit Solomon, portfolio manager on our Intrinsic Value team, 
lenge—and an opportunity to gain competitive advantage. 
delivered an open letter to the board of directors of Nuance Commu-
nications expressing concerns about the process and transparency of  Not only do we expect any company in which we invest to have best-
the firm’s CEO succession plan, as well as its corporate governance  in-class human capital management policies and procedures in place, 
practices and lack of accountability following a cyber breach. Following  we continually strive to make our firm better—both for our clients and 
our requests, Nuance’s board appointed an external CEO and agreed  our employees. One tool we use in this pursuit is a periodic pulse check 
not to nominate the outgoing CEO to the board of directors so as not  with our staff. We regularly conduct an Employee Engagement Survey 
to overshadow the new chief’s strategy. Our engagement with Nuance  in which employees across the organization respond anonymously to a 
regarding improvement in corporate governance continues. series of questions designed to tease out the firm’s condition, including 
two key factors: employee engagement and employee enablement. 
Engagement has been prevalent across the Neuberger Berman investment 
Engagement reflects an employee’s commitment to the firm, while 
platform for many years, and in 2017 we bolstered our ESG Investing team 
enablement relates to having the right people in the right roles with 
with resources dedicated to governance, engagement and proxy voting, 
the right resources to perform at their full potential. 
enabling them to track engagements in a more systematic way in collabo-
6 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
As you can probably guess, the most effective employees typically are both  Neuberger Berman 2017 
highly engaged and highly enabled. While I certainly want this for the 
Employee Engagement Survey (Excerpt)
firm’s employees on a personal level, research shows that having engaged 
and enabled employees not only is an obvious positive from a morale 
perspective, but it also can translate into improved financial results. A study 
by Korn Ferry Hay Group of more than 400,000 employees across a range  NEUBERGER BERMAN IS CLIENT FOCUSED
of companies found that improvements in employee survey results were 
94% Favorable
linked to improvements in core financial metrics. The results can be seen 
5% Netural
in the chart below; most notably, those companies that saw an increase in 
1% Unfavorable
their percentage of engaged and enabled employees improved their ROE  Neuberger Berman 
% Favorable vs.
by nearly five percentage points between the two survey periods, while 
those that were flat or down saw their ROE fall by four percentage points.  Asset   High-Performing  
Management   Companies  
Peers Benchmark
+12 +12
ENGAGEMENT & ENABLEMENT AFFECTS MORE THAN JUST MORALE  
Average Change in Performance between Surveys
4.88
5 I FEEL PROUD TO WORK FOR THE FIRM
4
3 89% Favorable
2.03
2 9% Netural
nts 1 2% Unfavorable
oi
P Neuberger Berman 
ge  0 % Favorable vs.
a
nt -1
Perce -2 -1.04 ManAasgseemt  ent   HigCho-mPeprfaonrimesin  g  
Peers Benchmark
-3
+7 +5
-4
-4.05
-5
Return on Equity Return on Investment
MY IMMEDIATE MANAGER COACHES ME  
Increase in % of Engaged & Enabled Employees IN MY DEVELOPMENT
Decrease or no Change in % of Engaged & Enabled Employees
65% Favorable
Source: Korn Ferry Hay Group.
21% Netural
Neuberger Berman 
I’m quite pleased with the results of our latest employee survey, which was  % Favorable vs.
conducted in 2017; our overall results were strong on both an absolute  14%   Asset   High-Performing  
Unfavorable Management   Companies  
basis and relative to our asset management peers, to “high-performing”  Peers Benchmark
companies across industries and to our historical performance.2 Though 
0 -1
the survey results are extensive in their depth and breadth, I’d like to share 
a few particular areas of strength as well as those where improvement is  Source: Korn Ferry Hay Group, Neuberger Berman.
needed, depicted to the right. 
2  The Korn Ferry Hay Group asset management benchmark is based on data collected from over 86,000 employees in seven organizations operating in the asset management industry. The Korn Ferry 
Hay Group high-performing companies benchmark is based on data from more than 35 companies globally. These companies display outstanding financial performance as well as strong engagement 
and enablement scores, with financial performance weighted more heavily.
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 7
On the positive side, a very high percentage of our employees are proud  Forging a more global business. While Neuberger Berman 
to work for the firm, which I believe is consistent with their perception  historically was a U.S.-centric franchise, we have made great strides in 
of Neuberger Berman as a client-focused organization. In contrast, we  making our business truly global; in 2017 net new client assets flowed 
failed to surpass our benchmarks in providing employees with coaching  nearly evenly from the Americas, Europe and the Middle East, and Asia. 
for development from their immediate managers. We have already begun  This is gratifying, as an important strategic initiative for our firm over 
to address this, emphasizing with our managers the importance not only  the last decade has been to expand our global capabilities, from both a 
of talent management and development but also of establishing effective  client and an investment perspective. 
two-way lines of communication with those they oversee. In addition, we 
We see great promise in China, and we have made considerable invest-
are empowering employees at all levels of the organization by bolstering 
ments in the region over the past several years as a result. China is a big 
the range of learning and engagement programs we offer, from network-
country, but it also has distinct market segments, cultures, geographies 
ing groups and mentoring programs to continuing education support and 
and citizens in different and constantly evolving stages of development. 
in-house training.
These nuances and the reality of rapid change can lay traps for investors 
While we celebrate the strong results, we conduct these surveys not  who are not on the ground in China and deeply familiar with its local 
to pat ourselves on the back but to identify areas in which we can still  markets, culture, business practices and governmental agencies. 
improve. And while the data and insights gleaned from these surveys 
Early in 2017 we established a new China equity investment team 
have helped us make Neuberger Berman a place where people want to 
under the leadership of Bin Yu, co-located in Hong Kong and Beijing. 
spend their careers, we need ongoing engagement and free communi-
Bin and his team of research analysts brought to the firm strong local 
cation across all levels of the firm. My door is always open—especially 
expertise and experience in the China equity markets, taking a long-term, 
to the 1% of employees who in the survey responded unfavorably to  
high-conviction, value-oriented investment approach to China equities. 
“I understand the firm’s mission”! 
While we initially are offering Bin’s strategy as a private fund, over time 
we expect to expand the range of capabilities offered. In addition to Bin’s 
INNOVATION WITH PURPOSE
strategy, we maintain a substantial minority ownership stake in Green 
As I mentioned at the beginning of this letter, Neuberger Berman is in 
Court, an independent firm established by Frank Yao and his Greater 
robust health; in fact, the firm has never been in a stronger position 
China investment team. On the fixed income side, the Emerging Markets 
strategically or financially. However, the asset management industry is 
Debt (EMD) team recently added Peter Ru as a senior portfolio manager 
changing as fee pressures, new regulations and evolving investor pref-
to lead its efforts in the Chinese local market, including the China Bond 
erences push our business in new directions. We must change with it. 
strategy launched in 2016. And we’ve asked Ping Zhou, who currently 
Inherent in our alignment with clients is a commitment to innovation,  manages a systematic emerging markets equity strategy out of New York,  
a firm-wide drive to uncover new solutions as markets and client needs  to relocate to Shanghai to extend our quantitative capabilities in the region. 
evolve. One of the many benefits of being 100% employee-owned is 
We are also focused on building our local footprint in an effort to tap 
that we are not subject to the same quarterly pressures and growth 
into the previously restricted domestic China market. Last year we 
targets faced by our public peers. Instead, we are free to grow at an 
joined a short list of global managers granted a license to establish a 
appropriate pace, to innovate with purpose and to focus on practical 
local investment management WFOE (wholly foreign owned enter-
client applications. While there’s not enough room in this Annual 
prise): Neuberger Berman Investment Management (Shanghai) Limited. 
Report to detail all of the initiatives underway within the firm, below 
Next we hope to secure final registration from the Asset Management 
I highlight a few areas in which we’ve made significant progress in 
Association of China (AMAC) to start managing assets for mainland 
preparing the organization for the challenges of tomorrow. 
China institutional and high-net-worth investors. The final license we 
aspire to earn is a Qualified Domestic Limited Partner license from the 
Shanghai government, which, distinct from the AMAC registration, 
would allow us to invest Chinese capital globally. To spearhead our 
China business, Patrick Liu has joined us as Head of China and General 
Manager of the WFOE. 
8 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
Taiwan is another key market for our business. In August, we were  In the Western Hemisphere we recently entered into a partnership 
joined by 70 clients from 25 distributors to celebrate the launch of  agreement with Becon Investment Management, which will enable us 
Neuberger Berman Taiwan (SITE) and the IPO of our first onshore fund  to distribute our UCITS funds range to a broader group of clients in 
in Taiwan. While our previous license allowed us to maintain only a  Latin America through the region’s private bank independent wealth 
distribution office selling our offshore UCITS funds, our newly acquired  managers and multi-family offices.
SITE (securities investment trust enterprise) license enables us to better 
Of course, a big part of maintaining a global presence is keeping up 
leverage the firm’s broader investment platform and offer customized 
with the ever-changing regulatory environment in all the regions and 
solutions tailored to the Taiwanese market. This unit is already receiving 
countries where you plant your flag. In recent years, investment managers  
accolades, having been named “Best Responsible Investor” by Asia 
have had to adapt to a variety of new rules that have resulted from 
Asset Management in its 2018 Best of the Best Awards.
such regulatory efforts as Basel III, Solvency II and Dodd-Frank. 
Asian markets in general in 2017 have shown considerable interest in  Throughout 2017 much focus was paid to ensuring our business would 
our growing thematic research investment platform. Leveraging the  be prepared to adhere to the new MiFID II regulations in Europe once 
deep sector expertise of our Global Equity Research team led by Tim  they came into effect on January 3, 2018. The new law, which has been 
Creedon, our thematic investing efforts seek to identify and capitalize on  estimated at 7,000 pages in length, is intended to standardize the 
“megatrends”—the big shifts in society, the economy and technology  regulation of investment services and products across the European 
that will shape the world over the long term. Getting these themes right  Union and to promote transparency in markets and the protection of 
may offer significant opportunity for investors. The chart below depicts  investors. A key operational focus going forward will be planning for 
the world’s 10 largest public companies in 2007 and in 2017; as you  the various potential outcomes of Brexit; though the terms of the U.K.’s 
can see, tech-related companies now account for seven of the top 10, up  exit from the EU are still very much in flux, we are confident in our ability 
from one only a decade ago. We see a number of megatrends that may  to deliver on behalf of clients in any scenario that emerges. 
drive disruption over the next 10 years, and the team has experienced 
Turning ones and zeros into actionable research. We believe that 
impressive demand behind a number of global themes including auton-
data is going to be a critical battleground in the search for alpha over 
omous driving, 5G/next-generation networks and global fintech. Looking 
the coming decades. As the world grows more and more connected, 
ahead, we see significant growth potential as this business scales, both 
human beings are generating 2.5 quintillion bytes of data every day, from 
across geographies and with new global themes. 
MEGATRENDS SHAPE THE WORLD  
World’s Largest Companies by Market Capitalization, U.S. Dollars in Billions
2007 2017
Exxon Mobil 469 Apple 870
General Electric 392 Alphabet 731
ICBC 271 Microsoft 661
Microsoft 269 Amazon 572
Petrochina 241 Facebook 519
AT&T 237 Tencent 496
Citigroup 234 Berkshire Hathaway 492
Royal Dutch Shell 233 Alibaba 441
China Mobile 217 Johnson & Johnson 378
Bank of America 216 Exxon Mobil 356
Technology-Related Company
Source: Bloomberg.
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 9
cellphone calls to credit card transactions to web browsing. Collected,  offering distinct risk-return profiles for investors. We’ve made a point of 
monitored and analyzed, this so-called “digital residue” can reveal unseen  evolving with the markets over time. 
patterns at the macroeconomic, industry and company levels, an obvious 
With valuations in the private markets rich and more deals coming online, 
boon for managers like Neuberger Berman that seek to identify fundamen-
investment discipline is more important than ever. One way we exercise 
tal trends that allow us to make better investment judgments. In 2017 we 
discipline is by targeting general partners who have a history of both 
hired Michael Recce, a veteran of both hedge funds and a sovereign wealth 
sourcing high-quality private equity deals and creating value in these 
fund, as our first Chief Data Scientist; with his background in machine 
businesses through operational improvements. Our Alternatives team 
learning and artificial intelligence, Michael will lead our efforts in harness-
has relationships with hundreds of private equity general partners and 
ing big data in support of our portfolio managers and research analysts. 
over the past three years has committed an average of $7 billion annually 
Big data is not an end in and of itself; the processing and interpretation  across the NB Private Equity platform. We are a limited partner in more 
required to glean real insights from big data suggest that it only can en- than 450 active funds and sit on over 130 advisory boards, which we  
hance—not replace—traditional methods of fundamental company and  believe benefits our entire platform. Within our specialty direct strategies, 
industry analysis. One of the things big data can do is enable a new level  we focus on unique investment areas where we believe we have true 
of precision to fundamental research by capturing the ephemera that  competitive advantages and can offer compelling risk-adjusted returns.
does not appear on a company’s quarterly financial statements, helping 
The strength of our private equity platform and the broad base of relation-
analysts and portfolio managers make better, more informed decisions. 
ships we have been able to develop reverberate across our platform, as 
In our view, the Holy Grail of big-data applications in the investment  evinced by the investment opportunities to which our teams gain access. 
management space will be a “quantamental” approach in which  Our Private Investment Portfolios team, under the leadership of Peter von 
traditional fundamental research is combined with quantitative  Lehe and Jonathan Shofet, reviewed about 200 investment opportunities  
investment techniques in a way that seeks to capitalize on the best  in 2017, while Brian Talbot, Tristram Perkins and the Secondary team con-
attributes of each. For example, while quants may be more advanced  sidered about 270. David Stonberg and David Morse guided the Co-Invest-
in portfolio construction and risk management, they lack the foresight  ment team to a record 220 prospective investment reviews last year. Our 
and predictive acumen that is the bread and butter of fundamental an- Private Credit team also takes advantage of the connectivity of our Private 
alysts. By uniting human intuition and judgment with machine learning  Equity platform. In September the NB Private Equity Credit  
and bringing informed forecasts together with historical patterns, we  Opportunities Fund closed on $1.1 billion of limited partner commitments; 
believe a quantamental approach can give portfolio managers a fuller  our Private Credit business, led by Susan Kasser and David Lyon, now  
view of their investments and the world in which they operate.  manages $3.1 billion in committed capital focused on the credits of  
private-equity backed companies in both the primary and secondary markets. 
Part of the big-data revolution will be related to changes in technology 
and the way we allow technologists the creativity to perform their tasks.  Dyal Capital Partners, headed by Michael Rees, is a leader in the acqui-
Of course, there are cultural challenges in combining traditional equity  sition of minority equity stakes in alternative asset managers, having 
research and data science, but we are confident that our employees  established partnerships with 26 of the industry’s leading hedge fund 
will recognize the client benefits that can be derived from this emerging  and private equity firms since its formation in 2011. Over the course  
competitive advantage. (You can read more about our big-data efforts  of 2017 we made strategic investments in five companies, including 
on page 29.) Cerberus Business Finance, Atalaya Capital Management, TSSP and 
Sound Point Capital. Dyal Capital Partners III closed in in early 2017 
Leveraging private market opportunities. We continue to build 
with $5.3 billion in committed capital. In addition, I’m proud to note 
out our presence in nonpublic equity and debt markets, capitalizing 
that Dyal won the “Hedge Fund GP Investor” award at Institutional 
on our strong franchise to source new and innovative investment 
Investor’s 15th Annual Hedge Fund Industry Awards.
opportunities for our clients. We trace our roots in the private equity 
industry back 30 years, to a point when private equity was limited to  In Italy, the recent launch of tax-advantaged individual savings accounts 
venture capital and buyout funds in the U.S. Today, of course, private  (known as PIRs) combined with the ongoing funding needs of mostly 
equity extends across strategies, asset classes and geographies, all  family-run small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) has created an 
10 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
interesting opportunity for investment managers. This is particularly true  their structural risk, including a new risk-retention rule that mandates 
for managers with private equity expertise, as we believe that investors in  managers retain 5% of the original value of the assets in their CLOs.  
Italy can extract greater value from private equity investments than from  To meet this requirement, in July 2017 we closed on our CLO risk- 
public markets; while private equity activity in Italy has grown significant- retention vehicle, Neuberger Berman Loan Advisers. 
ly, the market remains highly underpenetrated. To this end, in December 
Under the leadership of Joe Lynch and Steve Casey, Neuberger Berman 
we acquired ownership of Fondo Italiano di Investimento, an acquirer 
was a top 20 new-issue CLO manager in the U.S. in 2017, and we 
of minority stakes in Italian SMEs. Members of the Fondo Italiano team 
currently have approximately $6 billion under management in 13 CLOs. 
joined our existing private equity operations in Italy, which includes 
Leveraging our experience as a CLO collateral manager, in 2018 we 
Renaissance Partners, a private equity fund we formed in 2015 in 
plan to launch a UCITS fund in Europe focused on investing in CLO 
partnership with Intesa Sanpaolo that seeks to align with leading Italian 
mezzanine debt tranches sourced from both primary and secondary 
companies to help promote their growth and internationalization. 
markets. Managed by Pim van Schie, the fund will allow investors 
It was an exciting year for the specialty side of our Alternatives  targeted access to subordinated CLO tranches that continue to offer 
business. In conjunction with our strategic partner Athyrium Capital  attractive yield pickup relative to like-rated high yield debt. 
Management we closed Athyrium Opportunities Fund III, a $2 billion 
Private market residential loan opportunities are another attractive 
vehicle that seeks to make investments in commercial-stage health 
alternative to public markets given improving housing and consumer 
care companies—both private and public—in North America, Europe, 
credit fundamentals, diminished volumes and low new supply. Mort-
Asia and Australia. Marquee Brands, our brand acquisition, licensing 
gage accessibility remains a challenge for prospective home buyers in 
and development company, recently acquired the entire portfolio of 
the Alt-A category of credit risk, primarily due to the tighter lending 
brands from BCBG Max Azria Global Holdings, including BCBGMAX-
standards that resulted from Dodd-Frank legislation. As they are 
AZRIA, BCBGGeneration and Herve Leger. The fourth, fifth and sixth 
ineligible for inclusion in an agency mortgage backed security (MBS), 
investments for Marquee—after the previous acquisitions of Bruno 
Alt-A mortgages are expensive for banks to originate and hold. Enter 
Magli, Ben Sherman and Body Glove—step firmly into women’s  
nonbank lenders. Our U.S. Residential Opportunity strategy managed 
fashion and diversify our portfolio in the process. 
by Terry Glomski seeks to capitalize on this underserved market by 
More broadly, we’ve been able to leverage the strength of our private  building a diversified portfolio of higher-yielding residential mortgage 
markets platform to deliver added value to client relationships across  credit exposures, “expanded prime” mortgage loans chief among 
Neuberger Berman. For example, we recently partnered with a large U.S.  them. By directly sourcing high-quality performing loans from qualified 
insurance company to help manage its fledgling private equity allocation  mortgage originators—and securitizing pools of these mortgages to 
as it continues to search for new sources of yield after many years of  create higher-yielding exposures—the fund can target underserved 
very low interest rates. Through a registered private equity fund and a  segments of the mortgage market and may offer additional spread rel-
private equity co-investment fund, we give clients of our key intermediary  ative to agency or jumbo prime mortgages with limited additional risk. 
partners access to institutional-quality private-market strategies. Also 
with access to these strategies are clients of our high net worth business,  2017 IN REVIEW: A RISING TIDE
where we continue to expand our investment and service offerings while  In contrast with 2016, which we characterized in these pages as a 
enhancing the technology we employ to support these clients.  “bumpy ride higher” given the large range in which many risk assets 
traded over the course of the year, 2017 was a remarkably smooth 
We are seeing differentiating opportunities in structured credit as well, 
trip, one that took a number of market indexes to new all-time highs. 
in many cases as a result of post-crisis regulations enacted in the U.S. 
Most asset classes plowed monotonically forward last year without 
and Europe. For example, collateralized loan obligations—actively 
any of the brief pullbacks that typically help extend such rallies, as the 
managed securitized portfolios of leveraged loans divided into tranches 
periodic emergence of potentially unsettling risk events—from tumult 
bearing different levels of risk and potential return—disappeared in 
in Washington to saber-rattling on the Korean peninsula to terrorist 
the aftermath of the financial crisis but are again of interest to inves-
attacks worldwide—were brushed aside by investors focused more on 
tors given attractive risk-return profiles and low interest-rate sensitivity, 
fundamental improvements in earnings and economic growth.
among other potential benefits. The CLO comeback was buoyed in 
part by new regulations in the U.S. and Europe designed to mitigate 
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 11
As shown in the chart below, double-digit returns were easy to find  leads our Emerging Markets Equity Fund, believes that despite the 
among equity indexes in 2017. We heard a lot last year about the  market’s run-up in 2017 valuations remain reasonable given forecasts 
domination of FANG stocks—an acronym for Facebook, Amazon,  of double-digit earnings growth this year. He continues to focus on  
Netflix and Google (currently known as Alphabet), but really a proxy   domestically driven stocks, with a bias toward small and mid-cap 
for a range of high-flying tech-related names. These large, high-quality,  names that tend to be under-researched.
growth-oriented stocks drove huge returns in benchmarks like the  
Our Emerging Markets Debt team co-heads Rob Drijkoningen and 
Russell 1000 and (absent the Nasdaq-listed Netflix) finally pulled 
Gorky Urquieta remain similarly upbeat about prospects on the debt 
the S&P 500 information technology index all the way back from the 
side of the capital structure, especially in local-currency sovereigns, as 
depths of dot-com implosion in 2000. It’s worth noting that narrow-
better economic prospects and stronger exports have helped emerging 
ness of market sentiment historically has not been a good sign for  
currency fundamentals recover, leading to improved current account 
equity markets; it suggests the investors are chasing winners rather 
balances. I’m proud to note that our EMD team was named Pan-Euro-
than investing for broad-based growth, a phenomenon typical of 
pean Fixed Income Manager of the Year 2018 by Morningstar in recog-
late-cycle behavior. These conditions are perhaps exacerbated by the 
nition of their active management of the Neuberger Berman Emerging 
influence of passive investment strategies, which by design chase 
Market Debt Hard Currency Fund. The team—including the fund’s lead 
winners; momentum begets momentum. 
manager Bart van der Made—was cited for its “ability to generate 
Oil continued to rebound in 2017, as Brent crude ended the year at its  outstanding long-term returns compared to their peers, with a strong 
highest price since 2014. Also notable in 2017 was the one-two punch  risk-adjusted profile and a strong sense of stewardship.”
of emerging markets equity and debt, especially given the headwinds 
On the next page are our detailed predictions for 2017, produced each 
many expected for financial markets in the developing world. Not co-
year as part of our Solving series. As you can see, we did pretty well. We 
incidentally, we have continued to see strong interest in our emerging 
whiffed on the stronger equity performance in Europe. We also were 
markets equity and debt strategies, having also demonstrated strong 
a little early on our calls related to higher inflation and interest rates, 
absolute and relative performance in 2017. Conrad Saldanha, who 
including the impact such trends would have on emerging markets.
HUGE ADVANCES IN MANY EQUITY SEGMENTS, MORE MODEST GAINS ELSEWHERE  
As of December 31, 2017
50% Equity Fixed Income Currency Commodities
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
-10%
-20% S&P 500 Info Tech MSCI EM Russell 1000 Growth Sensex (India) China A-Shares MSCI World S&P 500 Nikkei (Japan) Russell 2000 Russell 2000 Value FTSE 100 (U.K.) Stoxx Europe 600 EM Corporates U.S. High Yield Europe High Yield U.S. Investment Grade urope Investment Grade EM Sovereigns U.S. Sovereigns U.K. Sovereigns Italy Sovereigns France Sovereigns German Sovereigns Euro British Pound Chinese Yuan EM FX Japanese Yen U.S. Dollar Index Brent Oil mberg Commodity Index
E o
o
Bl
Source: Bloomberg.
Note: Returns in local currency except emerging markets indexes, which are in U.S. dollars.
12 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
2018 FORECAST: A FUNDAMENTAL REGIME 
2017 SCORECARD
SHIFT IS UNDERWAY
✓  ✗ 
  GOT IT RIGHT  GOT IT WRONG 
We entered 2018 with caution, respectful of the momentum mar-
kets and the global economy built in 2017 but wary of the potential 
ECONOMY
impact of shifting dynamics—including tightening central bank policy, 
✓ Global growth outlook improving, but with a high level of uncertainty plateauing economic growth and rising market volatility—as the year 
✓  Global interest rate expectations moving higher as central banks  goes on. The key themes we anticipate will guide investment decisions 
shift their stance
in 2018 are shown below.
✗ Inflation risk increasing
✓ R ecession risk abating as business cycle extends
KEY THEMES FOR 2018
EQUITIES
✓  Pro-business policies in U.S. may spur earnings growth and drive  MACRO: GLOBAL INFLECTION POINT NEARS
stocks higher
• “Goldilocks” gives way to something more complicated
✗  European equities facing headwinds due to low growth and political 
• Both monetary and fiscal policy are in motion globally
uncertainty
✓  Japanese equities boosted by weak yen but threatened by reduced trade
RISKS: CLOUDS GATHER AS THE YEAR PROGRESSES
✗   Better fundamentals in emerging markets threatened by U.S. dollar, 
• Geopolitical climate remains unsettled
higher interest rate, trade rhetoric
• China accelerates structural reforms
FIXED INCOME
✓ U  nderweight developed market sovereigns, as rates are likely to rise FIXED INCOME: THE CHASE CONTINUES
✓  Corporate spreads appear reasonable relative to historical levels and  • No end to the search for yield
good credit fundamentals • Credit drivers begin to change
✗  E MD held back by negative implications of higher U.S. interest rates 
and anti-trade sentiment
EQUITIES: TWO-WAY MARKETS RETURN
•  Market momentum could present opportunities to reduce beta 
ALTERNATIVES
exposure
✓ C ommodities are attractive as supply/demand imbalances correct 
• Active management positioned to shine 
and inflation concerns rise
✓ A  bsolute return strategies are likely to benefit from increased volatility, 
ALTERNATIVES: FINDING OPPORTUNITIES AMID HIGH VALUATIONS
rising rates and diverging markets 
✓ O  pportunities to capture illiquidity premium in private debt with high  • Low-vol strategies for a more volatile world
cash flow and short j-curve • Sharpen quality focus in private assets
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 13
SYNCHRONIZED GLOBAL GROWTH TOOK HOLD IN 2017… 
8%
7%
6%
5%
4%
3%
2%
1%
0%
United States United Kingdom Euro Zone Japan Canada China Emerging Markets World
2016 2017E 2018E
Source: Bloomberg. Note: Projections as of December 29, 2017.
Let’s start with the positive. All 45 countries tracked by the OECD  However, we expect conditions to become more complicated as 
expanded last year, a synchronization that has only happened  the year wears on and we continue to move farther away from the 
three times over the past 50 years. The U.S. economy is running at  central bank-dominated, low-rate/inflation/volatility environment that 
a growth rate above 3% over the past several quarters and is ap- has prevailed in recent years. First of all, monetary tightening should 
proaching full employment. Growth in the euro zone has broadened,  really start to be felt about midyear, when year-over-year growth in 
and the pace of expansion in the region is finally keeping pace with  G-4 central banks’ balance sheets is expected to peak. Obviously, 
the U.S. as it continues to recover from its double-dip recession.   the Fed is furthest along in terms of normalization. The hike in March 
Japan’s in the midst of its longest quarterly growth streak in more  brought the upper bound of the fed funds rate to 1.75%, and the Fed 
than 20 years. China continues motoring along even as Beijing  is forecasting two more increases in 2018. While its balance sheet 
pushes toward sustainable long-term reforms, and emerging markets  reduction has been uneventful so far, the runoff accelerates in 2018 
in general are benefitting from global growth, a stable commodity  and will reach its monthly maximum of $50 billion by the fall. It’s 
complex and fundamental economic improvements that position  really an unprecedented—and precarious—time for central banks as 
policy makers to better weather a downturn.  they manage the unwind of years of extraordinary accommodation. 
We’re basically in uncharted territory, and the Fed has a new hand at 
As you can see below, GDP growth is expected to remain broadly 
the tiller in Jay Powell. 
positive in 2018 though down from 2017 in many economies and 
flattish for the world as a whole. Though plateauing, this growth is 
plenty robust to extend the expansion in corporate earnings world-
wide, which should be supportive of equities. 
14 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
…DRIVING CORPORATE EARNINGS GROWTH HIGHER 
30%
20%
10%
0%
-10%
-20%
-30%
2Q15 3Q15 4Q15 1Q16 2Q16 3Q16 4Q16 1Q17 2Q17 3Q17 CY17E CY18E CY19E
United States (S&P 500) Europe (STOXX 600)  Japan (TOPIX)
Source: Deutsche Bank, IBES estimates.  Note: Projections as of December 29, 2017.
Though the Fed leads the normalization race, other major economies  But while monetary policy is continuing to tighten, fiscal policy is only 
are beginning to stir. Facing 3%-plus inflation and unemployment  now starting to open up meaningfully. Most notable in this regard 
at multi-decade lows, the Bank of England in November hiked its  was the December passage of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. 
benchmark rate for the first time in a decade, though it signaled that  Among its provisions, the $1.5 trillion tax bill permanently lowers the 
further increases would come at a “very gradual” rate that is highly  statutory rate on corporations to 21% from the previous 35%. Many 
dependent on the success of the ongoing Brexit negotiations. The  investors thought that U.S. small-cap stocks, given their domestic 
European Central Bank halved the pace of its bond buying in January  focus and relatively high effective tax rates, were particularly well 
2018, and it tweaked its latest policy statement to suggest that it is  positioned to benefit from any corporate tax reform; in the year-plus 
no longer biased toward further easing; rate hikes in the euro zone  following Trump’s election, flows into small-cap strategies—espe-
are unlikely until at least 2019, however. And though the Bank of  cially passive ones—tracked the perceived likelihood of a tax bill’s 
Japan has been viewed as a laggard in terms of normalization, it  passage. However, as Judy Vale and Bob D’Alelio, portfolio managers 
quietly became less accommodative in 2017, curbing the pace of its  of our Genesis Fund, are quick to point out, the rush into passive 
monthly asset purchases such that its easing program is running well  small-cap strategies overlooks the fact that a reduction in income 
below its ¥80 trillion annual target. Given improved economic and  taxes benefits only those companies that pay taxes—meaning the 
inflation conditions in Japan along with the actions of other central  approximately one-third of the Russell 2000 that is losing money will 
banks, it will be hard for the BOJ to resist formally reducing its stimu- be unaffected. Judy and Bob advocate a bias toward high-quality 
lus efforts at some point.  small-cap companies with strong free cash flow and solid balance 
sheets, exactly the type of companies that stand to benefit from the 
new lower statutory tax rate. 
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 15
Another important element of the tax bill is the move to a territorial  Of course, the tax bill wasn’t the only tailwind that emerged for corpo-
tax system in which a multinational company’s earnings are taxed  rations during the year. Though the Trump administration got a lot of 
only in the country where they are generated and not again when  grief over its failure to deliver on certain of its highest-profile campaign 
brought back to the U.S. The U.S. was one of the few remaining  promises—think Obamacare repeal and a wall with Mexico—it did 
economies that taxed corporations on their worldwide income at  earn many lower-key victories in its efforts to boost the economy, mainly 
regular domestic rates when that income was repatriated back to a  by steadily chipping away at Obama-era regulations. A recent survey by 
U.S.-based parent, which incented companies to hoard an estimated  Business Roundtable, an association of CEOs of U.S. companies, found 
$3.1 trillion in cash and marketable securities offshore. The new rules  that for the first time in six years regulatory costs were not the top cost 
should reduce this incentive, while a provision that allows for a one- pressure reported by business leaders. In contrast, recently announced 
time repatriation of accumulated assets at a much lower rate should  tariffs directed at Chinese imports are a step backward. Though it’s too 
help bring some of this money back to U.S. shores. In fact, we’ve  early to weigh the potential impact of these protectionist measures, 
already seen some of the largest stockpilers of cash—including Apple  the guidelines of which—and retaliatory responses to—are still in 
and Cisco—announce plans to take advantage of the new repatri- flux, we expect them to be unproductive. The rate of turnover in the 
ation tax. C-suites nationwide are considering how to allocate this  Trump administration also is troubling; as it is with any organization, 
windfall; Marvin Schwartz, who leads our Straus Group of investors  including our own, it is vital that the White House strive to attract and 
focused on identifying undervalued U.S. equities, expects a lot of it to  retain talented and experienced people to help promote continuity and 
go into shareholder-friendly activities like buybacks and M&A, which  confidence among American businesses. 
should further shrink the U.S. market’s ever-contracting equity base. 
Meanwhile, fiscal stimulus at this stage in the business cycle—105 
I’d be remiss here if I didn’t note that while we’re upbeat about the  months and counting in the U.S., the third longest on record—tends to 
impact the recent tax bill will have on the bottom line of corporate  transmit more to inflation than marginal economic growth, especially 
America and hopeful that consumers will feel a positive effect from the  given the recent closing of the country’s output gap. There were already 
changes to their taxes, neither of these is likely to do anything to solve  signs that inflation in the U.S. is at a turning point. Though headline num-
the long-term structural problem of inequality. The latest Survey of  bers for core personal consumption expenditures—the Fed’s preferred 
Consumer Finances from the Federal Reserve—a triennial report on the  inflation metric—continue to track below target, the pace of inflation 
financial conditions of American families—showed what many of us  has picked up sharply of late in conjunction with the accelerating  
already knew intuitively: the share of wealth in the U.S. is increasingly  economy. Though the year-over-year change in core PCE was 1.5% in its 
concentrated among the most affluent. The Fed reported that the top  January 2018 reading, the six-month annualized trend shows inflation 
1% of families controlled nearly 36% of the nation’s wealth in 2016,  growth of 2.0%; similarly, 1.8% core CPI growth over the last 12 months 
up from about 30% when the modern version of the survey began in  obscures the 2.6% annualized increase for the second half of the period. 
1989. So ingrained is the sense of inequality in our culture that it’s  Wage growth is improving, particularly in the low-wage segment that 
almost shocking to learn that in 1989 the bottom 90% actually held  has dominated job growth in the U.S. since the financial crisis, and 
a greater share of wealth than the top 1%; that 33% share in 1989,  indicators like the employment cost index and the Atlanta Fed’s wage-
however, now stands just shy of 23%. Given the robust performance of  growth tracker also suggest labor’s pricing power is on the rise.
asset markets in 2017—exposure to which disproportionately benefits 
Persistently low inflation has been one of the factors keeping long 
the wealthy—it’s safe to assume that the situation has only gotten 
Treasury rates anchored even as the Fed pushed the short end steadi-
worse since the survey was conducted. These trends aren’t limited to 
ly higher through hikes in the fed funds rate. The pickup in inflation 
the U.S. A recent report from the World Economic Forum found that 
and economic growth drove the move in Treasury yields that saw the 
wealth inequality has risen in 49 of the 103 economies in its study, 
10-year go from around 2.0% in September to 2.9% by early March. 
while poverty has increased in 17 of 29 advanced economies.  
The global rate tether, another rate-dampening factor, is also starting 
Unaddressed, these trends will have profound political, social and  
to loosen. Though the BOE, ECB and BOJ are only slowly pulling back 
economic ramifications down the line, especially as the retirement 
from extraordinary accommodation, a retreat is underway and may 
savings crisis builds. 
be hastened should nascent inflationary pressures accelerate. 
16 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
While developed markets are moving in the same direction, if  
VOLATILITY ACROSS ASSET CLASSES REMAINS VERY LOW 
at different paces, there’s a huge disparity in terms of inflation  
and interest rates across the emerging world. Central and  
Equity Volatility
Eastern Europe appear locked into reflation, even if not all  
50
central banks on the periphery of the euro zone seem to  
have acknowledged the inevitability of reduced monetary   40
accommodation and higher interest rates. In contrast, output  
30
gaps remain negative in Latin America; it’s likely Brazil will  
continue to cut rates, while Mexico eventually will be forced   20
to reverse its current tightening cycle. Emerging Asia is  
10
somewhere between these two poles, though with a clear  
bias toward higher rates. China, of course, has been  
0
maintaining tight policy for a while, predicated more on   2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
deleveraging than inflation concerns; signs of inflationary   VIX Index 10-Year Average
pressures have begun to peek through, however, and yields  
on government bonds are back to 2014 levels. Fixed Income Volatility
110
Earlier this year we got a look at how all these shifting economic 
100
conditions may manifest themselves in the financial markets.  
90
Shaken by a better-than-expected reading on U.S. wage growth,  
80
risk markets worldwide sold off sharply on fears that central  
70
banks would be forced to unwind accommodation more quickly 
than expected to stave off mounting inflationary threats. The   60
S&P 500, for example, entered correction territory over the   50
course of just 10 trading days beginning January 26, while   40
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
the MSCI EAFE lost just short of 9%. Volatility returned in force  
as well. The CBOE Volatility Index at one point during this   MOVE Index 10-Year Average
panic pierced 50, a level not seen since the tumult of the  
financial crisis in late 2008/early 2009. The VIX’s 10-year  
Currency Volatility
average, which includes that high-volatility crisis period, is   13
around 20, and it spent most \of 2017 closer to 10. Similar   12
patterns can be seen in measures of volatility across a variety   11
of financial instruments, as shown to the right.  10
9
8
7
6
5
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
JP Morgan G-7 Volatility Index 10-Year Average
Source: Bloomberg. Data as of March 31, 2018.
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 17
By early March, however, volatility had settled back into a range  distraction that may result. That said, it’s worth noting that U.S. equity 
around its 10-year average, which highlights a concerning trend as this  markets fared quite well during the country’s most recent brush with 
bull market wears on. Though the VIX is widely known as the stock  presidential removal; though the S&P 500 fell nearly 20% in the six-
market’s “fear gauge,” in the era of massive QE it has really been more  week period preceding the release of a report by independent counsel 
of a “complacency gauge” as markets worldwide have pushed higher  Kenneth Starr—Clinton’s Mueller analog—it regained those losses and 
through any number of shocks, be it the Brexit referendum, Trump’s  then some once impeachment proceedings got underway. 
unexpected victory, terrorist attacks or recurring threats from North 
In contrast, leadership in China appears stable for the foreseeable 
Korea. Our experience tells us that markets tend to ignore these sorts 
future. President Xi Jinping recently engineered a constitutional amend-
of things until they don’t. Uncertainty around NAFTA, an unexpected 
ment abolishing term limits on the presidency, thus positioning him to 
adjustment to central bank policy, a marked slowdown in economic 
maintain that role for a remarkably long period. Xi’s consolidation of 
growth in China—any of these could be the one that finally shakes 
power may result in greater long-term policy consistency and enhance 
investors from their slumber. 
Beijing’s ability to effect the migration of the Chinese economy from a 
And don’t discount political risk. After the wave of populism in 2016,   debt-driven export model to a consumer- and services-based one, with 
punctuated by the Brexit referendum and Trump’s victory in the U.S.,  an emphasis on the quality of growth rather than the pace. As I men-
2017 was a letdown for those who like upheaval in the halls of   tioned earlier, Neuberger Berman sees great promise in China, in terms 
government. Though there were a number of pivotal elections last  of both investment opportunities and as a source of clients whom we 
year—notably in Europe, where voters in France, Germany and the  can serve. While China is already the world’s second-largest economy, 
Netherlands, among others, went to the polls—mainstream candidates  we think it has considerable catch-up growth potential; GDP per capita 
prevailed in all instances. The election calendar for 2018 may not  remains relatively low, but it is growing fast, and rapidly improving 
seem as exciting at face value, but it does hold the potential to upend  education levels are creating not only more informed and sophisticated 
assumptions about the current political order. We’ve already seen a bit  consumers but also an increasingly knowledge-based economy that 
of that in Italy, where an inconclusive parliamentary election in March  can compete with the global giants in their sectors. 
was marked by significant gains made by the populist, left-wing Five 
Regardless of its cause, the return of volatility—even if only to histor-
Star Movement and the populist, right-wing League, giving pause to 
ically average levels—could prove unsettling to unprepared investors, 
those who had assumed the anti-establishment trend in Europe may 
and the margin for error isn’t great given full, but not overvalued, 
have peaked. Later this year we’ll have elections in a number of key 
equity valuations and tight credit spreads. What can help protect inves-
emerging markets, including Mexico, where the outcome may have big 
tors is a well-conceived plan built to buffer portfolios from the ravages 
implications for U.S./Mexico relations. Left-wing populist Andres  
of a transitioning market. Portfolio construction and asset allocation 
Lopez Obrador, outspoken critic of NAFTA and most things Trump, 
becomes more challenging in a world of high valuations and a mature 
is the clear front-runner for president at this point and a cause for 
economic cycle. Going forward an investment approach should be 
concern among investors and pro-business Mexicans. 
predicated on finding those asset classes and subsectors where mean-
In the U.S., Robert Mueller’s special investigation into Russian interfer- ingful upside potential is still available, and then seeking to extract that 
ence in the 2016 election will continue to make headlines. Meanwhile,  upside potential in more sophisticated, risk-controlled ways. 
midterm Congressional elections loom this autumn, and there is little 
Options strategies are one example of this. Collateralized equity index 
doubt they will be contentious. I suspect Democrats will retake the 
put writing strategies, which we manage through our Option Group 
House of Representatives in 2018, an advantage they may leverage to 
led by Derek Devens, offer investors lower-volatility exposure to the 
initiate impeachment proceedings against Trump. While the odds of his 
broader equity markets. These strategies historically have captured 
removal from office are slim, given our expectations that Republicans 
more equity market upside than downside over the long term3 and thus 
maintain control of the Senate, one only needs to think back to the 
may be particularly attractive for equity market investors interested in 
sideshow of Bill Clinton’s impeachment in 1998–99 to understand the 
a cost-effective alternative to buying put options as a hedge against a 
3  As measured by the CBOE PutWrite Index versus the S&P 500 Index.
18 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
decline in equity markets. Clients have shown continued interest in this  ACTIVE MANAGEMENT CONTINUES TO  
strategy, and our Option team more than doubled their assets under  REBOUND 
management during the year. Active management delivered a solid 2017, and I think conditions 
in 2018 will be even more favorable for fundamental-driven stock 
Another approach is to capture alternative risk premia, which 
pickers as two-way markets return. Our analysis of Morningstar 
historically has performed well when interest rates have risen at a 
data shows that in 2017 50% of active U.S. stock funds beat their 
steady but moderate pace even if the cumulative increase was large. 
benchmarks net of fees and transaction costs, compared to only 25% 
To further our efforts in this space we were excited to acquire Breton 
in 2016.4 One reason for the improvement has been the decline in 
Hill Capital, a quantitative investment firm based in Toronto, Canada. 
correlations between stocks. For the S&P 500, for example, correlation 
Breton Hill—consisting of co-founders, Ray Carroll, Simon Griffiths 
went from around 0.60 at the beginning of 2016 to less than 0.10  
and Frank Maeba along with 11 additional investment professionals— 
by the end of that year and remained in a lower range through much 
joined our QMAC investment platform overseen by Erik Knutzen and 
of 2017; similar trends can be seen in a variety of equity markets 
Doug Kramer. In all, they are a deep, passionate team that brings a 
globally. This is refreshing after many years in which stocks were 
diverse set of investment skills to the firm, along with a robust tech-
indiscriminately propped up by waves of central bank liquidity. 
nology and infrastructure platform that enhances our ability to offer 
Financial services stocks in general are expected to benefit from the 
attractive returns from innovative and efficiently managed strategies, 
removal of this liquidity via higher interest rates, and the recent tax 
and to customize client solutions quickly.
bill should also prove beneficial to these companies over the long 
In fixed income, strategies that invest across fixed income sectors 
term. Richard Nackenson, who runs our Multi-Cap Opportunities 
have grown in popularity in recent years, and we continue to see 
Fund, has a fairly large overweight in the financial services sector and 
opportunity in such flexible mandates. That said, approaches to 
cites JPMorgan as a company that he expects will benefit from the 
multi-sector fixed income that have worked over the past five years 
new tax laws and the improving economic and regulatory backdrop, 
are unlikely to work nearly as well over the next five. As a result, 
especially given management’s tendency to return significant capital 
multi-sector investors will need to look beyond the usual income le-
to shareholders through growing dividends and share repurchases.
vers of U.S. non-agency mortgages, U.S. high yield and hard-currency 
emerging markets debt to incorporate additional sources of risk into 
FAREWELLS
their portfolios. Last year we established a Multi-Sector Fixed Income 
Despite our very high retention rate, people do retire. There are two 
group under the leadership of Brad Tank, CIO of Fixed Income, to 
professionals in particular whose upcoming departures I wanted to note. 
extend our strategic commitment to customized multi-sector fixed 
After 38 years with Neuberger Berman, Bobby Conti will step away from 
income investing. The group includes all of our Senior Portfolio Man-
his day-to-day responsibilities working with our ’40 Act and UCITS funds 
agers with multi-sector responsibility—including Ashok Bhatia, who 
this summer. Our mutual fund shareholders will continue to benefit from 
joined us over the summer and has held senior investment positions 
Bobby’s deep knowledge and broad experience, however, as he will re-
in several asset management firms and hedge funds—and formalizes 
main a member of the mutual fund board. Andy Johnson, Head of Global 
the close working relationship that has always been in place with the 
Investment Grade Fixed Income, will retire at the end of 2018 after 28 
management of our Opportunistic Fixed Income strategy. 
years with the firm. Andy was a true steward of our clients’ capital over 
his tenure, and the strong foundation he built for the Global Investment 
Grade team gives us great confidence as we transition the leadership of 
the business to Dave Brown, the Head of Investment Grade Credit who 
has worked side-by-side with Andy for 23 years. 
I’d like to thank Bobby and Andy for their many years of dedication to 
Neuberger Berman and wish them well in retirement. 
4  Based on analysis of all actively managed U.S.-domiciled open-end equity funds data from Morningstar. Performance is based on fund’s oldest share class relative to its primary prospectus benchmark.
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 19
This fall will mark 10 years since the depths of the financial crisis, a 
time when the global financial system itself seemed to be in jeopardy. 
Many things have changed since then, of course, and while these 
changes have made for a more stable investment environment, they 
present a whole new set of challenges for those seeking to navigate  
it effectively. As an organization we remain committed to the 
development of innovative investment solutions to overcome these 
challenges on the behalf of our clients, regardless of what the next 
10 years may bring. 
On a more personal note, 2008 also set in motion the events that 
would result in Neuberger Berman emerging as an independent  
company once again. The past 10 years have been a remarkable period 
for our firm, one in which we are proud to have performed for our 
clients. On the pages that follow you’ll hear from professionals across 
the firm. While many have been here throughout the tumultuous post- 
crisis period and some joined us more recently, all are now united 
around a single goal: delivering compelling investment results for  
our clients over the long term.
As always, we are grateful for your partnership. 
20 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
 
PERSPECTIVES
OUR COMMITMENT TO ESG INTEGRATION
Neuberger Berman believes that material environmental, social and governance (ESG)  
characteristics are an important driver of long-term investment returns, from both an  
opportunity and a risk-mitigation perspective. We also understand that for many of our 
clients the impact of their portfolio is an important consideration in conjunction with  
investment performance. 
The firm has considered ESG characteristics in investment processes as far back as the 
JONATHAN BAILEY
HEAD OF ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL  1940s, and the breadth and depth of integration across our investment platform has grown 
AND GOVERNANCE (ESG) INVESTING
steadily since then through bottom-up innovation by individual teams. For example, our  
Sustainable Equity team was established in 1989, our Emerging Markets Debt team formally 
integrated ESG factors as a core part of their sovereign credit rating process in 2010, and 
our Investment Grade and Non-Investment Grade fixed income research teams did the 
same for corporate credit in 2014. In 2017 we built out a dedicated ESG Investing team, 
reporting to Joe Amato, President and CIO—Equities, charged with accelerating the integra-
tion of ESG factors into fundamental research and investment processes, developing new 
investment strategies, and enhancing collaboration across the firm and with clients. 
Engagement, including how we vote proxies on behalf of clients, continues to be a focus 
of the firm. In 2017 we were proud to support shareholder proposals calling for disclosure 
around climate change at oil & gas and utility companies and gender pay equity reports at 
technology and financial services companies. We opposed at least one vote at 49% of all 
the companies that we voted at in 2017. However the real test of being an engaged long-
term owner is the impact we have through our private dialogues with management teams 
and board members every day. Detailed engagement case studies from our equity and fixed 
income teams can be found on www.nb.com/esg.
Supported by our ESG Committee we continue to enhance our analyst-led ESG ratings 
and deepen the integration of ESG factors into existing investment processes. We are also 
pleased to be able to partner with clients on innovative new strategies—most recently  
Municipal Impact and Private Equity Impact—that seek to deliver environmental and social 
outcomes alongside market-level financial returns.
Finally, we have redoubled our collaboration with peers and clients in the industry as a 
whole. We have been a signatory to the UN-supported Principles for Responsible Investment 
(PRI) since 2012, and have played a leading role in the PRI’s work on fixed income engage-
ment and credit ratings. We also became a founding member of the Sustainability Account-
ing Standards Board (SASB) Alliance in 2017, encouraging companies to disclose financially 
material ESG data. And to demonstrate Neuberger Berman’s commitment to leading ESG 
practices in our own business operations, we joined the UN Global Compact on human 
rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. 
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 21

BUSINESS REVIEW: EQUITY
JOSEPH V. AMATO
PRESIDENT AND CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER—EQUITIES
A Shifting Landscape
Returns across essentially all global equity markets were outstanding in 2017, driven by strong economic growth, low interest 
rates and modest inflation. Markets were surprisingly resilient in the face of increasing fiscal policy uncertainty and the shift 
in Fed policy from QE (quantitative easing) to QT (quantitative tightening). The slow (or speedy) transition to interest rate 
normalization will be the most critical issue facing markets as we move into the late stages of the long economic expansion.  
The MSCI ACWI, a broad-based index of global equity markets,  To better support their clients, however, investment managers likely will 
returned approximately 25% last year. The MSCI Emerging Markets  need to sharpen their value propositions by constructing high-conviction 
Index was the stand-out performer, up almost 38% in U.S. dollar terms.  portfolios and becoming even more engaged with the companies they 
The S&P 500 rose almost 22%, driven by improved U.S. GDP growth  hold. A high level of engagement has long been a hallmark of Neuberger 
and earnings growth near 11%. These returns were accompanied by  Berman’s long-term, low-turnover investing approach, and engagement 
unusually low market volatility throughout the year. Positive momen- on a range of topics, including ESG, will continue to be a focus of ours.  
tum has continued into early 2018, even as bouts of renewed volatility 
The proliferation of data is another important development in the 
have caused some consternation among investors. However, we expect 
investment management world, as managers continue to search for more 
risks—including tightening central banks, plateauing economic growth 
efficient ways to gather this information and develop truly proprietary, 
and geopolitical discord—to increase as the year progresses, which 
value-added insights from it. We established our Data Science team, led 
combined with already-extended valuations suggest to us that the 
by Chief Data Scientist Michael Recce, to help our investment organization 
beta-driven returns of stock markets in recent years may give way to 
leverage this “big data” opportunity.  We have already seen the benefits, 
more modest results. 
with our portfolio managers and research analysts gaining fundamental 
Active management, in our view, can help. The rebound of active  investment insights from these new data sources. We believe big data will 
management in 2017 was a timely reminder that relative performance  be the key battleground for alpha in the coming years. 
trends have long been cyclical. The continued move toward interest 
Our equity investment capabilities are both broad and deep, and we 
rate normalization could further enhance the environment for  
are well positioned to capture the wide range of alpha sources for 
fundamental stock selection, as the unusually high correlations be-
the benefit of our clients. The next investment cycle undoubtedly will 
tween individual stocks over much of the current cycle presented  
be different than the one currently nearing its end. Our teams remain 
a challenge for active managers. 
intensely focused on delivering value for our clients no matter the 
environment, and I am confident in our ability to achieve this goal. 
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 23
EQUITY
INTERNATIONAL EQUITY EMERGING MARKETS EQUITY
Our International Equity team seeks to  Our Emerging Markets Equity team empha-
identify best-of-breed non-U.S. companies  sizes high-quality companies that we believe 
across sectors, countries and market caps.  stand to benefit from domestic growth and 
Synchronized global economic growth  the global consumer. We seek these oppor-
was the story for 2017, as all 45 countries  tunities across the market-cap spectrum 
tracked by the OECD expanded during the  and across sectors as well. Therefore, our 
Benjamin E. Segal, CFA year. The euro zone posted its best full- Conrad A. Saldanha, CFA investment process begins with a universe of 
year growth rate since 2007, as recovery broadened beyond  more than 12,000 companies compared to only around 800 for 
Germany to include such recent laggards as France and Italy.  the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, which is predominantly large-
Notably, fears that a busy 2017 European political calendar  cap focused. As of year-end 2017, we maintained an overweight 
could disrupt markets proved unfounded, as mainstream   bias to small/mid-cap names versus the index, as we believe many 
candidates were successful in all major races. Japan, mean- of these smaller companies are under-researched and offer the 
while, is in the midst of its longest quarterly economic growth  potential for attractive returns and diversification benefits and are 
streak in nearly 30 years. Strong markets in early 2018 have  more focused on domestic growth. Emerging equity markets in 
lifted equity valuations to relatively high levels, while volatility  2017 experienced a strong rally, driven primarily by robust  
returned to global equity markets in February. In combination,  corporate earnings but also boosted by appreciating currencies. 
this can provide an opportune environment for the bottom-up  Despite last year’s run-up, we believe valuations still appear 
stock picker. With global growth accelerating, we believe  reasonable, and double-digit earnings growth is forecast for 2018. 
certain companies stand to benefit directly from increased  We believe domestically driven names still have the potential to 
economic activity, while investor optimism in some sectors  deliver solid risk-adjusted returns going forward. They also should 
appears excessive. As always, decisions are made company   be relatively less impacted by trade disputes, and we are therefore 
by company on a bottom-up basis with an eye on potential   comfortable maintaining our focus in this area.
risk as well as potential return.
CHINA EQUITY
Our China Equity team takes a long-term, value-oriented approach to investing in Greater China equities. Co-located in 
Beijing and Hong Kong, the team employs rigorous original research to identify companies that are positioned to bene-
fit from sustainable long-term trends and meaningful changes, and builds concentrated portfolios of high-conviction ideas. 
For China’s equity markets, 2017 was a year of recovery—in earnings, sentiment and valuation—and stocks rallied 
sharply as a result, led by technology shares. In early 2018 conditions seem at least equally upbeat. After two years of 
strong performance, China equity markets are seeing solid inflows from both global investors and domestic institutions. 
Bin Yu
Economic growth is slowing but stable, and signs of a potential comeback of pricing power would be constructive for 
corporate earnings and margins. While risks—including looming deleveraging—persist, the environment of decent 
growth and modest inflation leads us to be positive on China equity markets for 2018.
24 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
MULTI CAP OPPORTUNITIES: THE NACKENSON GROUP EQUITY INCOME: THE MESSINGER GROUP
The Nackenson Group manages the Multi Cap  The Messinger Group has 
Opportunities strategy, which is designed to  been serving clients’ unique 
serve as a core equity portfolio for clients. We  needs for nearly four decades, 
invest across market capitalizations, sectors  delivering customized invest-
and styles with an emphasis on free cash flow  ment solutions for individuals, 
generation and capital allocation. Our portfolio  families and institutions based 
Richard S. Nackenson  consists of 30 to 40 core holdings across three  Richard S. Levine Sandy M. Pomeroy on well-defined goals span-
distinct categories of stocks—Special Situation, Opportunistic and  ning multiple generations. The 
Classic investments—that provide unique sources of alpha. In 2017  Messinger Group embraces  
S&P 500 pairwise correlations declined significantly as company-  a flexible approach when 
specific drivers were in focus. High-conviction active managers have  constructing strategies for our 
the potential to generate alpha through stock selection in this   clients and offers solutions 
setting. Our team was able to capture this opportunity. We believe  ranging from income-ori-
David S. Portny William D. Hunter
continued growth in the U.S. economy, a pro-business environment  ented to traditional equity 
and acceleration in earnings growth create a ripe atmosphere for  portfolios. In 2017, growth outperformed value by the widest margin in 
active management and free cash flow oriented investing. Company  recent memory. The S&P 500 generated a positive return every month as 
balance sheets are healthy, and free cash flow generation remains  volatility stayed at or near record lows. In fact, the market didn’t have a 
strong. It is our view that management teams are well positioned   single day when it was up or down by 2% or more. While many defensive 
to create value for shareholders by allocating capital effectively.   securities lagged, there were opportunities tied to an improving economy. 
Dividend increases, share repurchase programs, cash accumulation,  In the year ahead, we feel equities remain largely supported by healthy 
debt retirement, organic growth initiatives, selective and highly   corporate results and view tax reform as a structural tailwind for  
accretive acquisitions—all can accrue to the benefit of equity   earnings growth potential. Moreover, 2018 could be an inflection point for 
holders. We believe deep fundamental analysis centered on free cash  central banks. At this point in the cycle, we believe investors can benefit 
flow and capital structure efficiency may be an important driver of  from emerging wage and inflation trends. While we remain constructive 
performance going forward. on the pace of economic expansion, we feel the recent period of unprec-
edented low volatility could continue to be tested. Overall, we believe a 
focus on high-quality, cash-generating companies remains critical.
LARGE CAP VALUE
The Large Cap Value team utilizes a value investing discipline with a patient, conviction-based approach, 
conducting independent, bottom-up fundamental and quantitative research to identify nuances of each 
company that cannot be captured solely by financial characteristics. The top 20 stocks as of the end of 
2017 accounted for a significantly higher portion of the portfolio weight than the top 20 stocks in the 
Russell 1000 Value Index, demonstrating the active approach the strategy takes. 2017 was a year of good 
gains for equities, with minimal volatility and pullbacks; we feel 2018 will be different, though. Currently, 
Eli M. Salzmann David Levine, CFA the economy looks like it is growing at a decent rate and now has the tailwind of tax reform; however, 
monetary policy is no longer as accommodative globally, and we think there is a higher potential for some 
negative developments over this coming year than we have seen in the past few years. We are bottom-up 
managers and will continue evaluating all market dislocations for investment opportunities.
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 25
EQUITY
MID CAP INTRINSIC VALUE SMALL CAP INTRINSIC VALUE
The Mid Cap Intrinsic Value strategy seeks to 
invest in high-quality companies trading at 
a meaningful discount to the team’s intrinsic 
value estimate where a strategic event could 
potentially unlock value. For example, M&A  
activity was supportive of our strategy in 
Michael C. Greene 2017, as two of our portfolio companies were  Benjamin H. Nahum Amit Solomon, PhD James F. McAree
acquired at substantial premiums during the year. Market volatility 
The Small Cap Intrinsic Value strategy seeks to invest in companies 
remained low in 2017, and individual companies that failed to 
that trade at a meaningful discount to the team’s estimate of intrinsic 
meet analyst expectations were punished severely; value companies 
value where a strategic event can potentially unlock value. The strategy 
selling at material discounts and undergoing change can experience 
in 2017 benefitted from momentum and positive surprise. Recently, 
temporary disruptions as their new strategic plans are being 
we actively reviewed our portfolio with the objective of enhancing 
implemented. While the portfolio’s discount to our intrinsic value 
the risk-reward profile and have increased our exposure to consumer 
estimate has narrowed, we expect some of our newer positions 
and health care companies while gradually rebalancing our more 
to begin appreciating and anticipate some price improvement in a 
cyclical technology and producer durable investments. Given the 
number of our lagging positions as managements’ strategic plans 
challenges associated with being a patient value investor, we decided 
solidify. With the bull market entering its ninth year, we believe 
to take a more active approach with certain companies and engaged 
stock market returns will be weaker in 2018 and individual stock 
the boards of several of our undervalued long-term investments 
picking could become more meaningful. We believe our cash- 
around strategy and directors. We believe the portfolio is an attractive 
generating franchise companies have the potential to deliver solid 
mix of growth and value opportunities, well positioned to benefit 
returns in what could be a less robust market moving forward.
from important secular trends. We expect 2018 to be a rollercoaster 
year. As expectations have increased, disappointments, either broad 
or company-specific, will probably result in swift corrections.
SMALL AND MID CAP GROWTH
Our team seeks to identify small- and mid-cap companies trading at what we believe are compelling 
prices based on a strong competitive position, a healthy financial state and an identifiable—and ideally 
unappreciated—catalyst for growth. Both of our strategies actively challenge their benchmarks and peer 
groups through high-conviction out-of-index positions (of up to one-third the respective portfolios) and 
reasonable over- and underweight allocations at both the sector and industry levels, while still main-
taining the appropriate aggregate-level style and market capitalization expectations for small-cap and 
Kenneth J. Turek, CFA Chad A. Bruso, CFA mid-cap growth mandates. 2017 was a tremendous year for equities—growth in particular—and it also 
was a constructive environment for active managers and higher qualitative approaches such as ours. 
There was a return to relevancy for underlying stock fundamentals, and the market appeared to have a 
renewed appreciation for forward-thinking, strategic capital-reinvestment strategies over the dominant 
post-crisis trend of financial reallocations back to shareholders. While we don’t anticipate markets in 2018 
will mirror the robust returns and fascinating calm of 2017, we are cautiously optimistic that the U.S. will 
remain a pro-growth environment, corporate earnings will continue to impress and support valuations, 
Marco Minonne, CFA  Trevor Moreno, CFA
and that the landscape will remain largely positive for active management and higher qualitative and 
differentiated small- and mid-cap growth companies.  
26 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
INSIGHTS
SMALL CAP
The Small Cap team seeks high-quality businesses with 
above-average, sustainable growth prospects selling at 
or below-average valuations. We focus on less volatile, 
less economically sensitive businesses and avoid specu-
lative names that are dependent on economic growth 
and require healthy capital markets. Looking ahead, 
Robert W. D’Alelio
global economic activity has been ticking up of late,  
and recently passed tax legislation in the U.S. is likely 
to add to this momentum. Strong economic conditions 
are finally beginning to exert upward pressure on labor 
rates, which are leading to early signs of inflation. 
Confirming these trends, interest rates have been 
creeping up at both the short and long ends of the yield 
Judith M. Vale, CFA
curve. While we think rates are still below levels likely 
to curtail economic expansion, we will be monitoring these trends closely. We 
believe that our companies with below-average leverage or net-cash balance 
sheets could be relative winners in a rising-rate environment.
CIO WEEKLY 
PERSPECTIVES
SUSTAINABLE EQUITY
The Sustainable Equity strategy, which we launched 
Each week, our CIO Weekly Perspectives  
in 1989, incorporates business, financial and environ-
blog delivers timely insights from the  
mental, social and governance (ESG) factors to identify 
30 – 40 high-quality companies that we believe have  leaders of our Equity, Fixed Income and 
the potential to deliver attractive returns over a three- to 
Multi-Asset Class platforms as well as  
five-year period. Looking back at 2017, S&P 500 returns 
senior investment professionals from  
Ingrid S. Dyott outpaced earnings growth, as multiples continued to 
expand within a backdrop of slow, steady economic  across the firm. Offering interpretation of  
growth, low inflation, low volatility and supportive mon-
the factors driving financial markets in an  
etary policy. This environment benefitted stocks with high 
approachable format, CIO Weekly Perspectives 
revenue growth. Returns of many established businesses 
lagged, as investors became concerned about the threat  seeks to prepare investors for the risks and 
posed by disruptive technologies to such businesses’ 
opportunities that lie ahead.
Sajjad S. Ladiwala, CFA
growth and profitability. This environment also provided 
some attractive investment opportunities to add best-in-class companies  To subscribe to CIO Weekly Perspectives, 
that meet our quality criteria while exiting certain positions, generally based 
please contact us at CIOweekly@nb.com
on valuation considerations. We look at a wide range of ESG factors in the 
businesses we own and track their aggregate impact on our portfolio; as one 
example, as of September 30, 2017, our portfolio is 55% less carbon-intensive 
than the S&P 500. Responsibility continues to be a hallmark of quality, and 
we believe that in a slow-growth world the operating characteristics inherent 
in certain businesses can translate top-line growth in the low- to mid-single 
digits into stronger, advantaged bottom-line growth.
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 27
EQUITY
MASTER LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS:   U.S. AND GLOBAL REITS
THE RACHLIN GROUP
The Global REITs team 
The Rachlin Group manages income-oriented  seeks total return through 
equity strategies focused on master limited  investment in real estate 
partnerships (MLPs) that have the potential to  securities, emphasizing both 
generate attractive dividend yields with a growth  income and capital appre-
component. The group seeks investments with  ciation. Throughout 2017 
strong, recurring cash flows anchored by long- Steve Shigekawa Anton Kwang, CFA we maintained a quality 
Douglas A. Rachlin term fee-based contracts. Only certain MLPs  bias, investing in companies 
meet the team’s criteria for long-term apprecia- with high-quality assets and 
tion potential; we believe companies that have  strong balance sheets. We 
favorable debt metrics and generate sustainable  adjusted our portfolio toward 
cash flow can maintain and grow distributions  the end of 2017, increasing 
through market cycles. 2017 was a frustrating  exposure to property sectors 
Brian C. Jones, CFA Gillian Tiltman 
year for the unit price performance of MLPs.  and geographic regions that 
Yves C. Siegel, CFA
It appeared that investors’ skepticism toward  stand to benefit from improving economic trends. In the U.S. we 
energy-related equities continued to linger following the decline  favor Sun Belt markets, where the positive effects from tax cuts are 
in oil prices during 2014 – 15. Certain individual MLPs continued to  more likely to be felt. In Japan we believe developers are positioned 
struggle with high debt levels and the continuous need for further  to benefit from an expected acceleration in inflation. In Europe we 
equity issuance. In early 2018 we are encouraged by the combination  prefer the Continent versus the U.K. and believe that the logistics 
of strong business fundamentals, secular growth opportunities and  and German residential sectors continue to be supported by secular 
favorable valuation metrics for our companies. The domestic energy  trends. We believe advancements in technology—such as 5G cellular, 
industry continues its transformation toward becoming a global leader.  cloud computing, autonomous driving and artificial intelligence—likely 
In our opinion, midstream infrastructure assets—such as pipelines,  will lead to significant investments in network and IT infrastructure over 
storage and processing facilities—will become increasingly valued as  the next few years. In our view, data centers and infrastructure REITs 
demand for U.S. energy continues to rise.  are well positioned to benefit from these tailwinds. 
EQUITY RESEARCH
Driven by a culture of stock-picking accountability and teamwork, our 40-member Global Equity Research team subjects 
companies to rigorous, disciplined analysis to generate stock recommendations with a long-term perspective. In addition to 
supporting portfolio management teams across Neuberger Berman, we aggregate our analysts’ best ideas in a number of 
Research-managed portfolios. These include the Research Opportunity strategy, a diversified sector-neutral portfolio consisting 
of buy-rated names in research, weighted by analyst conviction. Building on the success of our existing Research-managed 
products, we recently launched a number of new global thematic portfolios targeting disruptive trends such as autonomous 
Timothy F. Creedon, CFA
driving, next-generation networking and fintech. These portfolios leverage our analysts’ deep sector expertise to obtain more 
concentrated exposure to the disruptive companies best positioned to benefit from these emerging technologies.
28 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
PERSPECTIVES
OUR COMMITMENT TO INNOVATION
In investment management, the need for innovation is constant. Not merely innovation  
for its own sake, but rather the development of transformative concepts that build on an 
organization’s innate strengths and have real, practical client applications. Inherent in 
Neuberger Berman’s culture of partnership is a commitment to such innovation, a firm-wide 
drive to uncover new solutions as markets and client needs evolve. 
Today, “big data” is creating tremendous excitement across the business world and increas-
MICHAEL RECCE, PhD
CHIEF DATA SCIENTIST ingly in portfolio management. We share the enthusiasm. According to IBM, 90% of all  
existing data has been created over the last couple years. As populations migrate online and 
become inseparable from their cell phones, they leave a trail of data reflecting everything 
from their browsing activity to their physical movements that when gathered and analyzed 
can offer valuable insights on the health of businesses and the potential of their securities. 
Most public attention thus far has focused on short-term opportunities in big data. In the 
gap between quarterly earnings reports, frequent traders can capitalize on data-illuminated 
inefficiencies that may not be known to the wider market. But for longer-term investors like 
us, the opportunity is more about fundamentals: What can the data reveal that might not 
be an explicit part of a company’s financial statements?  Take, for example, a company that 
reported top-line growth of 10%. Is that growth a result of attracting new customers, or  
is it selling more goods to existing clientele? With the benefit of information from data, 
investors can understand in more detail the socioeconomic and demographic factors con-
tributing to a company’s performance and can differentiate the performance in individual 
products, geographies and customer cohorts. This information can make a major difference 
as we seek to identify meaningful trends upon which to base investment decisions.
Public equity research is the most obvious application for big-data analysis, but in truth it is 
relevant across asset classes. The same set of factors that could affect equity valuation may 
also impact fixed income credit quality, while digital “footprints” can create a fuller picture 
of operational realities in assessing private companies with limited financial disclosures.
Our big data team has already worked closely with many colleagues across Neuberger  
Berman, both to provide insight and to introduce big data into their research and  
investment processes. Over time, we expect to deepen those relationships. The task is an 
important one. Big data is set to become a key battleground in the search for alpha. The 
notion for us is not that it will ever replace human judgment, but that it can provide a  
valuable set of tools for our active managers as they seek returns on behalf of clients.
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 29

BUSINESS REVIEW: FIXED INCOME
BRAD C. TANK
CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER—FIXED INCOME
Entering a New Zone
Though economic growth gathered steam worldwide in 2017, inflation remained elusive and the yield on the 10-year U.S. 
Treasury ended 2017 near where it began, belying widespread expectations that rates would shift higher during the year. 
While the Fed’s measured approach to policy rate normalization pushed up the short end of the yield curve, longer-term rates 
remained anchored and the curve flattened as a result. The factors driving this—persistently low inflation, the tethering effect 
of low global rates and the disconnect between the Fed and the market around the terminal fed funds rate—should ease as 
2018 progresses, suggesting that longer-term Treasury rates may be biased higher. 
Even so, U.S. interest rates across the curve likely will remain well below  we made significant progress furthering that effort as part of a firm-wide 
historical levels in 2018 and beyond, and negative-yielding sovereigns  initiative; notably, we launched the Municipal Impact strategy, which seeks 
remain prevalent in other developed markets. As a result, yield-oriented in- to deliver environmental and social outcomes alongside market-level returns 
vestors likely will continue to seek attractive sources of income. We’ve seen  from investments in the U.S. municipal bond market.
evidence of this in the continued appeal of U.S. credit markets to non-U.S. 
We’ve entered a new zone for fixed income in 2018. Yields could go 
investors, for example, as well as in the broad allure of the emerging world 
lower, but the secular bull market appears to have already ended. Low 
as cyclical improvement and ongoing reforms have produced an attractive 
correlations among fixed income markets have buffered fixed income 
investment environment in many developing markets. 
investors during recent bouts of trouble, but this is unlikely to persist giv-
The Fixed Income platform was successful in delivering for clients in 2017,  en narrow credit spreads and low rates. All in all, the chance of a broad, 
and we continued to position the business for such success in the years   cross-markets selloff appears higher today than it has been for years. 
to come. We established a Shanghai-based team under the leadership of  
Given the ongoing transition to more normal levels of inflation and 
Peter Ru to focus on opportunities in the increasingly accessible $11 trillion 
interest rates and the reawakening of volatility that is likely to result—
China onshore bond market. Ashok Bhatia joined the firm as a portfolio 
both within markets and in correlations across asset classes—we 
manager for our multi-sector fixed income strategies, which draw on the  
expect 2018 to be an interesting year. In our view, more complex 
full range of our fixed income capabilities. We maintained our focus on 
fixed income markets highlight the value of both long-term strategic 
building and integrating our insurance-dedicated resources, which will 
allocation and shorter-term tactical positioning, as well as having the 
allow us to continue to develop innovative solutions for this important client 
capabilities across sectors to execute on them. 
base. And while the incorporation of ESG factors into our research and 
investment processes already was widespread on the Fixed Income team, 
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 31
FIXED INCOME
GLOBAL INVESTMENT GRADE FIXED INCOME INTEREST RATES  
AND INFLATION
Neuberger Berman’s integrated Global Fixed Income platform is comprised 
of specialty investment teams that share a common framework to value 
sectors. The Global Investment Grade Fixed Income team, a member of this 
platform, manages more than $57 billion in assets for clients worldwide. The 
team’s investment process is structured to navigate the broad global fixed 
income universe, leveraging sector expertise from across the Global Fixed 
Andrew A. Johnson David M. Brown, CFA Income platform to evaluate investment opportunities. Thanos Bardas, PhD
Government bond yields were relatively range-bound over the course of 2017, as expectations surrounding inflation 
CURRENCY
and global growth failed to wholly materialize. Within the U.S., the Treasury curve flattened as the long end fell slightly, 
the 10-year remained largely unchanged and the short end was driven higher by the Fed’s three rate hikes. Globally, 
interest rates remained subdued, weighed down by ongoing accommodative monetary policy in Europe and Japan. 
Given this landscape, we maintained an underweight duration position—compared to the Bloomberg Barclays U.S. 
Aggregate Bond Index—over the year and held short rate positions in core Europe and the U.K. More tactically, we 
were long rates in Mexico, peripheral Europe and South Africa at different times over the year.
After a surge in reflation speculation in late 2016 following Trump’s election and into early 2017, U.S. inflation 
Ugo Lancioni
expectations—as measured by breakevens—cooled for most of the year before modestly picking up in the fourth 
CORPORATE  
quarter following consecutive strong inflation prints. Overall, we benefitted from our exposure to U.S. Treasury inflation 
CREDIT
protected securities (TIPS), though we did reduce our exposure to the sector incrementally throughout the year. We 
continue to like TIPS given the limited universe of securities that offer inflation protection; the securities also serve to 
help offset our underweight in U.S. nominal duration.
In the currency market, the U.S. dollar index experienced its first yearly loss since 2012. In contrast, the euro in 2017 
posted its largest gain against the dollar in 14 years after beginning the year at a record low of 1.0341 EUR/USD, making 
it the biggest gainer among G-10 economies. As the relationship between currency and interest rate differentials has 
been weak, the current macro outlook appears to be driving currency strength. Europe is perceived to be earlier in 
Julian H. Marks, CFA
the business cycle than the U.S., while U.K. economic indicators have been steady. Elsewhere, the Bank of Japan has 
maintained its highly accommodative policies even as the Fed and ECB have reduced their quantitative easing efforts.  STRUCTURED  
PRODUCTS
Investment grade credit spreads continued to grind tighter over the year, closing out 2017 at levels last seen just 
before the 2007 – 08 global financial crisis. Demand for corporate credit was bolstered by improving credit metrics, 
strong issuance and expected fiscal policy. The strategy continued to benefit from strong security selection as well as 
the team’s decision to remain overweight BBB rated credit, as the quality component of the sector outpaced Treasuries 
over the year. A persistent underweight to the non-corporate segment of the sector also aided performance. 
Our focus within securitized assets in 2017 favored floating-rate non-agency mortgage backed securities (non-agency 
MBS) and credit risk transfer securities (CRTs). Both sectors were strong performers, offering good cash flow and  Terrence J. Glomski
valuations amid a strengthening U.S. consumer and housing market, and contributed to performance. Looking ahead, 
non-agency MBS maintains a very low correlation to risk-free rates and risky assets while still offering an attractive 
projected loss-adjusted yield. CRTs, meanwhile, provide appealing yields, high-quality loans, a floating-rate coupon 
and an expanding investor base.
Thomas A. Sontag
32 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
GLOBAL NON-INVESTMENT GRADE CREDIT SENIOR FLOATING RATE LOANS
Thomas P. O’Reilly, CFA Vivek Bommi, CFA Russ Covode Stephen J. Casey, CFA Joseph P. Lynch Martin J. Rotheram Pim M. van Schie
Our Senior Floating Rate Loan team seeks attractive risk-adjusted returns 
through the disciplined management of credit quality and industry analysis. 
Our approach typically leads to a portfolio of larger and more liquid loans 
from issuers with stronger fundamentals than the market as a whole. At 
year-end 2017, more than 90% of the loans in our portfolio were from 
issuances greater than $500 million and were rated B or higher. With the 
Daniel J. Doyle, CFA Patrick H. Flynn, CFA
magnitude of Libor increases lagging the spread compression in new issues 
Driven by our 40-plus person dedicated global credit  that has resulted from refinancings in a high-demand environment, senior 
research team, our Global Non-Investment Grade Credit  loan performance in 2017 came in at the low end of our expectations. 
platform employs a disciplined process that seeks downside  Distressed and lower-quality loans outperformed the BB and B parts of the 
risk mitigation with upside potential. We entered 2017  senior floating rate loan market during the year, as investors continued to 
constructive about the fundamental landscape for high yield  emphasize higher-yielding paper; as such, our continued focus on quality 
but concerned that the market could experience increased  across our U.S. and global loan portfolios proved to be a slight headwind  
volatility given anticipated regulatory changes and looming  to performance in the prevailing environment. Continued moderate  
geopolitical risks. Believing that lower-quality portions of the  economic growth in the U.S. should enable the Federal Reserve to persist  
market were not compensating investors for these risks, we  in its measured approach to policy normalization, including several hikes  
increased our exposure to higher-quality issues, which hurt  of the federal funds target rate in 2018, which should be constructive for 
performance as bonds rated CCC and below outperformed  senior floating rate loans. With the momentum of 2017’s near-record CLO 
in 2017 as meaningful market volatility failed to emerge.  issuance expected to continue in 2018, the CLO market should be a steady 
Looking ahead to 2018, we believe non-investment grade  source of demand for loans. The loan market appears to be compensating 
defaults in the U.S. will remain below historical averages as  investors for default risk—we expect defaults to track below historical 
improving economic growth buoys issuer fundamentals. The  averages in 2018—and the asset class continues to provide low-volatility, 
credit quality of the U.S. high yield market remains stable,  low-risk access to the non-investment grade space.
with tax reform likely to have a modest positive impact 
on issuer cash flow. Market performance in 2018 may be 
susceptible to a variety of factors, including uncertainty 
around trade policy, the shifting regulatory environment, 
and potential changes to leveraged-lending guidelines and 
their enforcement; meanwhile, technology-driven disruption 
remains a key risk to certain industries. Credit quality in the 
European high yield market remains robust, and default rates 
are tracking near historical lows under 1%. With the prospect 
of stable, coupon-driven returns in an increasingly volatile 
global environment, we believe European high yield paper 
should remain well bid in 2018.
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 33
FIXED INCOME
EMERGING MARKETS DEBT 
Our multisite Emerging Markets Debt team offers clients a full range of EMD capabilities, with 30 dedicated 
specialists focused on hard-currency, local-currency and corporate investment strategies, all of which incorporate 
top-down analysis and bottom-up fundamental research to uncover the potential alpha in emerging markets 
debt. Our Emerging Markets Debt strategies are approaching their five-year anniversaries in 2018, and the 
team recently eclipsed $16 billion in assets under management. Investor sentiment toward emerging markets 
debt remained upbeat in 2017, and the asset class saw steady inflows throughout the year thanks to the 
Rob J. Drijkoningen Gorky R. Urquieta emerging world’s improving macro backdrop, a weaker U.S. dollar, subdued trade-war rhetoric from the U.S. and 
a supportive commodity price environment. Total returns for 2017 came in at 10.3% for hard-currency sovereigns, 15.2% for local-currency sovereigns 
and 7.9% for hard-currency corporate bonds (as represented by the J.P. Morgan EMBI Global Diversified, GBI-EM Global Diversified and CEMBI 
Diversified indexes, respectively). The synchronized global growth we saw in 2017 provides a strong foundation for continued positive momentum in 
2018. While reflation and an upward bias on global bond yields can pose a risk to the performance of EMD assets, we believe that the consolidation 
of the cyclical improvement in a large majority of emerging economies is likely to provide a buffer against external headwinds. 
SPECIAL SITUATIONS  MUNICIPAL FIXED INCOME
Michael J. Holmberg Brendan McDermott, CPA Ravi K. Soni James L. Iselin S. Blake Miller, CFA James A. Lyman
The Special Situations team seeks opportunities in dislocated and distressed  Our 16-person Municipal Fixed Income team comprises 10 portfolio 
markets. We provide liquidity to unnatural holders or forced sellers by  managers and six research analysts who work collaboratively to 
purchasing debt or assets from them that we believe are intrinsically   manage more than $10 billion in municipal assets. Bottom-up 
undervalued. We target hard assets like hotels, parking lots, power plants  fundamental analysis is the cornerstone of our investment process. 
and ships to mitigate downside risk, and we avoid asset-light holdings such  Our deeply experienced analysts perform extensive research across 
as those found in the service and technology sectors. In 2017 we completed  our investable universe, backed by our proprietary state-of-the-art 
several restructurings and were able to monetize investments in the air  research system. Security selection was additive to returns in 2017, 
transportation, energy, oil & gas and real estate sectors at attractive levels  and our barbelled bias also contributed positively as the yield curve 
relative to our cost basis. We also selectively added new exposure in the   flattened. The end of 2017 saw unprecedented levels of supply, 
oil & gas, real estate and shipping sectors where we were able to source  as tax-reform proposals had the potential to limit future issuance 
undervalued assets from forced sellers, primarily funds and banks facing  of tax-exempt municipal bonds. We believe that supply will be 
liquidity and/or regulatory pressures. Our team actively engages in a holding’s  constrained in 2018, which could lead to relative outperformance 
restructuring process when necessary to maximize value. For example, in  of tax-exempt bonds. Steady economic growth and limited supply 
2017 we completed the sell-out of a condominium project—we converted  should be supportive of credit spreads. Central bank normalization 
non-performing debt into equity, installed a new asset manager and invested  could create higher levels of volatility, and active credit decisions 
in deferred capital expenditures to upgrade units. In 2018, we expect a  should have a greater impact going forward. Our duration-neutral 
continued uptick in default rates for smaller issuers and to source more  style that emphasizes fundamental analysis and careful security 
opportunities from forced sellers of real assets, specifically European banks. selection should be well suited for the market environment in 2018.
34 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
INSIGHTS
MULTI-SECTOR FIXED INCOME
Brad Tank Ashok K. Bhatia, CFA Jon Jonsson
Drawing on the full range of Neuberger Berman’s fixed income 
capabilities and an asset allocation process that emphasizes capital 
preservation, the Multi-Sector Fixed Income team constructs portfolios  
designed to meet client objectives around income, total return, 
diversification and capital preservation. In 2017 our portfolios were 
oriented toward capturing income and spread compression in U.S. 
high yield, investment grade credit and emerging markets debt. 
During the year we maintained allocations to U.S.-focused credit 
sectors while increasing our exposure to emerging markets, reflecting 
our view of positive growth and inflation differentials in these economies  FIXED INCOME  
compared to developed markets. We were generally positioned for 
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK 
range-bound developed market interest rates in 2017. Looking to 
2018, we have reduced the interest rate sensitivity of our portfolios 
given our expectations that the combination of strong global growth  The Fixed Income Investment Strategy  
and global fiscal stimulus and reform will result in developed market 
Committee, comprising senior portfolio  
interest rates being re-rated in a higher range. We also modestly 
managers from across our Fixed Income  
reduced exposures to U.S. high yield and investment grade credit,  
as the coupling of loosening fiscal policy with tightening monetary  platform, meets monthly to share opinions  
policy in the U.S. should drive significantly higher volatility. With 
and insights and thus shape the asset  
inflation back on the radar, we anticipate maintaining significant 
allocation of our multi-sector strategies.  
allocations to inflation-protected securities as well.
The quarterly Fixed Income Investment Outlook 
details the committee’s market outlook and  
analyzes in depth the topics driving financial 
markets today.
To subscribe to Fixed Income Investment  
Outlook, please contact us at FIoutlook@
nb.com.
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 35
FIXED INCOME
INSURANCE FIXED INCOME  FIXED INCOME RESEARCH
The Insurance Fixed Income team represents  With experienced analysts 
specialized market-facing resources that  across investment grade, 
are part of Neuberger Berman’s dedicated  non-investment grade and 
Insurance Solutions Group. This framework  emerging markets, our Fixed 
allows us to leverage the full spectrum of our  Income Research teams 
fixed income investment platform in address- share the belief that market 
Jason Pratt ing the unique circumstances of insurance  Stephen J. Flaherty, CFA Christopher J. Kocinski, CFA mispricings provide oppor-
clients worldwide. Our philosophy is rooted in the recognition that  tunities to add value for 
insurance companies differ in terms of economic objectives, capital  those with unique insights 
requirements, liquidity needs and approaches to supporting liabili- and conviction if extracted 
ties and policy holders, all of which can vary significantly based on  without exposing portfolios 
such factors as line of business and regulatory jurisdiction.  As such,  to undue risk. We have the 
the first step in establishing effective partnerships with insurance  ability to wed these notions 
clients is to understand their unique needs and constraints. With  Jennifer R. Gorgoll, CFA Nish V. Popat  thanks to the fundamental 
these defined, our broad multi-sector fixed income capabilities en- research—comprising 
able us to develop tailored solutions that better reflect the dynamic  economic analysis, sector and issuer spread relationships, cash flow 
nature of fixed income markets, distinguishing us from other firms  analysis, credit assessment and material ESG criteria—of analysts  
that may have a more limited product orientation. With more than  within each sector, who interact daily with our portfolio managers  
$30 billion in insurance assets under management, the 13-person  to ensure we make well-informed decisions for clients. In 2017 our  
Insurance Solutions Group continues to build relationships around  fixed income research resources—159 investment professionals  
the globe, bringing our ideas and resources into focus for insurance  worldwide—conducted approximately 1,600 management meetings,  
companies of all sizes and types.  a reflection of our commitment to proactive, bottom-up research.  
In addition, we continued to host research training programs for 
personnel from key institutional clients so they could better understand 
our process.
36 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
PERSPECTIVES
OUR COMMITMENT TO ACCOUNTABILITY 
At Neuberger Berman we have been encouraged and excited by the increasing interest in our 
application of environmental, social and governance principles to our investments and to our 
firm’s culture. We have lived by the principles of ESG since well before a specific movement 
emerged because doing so makes us better investors, employers and colleagues. We value those 
companies, people and ideas that embody our culture of engagement, accountability and long-
term alignment. We learn by interacting candidly and collaboratively, by challenging each other 
HEATHER P. ZUCKERMAN and by recognizing that being invested for the long term demands constant evolution. We also 
CHIEF OF STAFF
focus on materiality in ESG, ensuring that we are driving toward salient goals rather than doing 
things simply to “check the box.” A few specifics to bring these ideas to light: 
Human Capital Management. We continually review our organization to identify individuals,  
teams or processes that would benefit from increased diversity. Diversity takes many forms—
from traditional indicators like race, ethnicity or gender to the diversity of perspective, commu-
nication style or background. We seek to foster an environment in which diversity of all types 
can flourish, changing the way we solicit employee feedback, make decisions, integrate new 
hires and select counterparties and vendors as necessary to do so. 
Governance. Though our Operating and Partnership committees likely would more than 
satisfy the need for “governance“ at most private companies, we supplement these groups 
with a formal board of directors that includes both Audit and Compensation committees. 
Importantly, half our board members are independent and have substantive experience in 
asset management, enabling them to truly engage and challenge management. 
Business Planning. While long-term business planning naturally includes a range of client 
and market assumptions, our flexible governance structure allows us to nimbly redirect 
resources as necessary in response to evolving client needs, technological advances and 
regulatory changes. And since most of our senior employees are also owners, they are 
aligned in their focus on maximizing value for our clients and our firm.
Transparency and Feedback. Given their close engagement with our clients and financial 
markets, our employees are uniquely positioned to advise senior management on key firm 
initiatives. To encourage the free exchange of ideas we provide employees with a high level of  
transparency while gathering feedback through channels that range from small employee dinners 
at CEO George Walker’s home to anonymous employee surveys administered by third parties. 
Our executive offices are situated next to the NB Exchange, our dining and gathering space, to 
encourage informal interactions and to help us identify and address potential blind spots.
We are proud of the culture of alignment that we have built at Neuberger Berman. We will 
continue to hold ourselves to the same high standards that have guided our company since 
1939, and we welcome dialog with our clients, peers and counterparties on initiatives in the 
ESG space and beyond.
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 37

BUSINESS REVIEW: ALTERNATIVES
ANTHONY D. TUTRONE
GLOBAL HEAD OF ALTERNATIVES
A Continued Source of Compelling Opportunities
The alternatives market continued to be robust in 2017, as investors sought differentiated and uncorrelated returns to public 
markets through private investment structures. We believe that 2018 will bring increased opportunity for alternatives, building  
on the momentum from last year, when alternatives overall provided compelling investment opportunities and generated 
attractive returns (as evidenced by the performance of the HFRI and the Cambridge Associates indexes) despite the volatility  
in public markets and the highly charged political environment, rising interest rates and generally high valuations.
For 2018 we expect increased volatility as markets adjust to rising   investors would be better served focusing on private equity strategies 
interest rates and inflation along with continued geopolitical uncertainty.  predicated on making significant strategic and operational improve-
We believe that corporate fundamentals will be the key driver of stock  ments that will accelerate earnings growth in companies.
prices once again, providing hedge fund managers the opportunity 
We remain bullish on private credit, which, like other areas of private 
to generate alpha on both the long and short side. Within the hedge 
equity, captures alternative sources of risk premia, in this case illiquidity 
fund space, we also favor directional, uncorrelated hedged strategies 
and complexity. In addition, private credit is somewhat insulated from 
like CTAs and macro hedge funds that stand to benefit from potential 
high valuations and can provide an attractive cash yield. Private credit 
increases in commodity prices and interest rates. In addition, we 
should also benefit from increased M&A activity driven by robust global 
also believe that rising interest rates in the U.S. will make for a more 
growth, strong corporate earnings and a less interventionist approach 
challenging environment for highly leveraged, lower-quality companies. 
to deals by the current U.S. administration.
This, in turn, should create opportunities for hedge fund and private 
equity distressed debt managers. Throughout 2017, Neuberger Berman Alternatives continued to be an 
active investor and innovator in alternatives investments. The team 
We remain bullish on private equity relative to other asset classes. We 
launched an uncorrelated hedge fund UCITS strategy in Europe and 
think that private equity will benefit from robust financing markets, 
also a strategy focused on real estate secondaries. Furthermore, we 
reduced regulations and a more favorable corporate tax code in the 
increased activity in our existing businesses, raising capital across  
U.S. However, like most asset classes, valuations are high, so investors 
diversified private equity, secondaries, private debt, distressed credit 
should be cautious of private equity strategies that rely on buying 
and private equity minority stakes businesses.
cheap or exiting at higher valuation multiples. Instead, we believe 
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 39
ALTERNATIVES
PRIVATE INVESTMENT PORTFOLIOS
Jonathan D. Shofet Peter J. von Lehe Patricia Miller Zollar Paul D.S. Daggett Elizabeth S. Traxler
Our Private Investment Portfolios team builds diversified private equity portfolios for institutional clients around the world, both on a commin-
gled fund and separate account basis. Specifically, we invest in primary and secondary fund commitments and direct co-investments in private 
equity-backed companies across asset classes, industries and geographies. The team was extremely active over the course of 2017 and reviewed 
approximately 200 opportunities, ultimately committing $2.8 billion in new investments during the year. Liquidity has also been robust, and we 
received over $1.1 billion of gross proceeds from underlying portfolio company realizations during 2017. Looking ahead, we are optimistic, albeit 
cautious, in the face of relatively high asset prices and the prospect of rising interest rates, recent market volatility and complex geopolitical issues. 
Our focus remains on investing in and alongside experienced private equity managers that have strong track records, sound investment judgment, 
appropriate price discipline and a demonstrated ability to drive operational value in the companies they own.
SECONDARY INVESTMENTS
Brian G. Talbot Tristram C. Perkins Ethan A. Falkove Benjamin B. Perl Scott Koenig
Our Secondary investment team is focused on acquiring high-quality private equity assets from various types of sellers in a range of situations, including  
traditional limited partnership interests, opportunistic direct co-investments from investors seeking early liquidity, portfolios of directs or “synthetic 
secondaries,” and structured secondary solutions, royalties, hedge fund side pockets and credit-related opportunities. The team was particularly active in 
2017, having reviewed approximately 270 opportunities. Looking to 2018 we are optimistic that attractive opportunities will again present themselves, as 
the growth drivers of recent years—the expanding universe of sellers, changing regulations, more active portfolio management and the growth in private 
equity generally—are, in our opinion, sustainable long-term trends. Finally, we note that a secondary strategy can benefit from broader market volatility in 
terms of increased deal flow and more favorable pricing. In addition, we have seen general partners begin to embrace the secondary market as a way to 
solve complex issues and help generate liquidity for their existing limited partners, a trend that we expect to continue. In 2017 the team added two senior 
real estate professionals, Scott Koenig and Ted Rykowski, to expand our capabilities into the real estate secondary market. We believe that this segment of 
the secondary market remains relatively under-addressed and that by leveraging our platform’s resources, reputation and access to deal flow, we are well 
positioned to take advantage of the opportunity.
40 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
CO-INVESTMENTS MARQUEE BRANDS
David S. Stonberg David H. Morse Michael S. Kramer Jacquelyn A. Wang Joana Rocha Scaff Samuel N. Porat Zachary P. Sigel
Our Co-Investment team is focused on selecting the best investment opportunities with   Marquee Brands acquires, licenses and develops 
leading private equity firms in their core areas of expertise. In 2017 we reviewed a record 220  high-quality consumer brands with the goal 
investment opportunities, driven by the strength of our private equity platform and relationships.  of expanding their reach across distribution 
Amid the backdrop of elevated valuations, the team continues to be highly selective and to   channels, geographies and product categories. 
favor opportunities where there is a clear value-creation plan focused on initiatives including  The past year was a transformational period 
operational efficiencies, cost savings and/or accretive add-on acquisition strategies. Our ability   for Marquee Brands on several fronts. First, we 
to co-underwrite an investment or provide capital for strategic purposes to existing portfolio  continued to capitalize on retail dislocation, 
companies of private equity firms after the time of their initial investment (“mid-life” investments)  completing the acquisition of a portfolio of 
has provided a differentiated investment approach for our partner private equity firms. These  high-quality women’s brands out of bankruptcy 
mid-life investments can be used for a variety of purposes, including shareholder monetizations,   (BCBGMaxAzria, BCBGeneration and Herve 
recapitalizations and assisting in the funding of large acquisitions. For 2018 we expect to maintain  Leger). Second, our brand portfolio royalty 
our strategy. revenues grew approximately 15% organically, 
as marketing and licensing initiatives from prior 
years continued to deliver growth. Third, Mar-
RENAISSANCE PARTNERS
quee continued to expand our platform, opening 
NB Renaissance Partners is a private  up an office in Los Angeles and building out our 
equity fund focused on generating  e-commerce and digital capabilities. As we look 
attractive returns by investing in  toward 2018 and beyond, we hope to build on 
growth-oriented Italian mid-market  our momentum from last year and we expect to 
companies. After a strong 2017,  complete more acquisitions as traditional brick-
our outlook for 2018 continues  and-mortar retail challenges create opportunities 
Marco Cerrina Feroni Fabio C. Cane Stefano Bontempelli to be optimistic. Italy is currently  for intellectual property buyers. 
enjoying sound economic prospects 
and a positive investment climate, 
coupled with an abundant supply of 
family-owned companies that are 
facing succession issues and need of 
capital to grow in the international 
Marco De Simoni Luca Deantoni Michele Quaranta markets. Although private equity 
activity in Italy has grown significantly, 
the market is still highly underpenetrated. The limited competition, particularly in the mid-cap 
segment, drives moderate valuations, further increasing the attractiveness of the opportunity set 
for the Renaissance team.
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 41
ALTERNATIVES
PRIVATE CREDIT DYAL CAPITAL
Susan B. Kasser, CFA David J. Lyon Matthew Bird Michael D. Rees Sean J. Ward
Our Private Credit team invests in the secured and unsecured   Dyal Capital Partners is focused on acquiring minority equity stakes 
debt of private equity-owned companies, benefitting from   in established alternative asset managers. Since 2011 the Dyal 
Neuberger Berman’s expansive network of sponsor relationships.  team has invested in 26 leading hedge fund and private equity 
We believe that our relationships will continue to provide   firms. In 2017 the Dyal team completed five transactions, acquiring 
significant sourcing advantages, enabling us to identify attractive  minority stakes in four private equity firms and one hedge fund 
investment opportunities in a wide range of market conditions.    firm. The year generally ended well for alternative asset managers, 
In 2017 credit markets exhibited little of the marked volatility  with record fundraising in private equity and hedge funds’ best 
of early 2016, and spreads continued to tighten in the face of a  returns in four years. We anticipate that increased asset price  
benign macroeconomic backdrop, solid corporate fundamentals   volatility will provide significant opportunities for managers whose 
and U.S. regulatory/tax reform. We remain highly selective in a   fund structures allow them to take the long view and for hedge 
market characterized by elevated leverage levels and borrower-  funds to invest both long and short. For 2018 we expect our 
friendly documentation. In 2017 we invested in fewer than 7.5%   segment of the alternative asset management space to remain 
of the transactions we reviewed. We continue to believe that,  attractive, as managers’ demand for permanent capital to facilitate 
despite new entrants and incremental capital earmarked for private  platform development, generational transfer, new product launches 
credit, our markets are not immune to fits of risk aversion and  and other strategic initiatives continues to grow.
dislocation. As such, our long-term perspective coupled with our 
focus on rigorous fundamental analysis and capital preservation 
will enable us to take advantage of future inefficiencies. 
42 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
INSIGHTS
HEDGE FUND SOLUTIONS GROUP
David G. Kupperman, PhD Jeff A. Majit, CFA Frederick Ingham
Driven by focused and disciplined research and portfolio management, 
the Hedge Fund Solutions team seeks investment opportunities with 
an emphasis on absolute returns, low volatility and minimal sensitivity 
to broader market movements. 2017 was a productive year for the 
majority of fundamentally driven hedge fund strategies. Lower intra- 
stock and intra-bond correlations led to a particularly fertile environ-
ment for bottom-up long/short equity and credit investing. In contrast, 
relative value and global macro strategies, which rely at least partially 
on market volatility to generate returns, had a more challenging 2017. 
S&P 500 volatility dropped to near 50-year lows and Treasury volatility  HEDGE FUND  
to near 30-year lows, limiting the ability of hedge funds in these areas 
PERSPECTIVES
to capture gains from outright or relative asset price movement. That 
said, the opportunity set for managers in these strategies appears to 
have improved in early 2018. We anticipate the end of coordinated  The hedge fund marketplace comprises  
easy monetary policy combined with significant fiscal stimulus in the 
a diverse array of strategies in which both  
U.S. will lead to upward pressure on interest rates, which in turn should 
the dispersion of performance and degree  
result in higher levels of realized volatility across asset classes. After 
nearly a decade of QE-driven volatility suppression, an environment  of opportunity are sizable. The NB Alternative 
characterized by higher levels of intra- and inter-asset class dispersion 
Investment Management team publishes  
augur well for managers pursuing global macro and relative-value trad-
its annual Hedge Fund Perspectives to  
ing strategies. Further, as rates continue to move higher, shorting both 
equity and credit should become easier, as companies whose problems  explore this dynamic landscape, analyzing  
have been masked by the ability to borrow cheaply become more 
the trends and themes that may hold  
exposed. As we transition to a market no longer implicitly supported 
potential moving forward.
by central banks, we believe investors can benefit by complementing 
their long equity and fixed income portfolios with exposure to hedge 
To subscribe to Hedge Fund Perspectives,  
funds well-positioned for what could very well be the early stages of a 
paradigm shift in markets. please contact us at HFperspectives@nb.com.
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 43
ALTERNATIVES
LONG SHORT PRINCIPAL STRATEGIES GROUP
With the ability to invest long and short as well as in 
fixed income, our Long Short strategy seeks capital 
appreciation with a secondary objective of principal 
preservation. During 2017 we modestly increased our 
net long bias, as the regime change from monetary 
to fiscal policy in the U.S. alongside strong economic 
Charles C. Kantor data created higher stock dispersion and opportu- Joseph A. Rotter III Judd M. Arnold Sean M. Badcock
nities for differentiation based on company-specific 
fundamentals. At the end of 2017 we remained 
positioned for a prolonged recovery and upswing in 
the business cycle, as in our view benefits of the Tax 
Cuts and Jobs Act have the potential to create further 
tailwinds to the current recovery. Nevertheless, we 
Marc A. Regenbaum are very mindful of the complex world in which we  Gabriel J. Cahill, CFA Erik F. Ostrowski, CFA
live and invest. The risks of the long-term inflationary effects of continued 
government intervention coupled with myriad ongoing geopolitical issues  The Principal Strategies Group employs an equity 
around the world remain top of mind. Thus, policy details will matter a  market-neutral, style factor-minimized approach to 
great deal more in 2018 and beyond. event-driven investing. The team seeks to generate  
positive absolute returns with minimal correlation  
to equity market indexes. The strategy incorporates  
GLOBAL LONG SHORT CREDIT
two distinct sub-strategies: risk arbitrage and  
market-neutral catalyst. In 2018 we expect regulatory 
Our Global Long Short Credit 
and fiscal reform to serve as catalysts for acceleration  
strategy seeks to serve as a 
of both industry consolidation and corporate restructuring, 
complement to “long-only” 
yielding a robust set of potential and announced events 
traditional fixed income man-
in which to invest. Although we expect tighter monetary 
agement. Fundamental analysis 
policy and increased volatility to present headwinds  
is the bedrock of our portfolio 
Norman Milner D. Richard Dowdle construction. The portfolio is  to global equity returns in 2018, we believe our hedging 
framework can help us both preserve capital and isolate 
fairly concentrated and aims to 
the value created by an announced acquisition, asset 
avoid excessive amounts of in-
sale or other corporate event.
terest rate and directional credit 
market risk. The portfolio seeks 
to allow investors to participate 
in the yield and return of the 
Itai Baron Darren L. Carter credit markets while mitigating 
some of the downside risk. The 
credit markets in 2017 performed well, as credit spreads rallied over the 
year and the search for yield continued. We were able to participate in 
much of this performance without taking on the full risk of the credit and 
interest rate markets. We expect 2018 to be a more volatile year and hope 
to take advantage of this, on both the long side as well as the short side.
44 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
PERSPECTIVES
OUR COMMITMENT TO RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk management is central to Neuberger Berman’s culture. As an employee-owned manager, 
Neuberger Berman is devoted to identifying and managing risk—risk to our clients, risk to 
our portfolios, risk to our reputation.
We believe that fostering an environment of strong internal controls is vital. To this end, we 
have established a rigorous risk management framework that features dedicated investment 
and operational risk teams who work to protect client assets and our enterprise as a whole.
ALAN H. DORSEY
CHIEF RISK OFFICER
Internal risk guidelines are just a starting point. Our risk professionals—many of whom 
have backgrounds in investment research and portfolio management—act as an indepen-
dent oversight for each portfolio management team’s investment exposures and process, 
supporting risk reviews with our chief investment officers and portfolio managers. Risk 
personnel also act in collaboration with other control units of the firm, such as compliance 
and internal audit. A focus on collaboration across Neuberger Berman fosters an environ-
ment of open discussion and problem-solving, and it promotes an alignment of our invest-
ment platform with the best interests of clients. With a direct reporting line to Neuberger 
Berman’s Chief Executive Officer, our risk management structure is enhanced by an ability 
to escalate issues as necessary to firm leadership as well as to our commingled fund boards 
and board of directors.
Throughout 2017 we improved our capabilities on both the investment risk and operational 
risk fronts. For example, we expanded our investment risk oversight framework to include 
support for new investment strategies and the geographic expansion of our fund platform. 
We also enhanced our operational risk controls related to the business impact analysis of 
potential outages of critical trading systems. We expect to identify additional investment 
and operational risk areas to support in 2018 as we continuously evolve in order to manage 
risks to our clients and franchise.
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 45

BUSINESS REVIEW: QUANTITATIVE AND MULTI-ASSET CLASS
ERIK L. KNUTZEN, CFA, CAIA J. DOUGLAS KRAMER
CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER— CO-HEAD OF QUANTITATIVE AND 
MULTI-ASSET CLASS INVESTMENTS MULTI-ASSET CLASS INVESTMENTS 
A Balancing Act Focused on Client Outcomes  
Global economic conditions were very encouraging in 2017, with synchronized growth supporting risk assets worldwide. Geopolitical 
risks largely were shrugged off by investors, and equity markets displayed a remarkable run against a backdrop of unusually low 
volatility. While we do not feel this momentum was disconnected from the underlying fundamentals, the Quantitative and Multi-Asset 
Class (QMAC) team spent much of the year focused on the investment outcomes sought by our clients, working from there to deliver 
the right solutions. Our dialogues have increasingly centered on ways investors could continue to source attractive return profiles 
while simultaneously preparing for a shifting investment environment likely marked by increased equity volatility, rising interest rates 
and higher inflation. To this end, we focused on diversification—not only of exposures (style and factor exposures in particular) but 
also of those sources of return expected to help mitigate weaker performance from traditional asset classes—with an emphasis on 
transparency and costs. And of course no discussion was complete without an assessment of the complex risks investors face today. 
The QMAC team seeks to address investors’ needs by delivering solutions  have worked together for more than two decades—brings to the firm an 
tailored to specific investment objectives, offering access to the best ideas  impressive investment platform and significant capital markets experience.  
of both the QMAC investment teams and Neuberger Berman as a whole, 
Today we have more than $12 billion in assets under management—with 
including strategies that capture compensated factor exposures efficiently 
46 employees in New York, Toronto, London, Chicago and Taiwan—and in 
and transparently within a robust risk management framework. In 2017 
2018 we seek to deliver our capabilities to an ever-growing investor base. 
we added to our roster of multi-asset class (MAC) mandates, including a 
We have doubled the number of PhDs on our team, we are working more 
new strategic partner; on-boarded several new customized asset allocation 
closely with the firm’s Global Equity Research and Data Science teams, and 
mandates; and launched commingled vehicles offering access to the MAC 
we continue to invest in technology and the operating platform to support 
portfolio management team’s investment views.  Our Option business 
the business. We recently launched a Taiwan equity strategy, and this year 
continued to gain significant traction with a wide range of clients seeking 
we plan to further expand our systematic equity strategies to China; Ping 
to diversify or lower the risks of their equity portfolios. And we deepened 
Zhou, who currently manages a systematic emerging market equities strat-
our commitment to quantitative investing by welcoming Breton Hill 
egy out of New York, will be relocating to Shanghai to work more closely 
Capital—a boutique Canadian asset manager focused on risk premia and 
with our clients in the region, to extend these capabilities and to develop a 
factor investing—into the Neuberger Berman family.  This Toronto-based 
China A shares strategy. We expect to continue to grow our capabilities to 
team of nearly 20 professionals—including the three co-founders who 
better navigate complex markets as our clients’ needs evolve.
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 47
QUANTITATIVE AND MULTI-ASSET CLASS
BRETON HILL OPTIONS
Ray Carroll, PhD, CFA Simon Griffiths, CFA Frank Maeba, CFA Derek R. Devens, CFA Rory Ewing Eric Zhou
Our Option Group builds portfolios that seek long-term profits by 
consistently collecting option premiums in a liquid, risk-managed 
framework. 2017 was remarkable in many ways, with the S&P 500 
advancing every month of the calendar year for the first time ever 
and volatility at its lowest levels in decades. Despite this low-volatility 
Gideon Schapiro, CFA Ram Ramaswamy environment, investors in our Option team’s put-writing strategies 
generally were able to capture a reasonable share of the gains posted 
Utilizing rigorous quantitative research and a proprietary technology  by their underlying equity indexes while also accessing a source 
infrastructure, Breton Hill’s capabilities range across the risk and  of cash flow and income. Flows into Option strategies accelerated 
return spectrum, spanning equities, currencies, commodities, rates  over the course of 2017 for a variety of reasons. Some investors 
and volatility. The team’s investment strategies focus on alternative  deployed options strategies to efficiently diversify their existing equity 
risk premia, systematic equities, tax-managed strategies and a suite  risk given valuation levels, others used them as a cost-effective 
of Canadian-based mutual funds and ETFs through our partnership  liquid alternatives strategy, and still others sought to reduce equity 
with Purpose Investments, a leading funds provider in Canada.  exposure without holding duration-risk-sensitive bonds or cash. To 
The Breton Hill team’s edge is rooted in its diversified, thoroughly  meet these varying needs, we launched several new products offering 
researched and finely risk-managed multi-asset and single-asset  put-writing strategies, including the addition of a global approach to 
risk premia portfolios with disciplined drawdown management. In  our existing U.S.-equity focused lineup and a hedged option premium 
2017 we focused on integrating the team into Neuberger Berman,  retail offering. As we look ahead to 2018, we believe these same 
deploying our factor-based investment capabilities into the portfolios  objectives will continue to motivate investor decision-making, and 
of several strategic partners, with exposures tailored according to  interest will be fueled further by investors seeking to opportunistically 
these clients’ overall investment objectives. In 2018 we plan to bring  take advantage of the higher-volatility conditions we’ve seen in early 
our capabilities to a wider audience through the launch of several  2018. Against these evolving trends, our philosophy and approach  
additional commingled vehicles, as well as through discussions with  remain consistent—we continue to manage our strategies with a 
clients about our ability to customize strategies with bespoke factor  focus on long-term success, including a strong preference for  
exposures. The team is also working closely with Neuberger Berman’s  compounding option premium cash flows and short-term bond 
Global Equity Research and Data Science teams to identify system- income over long periods of time.
atic drivers of returns in both the fundamental analysis of individual 
companies and in “big data” sets—a quantamental approach to 
enhancing our systematic capabilities. With the added scrutiny on 
transparency and fees in both traditional and alternative asset classes, 
we believe our team is uniquely positioned to deliver compelling 
investment strategies designed to meet clients’ needs across large 
portions of their portfolios. 
48 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
INSIGHTS
MULTI-ASSET CLASS
Erik L. Knutzen, CFA, CAIALori L. Holland Tokufumi Kato, PhD
Ajay Singh Jain, CFA, FCCAHakan Kaya, PhD
Our Multi-Asset Class team offers a range of portfolio solutions, 
including customized investment strategies tailored to a client’s 
ASSET ALLOCATION  
unique needs, as well as commingled vehicles that provide broader 
access to many of these same strategies. The MAC team will work  COMMITTEE OUTLOOK
to design the most efficiently constructed portfolio in pursuit of a 
client’s objective, whether it is to generate absolute returns, produce 
Composed of senior investment profession-
a steady income stream or provide a risk-parity portfolio. The 2017 
als across platforms, our Asset Allocation 
investment environment was characterized by moderate growth, 
low inflation and still-accommodative monetary policy, but within a  Committee assembles each quarter to  
more fragile overall economic regime facing increasing challenges. 
establish its 12-month views for an array 
Against this backdrop, the MAC team brought on several new clients 
of asset classes, refined through vigorous 
with specific needs, including multiple mandates focused on lower 
volatility or lower beta to equity markets. We also added a new  debate and discussion. The quarterly Asset 
strategic partner to our small group of clients in this space, as well 
Allocation Committee Outlook captures 
as new OCIO clients. Finally, we launched a fund specifically focused 
these views and the market, macroeconomic 
on diversified growth exposures, albeit with moderate volatility and 
lower sensitivity relative to equity markets. Looking ahead in 2018,  and geopolitical context driving them. 
while we believe there is still runway for risk assets to appreciate 
further, we also believe that adopting a more defensive stance is  To subscribe to Asset Allocation Committee 
warranted should risks manifest themselves sooner rather than later  Outlook, please contact us at AACoutlook@
this year. In this environment, absolute return strategies could benefit 
nb.com.
from rising volatility and diverging markets, and options or alternative 
risk premia strategies may help improve portfolio risk-adjusted return 
potential. Increased exposure to inflation-sensitive assets—such as 
commodities, where we are seeing significant new flows—is also an 
attractive strategy amid late-stage growth and rising price pressures. 
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 49
PERSPECTIVES
OUR COMMITMENT TO CLIENT ENGAGEMENT
Periods of steady growth in equity markets can breed complacency among investors— 
and neglect over time can warp even the most thoughtfully crafted asset allocation plan. 
Therein lies the risk after a year like 2017 in which stocks trended consistently higher before 
an early-2018 bout of volatility shook investors from their slumber. Suddenly unsettled 
financial markets can serve as a test for investors—of their asset allocation, of their invest-
ment discipline, of their strategic plan. Such conditions also test the effectiveness of their 
KENNETH G. RENDE
trusted advisors.
HEAD OF WEALTH MANAGEMENT; 
PRESIDENT AND CEO, NEUBERGER 
As providers of wealth management services throughout our more than 75-year history, 
BERMAN TRUST COMPANY
Neuberger Berman’s ability to deliver for clients through a variety of market conditions is 
predicated not only on the expertise and experience of our portfolio managers, but also on 
the depth, breadth and quality of our engagement with clients. 
Our investment teams and wealth advisors work closely with each client to design customized 
portfolios in a tax-sensitive framework that reflects income needs, growth targets and risk 
tolerance, accessing a full platform of tailored, multifaceted investment solutions managed 
by Neuberger Berman portfolio managers and complemented by the Neuberger Berman Trust 
Company, Investment Strategy Group (ISG) and wealth planning analysis team.
The Neuberger Berman Trust Company delivers comprehensive and personalized fiduciary and 
investment services for individuals and institutions, taking a holistic approach that integrates 
the unique needs of each client with appropriate investment solutions. The Trust Company 
offers services nationwide and also is able to provide access to the favorable trust laws of the 
state of Delaware. The Trust Company can help review, construct or execute a gift or estate 
plan, as well as provide discretionary asset management services and solutions.
ISG provides a wealth of global investment insights, research and analysis, and helps design 
customized asset allocations and portfolio manager proposals across all asset classes to create 
tailored investment solutions for clients. ISG leverages the quarterly tactical views of the firm’s 
Asset Allocation Committee as well as its own strategic analysis and manager research. The 
group works closely with our wealth advisors, portfolio managers and clients to gain a deep 
understanding of each client’s situation and goals in designing investment solutions.
As a complement to ISG and the Trust Company, our wealth planning analysis team considers 
the entirety of a client’s financial resources to assess progress toward personal goals and  
to explore ways that can help improve upon existing approaches. This task extends across 
disciplines, including cash flow management and taxation planning, and explores many  
challenges faced by individuals, including retirement, long-term care needs, education funding 
for family members and more.
50 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
BUSINESS REVIEW: PRIVATE CLIENT
JOSEPH V. AMATO
PRESIDENT AND CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER—EQUITIES
Partnering Across Generations
Our private client investment managers—an integral component of Neuberger Berman since our founding in 1939—deliver 
unique, tailored solutions to individuals, families and their related organizations. These managers emphasize customization, 
strong risk management and a commitment to service that has fostered deep, longstanding relationships spanning generations. 
The qualities that have long defined our firm—tailored solutions, personalized service and a passion for investing— 
continue to resonate with our clients today.
Clients can count on a true partnership with Neuberger Berman, one  Our private client business represents an important part of our heritage 
that leverages the full range of the firm’s resources in pursuit of   and affirms our commitment to provide solutions to our clients’ needs. 
attractive, risk-adjusted, tax-efficient returns over the long term  To reflect the dynamic investment environment, we continue to expand 
complemented by unparalleled service. Our portfolio managers are  our platform, our services and the ways in which we engage with 
seasoned investors, supported by teams that have worked together  our clients. In recent years the firm has added a range of investment 
across market cycles and through a variety of investment environments.  solutions and augmented our internal research capabilities as investors 
We expect this experience will be vital in 2018 and the years to follow  continued to look beyond traditional equity and fixed income investments 
as central banks continue to back away from post-crisis monetary  to incorporate a broader range of risk and return opportunities. We  
accommodation and fundamental market drivers return to the fore,   will continue to add resources as appropriate to meet the evolving 
a transition likely to be marked by increased volatility—and increased  needs of our clients.
opportunity for nimble, active investors. 
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 51
PRIVATE CLIENT
THE PADUANO GROUP  THE LARGE CAP DISCIPLINED GROWTH GROUP
The Paduano Group believes  The Large Cap Disciplined Growth strategy and 
major long-term demographic,  philosophy have remained consistent for over 
societal, technological and  two decades: The team is focused on identifying 
political developments around  and owning companies experiencing a multiyear 
the world create a robust array  acceleration in fundamental operating performance. 
of investment opportunities. The  We layer in additional factors when making 
Daniel P. Paduano, CFA Sherrell J. Aston team follows a disciplined and  John J. Barker investment decisions, including embedded 
consistent research process in an  optionality in the business, long-term free cash 
effort to translate these secular  flow support, input from the Neuberger  
global themes into high-con- Berman Global Equity Research department 
viction, worldwide investments.  and investor skepticism. We are often asked 
2017 was a productive year  about our outlook for growth stocks, given 
for our strategy, with healthy  strong outperformance versus value in 2017, 
Richard N. Bradt
Jason H. Vintiadis Maximiliano Rohm contributions from a number of  and we continue to be optimistic that growth 
our themes, notably Evolving  can continue its strong run. The bulk of the out-
Global Consumer, Personalization of Media and Health & Wellbeing. We  performance of growth in 2017 was driven by 
were encouraged by the continued progress in the equity markets toward  earnings, highlighted by the fact that the relative 
a more normal correlation between stock price performance and business  earnings multiple for growth versus value stocks 
fundamentals and an environment in which companies with unique  remains largely unchanged and consistent with 
revenue profiles and exceptional operating leverage are recognized for  the historical average. Further, where we did 
Jason Tauber, CFA
their individual worth and not just as an element of an ETF or index fund.  see valuation expansion, it is important to note 
In 2018 the geopolitical and economic backdrop presents us with a list  that several key growth stocks see accelerating returns to scale; their 
of both risks and opportunities. It is this exact environment in which  economic moat expands faster as they get bigger. We will continue to 
our themes can serve us particularly well, as we focus our due diligence  apply our investment discipline in 2018, and we will look to capital-
efforts on businesses with predictable secular growth around which we  ize on individual opportunities regardless of the market or economic 
can develop a great deal of confidence. backdrop.
THE KSE VALUE GROUP 
Michael N. Emmerman Michelle B. Stein Brooke Johnson Richard Wesolowski
The KSE Value Group is a classic value investor, using a time-tested process rooted in rigorous research to identify undervalued stocks across 
the capitalization spectrum. We look for companies that are poised to benefit from a clearly defined catalyst, which may be internal (such as 
management changes or shifts in the company strategy) or external (such as regulatory, political or macroeconomic trends). Once we initiate 
a position, our investment horizon is generally two to four years. We believe that company-specific catalysts will be key drivers of performance 
in 2018, as they have been in previous years.
52 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
THE GREENE GROUP THE KAMEN GROUP 
Michael C. Greene Benjamin H. Nahum Stanley G. Lee Michael W. Kamen, CFA Lee J. Tawil, CFA Stuart J. Pollak
The Greene Group manages small-cap, mid-cap and all-cap  The Kamen Group seeks to deliver solid long-term investment 
strategies using a private equity-style, research-driven approach  performance through a disciplined investment process focused 
to identify out-of-favor companies trading at a significant dis- equally on the quality of companies and the price that is 
count to their intrinsic value with an identifiable catalyst to help  paid for them. The team favors businesses characterized by 
narrow the price gap over time. The team looks for disconnects  sustainable competitive advantages, strong management, 
between reality and market perception—something that occurs  high returns on capital and superior balance sheets. In 2017 
regularly in particular types of companies, such as those with  our portfolios benefitted from a large position in technology, 
complex corporate structures. In 2018 a number of our most  which we increased our exposure to in late 2016 as it became 
attractively valued technology positions participate in growing  undervalued relative to its prospective growth. Our modest 
sectors, from voice recognition to internet infrastructure and  cash position detracted, but our portfolios participated in the 
cybersecurity. This undervalued growth play is also evident in  stock market’s strong advance. At the beginning of 2018, our 
other areas, such as the health care and consumer sectors,  technology exposure remains significant, as does our exposure 
where we have investments in a private-label food supplier   to heath care, particularly medical devices. We are underex-
and an organic foods manufacturer. In the medical space we  posed to utilities and REITs, given our expectation of rising 
continue to see opportunities in companies that benefit from an  interest rates. With the benefits of the new tax bill and robust 
aging population and expanded health care coverage. Research  economic conditions (offset somewhat by rising rates), we are 
and development spending in life science and medical research  still bullish on the equity markets for 2018. However, elevated 
also stand to benefit several portfolio companies. It is possible  equity market valuations should result in more moderate 
to envision 2018 as a year marked by continued momentum  return outlooks for both equities and fixed income going 
along with episodic corrections that can quickly and significantly  forward. We have become more selective in deploying cash to 
lower equity values. Against the backdrop of improving economic  new opportunities, and we are focused on companies where 
conditions and buoyant equity prices, we are doing our best to  valuation remains reasonable and we have high conviction in 
evolve as value investors. the investment premise.
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 53
PRIVATE CLIENT
THE STRAUS GROUP TEAM KAMINSKY 
Marvin C. Schwartz Richard J. Glasebrook, CFA David I. Weiner Henry Ramallo Gerald P. Kaminsky Michael J. Kaminsky Richard M. Werman
Stephanie J. Stiefel, CPA Charlie W. Schwartz Taylor L. Glasebrook Joshua A. Bronstein, CFA Mindy Schwartzapfel David G. Mizrachi James J. Gartland
The Straus Group is a team of active portfolio managers dedicated to  Team Kaminsky provides customized portfolios for individuals, 
building client wealth through investments in undervalued mid- and   families and institutions, utilizing both growth and income 
large-cap U.S. equities that we believe are capable of compounding   styles of investing tailored to each client’s specific profile.  
capital over time. We focus on generating long-term capital gains in a  As managers of “core” equity, balanced and fixed income 
tax-efficient manner. In 2017 the S&P 500 Index rose substantially,   portfolios, the team’s mission is to add value in all asset  
driven by strong corporate earnings and an improvement in business   categories while providing highly personalized service, and  
optimism as a result of tax reform. We believe that we are in the midst   to do so in an efficient manner. We were quite pleased with 
of a synchronous expansion in all OECD economies—a situation   our 2017 results given our lower risk profile. Many of the 
anticipated by few economists 12 months ago. Despite these positives,   strongest contributors to performance were investments we 
we see signs of investor complacency, and speculative activity is on   made in previous years, which we believe is a testament to  
the rise. One of the important tenets of successful long-term investing   the team’s discipline and long-term focus. We will continue to 
is being mindful of the cyclical nature of markets. As we look forward,   look for long-term secular trends that we expect will provide  
we remain steadfast in our commitment to seeking investments in   a tailwind as we attempt to generate attractive compounded  
companies that sell at discounted prices relative to what we believe is   investment returns for our clients over time. We believe we 
their intrinsic value. are positioned appropriately given our outlook for 2018, and 
we maintain the flexibility to adapt in what could be a more 
volatile marketplace.
54 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
THE FRAENKEL GROUP  THE KANTOR GROUP
Francis L. Fraenkel Robert H. Pearlman David M. Ross Charles C. Kantor Marc A. Regenbaum Raman Gambhir
Kenneth Y. Amano, CFA Ann Marie Foss, CFA Lida Greenberg, CFA Tracy Meyer Amy Norflus Charles Nguyen
The Fraenkel Group seeks to provide its clients with solid,  The Kantor Group’s mission is to provide individuals, families, 
long-term performance, utilizing a portfolio strategy that  businesses and charitable organizations with tailored 
emphasizes sound judgment and conservative growth.   investment strategies that aim to deliver returns consistent 
We invest in core growth companies that are characterized  with their investment objectives or circumstances. We are 
by exceptional management teams, industry leadership  very selective with our clients’ precious capital as we seek 
and stable growth models. Moreover, we look for oppor- attractive tax-efficient and risk-adjusted long-term returns 
tunistic growth companies with catalysts that could lead  on their behalf. We conduct rigorous fundamental research 
to enhanced growth, as well as companies that distribute  to identify companies with high-quality income statements 
above-average dividends and provide organic growth.   and balance sheets and sustainable returns on invested 
This disciplined low-turnover investment approach has the  capital. In the firm conviction that good governance leads 
potential to produce solid performance while maintaining   to superior shareholder outcomes, we actively engage with 
a lower risk profile than the overall market. In 2017 we   management and corporate boards across myriad topics. We 
successfully oriented our portfolio toward companies   offer clients a range of investment strategies rooted in fun-
that would benefit from tax reform and the relaxation of  damental research, prudent risk management and collabora-
regulatory burdens in the U.S., as well as an acceleration   tion across our team of dedicated sector analysts, including 
of global economic growth. Many of our technology,   our All-Cap Core equity strategy, retail funds and our Flexible 
financial and industrial holdings prospered in this environ- Credit strategy. We were very encouraged with  
ment. As we progress through 2018 we expect to see the  our performance throughout 2017, as individual security  
nuances of tax reform flow through the global economy;  selection—the foundation of our investment approach—
specifically, we anticipate a rise in corporate investments   drove results. We entered 2018 with a still-constructive, 
and consumer spending. Consequently, we have increased  albeit increasingly selective, outlook for risk assets, driven  
our exposure to companies that are increasing their invest- by solid global economic growth, lower corporate tax rates, 
ments in technology and innovation, which we believe will  repatriation of foreign earnings and the continued emergence 
benefit from this changing paradigm.  of a more pro-business environment in the U.S.
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 55
PRIVATE CLIENT
THE BOLTON GROUP 
[N OT PICTURED:  
Brian Case, CFA; 
Sharon Appelman; 
Andrew Silverstein; 
Mark D. Sullivan; 
Miles Price;  
John A. Kauffmann; 
Andrew Greene]
David R. Pedowitz F. Christian Reynolds, CFA Darren M. Fogel John D. DeStefano James C. Baker, CFA Maria D. Pappas Linda J. Ludwig
The Bolton Group is an experienced steward to high-net-worth individuals, families and institutions, partnering with our clients and their trusted 
advisors to create customized investment solutions. Our team utilizes a variety of equity and fixed income disciplines to craft solutions based on 
client objectives that range from capital appreciation to current income. We seek to add value by investigating and analyzing uncertainties—financial 
complexities, cyclical challenges, operating disappointments, management changes, or acquisitions and divestitures—that cause high-quality and 
otherwise attractive companies to trade at opportunistically low prices. Our team utilizes primary research with disciplined fundamental and financial 
analysis to estimate risk and reward. A sharp focus on cash flow contributes to an analytical consistency that permits us to evaluate investment  
opportunities and risks in portfolios. Performance in 2017 was driven by solid stock selection in information technology, industrials and consumer  
discretionary. Looking ahead, we remain cautiously optimistic about the outlook for the U.S. stock market. The key underpinnings of this phase of  
the bull market—monetary accommodation, moderate economic growth and low inflation—remain in place. We are investing in companies that  
can benefit from rapid technological advances and disrupt others, rather than be disrupted. We remain humble about our ability to profit from 
high-level macro positioning, maintaining an eclectic balance between economically sensitive and defensive investments despite the recent uptick in 
economic growth. Reflecting our generally constructive outlook, however, we remain relatively overweighted in technology and financials, and less 
well represented in defensive bond proxies such as utilities and consumer staples. The market backdrop for our investment selection could change 
significantly if we detect substantial inflationary pressures or rising risk of recession.
THE EISMAN GROUP THE SCHUPF GROUP
Elliott H. Eisman Lillian Eisman Steven Eisman Dana Eisman Cohen Michael E. Cohen H. Axel Schupf Marshall W. Jaffe Elisabeth S. Lonsdale
THE CAPITAL   THE SLOATE 
THE KOPLIN LLOYD GROUP THE ANDERSON GROUP
GROUP GROUP
Cary A. Koplin Melinda L. Lloyd Bradley M. Anderson John E. Terzis, CFA Yolanda R. Turocy Laura J. Sloate, CFA 
56 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
PERSPECTIVES
OUR COMMITMENT TO   
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Driven and led by our employees, our philanthropic efforts leverage a broad range of 
Neuberger Berman’s financial and human capital. 
Service is at the core of our culture. In 2017, more than 90% of Neuberger Berman  
Foundation grants were made to organizations recommended by employees, many of 
ELIZABETH R. CRIBBS whom are board members or long-term volunteers at these organizations. The support  
HEAD OF CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
of our community partners goes well beyond grants, however; in 2017 our employees  
contributed more than 5,000 hours in service to our communities, and 63% of our 
employees participated in these service programs—an employee engagement level well 
above most of our peers. In addition, we provide Neuberger Berman clients with support 
in pursuit of their personal philanthropic objectives along with their financial objectives.
A beloved firm tradition is our annual “Celebration With Service” week in May, when we 
honor our reemergence as an independent company by giving back to our communities 
through 100 volunteer projects in 17 cities and 10 countries around the world. More than 
8,000 volunteers—employees, their family members and friends—have participated in 
these projects over the past eight years.
While our employees volunteer with more than 75% of our grantees, a number of  
community partners receive our highest level of service—allowing us to have a critical 
impact on these organizations and the children they serve.
•   IntoUniversity is a U.K.-based organization that supports more than 25,000 disadvantaged 
children and youth across England through academic support, mentoring, life skills, and 
college and career readiness programs. Since 2014 employees have provided after-school 
tutoring sessions at IntoUniversity locations and hosted “Business in FOCUS” days at our 
London office, helping students learn about business acumen, teamwork and leadership. 
•   The Association to Benefit Children (ABC) is a best-in-class organization dedicated 
to fostering academic readiness and life preparedness for disadvantaged children and 
their families. ABC receives significant funding from the Neuberger Berman Foundation 
and has welcomed hundreds of employee volunteers throughout our longstanding 
collaboration with them.
•   Frederick Douglass Academy II (FDA II) is a public school in New York City that 
seeks to provide predominantly low-income students with an educational foundation 
that will enable them to succeed and thrive in and beyond college. Launched in 2015 
by a committee of dedicated employees, our alliance with FDA II focuses on three areas 
prioritized by the school: college and career awareness, academic enrichment and 
school-resource development. 
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 57

BUSINESS REVIEW: CLIENT COVERAGE
ANDREW S. KOMAROFF
CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER AND HEAD OF GLOBAL CLIENT COVERAGE
Driving Deeper Engagement with Clients Globally
The Client Coverage team partners with our clients to deliver solutions tailored to their specific goals and requirements,  
building strong, lasting relationships in the process. Composed of professionals in a range of disciplines, the 500-plus person 
global team is united in its commitment to the firm’s client-centric operating philosophy and commitment to partnership. 
In 2017 our global institutional team developed more than 130 new  we see private equity and options strategies supplementing core portfolio 
client relationships to bring our total above 1,130, up more than 60%  exposures. We also are driving a strategic initiative to enhance our use of 
from end-2012. Just as important, we continued to invest in deepening  technology to support our clients.
engagement with existing clients, expanding 25 single-strategy rela-
As the firm continues to invest globally, we are particularly gratified by 
tionships into multi-mandate ones last year. We added two new senior 
the expansion of our UCITS platform through which we offer a range  
professionals to lead our Consultant Relations efforts: Jamie Wong in 
of more than 40 investment funds across various jurisdictions outside  
EMEA and Lesley Nurse in North America. We also continued to invest 
the U.S. Our UCITS business grew by nearly 50% in 2017, and we  
in our global Insurance Solutions business, adding resources across this 
ranked among the top 25 firms in terms of net new assets1. Critical to  
multidisciplinary team to help us partner more closely with insurers. 
our momentum has been close coordination across our global Client 
Within our intermediary business we are pleased with our progress in  Coverage team, enabling us to serve those business partners with a  
developing partnerships with major platforms. We now have significant  global presence most effectively. 
relationships with approximately 70 firms globally, and we have been 
We also achieved meaningful milestones in new markets last year. In Chi-
leveraging the strength of our investment platform to introduce new 
na we became one of the first managers granted a license to establish a 
opportunities across a broad range of capabilities—including alterna-
local investment management operation, allowing us to offer domestic 
tive investments such as private equity tailored to the specific needs of 
strategies in the rapidly evolving $11 trillion onshore market. Similarly, 
investors in this channel. 
in Taiwan we expanded the scope of our licenses so we can manage 
Our wealth management clients—including individuals, families and  Taiwanese-domiciled strategies for local onshore investors.  
their foundations—have voiced growing interest in comprehensive 
Early 2018 gave us a taste of the volatility that may become common-
engagement and investment solutions. As such, we are leveraging an 
place as investors continue to wrestle with the normalization of central 
increasingly broad platform that includes trust and estate planning 
bank policy and dynamic geopolitical events. We stand ready to assist  
advice and fiduciary services from our Trust Company, and wealth 
our clients as they negotiate this more complicated landscape.
planning under the leadership of new hire Steve Polizzi. More and more, 
1Morningstar, as of December 31, 2017.  2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 59
CLIENT COVERAGE
THE HAGUE ZURICH FRANKFURT
PARIS
LONDON
MADRID
BOGOTA
MILAN DUBAI
BUENOS AIRES
DIK VAN LOMWEL
HEAD OF EMEA AND LATIN AMERICA
EMEA and Latin America
We are pleased to report that the EMEALA business had a strong 2017.   relationship with Becon in Latin America has gained great traction since our 
Notably, our private markets franchise continued to resonate with clients   partnership began in June. We also continued to bolster our local investment 
searching for higher-yielding investment solutions and increased allocations   teams in 2017, particularly our private equity teams in Milan and London.
to illiquid assets, while our emerging markets debt and non-investment grade 
Much focus in 2017 was paid to preparing our business for the MiFID II 
platforms also experienced strong interest. We also were encouraged by good 
regulations slated to come into effect on January 3, 2018. Going forward, a key 
client flows to newer strategies such as corporate hybrids, uncorrelated  
operational focus is Brexit planning, and we are confident we will be in a strong 
strategies and equity index put-writing. Our overall UCITS platform grew by 
position to continue to deliver on behalf of clients regardless of the exact terms 
nearly 50% in 2017, with EMD again leading the way. 
of the U.K.’s exit from the EU. 
We welcomed a number of new hires to the team in 2017. In London, Rob 
Markets in 2018 are unlikely to be as friendly as they were in 2017, so we will 
Payne and Jamie Wong joined to lead our local Insurance Solutions and  
be partnering closely with clients to continue developing innovative investment 
Consultant Relations efforts, respectively, while Alex Gitnik joined as Fixed 
solutions that meet their changing needs. A notable part of this effort will be 
Income Client Portfolio Manager and Gemma Cowie came on board in the  
bringing to clients interesting solutions from Breton Hill, a team acquired by 
new role of Head of Product Development, EMEA. We added numerous 
Neuberger Berman in late 2017 that focuses on risk premia and factor investing.
client associates in the U.K., Madrid, Paris, Buenos Aires and Bogota, and our 
Tom W. Douie Edward J.M. Jones Jamie Wong  Robert Payne  Cas A.H. Peters Mark Oestergaard Fabio L. Castrovillari
EMEA INTERMEDIARIES  U.K. INSTITUTIONAL   EMEA CONSULTANTS  EMEA INSURANCE  BENELUX   SCANDINAVIA   DACH REGION  
(LONDON) (LONDON) (LONDON) (LONDON) (THE HAGUE) (LONDON) (ZURICH)
Christian Puschmann Charles Soullard Javier Nunez   Marco Avanzo-Barbieri Jahangir Aka Mauricio Barreto  Jenna Lawford 
GERMANY AND AUSTRIA  FRANCE   de Villavicencio ITALY   MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA   ANDEAN REGION  EMEA CLIENT SERVICE 
(FRANKFURT) (PARIS) IBERIA (MADRID) (MILAN) (DUBAI) (COLOMBIA) (LONDON)
60 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
CHICAGO NEW YORK
TOKYO
SEOUL
RYO OHIRA
HEAD OF EAST ASIA 
East Asia
Assets under management in the East Asia region grew by more than 30% 
in 2017, representing the second consecutive year in which the business 
expanded by around $10 billion. Our clients in the region continued to value 
the investment opportunities and performance of our strategies and to 
Komei Asaba Yutaro Nishihara Motomi Hiratsuka
demonstrate trust in our high-quality client service. INSTITUTIONAL &   INSTITUTIONAL   INTERMEDIARIES &  
INTERMEDIARIES (TOKYO) (TOKYO)  INSTITUTIONAL (TOKYO)
We were pleased to see that the new thematic equity funds we launched 
in 2017 have attracted the interest of retail investors. We provided over 
200 training sessions through more than 50 local distributors and have 
seen inflows in excess of $1 billion since these funds’ inception. Driven by 
increasing demand from institutional clients, assets under management in 
the private asset space reached $4 billion thanks to customized investment 
programs as well as separate accounts. In addition, we held more than 
Takashi Ikushima Akihiro Koide  Mitsuhiro Shimura
50 seminars as a part of our “knowledge transfer” efforts to share fresh  CLIENT PORTFOLIO   CLIENT PORTFOLIO   CLIENT REPORTING  
insights into investments and market views. Notably, seminars featuring  MANAGEMENT (TOKYO)  MANAGEMENT–EQUITY  (TOKYO/CHICAGO) 
(TOKYO) 
Dyal Capital and ESG investing attracted many clients and received positive 
response. Based on our expanding presence and credibility in the region, our 
capabilities—featuring a broad range of investment strategies, from traditional to 
alternative—have been met with greater appreciation from clients.
Going forward we will remained focused on offering investment solutions 
that are aligned with clients’ needs, complemented by dedicated service 
and a commitment to always putting client interests first. In 2017 we were  DaeYeon Kim YoungSun Na Yoshiyuki Yagisawa
KOREA   KOREA    PRIVATE EQUITY  
delighted to welcome multiple product specialists in the region and a new  (SEOUL) (SEOUL)  (NEW YORK)
member to our East Asia desk in Chicago. We also look forward to establish-
ing an East Asia desk in London to more effectively deliver useful informa-
tion to clients. We believe such resources reduce client concerns regarding 
time differences and geographic distance. As our organization and business 
grows, we will continue to emphasize flexibility, speed and teamwork across 
all functions.
We remain firmly committed to deepening client relationships in Japan and 
Hiroyasu Tamura
Korea by delivering investment solutions tailored to their specific goals and  CLIENT SERVICE  
(CHICAGO)
requirements with first-class service.
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 61
CLIENT COVERAGE
SHANGHAI
TAIPEI
HONG KONG
SINGAPORE
NICK J. HOAR
MELBOURNE
HEAD OF ASIA PACIFIC
Asia Pacific
In 2017 we continued to make significant progress expanding our Asia Pacific foot-
print and delivering new portfolio management solutions to clients across the region.
We achieved several milestones last year, most notably in China and Taiwan. In China 
we launched a full-service asset management business located in Shanghai, making  Patrick Liu Marco Tang William Hui
GENERAL MANAGER CHINA   FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS  INSTITUTIONAL  
us one of the first foreign asset management firms to receive an operating license to 
(SHANGHAI) (SHANGHAI) (SHANGHAI)
manage money for local investors. China clearly represents a significant, long-term 
growth opportunity for Neuberger Berman, and we are committed to continuing to 
build our presence in this important market. Meanwhile, we continued to expand our 
presence and deepen our local commitment in Taiwan. We rolled out our first onshore 
fund to Taiwan retail investors with the launch of our Securities Investment Trust En-
terprise (SITE), and we expect the ability to manufacture and distribute onshore funds 
will give us a competitive advantage to better serve this key market.  Jovi Chen Greg Wu  Thomas Holzherr
GENERAL MANAGER TAIWAN  INSTITUTIONAL   INSTITUTIONAL  
Investors expressed wariness over high equity valuations and tighter credit spreads  (TAIPEI) (TAIPEI) (SINGAPORE)
throughout 2017, and we responded to their concerns with investment solutions 
that offer diversified income and attractive risk-adjusted return potential. Our UCITS 
products—including emerging markets debt, flexible bond strategies and defensive 
equities strategies—continued to gain traction among private and retail clients. 
On the institutional front we saw strong demand in alternatives and private equity 
strategies that focus on delivering uncorrelated returns.
Vincent Lim Pauline Cheng Paul O’Halloran
To support our growing business we continued to recruit talented professionals and  FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS  FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS  INSTITUTIONAL 
(SINGAPORE) (HONG KONG)  (MELBOURNE)
to invest in our infrastructure. Key appointments in 2017 included Bin Yu, Senior 
Portfolio Manager—China Equities, and Peter Ru, Senior Portfolio Manager—China 
Fixed Income. We have also recruited new hires in China across Portfolio Manage-
ment, Legal and Compliance, Marketing, Product and Research functions. On the 
Client Coverage side of the business we were delighted to welcome Greg Wu as 
Head of Institutions—Taiwan.  
Given the expansion of our business in the region we added an office in Beijing and  Lucas Rooney Angela Verco Linda Lam
have just completed our move to a new Shanghai office in the city’s Puxi district. We  INSTITUTIONAL  INSTITUTIONAL  CLIENT SERVICE 
(MELBOURNE) (MELBOURNE) (HONG KONG)
also took additional space in both our Hong Kong and Taipei offices to accommodate 
current and future growth.
62 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
MATTHEW H. MALLOY SCOTT E. KILGALLEN
HEAD OF NORTH AMERICA INSTITUTIONAL AND   HEAD OF NORTH AMERICA INTERMEDIARY DISTRIBUTION
GLOBAL HEAD OF INSURANCE SOLUTIONS
NA Institutional NA Intermediary
Despite a strong, albeit uncertain, market environment, institutional  After equity markets surged forward without pause throughout 2017, 
investors continue to face a cacophony of challenges, from funding  complacency may be one of the biggest threats facing individual 
issues to asset allocation to risk and liability management. Lower return  investors this year—and one of the biggest opportunities for skilled 
outlooks and the increasingly complex risk environment have created  financial advisors to ensure that their clients are positioned for what 
a new imperative for more effective relationships between investment  is likely to be a more complicated investment environment going 
managers and their clients, elevating the demand for investment  forward. Offering a broad range of investment solutions across product 
insights, solutions providers and, in some cases, strategic partnerships.  types, fee structures and liquidity profiles, we seek to provide advisors 
The engagement between manager and client in a strategic partnership  with the strategies and resources needed to help keep their clients on 
runs much deeper than in a simple investment mandate, better aligning  track. At year-end 2017 our North American intermediary partners had 
the two parties around the prevailing challenges and the strategies to  entrusted us with $67 billion of their clients’ assets across a range of 
overcome them. The nature of a strategic partnership varies according  investment disciplines. 
to client needs and can involve everything from asset allocation insights 
We continued to emphasize collaboration with our key intermediary 
and multi-asset class portfolio management to joint research projects 
partners in 2017, offering new and interesting investment solutions in 
and customized product innovations. Leveraging manager relationships 
addition to our extensive lineup of traditional strategies. For example, 
can better position institutions to meet their desired investment out-
last year we provided advisors and their clients with access to private 
comes, cost efficiently and with limited strain on internal resources. 
markets via two institutional-quality strategies tailored to the needs 
Consultants remain a vital part of the institutional investment landscape and  of individual investors: a registered private equity fund with a reduced 
an important part of our client-engagement effort. Increasingly, consultants  minimum investment and more flexible investor qualifications, and 
are being tapped for more than just traditional manager evaluation, as  a private equity co-investment fund with condensed investment and 
institutional investors seek a broader, more comprehensive set of services, in  lock-up periods. In support of our defined contribution partners, we 
some cases including OCIO responsibility. To strengthen our connection with  launched a suite of collective investment trusts whose increased trans-
this critical segment, we hired Lesley Nurse to lead and direct our Consultant  parency, ease of use and fee flexibility are designed to meet the diverse 
Relations efforts in North America and with global consultants.    needs of plan sponsors and participants. 
To increase our client focus and strengthen relationships, we continued  We appreciate the value of providing advisors with the tools they 
to invest in our team of more than 50 professionals and to offer a wider  need to build enduring relationships in a competitive marketplace, 
range of capabilities. This includes providing asset class and market  and through our Neuberger Berman Advisor Institute we offer 
insights more tailored to specific institutional segments, and offering  actionable programs that help advisors tackle today’s most important 
custom analytics to help clients make more informed decisions around  business challenges, from client retention to intergenerational wealth 
asset allocation, investment strategy and risk management. As always,  transfer. In 2017 our Advisor Institute team held 185 meetings and 
we will emphasize the quality of our service in 2018 as we look to  coaching sessions, and we look forward to continuing to offer their 
further deepen relationships with clients and their consultants.  insight and support to our partners. 
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 63
CLIENT COVERAGE
MATTHEW H. MALLOY
HEAD OF NORTH AMERICA INSTITUTIONAL AND  
GLOBAL HEAD OF INSURANCE SOLUTIONS
Global Insurance
Insurers’ business models remain challenged, with profitability facing pressures across multiple dimensions. Financial  
market direction is uncertain, geopolitical tensions are high, and regulatory dynamics continue to evolve, often with  
unintended consequences. Against this backdrop, insurers’ investment portfolios are required to make an even greater 
contribution to the bottom line.
Our insurance clients rely on our industry-specific insights, robust  Neuberger Berman has been managing a range of traditional and 
analytical support and global markets perspectives to help achieve  alternative assets on behalf of insurance clients for more than two 
better outcomes. With market conditions as challenging as ever,  decades, and we continue to invest in resources to support this  
insurers are continuing to look for solutions beyond their traditional  important client segment. As of end-2017 we managed approximately 
investment strategies; globally, we’ve seen our clients evaluating   $32 billion of invested and committed capital on behalf of insurers,  
and investing in a broader array of asset classes, strategies and   a 30% increase from 2016. We continued to build out our Insurance 
customized solutions. From our vantage point, we’ve witnessed new or  Solutions Group in 2017, adding key resources in the U.S., Europe 
increased allocations to fixed income strategies like emerging markets   and Asia, bringing the team to 12 professionals dedicated to  
debt, taxable municipal bonds, collateralized loan obligations and  advising and servicing insurers globally. 
private residential home loans, as well as alternative investments 
In 2018 we will continue to work closely with our insurance clients to 
such as private equity and private credit. Importantly, our clients 
meet their evolving needs, helping them find the best solutions among 
continue to seek innovative and capital-efficient structures  
a wide range of traditional and alternative investment strategies.
to optimize both their investment outcomes and impact to their 
overall businesses. 
64 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
PERSPECTIVES
WILLIAM A. ARNOLD
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
OUR COMMITMENT TO   SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION  
(U.S. Dollars in Millions)  Dec 2017
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Cash and Cash Equivalents     534
Investments 442
Consistent with our colleagues across the firm, a client-centric mindset 
Receivables 340
drives our approach to financial risk management.
Goodwill and Other Intangibles 581
Protecting the firm is one of our guiding principles. We take a long-term  Other Assets 209
view, thinking in years, not months—and purposely keep our balance  Total Assets 2,106
sheet more liquid and our capital structure conservative with longer  Senior Notes Payable 600
dated maturities.  Accrued Compensation and Benefits 458
Accrued Expenses and Other Liabilities 406
This dedication to stewardship, in turn, has enabled us to invest prudently 
Total Liabilities 1,464
in our business, in our platform and in our people. We have broadened 
Equity1 642
our capabilities, increased our resources, improved technology and built 
Total Liabilities and Equity 2,106
a more diversified and stable investment platform. More concretely for 
our clients, we have introduced new strategies with existing investment  Net Revenues $1,609
teams, added new investment teams and continued to invest in our 
1 Equity includes $77 million of non-controlling interests from employee 
global client coverage franchise. We have made these investments not to  investments held indirectly by employees. 
improve our quarterly results but because we believe it will drive greater 
ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT  
long-term stability across the firm and provide opportunities for deeper 
(U.S. Dollars in Billions)
relationships with our clients. 
2017 295
Importantly, as we focus on protecting the firm and investing for the future, 
2016 255
we do so in close partnership with our colleagues across Neuberger 
2015 240
Berman. By understanding the objectives and long-term strategy of our 
2014 250
investment, client coverage, and internal support and control teams, we 
2013 242
are able to ensure we are properly allocating our resources and capital 
2012 205
to initiatives that will ultimately serve our clients well.
2011 193
2010 190
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 65
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
GEORGE H. WALKER JOSEPH V. AMATO
Chairman and Chief Executive  President, Neuberger Berman; 
Officer, Neuberger Berman Chief Investment Officer—
Equities
OUR FOUNDER—ROY NEUBERGER
The Art of Investment
ROBERT W. D’ALELIO STEVEN A. KANDARIAN
Portfolio Manager,  Chairman, President and CEO, 
When Roy Neuberger started collecting art in 1939,   Small Cap MetLife; Formerly CIO, MetLife
Formerly Executive Director, 
he bought pieces that spoke to him. “I buy because   Pension Benefit Guaranty 
Corporation (PBGC)
I love the work,” he said. The fact that many of his  
favorite artists—like Jackson Pollock, Edward Hopper 
and especially Milton Avery—went on to become 
household names is a testament to his unique insight.  
In art, as in investment, Roy didn’t follow the market—
the market followed him.
At the firm he founded in that same year of 1939, we 
RICHARD B. WORLEY LAWRENCE ZICKLIN
try to live up to those principles. We value experience  Formerly CEO and CIO,   Clinical Professor, New York Uni-
Morgan Stanley Investment  versity Stern School of Business
but have an eye for innovation. Our culture is strong;  Management
Chairman, Rand Center for 
Formerly Chairman, Miller Ander- Corporate Ethics and Governance
our teams are independent. Company fundamentals  son and Sherrerd
Formerly Managing Partner  
and Chairman, Neuberger 
and client objectives are what drive us, not the noise  Berman
of the markets. That is the art of investing, the art of 
partnership, the art of service.
66 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
   
  
‘40 ACT MUTUAL FUND BOARD
JOSEPH V. AMATO ROBERT J. CONTI MICHAEL J. COSGROVE MARC GARY MARTHA C. GOSS MICHAEL M. KNETTER
President, Neuberger Berman;  President, Mutual Funds President, Carragh   Formerly Executive   Formerly Corporate   President and CEO, 
Chief Investment Officer— Consulting USA Vice President and   Treasurer and Enterprise Risk  University of Wisconsin 
Equities General Counsel,   Officer, The Prudential   Foundation
Formerly Executive,   Fidelity Investments Insurance Company  
General Electric Company and  of America Formerly Dean, School  
Trustee, GE’s   of Business, University  
Pension and Benefits Plan of Wisconsin
DEBORAH  C. McLEAN GEORGE W. MORRISS TOM D. SEIP CANDACE L. STRAIGHT JAMES G. STAVRIDIS PETER P. TRAPP
Adjunct Professor,   Adjunct Professor,   Independent   Director, Montpelier Re  Dean, Fletcher School   Formerly Ford Motor  
Columbia University   Columbia University   Non-Executive Chairman   of Law and Diplomacy,   Company Executive 
School of International   School of International   of the Board  Formerly Principal,   Tufts University
and Public Affairs and Public Affairs  Head and Partners Formerly President, Sentry Life 
Formerly Senior Executive, The  Formerly Admiral,   Insurance Company
Formerly Executive Vice  Charles Schwab   United States Navy
President and CFO, People’s  Corporation
Bank, CT
Trustee of the Year (2018), 
Fund Intelligence’s Mutual 
Fund Industry Awards
UCITS FUND BOARD
NOT PICTURED:
TOM FINLAY
Independent Non-Executive Director of the Board
Formerly Bank of Ireland Asset Management  
(the Fund Management division of the Bank of Ireland Group)
Formerly a Barrister by profession
PAUL SULLIVAN
Independent Non-Executive Director of the Board
GRAINNE ALEXANDER MICHELLE S. GREEN ANDY OLDING Formerly Executive Director, the Irish Sovereign Debt Management Office,  
the National Treasury Management Agency
Independent Non-Executive  General Counsel of EMEA and  Head of EMEA Mutual Fund 
Formerly a Vice President, Chase Manhattan Bank (now JP Morgan)
Director of the Board Latin America,   Administration,  
Neuberger Berman Neuberger Berman 
Formerly a European partner, 
Mercer Investment Consulting
Formerly Chief Executive, F&C 
Management  
(F&C Ireland)
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 67
PARTNERSHIP COMMITTEE
ROBERT W. D’ALELIO  ROB DRIJKONINGEN  RICHARD J. GLASEBROOK   CHARLES C. KANTOR  MATTHEW H. MALLOY 
RICHARD S. NACKENSON  RYO OHIRA  THOMAS P. O’REILLY  MICHAEL D. REES  CONRAD A. SALDANHA 
MARVIN C. SCHWARTZ   BENJAMIN E. SEGAL  ANTHONY D. TUTRONE   JUDITH M. VALE 
68 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
 
OPERATING COMMITTEE
JOSEPH V. AMATO  ROBERT J. ARANCIO  WILLIAM A. ARNOLD  WILLIAM A. BRAVERMAN  ROBERT J. CONTI  TIMOTHY F. CREEDON 
KEN DEREGT ALAN H. DORSEY  ROBERT L. EASON  MARGARET E. GATTUSO  NICK J. HOAR  ALAN  L. ISENBERG
SCOTT E. KILGALLEN  LAWRENCE J. KOHN  ANDREW S. KOMAROFF  J. DOUGLAS KRAMER JACQUES G. LILLY  PATRICK C. LOMELO 
MATTHEW H. MALLOY  LESLEY NURSE RYO OHIRA  IAN D. PECKETT  KENNETH G. RENDE  BRIEN P. SMITH 
BRAD C. TANK  ANTHONY D. TUTRONE   DIK VAN LOMWEL  GEORGE H. WALKER  HEATHER P. ZUCKERMAN 
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 69
MANAGING DIRECTORS
Kent Chen Darren M. Fogel
A J
Dana Eisman Cohen Ann Marie Foss
Jahangir Aka Marshall W. Jaffe
Elias Cohen Drew D. Fox
Kenneth Y. Amano Ajay Singh Jain
Michael E. Cohen Francis L. Fraenkel
Joseph V. Amato Andrew A. Johnson
Robert J. Conti Gregory P. Francfort
Bradley M. Anderson Brian C. Jones
Russ Covode
Robert J. Arancio Edward J.M. Jones 
Timothy F. Creedon G
Judd M. Arnold Jon B. Jonsson
Christopher M. Crevier Jacob B. Gamerman
William A. Arnold
Elizabeth R. Cribbs James J. Gartland
Komei Asaba K
Robert T. Croke Dmitry Gasinsky
Sherrell J. Aston Michael W. Kamen
Margaret E. Gattuso
Gerald P. Kaminsky
D Amy S. Gilfenbaum
B Michael J. Kaminsky 
Robert W. D’Alelio Michelle A. Giordano-Valentine
Sean M. Badcock Charles C. Kantor
Pieter D’Hoore Alex Gitnik
Jonathan Bailey Susan B. Kasser
Paul D.S. Daggett Theodore P. Giuliano
James C. Baker John A. Kauffmann
R. Ross David Richard J. Glasebrook 
Lorenzo Baraldi Maura Reilly Kennedy
Jacqueline E. de Sanctis Terrence J. Glomski
Thanos Bardas Judith Ann Kenney
Luca Deantoni Carolyn S. Golub
John J. Barker Brian P. Kerrane
Patrick Deaton Jennifer R. Gorgoll
Itai Baron Clay R. Khan
Ken deRegt Michelle S. Green
Michael Barr David A. Kiefer
Anthony M. DeSantis Alan I. Greene
Ashok Bhatia Scott E. Kilgallen
John D. DeStefano Michael C. Greene
Matthew F. Bird Erik L. Knutzen
Derek R. Devens Simon Griffiths
Vivek Bommi Christopher J. Kocinski
Alan H. Dorsey Virginia M.Guy
Stefano Bontempelli Scott L. Koenig
Tom W. Douie
Julian Bostic Lawrence J. Kohn
D. Richard Dowdle H
Jim D. Bowden Andrew S. Komaroff
Daniel J. Doyle Brian E. Hahn
Richard N. Bradt Cary A. Koplin
Rob J. Drijkoningen Marc Hamerling
William A. Braverman J. Douglas Kramer 
John D. Dyment Aisha S. Haque
Eric Brotman Michael S. Kramer
Ingrid S. Dyott James C.F. Harvey
Danielle B. Brown Holly Newman Kroft
Todd E. Heltman
David M. Brown David G. Kupperman
E Jason C.D. Henchman
David Bunan Nate Kush
Robert L. Eason Nick J. Hoar
John P. Buser Anton Kwang
Elliott H. Eisman Lori L. Holland
Vasantha Butchibabu
Lillian Eisman Michael J. Holmberg
L
Steven Eisman Will Hunter
C Sajjad S. Ladiwala
Michael N. Emmerman
Fabio C. Cane Ugo Lancioni
I
Ray Carroll Andrew C. Laurino
F Takashi Ikushima
Darren L. Carter Joseph W. Lawrence
Ethan A. Falkove Fred R. Ingham
Brian M. Case Diane E. Lederman
Marco Cerrina Feroni James L. Iselin
Stephen J. Casey Stanley G. Lee
Seth J. Finkel Alan L. Isenberg
Fabio L. Castrovillari  Richard S. Levine
Stephen J. Flaherty Corey A. Issing
Brad E. Cetron Jacques G. Lilly
Patrick H. Flynn
70 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
Vincent Lim Vanessa Rosenthal
P T
Kristian J. Lind David M. Ross
Daniel P. Paduano Brian G. Talbot
Patrick Liu Martin J. Rotheram
Maria D. Pappas Brad C. Tank
Maria C. Llerena Joseph A. Rotter III
Robert H. Pearlman Jason Tauber
Melinda L. Lloyd Patrick C. Ru
Ian D. Peckett Lee J. Tawil
Patrick C. Lomelo Peter Ru
David R. Pedowitz H. Tripp Taylor
Elisabeth S. Lonsdale
Tristram C. Perkins Terri L. Towers
Linda J. Ludwig S
Benjamin B. Perl Elizabeth Traxler
Raoul C. Luttik Conrad A. Saldanha
Cas A.H. Peters Kenneth J. Turek
James A. Lyman Eli M. Salzmann
William J. Peterson Yolanda R. Turocy
Joseph P. Lynch Martin A. Sankey
Stuart J. Pollak Anthony D. Tutrone 
David J. Lyon Paul A. Sauer
Sandy M. Pomeroy
Gideon Schapiro
Nish V. Popat U
M H. Axel Schupf
Samuel N. Porat Gorky R. Urquieta 
Frank Maeba Marvin C. Schwartz 
David S. Portny
Jeff A. Majit Mindy G. Schwartzapfel
Brendan J. Potter V
Matthew H. Malloy Benjamin E. Segal
Jason L. Pratt Judith M. Vale
Jared Mann Saurin D. Shah
Carly Brooks Prutkin Bart A. van der Made
Julian H. Marks Monica L. Sherer
Christian Puschmann Dik van Lomwel
Thomas J. Marthaler Steve Shigekawa
Pim M. van Schie
James McAree Jonathan D. Shofet 
Q Peter J. von Lehe
Martin E. Messinger Yves C. Siegel
Joseph F. Quirk
Patrizia Micucci Zachary P. Sigel
W
S. Blake Miller Ronald B. Silvestri
R George H. Walker
Norman Milner Prashant Singh
Douglas A. Rachlin Ronit M. Walny
David H. Morse Laura J. Sloate
Srikrishnan M. Rajan Jacquelyn A. Wang
Brien P. Smith
Henry Ramallo Sean J. Ward
N Francesco Sogaro
Ram Ramaswamy David I. Weiner
Richard S. Nackenson Amit Solomon
Michelle L. Rappa Barbara Wenig
Benjamin H. Nahum Thomas A. Sontag
Michael Recce Richard M. Werman
Zain Naqi Amanda Spencer
Lisa H. Reed Obadiah J. Wilford
Christian Neira Gregory G. Spiegel
Matthew D. Rees Andrew Wilmont
Charles Nguyen Matthew L. Steege
Michael D. Rees Stephen Wright
Lesley Nurse Michelle B. Stein
Marc A. Regenbaum
Peter Sterling
Brett S. Reiner Y
O Stephanie J. Stiefel
Kenneth G. Rende Bin Yu
Kevin J. O’Friel David S. Stonberg
Carter P. Reynolds
Paul D. O’Halloran Raymond A. Sullivan
Christian F. Reynolds Z
Thomas P. O’Reilly Bob Summers
J. Blake Rice Patricia Miller Zollar
Mark A. O’Sullivan Jean-Paul Sursock
Brandon Robinson Heather P. Zuckerman
Ryo Ohira Richard J. Szelc
Joana Rocha Scaff
Erik Ostrowski
Lucas J. Rooney
David J. Rosa
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 71
All information is as of December 31, 2017, unless otherwise indicated. Important Information about Risk
All stocks are subject to investment risk, including the risk that they may lose 
This material is provided for informational purposes only and nothing herein 
value. Small- and mid-capitalization stocks may have limited operating his-
constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice, or a recommendation to 
tories and resources and may trade less frequently and in lower volume than 
buy, sell or hold a security. This material is general in nature and is not directed 
larger company stocks, which may make them more volatile and vulnerable 
to any category of investors and should not be regarded as individualized, a 
to financial and other risks. Compared with smaller companies, large-cap 
recommendation, investment advice or a suggestion to engage in or refrain 
companies may be less responsive to changes and opportunities and may lag 
from any investment-related course of action. Neuberger Berman is not provid-
other types of stock in performance.
ing this material in a fiduciary capacity and has a financial interest in the sale 
of its products and services. Neuberger Berman, as well as its employees, does  Foreign securities involve risks in addition to those associated with compara-
not provide tax or legal advice. You should consult your accountant, tax adviser  ble U.S. securities. Additional risks include exposure to less developed or less 
and/or attorney for advice concerning your particular circumstances. Informa- efficient trading markets; social, political or economic instability; fluctuations 
tion is obtained from sources deemed reliable, but there is no representation or  in foreign currencies or currency redenomination; potential for default on sov-
warranty as to its accuracy, completeness or reliability. All information is current  ereign debt; nationalization or expropriation of assets; settlement, custodial 
as of the date of this material and is subject to change without notice. Any  or other operational risks; and less stringent auditing and legal standards. As 
views or opinions expressed may not reflect those of the firm as a whole. This  a result, foreign securities may fluctuate more widely in price, and may also 
material may include estimates, outlooks, projections and other “forward-look- be less liquid, than comparable U.S. securities. World markets, or those in a 
ing statements.” Due to a variety of factors, actual events or market behavior  particular region, may all react in similar fashion to important economic or 
may differ significantly from any views expressed. Neuberger Berman products  political developments. In addition, foreign markets may perform differently 
and services may not be available in all jurisdictions or to all client types. Invest- than the U.S. market. Changes in currency exchange rates could adversely im-
ing entails risks, including possible loss of principal. Investments in hedge funds  pact investment gains or add to investment losses. Currency exchange rates 
and private equity are speculative and involve a higher degree of risk than  can be affected unpredictably by intervention, or failure to intervene, by U.S. 
more traditional investments. Investments in hedge funds and private equity  or foreign governments or central banks or by currency controls or political 
are intended for sophisticated investors only. Indexes are unmanaged and are  developments in the U.S. or abroad.
not available for direct investment. Past performance is no guarantee 
Value stocks may remain undervalued during a given period or may not ever 
of future results.
realize their full value. This may happen, among other reasons, because of a 
Firm data, including employee and assets under management figures, reflect  failure to anticipate which stocks or industries would benefit from changing 
collective data for the various affiliated investment advisers that are subsid- market or economic conditions. Because the prices of most growth stocks 
iaries of Neuberger Berman Group LLC (the “firm”). Firm history and timelines  are based on future expectations, these stocks tend to be more sensitive 
includes the history and business expansions of all firm subsidiaries, including  than value stocks to bad economic news and negative earnings surprises. 
predecessor entities and acquisition entities. Investment professionals refer- Bad economic news or changing investor perceptions may adversely affect 
enced include portfolio managers, research analysts/associates, traders, and  growth stocks across several sectors and industries simultaneously.
product specialists and team dedicated economists/strategists. 
Additional Risk Information for Multi-Cap Opportunities Fund
Mutual funds are not available to investors outside of the U.S. Neu- From time to time, based on market or economic conditions, the Fund may 
berger Berman BD LLC is the distributor of the Neuberger Berman mutual  have significant positions in one or more sectors of the market. To the extent 
funds. Member FINRA. the Fund invests more heavily in particular sectors, its performance will be 
especially sensitive to developments that significantly affect those sectors. 
An investor should consider the investment objectives, risks and 
Individual sectors may be more volatile, and may perform differently, than the 
fees and expenses of any fund carefully before investing. This and 
broader market. The industries that constitute a sector may all react in the 
other important information can be found in each fund’s prospec-
same way to economic, political or regulatory events. 
tus, and if available summary prospectus, which you can obtain by 
calling 877.628.2583. Please read the prospectus, and if available 
the summary prospectus, carefully before making an investment.
72 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017
Companies that are considered “special situations” include, among others:  Morningstar “Pan-European Fixed Income Fund Manager of the Year 2018” 
companies that have unrecognized recovery prospects or new management  award: 2018 Morningstar Pan-European Fund Manager of the Year Awards: 
teams; companies involved in restructurings or spin-offs; companies emerg- “Pan-European Fixed Income Fund Manager of the Year 2018.” Neuberger 
ing from, or restructuring as a result of, bankruptcy; companies making initial  Berman Emerging Market Debt—Hard Currency, managed by Bart van der 
public offerings that trade below their initial offering prices; and companies  Made, Rob Drijkoningen and Gorky Urquieta.
with a break-up value above their market price. Investing in special situations 
The winners of the Fund Manager of the Year Awards are nominated and 
carries the risk that certain of such situations may not happen as anticipated 
selected by Morningstar’s Europe-based team of manager research analysts. 
or the market may react differently than expected to such situations. Certain 
The awards are thus based purely on the qualitative insights of those ana-
special situations carry the additional risks inherent in difficult corporate tran-
lysts. To be nominated for an award, a manager should be running an active 
sitions and the securities of such companies may be more likely to lose value 
fund that is among the approximately 900 vehicles that receive a Morning-
than the securities of more stable companies.
star Analyst Rating in Europe but, to hold nominees to the highest standards, 
Additional Risks Information for Emerging Markets Equity Fund that fund should also be a Medalist—meaning the analysts have recognized 
Governments of emerging market countries may be more unstable and more  it with a Gold, Silver or Bronze Morningstar Analyst Rating after applying 
likely to impose capital controls, nationalize a company or an industry, place  a rigorous evaluation using our Five-Pillar Methodology framework. Morn-
restrictions on foreign ownership and on withdrawing sales proceeds of secu- ingstar analysts evaluate funds based on five key pillars—Process, Perfor-
rities from the country, and/or impose burdensome taxes that could adversely  mance, People, Parent and Price—that they believe lead to funds more likely 
affect security prices. These countries may also have less developed legal and  to outperform their category peers and/or indices over the long term on a 
accounting systems. Securities issued in these countries may be more volatile  risk-adjusted basis. Analysts consider numeric and qualitative factors, but the 
and less liquid than securities issued in foreign countries with more devel- ultimate view on the individual pillars and how they come together is driven 
oped economies or markets. Changes in currency exchange rates bring an  by the analyst’s overall assessment and overseen by an Analyst Ratings Com-
added dimension of risk. Currency fluctuations could erase investment gains  mittee. The approach serves not as a formula but as a robust analytical frame-
or add to investment losses. From time to time, the Fund may hedge against  work ensuring consistency across Morningstar’s global coverage universe. 
some currency risks; however, the hedging instruments may not always per-
Although nominees should have produced strong performance for investors 
form as the Fund expects and could produce losses. Suitable hedging in-
in the preceding full calendar year, that is far from sufficient qualification unto 
struments may not be available for currencies of emerging market countries. 
itself. Nominees need to have also shown an ability to serve investors well over 
The risks involved in seeking capital appreciation from investments primarily  longer time periods. Therefore, in addition to performance Morningstar analysts 
in companies based outside the United States are set forth in the prospectus.  weigh the quality of management, the strength of the process used to run the 
From time to time, based on market or economic conditions, the Fund may  fund and its repeatability, the quality of the parent organization (including how 
invest a significant portion of its assets in one country or geographic region.  it treats investors in its funds) and costs. Morningstar’s asset-class teams then 
If the Fund does so, there is a greater risk that economic, political, social and  whittle down the list to a group of finalists, and the entire Europe-based analyst 
environmental conditions in that particular country or geographic region may  team meets to debate the merits of the finalists in each category. Following 
have a significant impact on the Fund’s performance and that the Fund’s per- those discussions, analysts vote to determine the winners. The awards winners 
formance will be more volatile than the performance of more geographically  will therefore have demonstrated the ability to generate outstanding long-term 
diversified funds. returns compared to their peers and/or indices. A strong risk-adjusted profile, 
with a process analysts believe is repeatable and applied by a robust team with 
Important information about awards and accolades:
a solid sense of stewardship towards investors, are hallmarks to identifying 
Awards referenced do not reflect the experiences of any Neuberger Berman 
standout managers.
client and readers should not view such information as representative of any 
particular client’s experience or assume that they will have a similar investment  Institutional Investor “Hedge Fund GP Investor” award: Institutional Investor 
experience as any previous or existing client. Awards are not indicative of the  15th Annual Hedge Fund Industry Awards: “Hedge Fund GP Investor.” Dyal Cap-
past or future performance of any Neuberger Berman product or service. ital Partners.
 2017 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 73
Following a public call for nominations, the editorial staff of Institutional In- The Best Responsible Investor award goes to the country-based or ASEAN as-
vestor magazine selects award nominees based on how strongly candidates  set manager or asset owner that has demonstrated excellence in responsible 
– both those put forward via the call for nominations and those independent- investment and ESG reporting. The winner will have proved that they have 
ly identified by the editorial staff - meet the criteria for their respective cate- adopted best practices and transparency by recognizing the highest stan-
gories. Once the nominees are publicly announced, the magazine group then  dards in the disclosure of responsible investment activities in their particular 
conducts a wide survey of U.S. institutional investors and invites them to vote  jurisdiction. The winner must also demonstrate a coherent company culture 
for the manager nominees. Hedge fund managers are invited to vote for the  contributing to its success as a responsible investor. 
investor nominees. Institutional Investor’s editorial staff analyzes the results 
This material is being issued on a limited basis through various global subsidiar-
of the voting to determine the winners, who are announced at the annual 
ies and affiliates of Neuberger Berman Group LLC. Please visit www.nb.com/
awards dinner and ceremony, to be held this year at the Mandarin Oriental 
disclosure-global-communications for the specific entities and jurisdictional 
in NYC. Awards referenced do not reflect the experiences of any Neuberger 
limitations and restrictions.
Berman client and readers should not view such information as represen-
tative of any particular client’s experience or assume that they will have a  The “Neuberger Berman” name and logo and “Neuberger Berman Invest-
similar investment experience as any previous or existing client. Awards are  ment Advisers LLC” name are registered service marks of Neuberger Berman 
not indicative of the past or future performance of any Neuberger Berman  Group LLC. The individual fund names in this piece are either service marks or 
product or service. registered service marks of Neuberger Berman Investment Advisers LLC, an 
affiliate of Neuberger Berman BD LLC, distributor, member FINRA. 
Asia Asset Management “Best Responsible Investor” award: Asia Asset 
Management 2018 Best of the Best Awards: “Taiwan, Best Responsible  ©2018 Neuberger Berman BD LLC. All rights reserved.
Investor.” Neuberger Berman Taiwan (SITE) Limited.
Asia Asset Management’s annual Best of the Best Awards are divided into 
three categories: Performance, Country and Regional awards. The Perfor-
mance awards are dedicated to measuring the accomplishments of each 
company based on the performance statistics of funds being managed. The 
top performer among the submissions received will be awarded. The Country 
awards are focused on the comparison of achievements and skill of each 
fund management company against other companies from the same country. 
To draw out the best from each country, this section will look at the com-
pany’s overall impact in shaping the nation’s asset management sector. The 
Regional awards are designed to identify Asia’s finest performers from finan-
cial services companies and institutional investors to service providers, whose 
influence and excellence expands beyond borders. These are firms that have 
boldly led the way in terms of innovation, service to clients, best practices and 
overall expertise in their field.
74 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2017

FIRM HEADQUARTERS PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT CENTERS
New York Atlanta
800.223.6448 Beijing
Boston
Chicago
REGIONAL HEADQUARTERS Dallas
Hong Kong
Hong Kong 
London
+852 3664 8800
Los Angeles
London  Milan
+44 20 3214 9000 New York
Shanghai
Tokyo 
Singapore
+81 3 5218 1930
The Hague
Toronto
OFFICES
AMERICAS EMEA ASIA PACIFIC
Atlanta Dubai Beijing
Bogota Frankfurt Hong Kong
Boston London Melbourne
Buenos Aires Luxembourg City Seoul
Chicago Madrid Shanghai
Dallas Milan Singapore
Los Angeles Paris Sydney
New York The Hague Taipei
San Francisco Zurich Tokyo
Tampa
Toronto
West Palm Beach
Wilmington
Neuberger Berman
1290 Avenue of the Americas
New York, NY 10104-0001
L0317  5/18 ©2018 Neuberger Berman Group LLC. All rights reserved. www.nb.com