
| |  
  2016 ANNUAL REPORT  
COVER IMAGE  
OUR NEW GLOBAL HEADQUARTERS— 
1290 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS  
In the culmination of a multiyear, multifaceted  
effort, in late 2016 we began to relocate personnel 
into our new global headquarters at 1290 Avenue 
of the Americas in New York City. With work areas 
designed with input from employees themselves,  
the new space reflects the firm’s independent,  
entrepreneurial spirit and better facilitates the  
collaboration that fuels our investment-driven culture. 
This is an exciting next step in the history of  
Neuberger Berman. We look forward to sharing  
the new space with you.  
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO   3 PERSPECTIVES: CLIENT ENGAGEMENT  36
EQUITY  15 PRIVATE CLIENT  37
PERSPECTIVES: ESG  20 PERSPECTIVES: CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  42
FIXED INCOME  21 CLIENT COVERAGE  43
 PERSPECTIVES: CULTURE  26 PERSPECTIVES: FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT  49
ALTERNATIVES  27  FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS  49
PERSPECTIVES:  RISK MANAGEMENT  32  LEADERSHIP  50
QUANTITATIVE AND MULTI-ASSET CLASS  33
NEUBERGER BERMAN
OUR MISSION IS TO PARTNER WITH CLIENTS TO ACHIEVE  
THEIR UNIQUE INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES
Neuberger Berman was founded in 1939 to do one thing: deliver compelling investment results for our clients 
over the long term. This remains our singular purpose today, driven by a culture rooted in deep fundamental 
research, the pursuit of investment insight, and continuous innovation on behalf of clients, and facilitated by 
the free exchange of ideas across the organization.
As a private, independent, employee-owned investment manager, Neuberger Berman is structurally aligned 
with the long-term interests of our clients. We have no external parent or public shareholders to serve, nor 
other lines of business to distract us from our core mission. And with our employees and their families invested 
alongside our clients—plus 100% of employee deferred cash compensation directly linked to team and firm 
strategies—we are truly in this together.
From offices in 28 cities across the globe, Neuberger Berman manages a range of equity, fixed income,  
private equity and hedge fund strategies on behalf of institutions, advisors and individual investors worldwide. 
With more than 500 investment professionals and over 1,900 employees in total, Neuberger Berman has  
built a diverse team of individuals united in their commitment to client outcomes and investment excellence. 
Our culture has afforded us enviable retention rates among our senior investment staff and has earned us a  
citation as the top-ranked firm (among those with 1,000 or more employees) in the Pensions & Investments 
2016 Best Places to Work in Money Management survey, after we had finished in the top three from 2013 – 2015.
CLIENT ALIGNMENT EXPERIENCE AND STABILITY
Annualized retention rate of senior investment 
100% Deferred cash compensation directly   96%
professionals* since becoming an independent 
linked to team and firm strategies     
company in 2009    
PARTNERSHIP AND INNOVATION BREADTH OF PERSPECTIVES
75+ Years of collaborating with our clients to  500+ Investment professionals offering different  
overcome their challenges viewpoints on markets, economics and strategies
*Senior Vice Presidents and Managing Directors  
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 1
|  INVESTMENT PLATFORM  |  BREADTH OF INDEPENDENT PERSPECTIVES ACROSS ASSET CLASSES
EQUITY  FIXED INCOME ALTERNATIVES
$95bn $114bn $55bn
AUM $255BN1
AUM and Committed Capital
INVESTMENT   230 145 116
PROFESSIONALS
Global/EAFE Global Investment Grade Private Equity: Hedge Funds:
U.S. Value/Core/Growth Global Non-Investment Grade – Primaries – Multi-Manager
Emerging Markets Emerging Markets – Co-Investments – Equity Long/Short
FUNDAMENTAL Regional EM, China Opportunistic/Unconstrained  – Secondaries – Credit Long/Short
– Specialty Strategies  – Event Driven
Socially Responsive Investing Municipals
–  Minority Stakes in  
Income Strategies: Specialty Strategies: 
Alternative Firms/Dyal 
– MLP – CLO Mezzanine
Alternative Credit:
– REITs – Currency
– Corporate Hybrids – Private Credit
– Residential Loans
– Special Situations
Global  Risk Premia
QUANTITATIVE U.S.  Options
Emerging Markets Global Macro
Custom Beta Commodities
MULTI-ASSET CLASS SOLUTIONS AND STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS
FUNDAMENTAL Global Relative and Absolute Return QUANTITATIVE Risk Parity
Income Focused Global Tactical Asset Allocation
Inflation Management
Liability Aware
1  A s of December 31, 2016. Firm assets under management (AUM) includes $95.1 billion in Equity assets, $114.2 billion in Fixed Income assets and $45.9 billion in Alternatives assets under management.  
Alternatives AUM includes AUM & Committed Capital since inception, which reflects contractual commitments to fund investments advised by NB Alternatives Advisers LLC, including those still in documentation, 
since inception (the oldest mandate of which was founded in 1981) (“Committed Capital”).  
  2 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GEORGE H. WALKER
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO   
2016 was a year of great change—in geopolitics, in economic policy and expectations, and in financial markets. We witnessed 
a strain of nationalistic populism migrate from the fringes of political discourse to the mainstream and in the process inspire 
the emergence of a new investment paradigm. Risk assets of all stripes and geographies finished an up-and-down year over-
whelmingly up, some quite impressively. Bond markets also generated gains for many investors, though I believe we have seen 
the beginning of the end of their 30-year bull run. 
 
As a firm, Neuberger Berman entered 2017 buoyed by strong invest- Diversity of viewpoints, unity of intent. Our portfolio managers  
ment performance consistent with our singular focus on delivering  are critical, independent thinkers who benefit from being part of 
compelling long-term results on behalf of our clients. In the U.S.,   a global, diverse investment organization composed of more than 
Barron’s recognized us as a top-10 fund family for 2016 amongst a  500 investors with different perspectives on markets, economies and 
long list of competitors we admire. During the year clients entrusted   strategies—equity and credit, public and private, long and short, large 
us with an additional $1.4 billion of their irreplaceable assets, which—  and small. That breadth of perspective helps bolster conviction and 
together with solid investment performance—raised firm assets under  often results in portfolios with high active share and the potential for 
management to a record-high $255 billion.  meaningful alpha generation. 
Our operating philosophy remains fundamental to our success:  Yesterday, today and tomorrow. Neuberger Berman by design 
attracts individuals who share a passion for investing and who thrive 
Investing for clients and with clients. Neuberger Berman is a  
in an environment of rigorous analysis, challenging dialogue, and 
private, independent, employee-owned investment manager, a structure 
professional and personal respect. In a testament to the strength of 
we believe best aligns us—both as an organization and as individuals—
the culture we have built—honed by more than 75 years of markets 
with the long-term interests of our clients. With no external parent or 
and countless “once-in-a-lifetime” events—these professionals have 
public shareholders to serve, we are empowered to run our business 
tended to stay with the firm, stability that over time drives results and 
with a lasting, client-centric perspective. With no proprietary trading  
consistency of process. 2016 was another extraordinary year in this  
or market-making operations, we are able to concentrate our efforts 
regard, with no portfolio managers departing for a competitor yet again.
solely on our core activity of investment management. And with  
our employees and their families having significant personal capital  
invested alongside that of our clients—plus 100% of employee  
deferred cash compensation directly linked to team and firm strategies—
we are truly in this together.
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 3
ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT  
$255 BILLION 
AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2016
BY ASSET CLASS Alignment between clients and employees is fundamental. In that 
spirit we are proud to note that Neuberger Berman recently was 
32%  U.S. VALUE named the #1 firm (amongst those with 1,000 or more employees)  
28%  U.S. CORE in the Pensions & Investments 2016 “Best Places to Work in Money 
16%  GLOBAL / INTERNATIONAL
Management” survey after ranking in the top five in each of the prior 
EQUITY 10%  INCOME
$95 Billion three years. Attracting and retaining the best employees is fundamental 
  6%  U.S. GROWTH
to our ability to deliver compelling long-term investment results for 
  5%  SOCIALLY REPONSIVE
clients, and we continue to invest in our team and our culture.
  3%  QUANTITATIVE
2016 IN REVIEW: A BUMPY RIDE HIGHER
As 2016 began against a backdrop of falling markets and eroding in-
44%  INVESTMENT GRADE vestor sentiment, we encouraged clients to look beyond the noise and 
32%  NON-INVESTMENT GRADE instead focus on the fundamentals. To quote from my letter introducing 
FIXED INCOME   8%  MUNICIPALS
our last Annual Report, “At the risk of grossly oversimplifying, in rough 
$114 Billion
  8%  EMERGING MARKETS DEBT
seas we believe ‘staying the course’ is a better approach than ‘trust 
  8%  OPPORTUNISTIC / UNCONSTRAINED
your gut’ when waves grow.” We noted that the previous five years 
  
had delivered annualized market returns of 10.2% (as measured by the 
S&P 500)—though investors had to withstand intra-year drawdowns 
29%  PRIMARIES  averaging 11.0% in order to achieve them.  
16%  MINORITY STAKES IN ALTERNATIVE 
This trend extended into 2016. Fears of a slowing China and weak oil 
         FIRMS / DYAL
prices early in the year were followed by the summer Brexit surprise 
ALTERNATIVES 16%  SECONDARIES
$55 Billion 15%  CO-INVESTMENTS and the U.S. election in the fall. Big waves indeed. But the recoveries 
15%  HEDGE FUNDS / OPTIONS that followed were even more impressive. The S&P 500 Index, for ex-
  5%  ALTERNATIVE CREDIT ample, posted a total return of nearly 12% for 2016 after being down 
  4%  SPECIALTY STRATEGIES more than 10% at its 2016 trough. History repeats.
AUM BY CLIENT REGION AUM BY CLIENT TYPE
72% AMERICAS 65% PENSION FUNDS, SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS AND OTHER INSTITUTIONS
17% EUROPE/MIDDLE EAST 18% FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, RIAs AND ADVISORS
11% ASIA PACIFIC 17% PRIVATE CLIENTS
  4 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Neuberger Berman
Neuberger Berman Group
MARKETS REBOUNDED SHARPLY FROM INTRA-YEAR LOWS BROAD PREDICTIONS FOR 2016
✓  ✗ 
  GOT IT RIGHT  GOT IT WRONG 
Total Return: Full Year 2016 Total Return: January 1 Through 2016 Trough
ECONOMY
20%
Total Return Through Trough 2/11/2016
✓ Low-to-moderate global economic growth
15%
✓  LowTo tianl tReerteursnt  Fruallt Yeesa ras central banks, overall, remain accommodative
10%
✓ Low inflation
5%
✓  Probability of near-term global recession remains low
0%
-5% EQUITIES
-10% ✓  U.S. stock market reflects reasonable valuations: muted outlook for 
2016 earnings
-15%
S&P 500 Index MSCI EAFE Index BofA Merrill Lynch ✓  European equities remain supported by ECB stimulus as business 
U.S. High Yield Master II conditions improve
Constrained Index
✓  Japan stocks benefit from weak yen and reallocation of pension fund 
Source: Bloomberg.
assets, but are threatened by slowing China and weak sentiment
✗   Emerging market equities facing headwinds including a slowing 
As shown to the right, our broad predictions for 2016, delivered each  China, a strong U.S. dollar and low commodity prices
December as part of our Solving series, were largely confirmed, though 
FIXED INCOME
our caution in emerging markets and portions of the commodities 
✓  Corporate spreads attractive across quality spectrum
complex proved incorrect. 
✓  Underweight view on most developed market government securities, 
Ultimately, as you can see on page 6, investors who stayed the course  as low yields do not compensate for risk of higher rates
in 2016 were able to participate in mostly rising markets, aside from 
✗   Cautious on emerging market debt, with bias toward hard-currency 
China’s A-share equity market and certain currencies. Within fixed  sovereigns
income you’ll notice the spike in U.S. high yield bonds. With rebounding 
oil prices and renewed expectations for economic growth, high yield  ALTERNATIVES
bonds had an outstanding 2016; the BofA Merrill Lynch U.S. High  ✗   Neutral view on commodities due to recent significant selloff
Yield Master II Constrained Index gained more than 17% for the year.  ✓  Hedge funds: Directional and absolute return strategies may benefit 
Tom O’Reilly, who heads up our non-investment grade bond team,  from increased volatility and a rising U.S. interest rate environment 
continues to believe the high yield market is compensating investors  ✓  Private markets: Seek to capture illiquidity premium in private debt; 
for default risk and that defaults likely will remain below the historical  high cash flow; short J-curve
average given stable U.S. economic growth.
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 5
THE TREND ACROSS MARKETS WAS BROADLY HIGHER IN 2016  
Total Return in U.S. Dollars
EQUITY FIXED INCOME CURRENCY COMMODITIES
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
-10%
-20%
Alerian MLP MSCI World High Dividend FTSE 100 MSCI Emerging Markets S&P 500 Russell 2000 MSCI World Value MSCI World MSCI World Growth Euro Stoxx 50 China (A-Share) Nikkei 225 U.S. Long Treasury EM Local Debt EM Hard Debt U.S. Corp HY Global Agg U.S. IG Credit Global TIPS EU High Yield JPY (vs. USD) EM FX EUR (vs. USD) CNY (vs. USD) DXY Mexican Peso GBP (vs. USD) Brent Oil Gold Agriculture omberg Commodity Index Industrial Metals
o
Bl
Source: Bloomberg. 
2017: “SEA CHANGE” BRINGS MORE GROWTH,   highs in October 2007 and March 2000. In contrast, U.S. home prices 
MORE RISK remain 6% below their 2006 top. And while the equity bull market has 
When considering the investment environment moving forward, we  been impressive in length and magnitude, the 30-year run in the bond 
must recognize that:  market was even more extraordinary, though I believe it ended in July 
2016 when the 10-year Treasury rate hit 1.36%. 
•   M  arket prices appear expensive based on historical norms as a  
result of years of extraordinary central bank policies globally. As a result of this nearly eight-year run, equity market valuations in the 
U.S. have moved to the high end of their historical range; the S&P 500 
•   T he global economy is stronger than widely perceived and is  
now trades at around 18 times forward earnings, a level not seen since 
improving, albeit with dispersion among countries. 
2004. These levels imply caution but certainly not alarm given the low 
•   T he U.S. election set the stage for pro-growth economic policy while  rate environment, modest inflation, our upbeat earnings expectations 
also ushering in remarkable uncertainty.  and the potential emergence of a more business-friendly landscape 
that features lower taxes, reduced regulatory burdens and robust 
The performance of equity markets over the intermediate term has 
fiscal spending programs. Of course, the path to that benign business 
been stunning. As of March 31, 2017, the S&P 500 Index, for example, 
landscape runs through a dysfunctional Congress and an unpredictable 
stands about 3.5 times higher than it did eight years ago when 
White House. Expect setbacks, delays and confusion, all of which will 
economies and markets were careening into the abyss of the Great 
likely lead to market volatility. Broad market selloffs are to be expected 
Recession. Perhaps more impressive is the equity market’s level relative 
and—if economic fundamentals remain intact—should represent 
to previous cyclical peaks; the S&P 500 is more than 50% above its 
buying opportunities.
  6 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Stocks in the euro zone, on the other hand, remain below pre-recession  Japan, too, looks better than it has in years, expanding in all four 
highs, and the region‘s forward P/E ratio—just shy of 15—is more  quarters of 2016 for annual growth of 1%. 
attractive given improving fundamentals and the European Central 
As for the emerging markets, fundamentals have continued to improve 
Bank’s accommodative stance. Volatility is likely here, too, as near-term 
even as the uncertain magnitude and timing of anti-trade action  
headlines will be dominated by a daunting political calendar and the 
looms large, as does the impact of rising rates and a strong U.S. dollar. 
beginnings of Britain’s divorce proceedings from the European Union.
Real GDP growth in these economies has been stable, while debt  
After struggling for much of 2016, Japanese stocks spiked following  as a percentage of GDP is roughly half that exhibited by developed 
the U.S. elections, driven in part by the prospect of U.S. growth and a  economies. This is an environment in which our emerging market debt 
weaker yen benefitting Japanese exporters; the Nikkei 225 rose more  managers continue to distinguish themselves. The team’s efforts—led 
than 17% in local-currency terms between Election Day and year-end to  by Rob Drijkoningen and Gorky Urquieta—were recently recognized 
reclaim pre-recession highs. Japanese corporations continue to improve  by Professional Pensions, which named Neuberger Berman the 2016 
governance, and regulators there are among the most balanced  Emerging Market Debt Manager of the Year. The rally in risk assets 
globally. We think the trends toward corporate and regulatory reform  following the U.S. elections has reflected the anticipation of more 
in Japan are real in select cases, and they have enabled us to find more  expansionary policies from the United States. However, Rob and Gorky 
quality firms on the margin than we have historically despite continued  believe the strong domestic growth momentum has been even more 
tepid economic growth in the country. Recently, Benjamin Segal, senior  important. The uptick in global and Chinese growth and stronger  
portfolio manager for global equities, has added to the International  commodity prices have benefited emerging market hard-currency 
Equity Fund Japanese names such as Kao, a consumer product company  spreads, while the lack of U.S. dollar strength has supported foreign 
that continues to improve.  exchange. The team currently has an overweight bias on hard-currency 
sovereigns versus corporates, primarily due to relative valuations.  
Trade vagaries and the prospects of a stronger dollar weighed on 
Local-currency bonds are underweight given their vulnerability to  
emerging markets in the immediate aftermath of the U.S. election, and 
reflation dynamics in the United States and within parts of Asia. 
the MSCI EM Index’s failure to participate in the broad November/
December rally took some of the shine off what otherwise was a very  Also constructive on growth in emerging economies is Conrad Saldanha, 
successful year. We expect investors to look past these exogenous   who manages our emerging markets equity strategy. He currently 
issues in 2017 and increasingly focus on the fundamental improvements  maintains a domestic growth bias, targeting, for example, a diverse set of 
these economies have been delivering of late. consumer staples and technology-related companies that cater to local 
markets. Dispersion among emerging equity markets has been rising of 
Conditions in the global economy, meanwhile, aren’t nearly as dire 
late, belying their reputation as a homogenous asset class. 
as political discourse may suggest. The U.S. looks to be in pretty good 
shape as it continues to expand from the depths of 2009, and we  Unfortunately, economic improvements in recent years mask a growing 
believe the current probability of recession in the near term is remote.  wealth inequality; as nations as a whole prosper, too many individuals 
Reflation has picked up; 2017 GDP likely will materially exceed the 1.6%  are being left behind, and the implications are profound. A recent study 
expansion of full-year 2016. Europe and Japan are facing political and  by the Brookings Institution shows that the longevity gap between the 
trade challenges as monetary stimulus ebbs, though recent economic  wealthiest 10% and poorest 10% of Americans has more than doubled 
data have been above trend. With GDP growth of 1.7% in 2016, the  since the 1970s. Another disconcerting trend—and one that seemed 
euro zone last year outpaced the U.S. for the first time since 2008.  to go mostly unnoticed during the U.S. election—is that the population 
Inflation in the region, meanwhile, rose 1.8% year-over-year in January,  as a whole is massively unprepared for retirement. According to the 
a four-year high. Though the improvement in data has stirred calls for  National Institute on Retirement Savings, people aged 40 to 55 have 
a reduction in European Central Bank support, policymakers are taking  an average retirement balance of $14,500, which represents only 
a cautious approach; meanwhile, a stacked political calendar looms.  5 – 10% of what they will need to maintain their standard of living 
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 7
in retirement; 45% of households have no retirement savings at all.  Concurrent with this has been an inflection point in global central 
Without action, the number of retirees living in or near poverty will  bank policy in which central banks going forward likely will be less 
explode, with enormous political and social consequences—as well as  impactful on financial markets than they have been in recent years. 
economic risk. Around the world models exist to address this crisis, but  Since the Great Recession, central banks have relied on the use of low 
political will is lacking. to negative interest rates in order to fuel consumption and combat 
deflation. The economic results have been underwhelming, and as a 
The fallout from widening inequality could be seen throughout the 
consequence of these efforts central banks have artificially removed 
developed world in 2016, as the disenfranchised middle and lower 
risk from the economy and thus incentivized greater risk-taking by 
classes—feeling squeezed by existential issues like sovereignty, trade, 
market participants. 
globalization, immigration and even life expectancy—expressed their 
displeasure with the status quo at the voting booth. While Brexit in  Rates, while still low by historical standards, already have begun to 
the summer and Donald Trump’s victory in the fall were the biggest  moderate, with $16 trillion worth of negative yields as of August 31, 
examples of this geopolitical trend, its impact also could be seen to  2016, shrinking to $9 trillion by the end of the year on expectations 
various degrees in Europe, Asia and Latin America. With major elections  of greater inflation and higher economic growth. We believe the U.S. 
coming up in Europe during 2017—and with anti-establishment  Federal Reserve likely will hike rates three times in 2017; however,  
candidates making noise in all of them—it’s safe to say that this story  low interest rates globally—particularly in Europe and Japan, where 
hasn’t yet fully played out, although we do anticipate it decelerating in  central banks have driven bond yields below zero in their attempts to 
2017 as electorates and victors grapple with the consequences of their  combat deflationary fears—will continue to exert a gravitational pull 
decisions and the challenges of governing versus campaigning.   on the U.S. rate structure.
YIELDS GLOBALLY HAVE TRENDED HIGHER POST-ELECTION   
Global Bond Yields as of 8/31/16 Global Bond Yields as of 12/30/16
APPROX. $16 TRILLION WITH NEGATIVE YIELDS APPROX. $9 TRILLION WITH NEGATIVE YIELDS
1yr 2yr 3yr 4yr 5yr 6yr 7yr 8yr 9yr 10yr 15yr 20yr 30yr 1yr 2yr 3yr 4yr 5yr 6yr 7yr 8yr 9yr 10yr 15yr 20yr 30yr
Switzerland Switzerland
Germany Germany
Netherlands Netherlands
Sweden Sweden
Finland Finland
Slovakia Slovakia
Austria Austria
Denmark Denmark
France France
Belgium Belgium
Latvia Latvia
Ireland Ireland
Italy Italy
Lithuania Lithuania
Slovenia Slovenia
Spain Spain
Portugal Portugal
Greece Greece
UK UK
Japan Japan
Australia Australia
US US
<   -0.8%   -0.40% -0.20% 0% 0.2% 0.4% 0.6% 0.8% 1.6% <   3.2%
Source: Bloomberg.
  8 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Donald Trump’s election in the U.S. and the pro-growth, pro-inflation   companies, future issuance trends and demand across sectors. At 
policies he and a Republican legislature are expected to enact represent  39%, the U.S. today has the highest statutory corporate tax rate in the 
a “sea change” for both the global economy and the financial markets.  developed world, surpassing even that of France (though the average 
As investors, there is much to like in the broad strokes of President  effective tax rate for U.S. companies is closer to 27%). Among the tax 
Trump’s policy agenda. The repatriation of foreign profits—to the tune  reform proposals that have been discussed publicly by the Trump ad-
of $2.4 trillion—should lead to an increase in corporate buybacks; our  ministration is one that would slash the statutory rate to 15%, moving 
expectation would be for a spike of about 30%, similar to what we saw  the United States to second-lowest among major countries, behind 
from S&P 500 companies in the two years following the 2004 repatri- only Ireland. The more realistic House proposal, at 20%, puts the U.S. 
ation tax holiday. A reduction in regulatory burdens is another Trump  closer to the international norm. The tax savings from these proposals 
proposal that could help fuel another leg higher in U.S. equity markets;  would add $8–11 of earnings per share to the S&P 500. 
reasonable estimates are that federal agencies have added annual costs 
The proposed corporate tax changes are positive overall for businesses 
of $112 billion to businesses over the past eight years. Financial services 
and U.S. economic growth, though the impact will vary greatly across 
should be a primary beneficiary. There’s also fiscal stimulus, which is  
sectors and individual securities, as depicted in Figure 4. (The border- 
purported to be massive in scale—infrastructure spending alone has 
adjustment tax is most likely to be altered from its current form.)  
been floated at $1 trillion—but remains undefined. 
Active investment managers have the opportunity to take advantage, 
Tax reform has gotten perhaps the most attention in the months   dissecting the potential impacts of different proposals and modeling 
immediately following the election, and the changes currently   them to specific markets, sectors and issues. Notably, the path toward 
proposed would have broad implications across countries and   the passage of any tax reform legislation will be longer and less 
industries, influencing relative economic activity, profitability of   straightforward than markets currently anticipate.
IMPACT OF TAX REFORM WILL VARY ACROSS SECTORS 
Estimated Impact of House Tax Proposal if Implemented as Written
Impact of:
Reported  Lower U.S.  Move to  Net 
Domestic  Corporate  Territorial  Border-  Capex Expensing   Lost Deductability of  Impact on 
Revenue Tax Rate Taxation Adjustment Tax* Instead of Depreciation Interest Expense EPS
Financials 78% ▲▲▲ ▲ NM NM NM** 17.9%
Telecom 100% ▲▲▲ NM ▼▼ ▲▲ ▼▼ 13.9%
Health Care 82% ▲▲ ▲ ▼▼ NM ▼ 6.2%
Technology 42% ▲ ▲▲ ▼ NM ▼ 6.1%
Industrials 63% ▲▲ ▲ ▼▼ ▲ ▼ 4.9%
Materials 51% ▲ ▲ ▼ ▲ ▼ 1.6%
Consumer Discretionary 76% ▲▲▲ ▲ ▼▼▼ ▲ ▼ 0.0%
Consumer Staples 73% ▲▲ ▲ ▼▼▼ NM ▼ -3.3%
Energy 58% ▲ ▲▲ ▼▼▼ ▲▲ ▼ -4.0%
S&P 500 Index 71% ▲▲ ▲ ▼▼ ▲ ▼ 6.0%
* Assumes 75% pass-through of border-adjustment tax, though certain companies (refiners, for example) may be able to pass through a greater percentage. 
** House “blueprint” mentions separate rules for financial services interest expense; our assumption is that financials retain interest deduction.
Source: J.P. Morgan Research, Copyright 2017.
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 9
Unaccounted for in any of the above analysis is the unleashing of  Net net, the abovementioned factors suggest a non-normal distribution 
so-called “animal spirits,” that hard-to-measure Keynesian sense of  of potential economic growth and market outcomes; while the most 
optimism that can drive economic activity. Anecdotally, we feel these  likely economic outcome has improved from these policy choices, the 
spirits as we meet with company management teams daily; while the  left tail (downside) risk has also increased substantially, reflecting a 
improved mood is palpable, optimism must translate into confidence  higher probability of a substantial correction. 
and investment for it to be meaningful. Richard Nackenson—who runs 
our Multi-Cap Opportunities Fund, an unconstrained, high-conviction  ASSET MANAGEMENT: THE SEEDS OF AN ACTIVE 
all-cap equity portfolio—believes Symantec, the bellwether cybersecurity  REBOUND
company with special situation characteristics and free cash flow, is  The environment in the asset management industry remains  
an example of a company that may thrive in this new environment,  challenging, as evinced by the valuations of our publicly traded peers. 
benefitting from strong industry growth, transformative acquisitions,  Despite record-level equity markets, to which investment managers  
management change and significant capital return.  are implicitly leveraged, our competitors today are valued 15 – 20% 
below where they started 2014. The reasons for this are myriad,  
The risks posed by the new administration and its expected policies 
from regulatory modifications to changing distribution economics to  
are significant: growing federal deficits, inflation that may lead to more 
a swing in asset mix to bonds from equities. The primary source of  
aggressive Fed rate hikes, a strong dollar that stifles trade and global 
the industry’s challenges, however, is the relentless shift, particularly 
growth—potentially exacerbated by economic nationalist trends  
among retail investors, from active to passive strategies and the  
we’re seeing worldwide. While the risk here is high, it is certainly less 
substantial fee pressures that have accompanied it. 
dangerous than the potential for conflict with any of Russia, China, 
Iran or North Korea, with the last today perhaps posing the greatest  Over the past decade, $2 trillion of net assets has flowed into passive 
threat to global stability as it works to project its nuclear capabilities.  equity funds while $1.5 trillion has flowed out of active equity funds; 
China’s constructive engagement on this front will be critical.  passive now approaches 40% of the market, according to Morningstar, 
and its share is growing with remarkable consistency at just under 2% 
per annum. The biggest reason for the migration to passive is, of course, 
THE DISTRIBUTION OF RETURN EXPECTATIONS HAS SHIFTED   performance. Simply put, most managers haven’t earned their fees. 
In fairness, market conditions have been difficult for those looking to 
generate alpha; one factor weighing on active managers has been 
the suppression of dispersion as a result of extraordinary central bank 
intervention. Wide differences between the best and worst performing 
stocks afford a greater opportunity to distinguish winners from losers. 
Unprecedented levels of liquidity injected by central banks into the global 
financial system coming out of the financial crisis drove down interest 
rates and the cost of borrowing; benefitting most from this were those 
companies with the worst capital structures and most marginal operating 
profits—investments we seek to avoid. Bob D’Alelio and Judy Vale, who 
Normal Distribution New Regime
for nearly two decades have managed our Genesis Fund, are quick to 
note the prevalence of such poor-quality companies within the small-cap 
Source: Neuberger Berman. space; 32% of the companies in the Russell 2000 Index were losing 
money as of year-end 2016, and only 9% of the index by market cap 
carries an investment grade rating. Throughout their tenures, Bob and 
Judy have remained committed to high-quality equities, an approach that 
over time has delivered attractive results. 
  10 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Average manager alpha has been tightly linked to average annual  
WE’VE BEEN HERE BEFORE…
dispersion over the past 25 years; with dispersion running below 
Percentage of Funds and Fund Assets Outperforming S&P 500 on a Five-Year Basis
historical levels since 2009, active managers have struggled. However, 
we’ve been here before—four times over the past 50 years or so, in 
Percentage of Funds Outperforming
fact, with particularly tough periods in the mid-1970s and late 1990s.  100%
Percentage of Fund Assets Outperforming 
The percentage of funds outperforming the market has varied over 
time, demonstrating periods of both extreme outperformance and   80%
extreme underperformance, neither of which has tended to persist. In the 
60%
near term this may be helped along by the increase in dispersion that is 
likely to accompany the slow normalization of central bank policy. 
40%
As a market participant, I find the active/passive debate somewhat 
20%
exasperating given the religious fervor with which some proselytize. 
The truth, as per usual, is more complex. While there is a large role  
0.0%
for passive investments, it’s not a panacea. Arguments and strat- ‘70‘72‘74‘76‘78‘80‘82‘84‘86‘88‘90‘92‘94‘96‘98‘00‘02‘04‘06‘08‘10‘12‘14‘16
egies applicable to the U.S. mega-cap equity market, for example, 
do not apply universally, but the distinctions are poorly understood. 
Source: Nomura/Instinet Quantitative Investment Strategy, Joseph Mezrich.
Leaving aside the cyclical nature of alpha, structurally markets vary 
massively: in their constituents, stability, liquidity characteristics, role 
of new issuance, retail/institutional investor composition, presence of  CLIENT PARTNERSHIP AT NEUBERGER BERMAN
“non-economic actors” (like central banks), dispersion characteristics,  Active managers need to evolve, to improve, to do more for our clients. 
etc. Passive ETFs will undoubtedly see growth as long-term investment  Neuberger Berman has long prided itself on evolution with a purpose; 
vehicles in places where it is least attractive to be a free rider and/ not merely innovation for its own sake, but rather the development  
or where index replication is most challenging, such as high yield or  of transformative concepts rooted in practical client applications.  
emerging market debt. Investors need advice. And active managers  Since 1939 we have been on the forefront of a number of industry 
ultimately need to deliver outperformance—and should expect clients  trends now considered commonplace—from the launch of one of 
to vote with their irreplaceable assets if we don’t.  the first no-load funds to the early adoption of socially responsive 
investment techniques—as we looked to collaborate with clients to 
overcome a variety of challenges, and that spirit of focused innovation 
ALPHA GENERATION HAS TRACKED INTEREST RATES HIGHER
continues today.
6% 10% Capitalizing on data. 90% of the data in existence today has been 
8% created in the past two years alone; there is opportunity in this trove—
5%
10-Year Treasury Yield 34%% 0246%%%% Median Manager Alpha wmhtpiirohrooenirccd.ee h C sMt soihs,i a  clMeerhgxvaipeceehadrlaan  Rwgedeelii tnc jhiocgt e i inoan asntt  se u2b gos.er5 uaha rtaqf itCnluefg hirno  il“etfe ifbloa liiDudogrian n dtc gabali  tyetSathnce”etise ssi .nnep Tt teoeiosrf   tftod,oh uaarisrty  s fi—ie nransvtatde  nb,fs odowtmr t ewhte h eronee ntm c oereuer ngosstaeftl  yantd hriozce ah - 
-2%
2% largest hedge funds as well as sovereign wealth funds, giving him a 
-4%
range of perspectives and horizons. 
1% -6%
'00 '01 '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12' '13 '14 '15 '16
10-Year Treasury Yield Median Manager Alpha
Source: Bloomberg. 
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 11
Investing in ESG. The inclusion of environmental, social and gov- extreme cases, we may engage in shareholder activism, as was the case 
ernance factors in investing decisions has been a part of Neuberger  with long-time technology holding Ultratech. Frustrated by the company’s 
Berman since the early 1940s. Most visibly today, Ingrid Dyott and   refusal to address its long history of stock and operational underperfor-
our Socially Responsive Investing team (profiled on page 16) have  mance, as well as excessive executive compensation and other gover-
made a clarion call that companies with proactive ESG leadership strat- nance failures, Ben Nahum, portfolio manager of our Intrinsic Value Fund, 
egies are more likely to outperform. Our commitment to ESG extends   launched a proxy contest seeking to replace two directors with more 
well beyond that team. Notably, our emerging markets debt portfolio  suitable candidates. These candidates were elected to the board, and 
managers Rob Drijkoningen and Gorky Urquieta integrate ESG factors  the firm was subsequently sold—a positive outcome for shareholders, 
into their fundamental research process and have been doing so since  including our clients.
the 1990s, as has our Global Non-Investment Grade Credit team under 
Finding new opportunities. Hedge funds play an important role 
the leadership of Tom O’Reilly. In addition, we recently hired Jonathan 
in client portfolios but haven’t delivered in recent years. In 2016 we 
Bailey as Head of ESG Investing. Jonathan previously served as director 
launched our alternative risk premia strategy, managed by Wai Lee 
of research for Focusing Capital on the Long Term, a not-for-profit think 
and Ajay Jain. In an environment with low return outlooks and thus a 
tank he helped launch while at McKinsey & Company, where he also 
greater focus on fees and other expenses, alternative risk premia can 
advised pension funds, sovereign wealth funds and asset managers on 
provide exposure to characteristics that are similar to hedge funds—
a range of topics. Jonathan will lead our ESG effort across investment 
such as absolute return and low correlation to traditional betas—in  
teams and work closely with research on our proprietary approach to 
a cost-effective, transparent and more liquid structure. We partnered 
ESG integration.
with clients to develop and launch this strategy, just as we partnered 
Partnering with leading alternatives managers. In 2016 we  with independent firms in 2012 to deliver low-fee multi-manager  
closed on a new Dyal fund, which seeks to acquire minority equity  capabilities under the leadership of David Kupperman and Jeff Majit.
interests in established alternative asset managers; Dyal owns a piece 
Elevated equity market valuations and low fixed income yields have  
of the management company rather than investing as a client/limited 
led many investors to consider new ways of pursuing returns and  
partner. Dyal Capital Partners III raised $5.3 billion and is focused on 
mitigating market volatility, driving interest in our options strategy.  
private equity firms; as of year-end 2016, the fund was over 60%  
Led by Derek Devens, our Option Group harvests premiums from  
committed and generating meaningful cash flow through its investment 
selling puts on equity indexes in combination with the income potential 
in a number of leading players, including EnCap Investments, H.I.G. 
generated by a conservatively managed collateral portfolio. In doing  
Capital, KPS Capital Partners, Silver Lake Technology Management 
so, the strategy offers investors lower-volatility exposure relative to  
and Starwood Capital Group. In turn, many Dyal clients have become 
the broader equity markets while promoting return consistency in  
important limited partners of these managers, who in our judgment  
disparate market environments. Investors have expressed strong  
are some of the finest in the industry.
interest in the concept; introduced in early 2016, our options strategy 
Pursuing corporate engagement. Related to our focus on corporate  grew to more than $1.3 billion in assets under management by  
governance is an increased engagement with the management teams of  the end of the year. And I suspect this year we’ll see solid activity in 
the companies in which we invest. We search for companies with great  put-writing strategies. 
management teams and engage through standard channels like proxy 
voting and regular meetings with company managements. On occasions 
when these methods fail to produce acceptable results, we take more 
significant action. Typically, this is done behind the scenes. In more 
  12 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Expanding the opportunity set. We continue to expand our private  Renaissance, our Italian mid-market team, partnered with our  
equity and credit capabilities, where today we manage over $45 billion  co-investment team and Apax Partners to take private Engineering 
of commitments.1 Constraints on financial institution balance sheets  Ingegneria Informatica S.p.A., Italy’s largest information technology 
have expanded the investment opportunity set for investors like us, for  consulting company, which operates across system integration,  
example in secondary private equity and private credit. While easing  outsourcing and software applications.
regulatory policy under the Trump administration may re-open the door 
We continued to bring to market innovative capabilities to our clients. 
for certain bank competitors, we expect the supply of opportunities in 
On the intermediary side, we joined with a select group of distribution 
these areas to remain ample. 
partners to launch our first registered ‘40 Act private equity fund. 
Over time, the private equity universe has grown, presenting us oppor- This fund enables participation by a broader set of investors who had 
tunities to look beyond public market equities for attractive deals.   previously been precluded from exposure to private equity because 
Our Alternatives team has relationships with hundreds of private   of investment minimums and/or net-worth limitations. I believe the 
equity general partners and over the past three years has committed   “democratization” of alternatives will be an area of significant focus  
an average of $5 billion annually across primaries, secondaries,   in the decade ahead.
co-investments, private credit and our specialty strategies. We are a 
During the course of 2016 we also augmented our offerings in more 
limited partner in more than 400 funds and sit on 120 advisory boards, 
traditional asset classes. We launched an international small-cap  
a real competitive advantage for our platform. 
capability as an extension of our Global Equity platform. 
Our broad base of relationships enabled our co-investment team to 
Enhancing the engagement model. Engagement, of course,  
generate approximately 190 investment opportunities during 2016, 
entails more than just new products; it also means providing the  
a volume necessary to uncover a few gems in a tough environment 
infrastructure—people, facilities, systems, etc.—necessary to support 
marked by elevated valuations and high leverage. As an example,  
our client base. Our Asia Pacific business continues to grow at an 
we invested in Duff & Phelps in partnership with Carlyle Global  
impressive pace bolstered by additional leadership hires, including Jovi 
Financial Services Partners and management.
Chen as General Manager of Taiwan and Patrick Liu as Head of our 
Our secondary team also saw robust deal flow, reviewing over 200  China Business. East Asia, too, remains a growth engine for the  
opportunities over the course of the year. We maintained our focus  organization, and we continue to be focused on the needs of these 
on privately negotiated small- to mid-sized transactions, avoiding the  clients, enhancing our regional product development, client reporting 
hypercompetitive large auctions, an approach that translated into   and client portfolio management functions along with the Japan  
33 transactions with a median size under $20 million.  desks in New York and Chicago.
Our private credit team seeks to capitalize on inefficiencies that   To meet the needs of insurance companies worldwide, we significantly 
arise from illiquidity, complexity and volatile markets, again taking   expanded our Insurance Solutions group under the leadership of Matt 
advantage of the connectivity of our private equity platform. One  Malloy. In 2016 alone we added to the team three senior professionals 
example is TFS, a leading national provider of facilities services of   who joined us from Goldman Sachs, BlackRock and JPMorgan. 
material handling equipment owned by CI Capital, a general partner 
with whom we have worked on a primary, co-investment and debt 
basis. Our private credit team led the $78.5 million second lien  
loan priced at L+10.5%, 1% floor, supporting acquisitions by the 
company over the last two years.
1 As of January 2017. Includes commitments since inception.
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 13
We also took steps to sharpen our business focus during the year,  At the end of the day, those investment management firms best able to 
selling our only non-investment management business unit—our   deliver for clients will have great people doing rigorous work together 
private equity fund administration business Capital Analytics—  over extended periods of time in a supportive environment and with 
to MUFG Investor Services. We admire MUFG, an industry leader,   aligned incentives. They will innovate and evolve. We work hard on 
and we believe this is a great home for Capital Analytics, its people   each element of this framework: attracting and retaining, engaging 
and its clients. and enabling, learning and improving. We must always strive to do 
better. We will—by staying true to our mission and culture, investing in 
Celebrating milestones. Sometimes staying the course can be  
continuous improvement and building stronger partnerships both with 
just as fruitful as creating something new and different. A powerful 
our clients and within the firm. 
byproduct of our long-tenured stable of investors and lengthy  
organizational history is the product milestones we reach each year.  On the pages that follow you’ll hear from a broad cross-section of  
The Neuberger Berman Equity Income Fund, managed by Sandy Pomeroy  the professionals here at Neuberger Berman. I hope you find this  
and Rich Levine, marked its 10-year anniversary in November, while  information useful. And I hope that some of the passion and dedication 
the Neuberger Berman Long Short Fund, managed by Charles Kantor,  that I have the privilege of experiencing every day comes across in print. 
reached its five-year anniversary in December. Across their histories 
As always, thank you for your support. 
these strategies and their investment teams have shown a deep  
commitment to delivering on client expectations.
14 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
|  BUSINESS REVIEW: EQUITY  | 
“ The slow pullback of the  
Fed’s quantitative easing  
policies and the return  
to some semblance of rate  
JOSEPH V. AMATO
normalization bodes well,   PRESIDENT AND CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER—EQUITIES
in our view, for active  
manager returns.”
A TALE OF TWO HALVES
While equity markets in general moved higher in 2016, the broadly positive returns do not tell the full story. Last year truly 
was a tale of two halves; while the first half of 2016 saw a continuation of the performance trends that have dominated  
markets over the past few years, the second half delivered a significant shift toward assets that had fallen out of favor. Significant  
fundamental issues in early 2016—from plummeting oil prices to signs of weakness in China—had investors concerned 
about the prospects for the global economy, sending equity markets sharply lower. As the year progressed, however, events 
like Brexit and ultimately the U.S. elections changed the attitude of market participants, ushering in what we believe to be a 
paradigm shift characterized by a bias toward economic risk-taking, fiscal stimulus, inflation and higher interest rates.
The net of this shift is a more constructive mindset toward the equity  seen evidence of a nascent rebound in active management beginning 
asset class, though we expect 2017 to be a transitional year and thus a  in the second half of 2016 as the dispersion of stock returns picked up. 
choppy one for equity markets, especially in the U.S. While expectations 
There are several other trends we expect to impact the dynamics of the 
are high given the pro-business stance of the Trump administration  
asset management industry in the coming years, and we are focused on 
and the Republican-controlled Congress, campaign promises will take 
positioning our platform to harness their benefits on behalf of our clients. 
time to enact. Moreover, meaningfully higher market volatility is likely 
To deliver lower-cost solutions we have introduced a select number of 
given the unpredictable nature of the new president and persistent 
“factor investing” or “smart beta” strategies. In addition, strategies that 
geopolitical risks, especially with regard to trade. 
incorporate environmental, social and governance (ESG) considerations 
Meanwhile, the equity market and its persistently low volatility have  into their investment process represent an opportunity for active investors 
continued to present challenges for active investment managers. The  to further differentiate themselves from passive solutions. Finally, data 
most significant driver of this, in our view, is the distortions in asset  proliferation—both in terms of volume and the emergence of new 
prices caused by the unprecedented bond-buying and interest rate   types of quantifiable information—presents significant opportunity for 
suppression from essentially all major central banks. In this environ- managers who can leverage this “big data” in conjunction with their 
ment, companies that in the past would tend to lose market share due  fundamental investment process (a so-called “quantamental” approach) 
to competitive dynamics—and therefore fail to attract new capital  to deliver attractive active returns. 
(thus, companies we would typically avoid investing in)—are now 
Our equity investment capabilities are broad and are meant to capture 
better positioned to sustain themselves due to their cost of capital  
the wide range of alpha sources for our clients. Depending on one’s risk 
being essentially zero. The slow pullback of the Fed’s quantitative easing 
tolerance and time horizon, we believe our firm is well positioned to 
policies and the return to some semblance of rate normalization bodes 
deliver value to our clients and to thrive in this dynamic environment.
well, in our view, for active manager returns. In fact, we’ve already 
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 15 
|  EQUITY  | 
INTERNATIONAL EQUITY EMERGING MARKETS EQUITY
Our International Equity team seeks to identify  Our Emerging Markets Equity team emphasizes 
best-of-breed non-U.S. companies across  companies that stand to benefit from domestic 
sectors, countries and market caps. Despite  growth and seeks these opportunities up and 
headwinds from political events, we remained  down the market-cap spectrum. As of year-end 
steadfast in our bottom-up investment  2016, we maintained a 27% allocation to small/
approach. For example, in the aftermath of  mid-cap names, versus 17% in the MSCI Emerg-
Benjamin E. Segal, CFA the U.K.’s Brexit vote in June, we maintained  Conrad A. Saldanha, CFA ing Markets Index. We believe many of these 
positions in 15 of our 17 U.K.-based holdings, as we believe our  companies are under-researched and offer the potential for attractive 
longer-term investment theses remained intact and the initial selloff  returns, diversification and domestic growth exposure. Therefore, 
in stocks and sterling looked overdone. Our portfolio positioning  our investment process begins with a universe of more than 12,000 
was relatively conservative as we entered 2017, and we were not  companies compared to only 831 in the index, which is predominantly 
tempted to add exposure to cyclical names that had performed  large-cap focused. For 2016, emerging markets experienced a rebound, 
strongly over the previous few months. We continue to focus on  delivering double-digit returns on the heels of a rally in commodities, 
companies that can perform in an uncertain geopolitical and mac- which are typically driven by global supply and demand forces. Despite 
roeconomic environment, and remain of the view that companies  this run-up, we believe domestically driven names have the potential 
with attractive end markets, a differentiated offering to customers  to deliver strong risk-adjusted returns going forward and maintain our 
and a proven management team can offer investors an attractive  focus in this area.
risk/return profile.
SRI MULTI-CAP OPPORTUNITIES: THE NACKENSON GROUP
The SRI strategy, which we launched in 1989,  The Nackenson Group manages the Multi-Cap  
incorporates business, financial and environ- Opportunities strategy, which is designed to serve as  
mental, social and governance (ESG) factors to  a core equity portfolio for clients. We invest across 
identify 30–40 high-quality companies that we  market capitalizations, sectors and styles with an  
believe have the potential to deliver attractive  emphasis on free cash flow generation and capital 
returns over a three- to five-year period. Volatility  allocation. Our portfolio consists of 30 to 40 core 
Ingrid S. Dyott during 2016 gave us multiple opportunities to  Richard S. Nackenson  holdings across three distinct categories of stocks—
add best-in-class companies that meet our   Special Situation, Opportunistic and Classic investments—that provide 
quality criteria while exiting certain positions,  unique sources of alpha.  When company specific drivers are in focus, high- 
generally based on valuation considerations.   conviction active managers have the potential to add value for their clients 
We look at a wide range of ESG factors in   through stock selection. We captured this opportunity in 2016, as correla-
the businesses we own and track their aggre- tions declined significantly within the U.S. equity market. We believe the 
gate impact on our portfolio; as one example,   current environment remains attractive for free cash flow oriented investing. 
Sajjad S. Ladiwala, CFA
as of September 30, 2016, our portfolio is 55%  Company balance sheets are healthy, and free cash flow generation  
less carbon-intensive than the S&P 500. Responsibility continues to  remains strong. As a result, management teams have a significant opportu-
be a hallmark of quality, and we believe that in a slow-growth world  nity to create value for shareholders by allocating capital effectively.  
the operating characteristics inherent in the businesses we currently  Dividend increases, share repurchase programs, cash accumulation, 
own can translate top-line growth in the low- to mid-single digits  debt retirement, organic growth initiatives, selective and highly accretive 
into stronger, advantaged bottom-line growth.  acquisitions—all can accrue to the benefit of equity holders. We believe 
deep fundamental analysis centered on free cash flow and capital structure 
efficiency may be an important driver of performance going forward.
  16 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
 EQUITY INCOME: THE MESSINGER GROUP LARGE CAP VALUE
The Messinger Group has been serving clients’  The Large Cap Value team utilizes a value invest-
unique needs for nearly four decades, delivering  ing discipline with a patient, conviction-based 
customized investment solutions for individuals,  approach, conducting independent, bottom-up 
families and institutions based on well-defined  fundamental and quantitative research to 
goals spanning multiple generations. Being   identify nuances of each company that cannot 
an investment manager means understanding   be captured solely by financial characteristics.  
Richard S. Levine transitions such as retirement, the sale of   Eli M. Salzmann The top 10 contributors to the strategy’s 2016 
a business, divorce, death of a spouse or   returns accounted for a 37.6% average portfolio 
even a new addition to a family. The broader   weighting, while the Russell 1000 Value Index 
Messinger Group embraces a flexible approach  had a 7.5% average weighting to the same 
when constructing strategies for our clients   stocks, demonstrating the potential benefits 
and offers solutions ranging from income-  of this active approach. For 2017 we believe a 
generation to growth-oriented equity portfolios.  continuation of accommodative monetary policy 
Sandy M. Pomeroy David Levine, CFA
In retrospect, 2016 was favorable for our   in areas such as Europe and Japan could lend 
“value” style of investing, focused on bottom-up,  some degree of support to equities going forward. We will continue 
fundamental research, and we feel this can  evaluating all market dislocations for investment opportunities.
continue over the upcoming business cycle.  
The group’s rigorous discounted free cash flow 
analysis is designed to identify companies we 
SMALL CAP VALUE
believe are attractively priced and poised to 
David S. Portny
benefit from significant and underappreciated  The Small Cap Value team seeks high-quality 
secular trends. While many defensive corners of the market lagged  businesses with above-average, sustainable growth 
in the second half of 2016, exposure to cyclicals—namely financials,  prospects selling at below-average valuations. We 
technology and industrials—drove returns, offsetting securities  focus on less volatile, less economically sensitive 
impacted by rising interest rates. Early in 2017 there remain pockets  businesses and avoid speculative names that 
of value across markets, especially for long-term investors seeking   are dependent on economic growth and require 
to arbitrage time horizons. As always, we remain dedicated in our  Robert W. D’Alelio healthy capital markets. Our 2016 performance 
search for companies we believe exhibit attractive business models   was in line with our expectation for participating in 
in both strong and weak economic environments. the up markets and mitigating market downturns. 
We captured over 85% of the Russell 2000 Index’s 
rally for the year, as speculative and economically 
sensitive companies outperformed. Over $28 
billion flowed into small-cap ETFs during the year, 
Judith M. Vale, CFA
in turn boosting the performance of micro caps 
and lower-quality names, areas we typically avoid. Looking ahead, we 
believe there are a number of uncertainties that could impact the market 
and lead to increased volatility. Against this backdrop, we believe our 
high-quality bias has the potential to be rewarded in 2017. In addition, 
we believe our companies with below-average leverage or net cash 
balance sheets could be relative winners in a rising-rate environment.
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 17
|  EQUITY  | 
SMALL CAP INTRINSIC VALUE MID CAP INTRINSIC VALUE
The Small Cap Intrinsic Value strategy seeks to  The Mid Cap Intrinsic Value strategy seeks to invest 
invest in companies that trade at a meaningful  in high-quality companies that trade at a meaningful  
discount to the team’s estimate of intrinsic value  discount to the team’s estimate of intrinsic value 
where a strategic event can potentially unlock  and where a strategic event could potentially unlock 
value. As a testament to our team’s research   value. In 2016 a healthy level of company-specific 
capabilities, nine portfolio companies were acquired  events enhanced portfolio returns—12 holdings 
Benjamin H. Nahum in 2016. While relative performance was challeng- Michael C. Greene were acquired, disposed of significant assets or 
ing this year, we believe that many stocks in the  made large acquisitions.  The portfolio also benefitted from its holdings 
portfolio are well positioned to benefit from the   in the energy sector as oil prices rebounded from very depressed levels. 
priorities of the Trump administration. As of  Post-election, many of the portfolio’s technology names came under  
December 31, 2016, over 12% of the portfolio was  pressure due to large foreign exposures. In anticipation of the adoption  
positioned to benefit from an increase in defense  of the new administration’s economic policies, we began to reposition the 
spending, 9% was levered toward infrastructure  portfolio toward the end of the year. We are especially concerned about a 
Amit Solomon, PhD
spending and industrial growth, and 9% was  potential border tax; hence, we started to reduce or eliminate a number  
invested in regional banks, which can benefit most  of our holdings in the retail sector. In 2017 we anticipate additional  
from lower taxes and regulatory reform. In our  opportunities to arise in the health care sector, as many of these stocks 
view, the issue for investors in 2017 is how much of  have come under unrelenting selling pressure due to uncertainty about 
the new administration’s legislative agenda will be  the future of the Affordable Care Act.  While relative performance  
enacted and what will be the specific details. This  was challenging in 2016, we believe that 2017 should become more 
is where investor optimism may collide with reality,  conducive to stock picking, as a reduction in monetary stimulus could 
James F. McAree
which could result in a turbulent year.  lead to lower stock market correlations. 
SMALL AND MID CAP GROWTH MASTER LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS: THE RACHLIN GROUP
Our team seeks to identify small- and mid-cap com- The Rachlin Group manages income-oriented equity 
panies trading at what we believe are compelling  strategies focused on master limited partnerships 
prices based on a strong competitive position, a  (MLPs) that have the potential to generate attractive  
healthy financial state and an identifiable—and  dividend yields with a growth component. The 
ideally unappreciated—catalyst for growth. Both  group seeks investments with strong, recurring cash 
of our strategies actively challenge their bench- flows anchored by long-term fee-based contracts. 
Kenneth J. Turek, CFA marks and peer groups through high conviction  Douglas A. Rachlin Only certain MLPs meet the team’s criteria for 
out-of-index positions and reasonable over- and under-weight alloca- long-term appreciation potential; the companies 
tions at both the sector and industry levels, while still maintaining the  identified have favorable debt metrics and generate 
appropriate aggregate-level style and market capitalization expectations  sustainable cash flow that enables each company 
for mid-cap and small-cap growth mandates. We have the flexibility to  to maintain and grow distributions through market 
undertake upward of one-third out-of-index exposure as we look to  cycles. After falling 25% within the first six weeks of 
identify under-owned and under-followed companies offering potentially  the year, the Alerian MLP Index recovered to finish 
Yves C. Siegel, CFA
underappreciated catalysts. In what could be an increasingly unpredict- 2016 up 18%. Once crude oil prices bottomed, 
able investment environment ahead, that flexibility to pursue intriguing  MLP unit prices began to recover and decouple from commodity prices. 
opportunities could prove to be key. The market dislocation for MLPs brought on by the steep fall in energy 
prices enabled the group to selectively increase and/or add new names 
with strong balance sheets, competitively positioned assets and greater 
potential for future growth.
  18 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
|  INSIGHTS  | 
U.S. AND GLOBAL REITs
The Global REITs team seeks 
total return through investment 
in real estate securities, empha-
sizing both income and capital 
appreciation. Throughout 2016 
the team maintained our quality 
Steve S. Shigekawa Anton Kwang, CFA bias, investing in companies 
with high-quality assets, strong 
balance sheets, lower leverage 
than other REITs and lower, 
but sustainable and growing, 
dividend yields. We adjusted 
our portfolio toward the end of 
Brian C. Jones, CFA Gillian Tiltman 
2016, increasing exposure to 
 
property sectors and geographic regions we found attractively valued 
and likely to prosper post-election. For instance, we increased our   CIO WEEKLY PERSPECTIVES
exposure to Washington, DC, office space, as DC has been out of favor 
for several years and fundamentals appear to be bottoming there. We 
Each week, our CIO Weekly Perspectives blog  
like the prospects for DC post-election, as potential fiscal stimulus for  
delivers timely insights from the leaders of our 
infrastructure and defense spending could be positives for growth and for 
Equity, Fixed Income and Multi-Asset Class  
real estate investments in that region. We remain focused on companies 
platforms. Offering interpretation of the factors 
with management teams that can capitalize on pricing differences 
between the public and private real estate markets.  driving financial markets in an approachable 
format, CIO Weekly Perspectives seeks to prepare 
investors for the risks and opportunities that  
EQUITY RESEARCH lie ahead. 
The Equity Research team is an autonomous group  To subscribe to CIO Weekly Perspectives, please 
of research professionals singularly focused on  contact us at CIOweekly@nb.com.
uncovering investment opportunities in support of 
Neuberger Berman’s portfolio management teams 
and, thus, in pursuit of our clients’ goals. Driven by 
a strong culture of accountability and teamwork, 
Timothy F. Creedon, CFA
our 40-member research department subjects 
companies to rigorous, disciplined analysis to generate stock recommen-
dations with a long-term perspective. We now cover more than 1,000 
companies, representing 95% of the Russell 1000 Index by market cap 
and approximately 70% of the MSCI ACWI by market cap. We share our 
knowledge on stocks and sectors across the organization in a spirit of 
true collaboration. In addition, our analysts’ best ideas are aggregated  
in the Research Opportunity strategy, a portfolio consisting of all buy- 
rated names in research weighted by conviction and a key driver of 
analyst compensation.
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 19
|  PERSPECTIVES  | 
INGRID S. DYOTT CÉLINE S. DUFÉTEL
PORTFOLIO MANAGER/CO-HEAD, SRI TEAM HEAD OF MARKETING AND CLIENT SERVICE
OUR COMMITMENT TO ESG 
“ We take seriously our  Since our first application of “avoidance screens” in the 1940s to the launch 
of our Socially Responsive Investment team, Neuberger Berman has long 
engagement across 
been on the forefront of integrating environmental, social and governance 
economic and ESG 
(ESG) criteria into the investment process. We have continued to build upon 
matters with the  
this legacy, driven by our belief that companies with proactive leadership 
companies whose  strategies in place to manage ESG-related risks and opportunities have the 
securities we own.” potential to be industry leaders with sustainable competitive advantages  
and thus offer the potential for long-term investment performance. As of 
December 31, 2016, more than 30% of our assets under management have 
explicit ESG criteria.
To drive continued improvement in the ESG space, in 2012 we became signatories 
to the UN-sponsored Principles for Responsible Investment and also established an 
in-house ESG Committee. The committee is responsible for setting goals, measuring 
our performance and furthering our ESG expertise. We take seriously our engagement 
across economic and ESG matters, be it in direct meetings with management,  
engagement with boards of directors or as part of the proxy-voting process with 
the companies whose securities we own.
In early 2017 we hired Jonathan Bailey as Head of ESG Investing. Formerly director  
of research for Focusing Capital on the Long Term, a not-for-profit think tank he 
helped launch while at McKinsey & Company, Jonathan will lead our ESG effort across 
investment teams and work closely with research on our proprietary approach to  
ESG integration.
20 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
|  BUSINESS REVIEW: FIXED INCOME  | 
“ Despite the changes underway  
in markets, the desire for income—
and its relative scarcity—persists,  
suggesting an ongoing need to be 
BRAD C. TANK
tactical around market opportunities  CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER—FIXED INCOME
and to capture additional sources of 
return as they emerge.”
THE END OF AN ERA
Though most fixed income markets delivered positive returns in 2016, it was a turbulent year, with investors battered periodi-
cally by a variety of macroeconomic and geopolitical concerns, from China and the energy complex to Brexit and the U.S.  
elections. After drifting lower in the first half of 2016, yield on the 10-year Treasury changed direction midyear and accelerated 
its ascent following the U.S. elections, a move that coincided with a much more optimistic re-pricing of risk assets in the U.S., 
namely stocks and credit spreads. We believe this reflects a dramatic shift in the markets’ views with respect to growth and 
inflation, and an end to the era of zero interest rate policy in the U.S. For a long-term investor who has spent years struggling 
to find real income in the higher-quality bond markets, this era is ending none too soon.
Thus we find ourselves in the early stages of a new investment  As always, we looked to be strategic with our resources in 2016. We 
paradigm in which we believe investment performance across asset  added headcount to work with financial institutions, specifically banks 
classes will likely be driven more by self-sustaining economic growth  and insurance companies, and we continued to build out our credit 
supported by structural reform and aggressive fiscal policy and less  research staff, as corporate credit remains central to what we do here 
by extraordinary levels of central bank accommodation. Despite these  at Neuberger Berman.  
changes underway in markets, however, the desire for income—and  
We’ve clearly entered a new investment environment, with the year 
its relative scarcity—persists, suggesting an ongoing need to be  
ahead holding the potential for a variety of pro-growth initiatives—
tactical around market opportunities and to capture additional sources  
from tax reform to eased regulations across industries—and a fair 
of return as they emerge. 
bit of risk. Moreover, we find ourselves in a situation in which the 
The fixed income markets have had a rolling top in place for the past  signal-to-noise ratio is skewed heavily to the latter, making it all the 
few years, and the broad bull market that has characterized the space  more crucial—and challenging—to distinguish between important, 
for the past 30 years is largely over. With fixed income markets some- impactful information and useless speculation. 
what out of phase, the lack of synchronization among its components 
should provide an opportunity for investors able to diversify effectively 
across the spectrum. In this environment, we have more clients coming 
to us for multi-asset class solutions in fixed income, and we expect 
to continue to partner with them in mandates that provide flexibility 
across markets globally. 
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 21 
|  FIXED INCOME  | 
GLOBAL INVESTMENT GRADE FIXED INCOME INTEREST RATES AND INFLATION
The 44-person Global Investment Grade Fixed Income team manages more 
than $56 billion in assets for clients worldwide as of December 31, 2016. The 
team’s investment platform is structured to navigate the broad global fixed 
income universe, utilizing a proprietary multi-sector framework (State-Space 
Analysis) to evaluate investment opportunities across sectors including credit, 
global sovereigns, securitized, emerging markets debt and multiple others. 
Andrew A. Johnson Thanos Bardas, PhD
With global rates falling sharply and corporate spreads deteriorating at the 
CORPORATE CREDIT
beginning of 2016, we saw an opportunity to underweight sovereign debt and overweight those 
spread sectors impacted beyond what fundamentals would imply. Due to repressively low interest 
rates across the developed world, we were underweight rates in the U.S., Germany and Japan. 
Rates began to trend higher midyear, but it was not until after the November U.S. elections and a 
sharp selloff in U.S. Treasuries that we moved to neutral interest rate exposure in the U.S. Though 
global rates followed, we remained underweight interest rate exposure in Germany and Japan. We 
retained an exposure to New Zealand and Australia bonds throughout the year.
David M. Brown, CFA Julian H. Marks, CFA
Within investment grade credit, portfolios benefitted from strong security selection as well as 
the team’s decision to overweight sectors offering higher yields, like BBB-rated industrial issuers.  GLOBAL AND CURRENCY
Underweights in underperforming sectors such as non-corporates and European banks also were 
beneficial to portfolios. 
Investors for the last few years have had little concern for inflation; in fact, the risk of deflation 
has been a focus for central banks. While core inflation in the U.S. had been running over target, 
headline inflation dipped under 1% with the help of early-year declines in oil prices. The market’s 
inflation expectations for the next 10 years fell to 1.2% before rising to close out the year at 2%, 
Jon B. Jonsson Ugo Lancioni
benefitting our exposure to U.S. Treasury inflation-protected securities.  
Currencies fluctuated significantly in 2016, as the search for yield early in the year was overwhelmed  STRUCTURED PRODUCTS
by politics, including the U.K.’s referendum to leave the European Union and the U.S. presidential  
election. While the dollar weakened early in the year, that trend reversed strongly throughout the 
second half; notably, the British pound declined nearly 16% versus the dollar in 2016. Currencies of 
commodity-centric economies like Canada, Australia, Norway and New Zealand all strengthened.
Turning to securitized assets, we began the year with a neutral position in U.S. agency MBS relative  
to the benchmark. During the course of the year we increased our weighting to higher-coupon 
Terrence J. Glomski Thomas A. Sontag
mortgages within the sector in the belief that prepayment fears were overdone. We were a bit  
early but were rewarded as rates sold off following the U.S. elections. Exposure to non-agency  
MULTI-SECTOR
MBS benefitted portfolios, as deleveraging consumers, stable housing prices and attractive  
supply-demand dynamics helped the sector. 
We anticipate 2017 will be an eventful year, as the focus shifts from central bank policy to fiscal and 
political influences.  As the market determines policy paths and the impact across sectors, countries 
and industries, having a broad tool kit and the ability to navigate tactically should be quite useful.
Ronit M. Walny, CFA Thomas J. Marthaler, CFA
  22 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
GLOBAL NON-INVESTMENT GRADE CREDIT SENIOR FLOATING RATE LOANS
Thomas P. O’Reilly, CFA Vivek Bommi, CFA Russ Covode Stephen J. Casey, CFA Joseph P. Lynch Martin J. Rotheram Pim M. van Schie
Our Senior Floating Rate Loan team seeks attractive risk-adjusted returns 
through the disciplined management of credit quality and industry analysis. 
Our approach typically leads to a portfolio of larger and more liquid loans 
from issuers with stronger fundamentals than the market as a whole. At 
year-end 2016, more than 90% of the loans in our portfolio were from 
Daniel J. Doyle, CFA Patrick H. Flynn, CFA Andrew Wilmont, CFA issuances greater than $500 million and were rated B or higher. In 2016, 
distressed and lower-quality loans significantly outperformed the BB and B 
Driven by our 40-plus person dedicated global credit 
parts of the senior floating rate loan market, as investors added risk to their 
research team, our Global Non-Investment Grade Credit 
portfolios by overweighting these portions of the market. Across our U.S. and 
platform employs a disciplined process that seeks downside 
global loan portfolios we maintained our focus on quality, underweighting 
risk mitigation with upside potential. We began 2016  
stressed industries such as energy and metals and mining. This negatively 
with an underweight to commodity-related sectors, which 
impacted 2016 performance, but we believe it has the potential to provide 
represented approximately 15% of the high yield market, 
investors with better risk-adjusted returns in 2017, as the majority of the 
as we were plagued by two years of falling oil prices and  
leveraged loan market enters the year trading at or near par and total  
a number of headline defaults. The prolonged selloff in 
returns during the year should be driven mostly by coupons. The market  
commodities provided investment opportunities in fallen 
today is pricing in approximately a 2.7% implied default rate, which is 
angels and other higher-quality names, and we rotated into 
slightly higher than our 2017 expectations of 1.5 – 2.0%. We believe that 
these sectors during the first quarter as oil prices doubled. 
moderate U.S. economic growth will likely lead to several interest rate hikes 
This rotation enabled our portfolios to participate in the 
this year, which should be constructive for senior floating rate loans. The  
returns subsequently delivered by the commodity-related 
CLO market should provide a steady underlying bid for loans as many  
sectors, which led the high yield market to double-digit 
managers have raised equity capital to address the new risk-retention rules. 
performance for 2016. We maintain our belief that the U.S. 
In addition, we believe CLO debt tranches remain attractive given their 
high yield market is compensating investors for default 
floating rate coupon and our expectation for low loan defaults.
risk and that defaults are likely to remain below historical 
averages (approximately 3.5%) in 2017 as U.S. economic 
growth improves.  Volatility could increase as the year 
progresses, possibly driven by uncertainties regarding future 
fiscal and monetary policy, global economic growth and 
geopolitical issues.  Within European high yield we expect 
coupon-driven returns after a strong performance in 2016 
driven by capital appreciation.  Despite political uncer-
tainties, we view the health of European corporate bonds 
favorably and envision stable income-driven returns.
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 23
|  FIXED INCOME  | 
EMERGING MARKETS DEBT 
Our multisite Emerging Markets Debt team offers clients a full range of EMD capabilities with 28 dedicated  
specialists focused on hard currency, local currency and corporate investment strategies, all of which 
incorporate environmental, social and governance factors as part of the fundamental research process. 
The past year saw a meaningful turnaround in both performance and flows into the asset class. Strategic 
investors continued to invest even when EMD was under pressure over the past few years, but the real 
turnaround for the asset class has been from retail mutual fund investors, who came back significantly 
Rob J. Drijkoningen Gorky R. Urquieta after withdrawing money for some years. J.P. Morgan reports that nearly $43 billion flowed into the asset 
class in 2016. Total returns were 10.2% for hard currency sovereigns, 9.9% for local currency sovereigns and 10.4% for hard-currency corporate 
bonds (as represented by the J.P. Morgan EMBI Global Diversified, GBI-EM Global Diversified and CEMBI Diversified indexes, respectively). Our 
Emerging Markets Debt strategies reached their three-year anniversaries this year as the team topped $10 billion in assets under management. 
Our near-term outlook for the asset class is clouded by the themes of a stronger dollar, rising Fed hike expectations and potential negative trade 
developments. However, we believe the adverse global environment likely will be balanced by stronger fundamentals, amid higher commodity 
prices and the sharp EM FX depreciation of the past years having resulted in improved current account balances in EM countries.
SPECIAL SITUATIONS  MUNICIPAL FIXED INCOME
Michael J. Holmberg Brendan McDermott, CPA Ravi K. Soni James L. Iselin S. Blake Miller, CFA James A. Lyman
The Special Situations team invests in companies and assets affected  Our 16-person Municipal Fixed Income team comprises 10 portfolio  
by a lack of liquidity in their sectors. We provide liquidity to unnatural  managers and six research analysts who work collaboratively to 
holders or forced sellers by purchasing debt or assets from them that  manage more than $10 billion in municipal assets. Bottom-up 
we believe are intrinsically undervalued. We target hard assets to miti- fundamental analysis is the cornerstone of our investment process. 
gate downside risk and avoid asset-light holdings such as those found  Our deeply experienced analysts perform extensive research across 
in the service and technology sectors. In 2016 we took advantage of  our investable universe, backed by our proprietary state-of-the-art 
volatile markets and a general lack of market liquidity for distressed  research system. Security selection and our somewhat barbelled yield 
assets to selectively add exposure in the automotive, energy, metals,  curve positioning was additive to returns in 2016 and helped us to 
real estate and shipping sectors, where we felt certain assets were  deliver a preservation of capital outcome in volatile market condi-
intrinsically undervalued. The team will actively engage in a holding’s  tions. In addition, having ample liquidity in portfolios was helpful 
restructuring process when necessary to maximize value. For example,  in the fourth quarter, as we were able to execute beneficial tax-loss 
in 2016 we completed a debt-for-equity swap on a Chicago infrastruc- swaps in many client portfolios. Looking ahead, we believe that the 
ture asset. We stabilized the asset’s operations and invested in deferred  debate around President Trump’s fiscal and tax proposals may lead 
capital expenditures while placing on its board an industry expert with  to renewed volatility. We will continue to maintain a high degree of 
strong local government relationships.  issuer diversification and ample liquidity in our municipal strategies, 
thereby providing us with the ability to take advantage of potential 
attractive investment opportunities.
  24 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
|  INSIGHTS  | 
FIXED INCOME RESEARCH
With experienced analysts 
across investment grade, 
non-investment grade and 
emerging markets, our  FINNeIubXeVrgFINeEeNrE uIBbDeXerSVrmgae ETnrE I BFNeiDMxrSemda C InTnE IcFoiNMOxmeNed  IICMnnETvceosmOt NmeEO eInnMvT t eSU stt rmaEOteTengt y LS U CtroaOmtTemgyiOtL tCeoeOmKmitO teeK 
Fixed Income Research  1Q20117Q2017
Stephen J. Flaherty, CFA Christopher J. Kocinski, CFA ttehaamt ms ashrkaerte  mthisep briecliinegf s  TAqostAtphuhsfh  oXaaaesptrret  aeet iRnnaern tiirvrEont eleoiyFrva s  fleTAqosttplOript  khhheosmAUufosoeRt aepau atsm.rXlpet reSoyMetrri ennaf tn.  arenco t eRtrtvrtti noio t nrleoaiIefEil atl mSoar vyoxsri lloFmv ne  t  i fpkmrmUrAmimO sdeeepoeot. spwfiaemRS lautrGoyctnomtn.chrs Marf et aAtrtt moepcoe twn agil ol  Menn aixtfsNIeoiim r,m t.ntvSv rore h Etesedmit mhmuepiA os fnsfwCitbaoa rcsi   mptoctee nraGHsmihmrtmrsapa eo gAwAesciegnesnuv  ehna.,MNNeitivet rd  cttrh erse G hsBireoEentsiuo nieottffcE sgbsumr  rCt  tose Rmpioerhcs Haenmorrrsleaiogcn sueuAf  nh.vetFoean r Ni   ri  crdrtFWsxfi oe srBeieiGtxox ntfhcewdiu eetsgEtter hdsdrhoimI  Rtn nc   cerohaIisl caonn iuf  .eFocnbo mccri numoxo a WrFfiti ermcmntsierxdxkhi eg teweeed Iehn nId  dn1r i tIpvcton a  c2ihlIeionp vanno b smmect ccvmtoafosuomeoioctfnemsrmm rknert cgmeImdenthene nhr1 , tavnepo I ts2ntenOtn ,lphia s  vgntSam uette oevmtnfit snroeof Cldtaio esnsrmncot iomtntgh etmmWoekhtgha, n   seOmnyteeta,ts nhg xxs uC,aiSapthe tettn totm lilih eronConidmaniergioss onte  ti mtkeWmgmioe osr gh s ieeneatemty ttxshte,sxs ehe aCihe,tpDte amset itoln. iCeor hn mcimiCgemrni,ahse  tooeamu m o pitnrsnnsgoneai  etdtstutscp,hteihh  esterDilate taceyaesoicsC  l n r. tirif mc mnoog, Ch as  aopo sutnna nogdtcsphu tiasi lrcoytcasi frnlt   oogs  s 
provide opportunities 
to add value for those 
with unique insights and 
conviction if extracted 
without exposing portfolios  FIXED INCOME  
to undue risk. We have the 
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK 
Jennifer R. Gorgoll, CFA Nish V. Popat  ability to wed these notions 
thanks to the fundamental 
research—comprising economic analysis, sector and issuer spread  The Fixed Income Investment Strategy Committee, 
relationships, cash flow analysis and credit assessment—of analysts 
comprising senior portfolio managers from across 
within each sector, who interact daily with our portfolio managers 
our Fixed Income platform, meets monthly to 
to ensure we make well-informed decisions for clients. In 2016 our 
share opinions and insights and thus shape the 
fixed income research resources—119 portfolio managers, research 
asset allocation of our multi-sector strategies. The 
analysts and economists/strategists—conducted approximately 1,000 
committee publishes a quarterly report detailing 
management meetings worldwide, a reflection of our commitment 
to proactive, bottom-up research. In addition, we continued to host  its market outlook and analyzing in depth the 
research training programs for personnel from key institutional clients  topics driving financial markets today. 
so they could better understand our process.
To subscribe to Fixed Income Investment Outlook, 
please contact us at FIoutlook@nb.com.
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 25
|  PERSPECTIVES  | 
HEATHER P. ZUCKERMAN
CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER
OUR COMMITMENT TO OUR CULTURE
My co-workers are good people who care about doing the right thing. There is a 
legitimate ‘client first’ culture that makes me proud.
The freedom to be creative in the role, while maintaining the same goals, is what  
I consider a large facet of success.
“ We start with a need  This is how a couple of our colleagues described our firm in the Pensions & Investments 
2016 Best Places to Work in Money Management survey. Why should our clients, counter-
for data, and we  
parties and potential new hires care?
combine that with  
These cultural traits meaningfully translate into higher retention rates for senior investment 
a workforce who  
professionals, stronger client alignment and resourcing, and, finally, employees who feel 
feels respected   comfortable weighing in about how we can continue to be a best place to work.
and heard; the end  We are often asked how we achieved these results, especially because—reflecting the 
diversity of views we so highly cherish—each employee assigns a different value to our 
result is that we  
firm’s attributes and initiatives. While it would be impressive to say that we had a multi-year 
make well-informed  
strategic plan, it was far more basic than that. This award is about our people—and their 
decisions that   passion and commitment to our clients.
benefit our clients.” We ask a lot of questions, knowing it helps us make better decisions. We share our feedback 
on everything, from workplace design to strategic direction. We believe deeply in account-
ability and transparency; in fact, to reinforce our “open door” philosophy, our senior leader-
ship team in our New York headquarters is on the same floor as our cafeteria (aptly named 
“The Exchange”—an acknowledgment of markets, but also a reflection of the ideas and 
feedback exchanged in the space). We start with a need for data, and we combine that with 
a workforce who feels respected; the end result is that we make well-informed decisions 
that benefit our clients.
To make those well-informed decisions, our people care deeply about being clients. Our 
retirement benefits and Employee Investment Solutions program helps our employees, at all 
levels, think like clients—they asset allocate, they benchmark performance, and they expect 
best-in-class service. This alignment serves all of us well.
Importantly, we always seek to improve and do better. This year, our custom-designed  
employee survey will elicit even more honest, constructive feedback, and we look forward 
to seeing the next set of innovative ideas from our people.
26 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
|  BUSINESS REVIEW: ALTERNATIVES  | 
“ We believe that 2017 will  
bring increased opportunity  
for alternatives, building on the 
momentum from last year.”
ANTHONY D. TUTRONE
GLOBAL HEAD OF ALTERNATIVES
A CONTINUED SOURCE OF COMPELLING OPPORTUNITIES
The alternatives market continued to be robust in 2016, as investors sought differentiated and uncorrelated returns to public 
markets through private investment structures. We believe that 2017 will bring increased opportunity for alternatives, building  
on the momentum from last year, when alternatives overall provided compelling investment opportunities and generated 
attractive returns (as evidenced by the performance of the HFRI and the Cambridge Associates indexes) despite the volatility  
in public markets and the highly charged political environment with Brexit and the U.S. elections. 
For the upcoming year, we expect corporate fundamentals to be the  We remain bullish on private credit, which, like other areas of private 
key driver of stock prices once again, providing hedge fund managers  equity, captures alternative sources of risk premia, in this case illiquidity 
the opportunity to generate alpha on both the long and short side.  and complexity. In addition, private credit is somewhat insulated 
Within the hedge fund space, we also favor directional hedged strategies  from high valuations and can provide an attractive cash yield. While 
like CTAs and macro hedge funds that stand to benefit from potential  the Volcker Rule limiting banks’ proprietary trading activities could 
increases in commodity prices and interest rates. In addition, we  be repealed, we believe it is very unlikely that banks will be able to 
also believe that rising interest rates in the U.S. will make for a more  rebuild their presence in this market over the next 12 months, if at all. 
challenging environment for highly leveraged, lower-quality companies.  Increased M&A activity, should the new administration take a less in-
This, in turn, should create opportunities for hedge fund and private  terventionist approach to deals, will likely bolster this supply of private 
equity distressed debt managers. debt as well.
We remain bullish on private equity relative to other asset classes. We  Throughout 2016, Neuberger Berman Alternatives continued to be an 
think that private equity will benefit from robust financing markets and  active investor and innovator in alternatives investments. The team 
reduced regulations. However, like most asset classes, valuations are  launched its ‘40 Act-registered private equity business and also a 
high, so investors should be cautious of private equity strategies that  strategy focused on capitalizing on dislocations in the credit market by 
rely on buying cheap or exiting at higher valuation multiples. Instead,  investing in less liquid, misunderstood and mispriced debt of private 
we believe investors would be better served focusing on private equity  equity-backed companies.  Furthermore, we increased activity in our 
strategies predicated on making significant strategic and operational  existing businesses, holding final closes for our latest funds across 
improvements in companies that will accelerate earnings growth.  diversified private equity, secondaries, private debt and private equity 
minority stakes businesses.
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 27 
|  ALTERNATIVES  | 
PRIVATE INVESTMENT PORTFOLIOS SECONDARY INVESTMENTS
Peter J. von Lehe Jonathan D. Shofet John P. Buser Brian G. Talbot Tristram C. Perkins Ethan A. Falkove Benjamin B. Perl
Our Secondary investment team is focused on acquiring high-quality private 
equity assets from all types of sellers, including traditional limited partnership 
interests as well as opportunistically direct co-investments from investors 
seeking early liquidity, pursuing portfolios of directs or “synthetic secondaries,” 
and investing in structured secondary solutions, royalties, hedge fund side 
pockets and credit-related opportunities. The team was particularly active in 
Brien P. Smith Patricia Miller Zollar Paul D.S. Daggett
2016, having reviewed approximately 200 opportunities. Looking to 2017, 
we are optimistic that attractive opportunities will again present themselves 
Our Private Investment Portfolios team constructs diver-
as the growth drivers of recent years—the expanding universe of sellers, 
sified private equity portfolios investing in primary and 
changing regulations, more active portfolio management and the growth  
secondary fund commitments and direct co-investments 
in private equity generally—are, in our opinion, sustainable long-term trends. 
in private equity backed companies across asset classes, 
Finally, we note that a secondary strategy can benefit from broader market 
industries and geographies. The team reviewed over 640 
volatility in terms of increased deal flow and more favorable pricing. In addition, 
opportunities in 2016 seeking out the best value-creation 
we have seen general partners begin to embrace the secondary market as 
opportunities, resulting in an overweight to small- and 
a way to solve complex issues and help generate liquidity for their existing 
mid-cap buyout, operational turnarounds and growth 
limited partners, a trend that we expect to continue. 
equity investments compared to the private equity market. 
In 2017, with public and private equity markets fully (or 
RENAISSANCE PARTNERS
nearly fully) priced, we expect private equity sponsors to 
continue the trend of the past several years of aggres-
sively seeking realizations in their portfolios. Even in a 
slow-growth economy, private equity has the potential  
to produce strong returns by identifying established  
but under-managed companies and implementing  
improvements in strategy and operations. For private  
equity investors, as in all asset classes, risks abound 
Fabio C. Cane Marco Cerrina Feroni Stefano Bontempelli
around the globe and investors will face difficult decisions 
in identifying and measuring risks and potential upsides. Renaissance Partners focuses on private equity investments in Italian companies across 
industries and capitalizations, with an emphasis on leading growth-oriented, export- 
driven multinationals. Our outlook for 2017 continues to be positive. As the fourth-largest 
economy and the second-largest producer and exporter of industrial goods in Europe,  
Italy provides an abundant supply of family-owned mid-cap companies, which are in 
large part affected by family succession issues and the need of capital to grow in the  
international markets. Furthermore, Italian private and public market valuations have 
been trading at a discount compared to the rest of Europe and the U.S., further increasing 
the attractiveness of the opportunity set for the Renaissance team.
  28 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
CO-INVESTMENTS DYAL CAPITAL
David S. Stonberg David H. Morse Michael S. Kramer Jacquelyn A. Wang Joana Rocha Scaff Michael D. Rees Sean J. Ward
2016 was a busy year for our Co-Investment team, which reviewed approximately 190   Dyal Capital seeks to acquire minority 
investment opportunities. Our team seeks to select the best deals available from high-quality  equity interests in institutional alternative 
private equity firms in their core areas of expertise. The team navigated the 2016 market of  asset management firms. In 2016, the 
elevated valuations and high leverage by sourcing “off-market” opportunities, which presented  Dyal team completed five transactions, 
relatively more attractive pricing and offered greater protection of the downside while also  acquiring minority stakes in four private 
retaining significant upside. As an example, we were able to invest in Duff & Phelps in partner- equity funds and one hedge fund. The 
ship with Carlyle Global Financial Services Partners and management. We expect to continue  year ended on a high note for both private 
this strategy in 2017. equity and hedge funds, as performance 
proved resilient through a variety of 
significant and unexpected market events, 
MARQUEE BRANDS including Brexit and Donald Trump’s 
election as president of the United States. 
Marquee Brands acquires, licenses and develops  We anticipate that increased asset price 
high-quality consumer brands across various segments  volatility will provide significant opportu-
with the goal of expanding their reach across channels,  nities for managers whose fund structures 
geographies and product categories. In 2016, we  allow them to take the long view and, for 
continued to see a divergent trend in growth between  hedge funds, to invest both long and short. 
traditional brick-and-mortar stores and e-commerce.  For 2017, we expect our segment of the 
Samuel N. Porat Zachary P. Sigel While the brick-and-mortar retail environment is  alternative asset management space to 
challenged, it has created a significant opportunity to acquire strong brand names that have  remain attractive as managers’ demand 
traditionally been thought of as retailers and has caused traditional retailers to need to further  for permanent capital to facilitate platform 
differentiate themselves by offering the customer a unique brand experience. We feel that we  development, generational transfer, new 
can take advantage of this dislocation and believe we are well positioned to continue to build  product launches and other strategic 
our portfolio as distressed operating companies with strong brands become available. initiatives continues to grow.
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 29
|  ALTERNATIVES  | 
PRIVATE CREDIT GLOBAL LONG SHORT CREDIT
Our Private Credit team invests in  Our Global Long Short Credit 
the debt of private equity-owned  strategy seeks to offer an 
companies, seeking to capitalize  approach to credit investing 
on inefficiencies arising from  that serves as a complement 
illiquidity and complexity. Over  to “long only” traditional 
the last several years, volatility  fixed income management, 
Susan B. Kasser, CFA David J. Lyon has become the “new normal,”  Norman Milner D. Richard Dowdle delivering a return profile 
driven by technical imbalances, regulatory uncertainty, and macroeconomic   unavailable in an index. We 
and geopolitical instability. We believe that continued volatility may present   construct a balanced, nimble 
compelling investment opportunities in both primary and secondary markets,   portfolio of long and short 
as issuers seek greater flexibility and certainty with trusted partners, and as  holdings across a wide array 
certain credit market participants are forced to sell down exposures in the  of corporate and sovereign 
face of unexpected liquidity shocks. Recently, expectations of rising interest  debt. During 2016 the high 
rates and the perception of a pro-business macroeconomic backdrop have  Itai Baron Darren L. Carter yield market recovered and 
led to strong loan inflows and a borrower-friendly environment, generally  posted double-digit returns, and we saw a powerful rally in cyclical 
characterized by higher leverage and lower pricing. Structural imbalances  material and energy credits. We were able to take advantage of this 
in the second-lien market, highlighted by increased fund flows, increase the  rally and benefit from significant selloffs in investment grade and 
likelihood of future market volatility. We believe that any reversal of investor  emerging markets debt. We expect to see similar opportunities in 
sentiment will drive significant opportunities in private credit. In 2016  2017, on both the long as well as the short side. 
alone, the team reviewed approximately 170 investment opportunities,  
and we expect deal flow to continue to be robust. 
PRINCIPAL STRATEGIES GROUP
LONG SHORT EQUITY The Principal Strategies Group 
employs a market-neutral,  
With the ability to invest  style factor minimized approach 
long and short as well as in  to event-driven investing. 
fixed income, our Long Short  We employ two principal 
Equity strategy seeks capital  sub-strategies: risk arbitrage 
appreciation with a second- Joseph Rotter Judd M. Arnold and market-neutral catalyst. 
ary objective of principal  Our team seeks to generate 
Charles C. Kantor Marc A. Regenbaum preservation. During 2016,  absolute returns with minimal 
which marked the five-year anniversary for our ‘40 Act mutual  correlation to market indexes. 
fund, we maintained our net long-bias holding portfolio exposure  We began managing  
between 40% and 55% net long. At the end of 2016 we remain  investor assets in fourth 
positioned for a modest recovery driven by solid recent economic  quarter 2016. We see a robust 
data and a regime change from monetary to fiscal policy in the   Sean M. Badcock Gabe Cahill opportunity set in 2017 driven 
U.S. The timing as well as the actual policies enacted will have a   by industry consolidation, regulatory and political change, and potential 
divergent effect on the various sectors and sub-sectors of the market,  disruption from changes in monetary policy. Our team’s process-driven 
creating opportunities on both the long and the short side. Thus   approach and market-neutral hedging construct are well suited for the 
the policy details will matter a great deal in 2017 and beyond.  current environment. 
  30 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
|  INSIGHTS  | 
HEDGE FUND SOLUTIONS GROUP
Driven by focused and  
disciplined due diligence and 
decision-making processes, 
the Hedge Fund Solutions 
toepapmo rstueenkitsie isn vweistthm aenn t    HPNeuEEberRDger SBGeHPrPmEaEEnE A RDlCtFerSnUTGatiPvIeNE VIEnv eDCEsFtmSe UTn t  IMN2Vana0DgEem1Se n7 t 2 017 
Dreatvuidr Gn. sK,u lpopwerm vaon,l aPhtDilit Jye faf An.d M laojiwt, C sFAensitivitye tmo pbhroaasidse or nm aabrksoetlu mteo  ve- MUUmst..aSroSar..rk t eiWeen gtftsreeie e rabqsep eusmptlei eeranaavytetr  ed b tMUUmshNsieost e.. ral oaeSSoiabdmnrr..ctuege  kdeaiWp en eb gatfah ttirteifeosceeei ug  atnrqrsbaneehn gsupemdsd e elpetci sirn aebone  rrflvcyvayuta oa  ee tBrlbdtednl c hahetiest  sotelti  eleoriiaho  lmdbimaennrtcgdivye pdav,poea   eta atao hilo ncovftsiiiut ni ngn n aeown tAhsngdtp,d hee  c  pldsiibilrontnsl o r yec vuflviarnv aoetlrsteedenuh lsncanaw t netltatmn ei ihibo teltaetiieryintveidcniy nvvo sit, vppet. hteli a vooa rIeli onisa ntin In oenn pw ngttptddmoh,h vep  istidndiseleecosl evr na nprsainervptttusetue,seie  amgbtwanan.mluln si i ttecb leteriataeiaynhnnctts niievtitto.po hs i  lrInapinanMeott oin,  anoe pttdwnadhmneosd i ennstcdet e  otafianeepinpa rsxtugatel,eca i  bgaafe.apmolllusiem  cr itslrn taartighaoeiettmrieind ooneh su napntooitlt,o ufiw eao wtsrrnen   iceisdan neit n nte ofiritdgatx hsaa la c ei fmnap ol e irsn rtgieiomr edhua ootlwuef sr r  ciaisenninr dttgah  ien  
ments. Over the course of the last 12 months, we believe we  
have seen the emergence of an increasingly attractive environment 
for many hedge fund strategies.  More specifically, intra-stock  
correlations have dropped to pre-crisis levels, volatility has picked  
up across many markets and interest rates have begun to rise in  
the U.S.  As such, we believe it may be an optimal time to be invest- HEDGE FUND PERSPECTIVES
ing in hedge fund strategies following a tough period, driven largely 
by quantitative easing.  With easing seemingly over in the U.S., we  The hedge fund marketplace comprises a diverse 
believe the wind is now at the back of many strategies. As rates  
array of strategies in which both the dispersion  
tick up, shorting both equity and credit should become easier, as 
of performance and degree of opportunity 
companies whose problems have been masked by the ability to  
are sizable. Our Hedge Fund Solutions Group 
borrow cheaply become more exposed. Similarly, deregulation is  
publishes its annual Hedge Fund Perspectives 
leading to significant sector dispersion and presenting both long and 
to explore this dynamic landscape, analyzing 
short opportunities. This is particularly true in the health care, energy, 
and financial sectors. For macro and CTA strategies, the trends we   the trends and themes that may hold potential 
have seen emerging in currencies, fixed income and commodities  moving forward.
have made for a plethora of opportunities. Furthermore, as rates go 
To subscribe to Hedge Fund Perspectives, please 
up, we anticipate defaults increasing, which should make for a more 
contact us at HFperspectives@nb.com.
fertile field for credit/distressed managers. 
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 31
|  PERSPECTIVES  | 
ALAN H. DORSEY
CHIEF RISK OFFICER
OUR COMMITMENT TO RISK MANAGEMENT
“ A focus on collabora- Risk management is central to Neuberger Berman’s culture. As an employee- 
owned manager, Neuberger Berman is devoted to identifying and managing 
tion across Neuberger 
risk—risk to our clients, risk to our portfolios, risk to our reputation. 
Berman fosters an 
environment of open  We believe that fostering an environment of strong internal controls is vital. 
To this end, we have established a rigorous risk management framework 
discussion and problem 
that features dedicated investment and operational risk teams who work to 
solving, and it promotes 
protect client assets and our enterprise as a whole.
an alignment of our 
Internal risk guidelines are just a starting point. Our risk professionals—many of 
investment platform 
whom have backgrounds in investment research and portfolio management— 
with the best interests  act as an independent oversight for each portfolio management team’s invest-
ment exposures and process, supporting risk reviews with our chief investment 
of clients.”
officers and portfolio managers.  Risk personnel also act in collaboration with 
other control units of the firm, such as legal and compliance, asset management 
guideline oversight and internal audit. A focus on collaboration across Neuberger 
Berman fosters an environment of open discussion and problem solving, and it 
promotes an alignment of our investment platform with the best interests of  
clients. With a direct reporting line to Neuberger Berman’s Chief Executive Officer, 
our risk management structure is enhanced by an ability to escalate issues as 
necessary to firm leadership as well as to our commingled fund boards and board 
of directors. 
Throughout 2016, we improved our capabilities on both the investment and 
operational risk fronts, from the introduction of enhanced oversight and review 
processes to the establishment of new factor and stress tests. We expect more 
of the same in 2017, as we continuously evolve in order to manage risks to our 
clients and franchise. 
32 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
|  B  USINESS REVIEW: QUANTITATIVE AND MULTI-ASSET CLASS  | 
“ Investors are seeking solutions 
that provide not only the potential 
for attractive returns but also 
with better transparency into  
the underlying return drivers and  
daily liquidity.”
ERIK L. KNUTZEN, CFA, CAIA J. DOUGLAS KRAMER
CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER— CO-HEAD OF QUANTITATIVE AND 
MULTI-ASSET CLASS INVESTMENTS MULTI-ASSET CLASS INVESTMENTS 
DELIVERING TAILORED SOLUTIONS 
Investors continue to be laser-focused on improved outcomes in an environment of lower return outlooks and more complex 
risks. The Quantitative and Multi-Asset Class (QMAC) team seeks to address these needs by delivering solutions tailored to 
specific investment objectives and strategies that seek to capture compensated factor exposures transparently, efficiently and 
with a high degree of liquidity.  In fact, QMAC has had these themes as guiding principles since its launch more than 12 years 
ago and since then has steadily built a platform dedicated to meeting client needs across a variety of these capabilities.
The team’s Multi-Asset Class (MAC) capabilities include both bespoke  Our team’s capabilities, built upon more than a decade of research  
and commingled solutions for a wide range of investors, from some   and practical experience in these areas, expanded in 2016 with  
of the world’s largest institutions to individuals and families. Spanning  new offerings that package familiar sources of return. For example,  
both strategic and tactical asset allocation, these solutions incorporate   we were awarded a $1 billion-plus mandate in a customized emerging 
a blend of fundamental and quantitative insights leveraging the   equity portfolio by an Australian superannuation fund to systemati-
broader Neuberger Berman investment platform. One theme that   cally harvest non-market risk premia, including value and quality. In 
has been particularly prominent with investors has been the need   alternatives, we saw a variety of institutional investors move into our 
for consistent income, and to that end we have developed income-  alternative risk premia strategies as a way to improve the efficiency 
oriented commingled offerings for investors, including both UCITS   and cost-effectiveness of their absolute return allocations.  Finally, our 
and U.S. mutual funds.  Option Group—which joined the firm in early 2016—continued to 
expand its footprint with both institutional and individual investors, 
Another key area of focus has been factor investing, which has been  
delivering solutions that provide equity exposure with less volatility.  
in the spotlight of late given heightened investor awareness of the 
A large U.S. public pension hired us to manage a $400 million put-write 
separation of alpha and beta and a greater focus on the systematic 
strategy, and we also made the strategy available to individual investors 
drivers of portfolio return.  From long-only “smart beta” to long/short 
through the launch of a U.S. mutual fund and a UCITS fund. 
absolute return-oriented alternative risk premia strategies, investors 
are seeking solutions that provide not only the potential for attractive  We expect these themes to remain prominent into 2017 and beyond.  
returns but also with better transparency into the underlying return  We are excited to build our capabilities further in these areas while 
drivers and daily liquidity.   continuing to deliver solid investment results.
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 33 
|  QUANTITATIVE AND MULTI-ASSET CLASS  | 
MULTI-ASSET CLASS OPTIONS
Leveraging insights and expertise from across 
Neuberger Berman, our Multi-Asset Class team 
offers a range of portfolio solutions tailored  
to the unique needs of clients. Whether the  
objective is to generate absolute returns or 
produce a steady income stream, our multi- 
Erik L. Knutzen, CFA, CAIA asset class solutions team will work to design  Derek R. Devens, CFA Rory Ewing Eric Zhou
the most efficiently constructed portfolio to  
pursue the client’s objectives. 2016 was a   Our Option Group builds portfolios that seek long-term profits by 
challenging year for investing, as macro  consistently collecting option premiums in a liquid, risk-managed 
events—such as China-driven growth concerns  framework. Through customizable solutions that monetize equity 
early in the year, followed by the Brexit vote in  market volatility and generate income in a cost-effective manner, 
the summer and the unexpected outcome of  our collateralized option strategies offer investors a source of 
Lori L. Holland the U.S. election in the fall—caused significant  differentiated return distributions that may serve as lower-volatility 
volatility. To address this shifting environment,  equity investment solutions, a source of diversifying income and/or 
the MAC team carefully managed portfolio  a supplement to more expensive hedge fund exposures.  In 2016, 
risk levels, adding to beaten-down risky assets  equity market volatility generally trended lower with the exception of 
such as high yield bonds and emerging mar- a few noteworthy spikes. In this environment our put-write strategies 
kets stocks early in the year, reducing risk in  performed in line with expectations, achieving attractive risk-adjusted 
advance of both the Brexit referendum and the  returns relative to both the underlying indices on which options are 
Tokufumi Kato, PhD U.S. election, and then adding risk to portfolios  written and their corresponding CBOE put-write benchmarks.
soon after these events. In this challenging 
environment, the team sought to take advantage of strategies po-
sitioned to earn positive returns with less correlation to traditional 
stock and bond markets, including long/short, alternative risk premia 
and options-writing strategies.
QUANTITATIVE EQUITY
Our Quantitative Equity strategies use systematic processes to construct portfolios 
that provide investors exposure to factors that historically have provided attractive 
long-term returns. Our flagship systematic strategies employ a combination of  
three main styles—value, momentum and quality—and have delivered attractive 
returns since inception, and we also build customized factor portfolios that provide 
exposure to one or more of these or other factors as dictated by client-specific 
Wai Lee, PhD Alexandre Da Silva Ping Zhou, PhD needs. Investor interest in factor-based investment strategies continued to expand  
in 2016.  This is likely due to the challenging environment that calls for rigorous risk management and time-tested approaches to portfolio  
construction, as well as the realization that many traditional active investment strategies can be replicated through lower-cost systematic 
investment processes. We anticipate this trend will gain further momentum in the coming year.
  34 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
|  INSIGHTS  | 
ALTERNATIVE RISK PREMIA
The Alternative Risk Premia  SOLVING FOR 2017
SOLVING FOR 2017
team uses a systematic 
NAEUBSERGSER BEERMTAN ALLOCATION  
process to build portfolios  COMANMEUBSERIGSETR BEETRMTEAN EA LLOCATION  
offering exposure to return  OUTLCOOOMKM 1IQT2T0E1E7  
OUTLOOK 1Q2017 
Ajay Singh Jain, CFA, FCCA Natalia Groysberg sitnhovauetr scateorser  std hfiaofftre  cbreoenmatr pifnerognm srai st kes   PTobsWaPhgOuyfiac eeeirDivStsgrt aie AhhovTetrnioa  -ns,tta E spywhawtse Lshle tdati.tEoe t  hr bAhBdT  Cender ul sluT UneeotTomI wterc.miOeSutfiap ’r.mstpteN m’i  eso rhop e,qoian afns Mu- sa rteagCsiPTobsWaPgydadt  uruAehcebimfii ooOomeavn mrtairelmuDRtsewsgiihooSrsvh i  renn AoeKhatanitm Tt atod  F,tinnhpist-yEs sttnhiw ihwsEhoadt,  rstrTge tetrste .le  Lpaohadio et St artflBb n E rret ehe fwnQA doadTiu eemC  Co pert gT-eslnautwuUliniTwoAro oaoatnyeaium e .tsmIi ctnflfitSarS n’fmOthrspaatarp-l.atmT e eleo tek rc-rNhp’teoi s ortrymleooiieTa eeq  ionf ,-m2asannsp  cHrdgun e atMsdd0n tsoo eari s C Eitot m1ooooimflu bnirmiAIhfioef7cnwuunmlRfoioisyimcnR- p-sc rg ttOc ce Un heitauoV hhFKsmlyi tdtainu.vtialn,nscohOSrsEr r edi.tnls pgrea ti. eloTt Tr etot od otr ya ea eucflnSEoiif,Qo snonwm e obrae- wspk  n u CiuetewNaiUgan.oni ea tgroyAitafloHs.s vsn ra Saintht.tifaevnSa - nhk.elraaceSsetl sovT-eegriertovmi ltoe nmymesrt  qei2nTemot n  ccb copuh0s edHrte  neeteeeoiifirn1  omtrfiorroEot axliut7 thinhecune tsfcIapc oifos eesRycggO-ic-tu enuUn   ucial hhdoavlusaVt y,stn.ss men linrSteceosmUO.edil d lc.t  oooeado i.y cuTa atSpo, rknb ous isrsEok.now,k  ker uss peUus  .d ceegriNe tttonrk.sHteohtsi  Ssniolsvesh cnciea.. gctestvi  aka gdavSsye oseUv nte ni  itiqmtononetan.md ctShuc g fcgdee bre. ereiep e ente toexaerni hiaonxn tteerutlatehsaee i d sc sgttshl coise iouahencegah tenuh.d otesi nh d aoem,tsma  m dtldtietn Uovs iioa dmo tascmeop.os r uS rf cakk ooefk cop.sor n,e o uceest dsotndtdhk ntroctistls tot eeeieht  stic ysigncctmntahney hsaikocunted  u insU a ootfe dimieetitnncgmf.m   edlSen gdopevatn . ppee nheurot ia nkeolxsaxardeietse?l t  eche  al xe ttc its cg e.h d o    thhae imotadt ot nv moi omescf fo  oace rdtenon htictndtoeieynt  mnt isnuchhtsoue eimefm e tnilmdv aoepe rxtpulkseot?arex     ct   t   
“traditional” investment 
risks. Using long/short 
investment strategies, these 
alternative risk premia are 
extracted from multiple  ASSET ALLOCATION  
asset classes and from such 
COMMITTEE OUTLOOK
factors as value, momentum,  
Hakan Kaya, PhD  David Wan
carry and others in pursuit 
of absolute return in varied market conditions.  Our Multi-Asset  Composed of senior investment professionals 
Risk Premia approach is also now reflected in an index that Credit 
across platforms, our Asset Allocation Committee 
Suisse began publishing in 2016 after extensive collaboration 
assembles each quarter to establish its 12-month 
with us, enhancing both the transparency and accessibility of our 
views for an array of asset classes, refined through 
approach.  We also designed a customized risk premia portfolio for 
vigorous debate and discussion. The quarterly 
a large corporate defined benefit plan.  We anticipate continued 
Asset Allocation Committee Outlook captures 
interest in this growing area of investor focus.  
these views and the market, macroeconomic and 
geopolitical context driving them. 
To subscribe to Asset Allocation Committee Outlook, 
please contact us at AACoutlook@nb.com.
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 35
|  PERSPECTIVES  | 
KENNETH G. RENDE
HEAD OF WEALTH MANAGEMENT
OUR COMMITMENT TO CLIENT ENGAGEMENT
Neuberger Berman’s ability to deliver for clients is based not only on the expertise and experience of our portfolio  
managers, but also on the depth, breadth and quality of our engagement with clients. Over our more than 75-year 
history, we have worked with many of the same families across generations to achieve their goals. 
Our investment teams and wealth advisors work closely   ISG provides a wealth of global investment insights, 
with each client to design customized portfolios in a  research and analysis, and helps design customized asset 
tax-sensitive framework that reflects income needs, growth  allocations and portfolio manager proposals across all asset 
targets and risk tolerance, accessing a full platform of   classes to create tailored investment solutions for clients. 
tailored, multifaceted investment solutions managed by  ISG leverages the quarterly tactical views of the firm’s Asset 
Neuberger Berman portfolio managers and complemented  Allocation Committee as well as its own strategic analysis 
by the Neuberger Berman Trust Company, Investment   and manager research.  The group works closely with our 
Strategy Group (ISG) and financial planning analysis team. wealth advisors, portfolio managers and clients to gain a 
deep understanding of each client’s situation and goals in 
The Neuberger Berman Trust Company offers comprehensive 
designing investment solutions.
and personalized fiduciary and investment services for 
individuals and institutions, taking a holistic approach that  As a complement to ISG and the Trust Company, our  
integrates the unique needs of each client with appropriate   financial planning analysis team considers the entirety of  
investment solutions. With $12 billion in assets under  a client’s financial resources to assess progress toward  
management and administration, the Trust Company offers  personal goals and to explore ways that can help improve 
services nationwide and also is able to provide access to  upon existing approaches. This task extends across  
the favorable trust laws of the state of Delaware. The Trust  disciplines, including cash flow management and taxation 
Company can help review, construct or execute a gift or  planning, and explores many challenges faced by individuals, 
estate plan, as well as provide discretionary asset manage- including retirement, long-term care needs, education fund-
ment services and solutions.  ing for family members and more.
36 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
|  BUSINESS REVIEW: PRIVATE CLIENT  | 
“ Private clients can count on a  
true partnership with Neuberger 
Berman, one that leverages the  
full range of the firm’s resources.”
JOSEPH V. AMATO
PRESIDENT AND CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER—EQUITIES
A REFLECTION OF OUR HERITAGE
An integral component of Neuberger Berman since our founding in 1939, our private client investment managers deliver 
unique, tailored solutions to individuals, families and their related organizations, with an emphasis on customization and 
commitment to service that has fostered deep, longstanding relationships, often spanning generations. The qualities that 
have long defined our firm—tailored solutions, personalized service and a passion for investing—continue to resonate 
with our clients today. 
Private clients can count on a true partnership with Neuberger   Our private client business reflects our heritage and affirms our  
Berman, one that leverages the full range of the firm’s resources.   commitment to provide solutions to our clients’ needs. To reflect  
Our portfolio managers are seasoned investors, with teams that   the dynamic investment environment, we continue to expand our 
have worked together across market cycles and through a variety   platform, our services and the ways in which we engage with our 
of investment environments. Our teams’ focus has always been  clients. In recent years the firm has added a range of investment  
and will always be on delivering attractive, risk-adjusted long-term  solutions and augmented our internal research capabilities as  
returns. This experience could be key in 2017, as expectations of  investors continued to look beyond traditional equity and fixed 
increased market volatility as well as increased dispersion among   income investments to incorporate a broader range of risk and  
the performance of individual securities may call for nimble   return opportunities. We will continue to add resources as appropriate 
practitioners able to capture opportunities as they arise.  to meet the evolving needs of our clients.
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 37 
|  PRIVATE CLIENT  | 
THE GREENE GROUP THE KAMEN GROUP 
Michael C. Greene Benjamin H. Nahum Stanley G. Lee Michael W. Kamen, CFA Lee J. Tawil, CFA Stuart J. Pollak
The Greene Group manages small-cap, mid-cap and all-cap strategies  The Kamen Group seeks to deliver solid long-term investment  
using a private equity-style, research-driven approach to identify   performance through a disciplined investment process focused 
out-of-favor companies trading at a significant discount to their intrinsic  equally on the quality of companies and the price that is paid for 
value with an identifiable catalyst to help that narrow the price gap  them.  The team favors businesses characterized by sustainable 
over time. The team looks for disconnects between reality and market  competitive advantages, strong management, high returns on 
perception—something that occurs regularly in particular types of   capital and superior balance sheets. With elevated valuation  
companies, such as those with complex corporate structures. Heading  levels in the overall equity market and a subdued macroeconomic  
into 2017 we believe that technology and health care companies have  environment, we have targeted companies that can provide 
the most attractive risk/reward profiles in the current market environ- sustained above-average organic growth. One such example in our 
ment.  Many of these stocks lagged in 2016; however, we see excellent  portfolio is a mid-sized manufacturer of medical devices whose 
value and long-term growth potential in technology companies and  launch of multiple new, innovative products has the potential to 
expect more ideas to emerge from the health care sector as uncertainty   accelerate top-line growth while also improving profit margins. In 
about the future of the Affordable Care Act will create short-term  an economy with only moderate growth, we believe companies 
disruptions for many service providers. We will endeavor to use market  like these can provide differentiated performance.
uncertainty to our benefit when shares of well-managed and competi-
tively advantaged companies are priced at attractive levels.
THE STRAUS GROUP
Marvin C. Schwartz Richard J. Glasebrook, CFA David I. Weiner Henry Ramallo Stephanie J. Stiefel, CPA Charlie W. Schwartz Taylor L. Glasebrook
The Straus Group is a team of active portfolio managers dedicated to building client wealth through investments in undervalued mid- and large-cap 
U.S. equities capable of compounding capital over the medium and longer term in a tax-friendly manner. An example in 2016 was a domestic oil and 
gas producer with outsized land ownership purchased decades ago (i.e., not at today’s prices) in the Permian Basin in Texas.  We believe the entity 
can grow production at 15–20% per year for at least five years while earning a return on incremental capital in excess of 15% after tax. The company 
has an investment-grade balance sheet.  In 2017, we are cautiously optimistic on the domestic growth outlook and remain focused on enhancing our 
portfolios, replacing investments with subdued potential with new opportunities.
  38 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
TEAM KAMINSKY  THE FRAENKEL GROUP 
Gerald P. Kaminsky Michael J. Kaminsky Richard M. Werman Francis L. Fraenkel Robert H. Pearlman David M. Ross
Mindy Schwartzapfel David G. Mizrachi James J. Gartland Kenneth Y. Amano, CFA Ann Marie Foss, CFA Lida Greenberg, CFA
Team Kaminsky creates quality-focused, custom portfolios for individuals,   The Fraenkel Group seeks to provide its clients with solid, long-term 
families and institutions, utilizing both growth and income styles. Managers   performance utilizing a portfolio strategy that emphasizes sound  
of “core” equity, balanced and fixed income portfolios, the team leverages  judgment and conservative growth. We invest in core growth companies  
their broad expertise and deep understanding of businesses to invest  that are characterized by exceptional management teams, industry  
across the capital structure in order to meet individual client needs. The  leadership and stable growth models. Moreover, we look for oppor-
team’s mission—to add value in all asset categories, give highly person- tunistic growth companies with catalysts that could lead to enhanced 
alized service and to do so in a highly efficient manner—underscores   growth, as well as companies that distribute above-average dividends 
this vision. 2016 was a positive year, led by our domestic-centric exposure  and provide organic growth. This disciplined low-turnover investment  
to financials and technology stocks as well as by having “dry powder”   approach has the potential to produce solid performance while 
to take advantage of dislocations such as Brexit and the volatility  maintaining a lower risk profile than the overall market. Prior to the 
immediately after the presidential election. Our portfolios were positioned  election, we believed that a new president would enact policies that 
conservatively heading into 2017, as we believe the marketplace could  differed from the previous eight years, benefitting some industries 
be increasingly volatile as the year progresses and interest rates trend  and companies while impairing others. In this environment, we found 
higher. We will continue to strive for strong risk-adjusted returns. several companies we believe possess the flexibility to prosper under a 
new administration. 
THE LARGE CAP DISCIPLINED GROWTH GROUP
The Large Cap Disciplined Growth Group leads with acceleration of operating performance 
as the stock selection metric of transcendent relevance. Our process includes factoring in 
multiple additional inputs, including free cash flow generation, quality of management, 
identifiable catalysts and optionality. The use of acceleration as the key metric enables 
a differentiated definition of “growth,” yielding a broader pool of large-cap ideas. 
Indeed, in 2016 technological innovation and leadership enabled earnings acceleration 
John J. Barker Richard N. Bradt Jason Tauber, CFA for certain portfolio holdings, such as a semiconductor company that benefitted from 
the global growth of PC gaming while simultaneously positioning itself to take advantage of huge opportunities within the artificial intelligence 
space. We will continue to apply our discipline as we enter 2017, and we look to capitalize on individual opportunities regardless of the market or 
economic backdrop.
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 39
|  PRIVATE CLIENT  | 
THE PADUANO GROUP  THE KSE VALUE GROUP 
The KSE Value Group is a 
classic value investor, using 
a time-tested investment 
process rooted in rigorous 
research to identify 
undervalued companies 
Daniel P. Paduano, CFA Sherrell J. Aston Jason H. Vintiadis Michael N. Emmerman Michelle B. Stein across the capitalization 
spectrum that are poised 
The Paduano Group believes major long-term demographic, societal,  for significant positive 
technological and political developments around the world create a  change thanks to a clearly 
robust array of investment opportunities. The team follows a disciplined  defined catalyst. These  
and consistent research process in an effort to translate these secular  catalysts can be internal 
global themes into compelling, multiyear investments, agnostic to cor- (such as management 
porate size and geography. 2016 was a productive year, with a healthy  Brooke Johnson Richard Wesolowski changes or shifts in the 
contribution from a number of our themes, notably Alternatives,   company strategy) or  
Renewables and Conservation, The Rising Value of Water, and Smart  external (such as regulatory, political or macro-economic trends). 
Systems. Most encouraging were early signs of a more normal cor- Once we initiate a position, our investment horizon is two to four 
relation between price performance and business fundamentals—  years. We believe that company-specific catalysts will be a key 
a dynamic that in our opinion has been lacking for quite some time. As  driver of performance in 2017, as they have been in previous years.
highlighted by many market observers, growth and incremental profits 
are increasingly difficult to achieve. It is this exact environment in which 
our themes can serve us particularly well as we direct our investments 
to businesses out in front of secular growth and improving profitability. 
THE KOPLIN LLOYD GROUP THE SCHUPF GROUP THE ANDERSON GROUP
Cary A. Koplin Melinda L. Lloyd H. Axel Schupf Marshall W. Jaffe Elisabeth S. Lonsdale Bradley M. Anderson John E. Terzis, CFA
40 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
THE BOLTON GROUP 
David R. Pedowitz F. Christian Reynolds, CFA Darren M. Fogel John D. DeStefano James C. Baker, CFA Maria D. Pappas Linda J. Ludwig
[NOT PICTURED: Leo D. Bretter; Mark Daniel Sullivan, CPA; Brian Case, CFA; Miles Price; John A. Kauffmann]
The Bolton Group is an experienced steward to high-net-worth individuals, families and tax-exempt entities, partnering with our clients 
and their trusted advisors to create customized, multidimensional investment solutions. Our team utilizes a variety of equity and fixed 
income disciplines to craft solutions for various client objectives, including capital appreciation in the context of risk tolerance as  
well as current income when requested. We seek to add value by investigating and analyzing uncertainties—financial complexities,  
cyclical challenges, operating disappointments, management changes, acquisitions and divestitures—that cause high-quality, otherwise  
attractive companies to trade at opportunistically low prices. Our team utilizes primary research with disciplined fundamental and  
financial analyses to estimate risk and reward. A sharp focus on free and discretionary cash flows contributes to an analytical 
consistency that permits us to compare investment opportunities and risks in our portfolio construction. Performance in 2016 was 
led by consumer staples and information technology investments, offset by macro and other challenges for our health care sector 
investments. Given outstanding demographics, the environment for most health care stocks may improve in 2017 and boost returns. 
We continue to identify and invest in leading companies across several attractive industries while gathering insights and seeking 
opportunities as they arise out of political and economic shifts in the U.S. and elsewhere.
THE EISMAN GROUP THE SLOATE GROUP THE CAPITAL GROUP
Elliott H. Eisman Lillian Eisman Michael E. Cohen Dana Eisman Cohen Steven Eisman Laura J. Sloate, CFA  Yolanda R. Turocy
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 41
|  PERSPECTIVES  | 
ELIZABETH R. CRIBBS, CPA
HEAD OF CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
OUR COMMITMENT TO  
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
“ We believe our impact  Coordinated by our Corporate Social Responsibility team, Neuberger Berman 
seeks to positively affect our community, employees and clients. Community 
is greatest at the  
engagement is embedded in the culture here at Neuberger Berman, a  
intersection of leader-
culture that earned us the top ranking (among firms with 1,000 or more  
ship, expertise, funding 
employees) in the Pensions & Investments 2016 “Best Places to Work in  
and engagement.” Money Management” survey.  
We believe our impact is greatest at the intersection of leadership, expertise, 
funding and engagement. Driven and led by our employees, our philanthropic 
efforts leverage a broad range of the firm’s resources, from the financial  
(including the Neuberger Berman Foundation and corporate grants) to the  
personal (employee expertise, volunteerism and nonprofit board service).  
In 2016, more than 85% of Neuberger Berman Foundation grants were made  
to organizations recommended by employees, and we volunteer with over 80% 
of these organizations annually.  Employees in 2016 contributed more than  
5,500 hours in service to the community through 160-plus volunteer projects in 
17 cities and 10 countries around the world; 62% of our employees participated 
in our corporate volunteer programs last year—well above most of our peers. 
Our volunteer efforts culminate annually in May with our “Celebration With  
Service.” In honor of our reemergence as an independent company we embark 
upon a week of volunteer projects in which we use our individual talents to 
benefit our communities worldwide, from Los Angeles to London, Hong Kong to 
Houston. Activities range from tutoring children to freshening up public parks 
to preparing and delivering meals to people in need. Over the past seven years, 
more than 6,000 volunteers—employees, their family members and friends—
have participated in these projects.
42 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
|  BUSINESS REVIEW: CLIENT COVERAGE  | 
“ Our culture is a durable draw 
within the asset management 
industry, enabling us to hire and 
retain professionals naturally 
ANDREW S. KOMAROFF
biased toward collaboration in  CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER AND HEAD OF GLOBAL CLIENT COVERAGE
support of client objectives.”
PROVIDING PERSONALIZED SERVICE FOR AN ARRAY OF CLIENTS 
At Neuberger Berman we seek to develop strong, lasting relationships with our clients and platform partners that position  
us to deliver solutions tailored to their specific goals and requirements, and to share new, innovative ideas that can make  
a difference in long-term investment results. While our mission is relatively straightforward, its success is predicated on  
meticulous execution and coordination across functions throughout the firm, from the portfolio management teams  
responsible for investing client assets to the multidisciplinary groups that provide personalized service to our clients.
Our culture is a durable draw within the asset management industry,  Within our wealth management business serving individuals, families 
enabling us to hire and retain professionals naturally biased toward   and their related foundations (primarily in the U.S.), we remained 
collaboration in support of client objectives. In 2016 we continued to  focused on tailoring portfolios to meet the unique needs of each  
attract talent to our 500-plus person global Client Coverage team.   client while navigating the dynamic markets experienced last year.  
The team includes those focused on relationship management, client  We are pleased to see that more of our wealth management clients  
service, marketing, analytics, developing strategic insights and promoting  are incorporating private equity into their portfolios. 
innovation. Last year, we made the decision to bring together our North 
We continued to innovate within our investment platform during the 
American Institutional business under the leadership of Matt Malloy 
year, maintaining a disciplined approach to strategy introductions that 
and our North American Intermediary business under Scott Kilgallen. 
focuses on the intersection of client needs and our ability to add value. 
We made this adjustment in order to more effectively share insights and 
In 2016, these included fixed income opportunities in both private and 
respond to client issues that are common within each of those segments. 
public markets, a small-cap EAFE strategy, an event-driven hedge fund, 
We added 85 new institutional relationships worldwide in 2016,  multi-asset portfolios, an options-writing strategy and a registered 
bringing our total to nearly 1,100, up more than 50% from end-2012.  private equity fund—all of which we believe are well suited for the 
Equally important, our clients are entrusting us with their capital across  current environment. 
a broader range of capabilities—the number of clients invested in  
At the end of the day, we manage our business according to the drivers 
multiple Neuberger Berman strategies has more than doubled since 
of client demand. While these drivers naturally diverge across channels 
2012, a trend we expect to continue as a natural byproduct of our  
and geographies, a number of common themes have emerged from 
consultative approach to relationships. Similarly, we are pleased with 
our discussions with clients, many of whom have been looking for 
our progress in developing partnerships with intermediary platforms; 
guidance on how to navigate the investment landscape given signifi-
we now have significant relationships with about 50 firms globally, 
cant uncertainty around interest rates, trade policy, divergent growth 
which provides a strong foundation both for introducing new strategies 
prospects and general geopolitical anxiety. 
as well as extending relationships across a broader range of capabilities. 
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 43 
|  CLIENT COVERAGE  | 
THE HAGUE ZURICH FRANKFURT
PARIS
LONDON
MADRID
BOGOTA
MILAN DUBAI
BUENOS AIRES
DIK VAN LOMWEL
HEAD OF EMEA AND LATIN AMERICA
EMEA AND LATIN AMERICA
2016 was an eventful year on many levels. If the market roller coaster early   In 2016 we welcomed Vivek Bommi, who joined us from our Chicago office, 
in the year was not challenging enough, a summer Brexit followed by the   as Senior Portfolio Manager in Global and European High Yield. In addition, a 
autumn U.S. presidential election brought new distractions to our industry as   credit portfolio manager and two analysts have joined the local fixed income 
it continued to address significant ongoing regulatory change and uncertainty. teams, and three professionals joined our private equity group. 
Despite this, our footprint across the EMEALA region continued to grow, driven  Teamwork across all functions plays a key role in ensuring our continued 
largely by demand for higher-yielding and private market strategies. As clients  success, and we are delighted that several experienced professionals have 
faced the challenges of a continued low-growth/low-returns environment,  joined the team this year to help drive the business forward, including David 
we saw particular traction across our emerging markets debt platform, while  Rowe as Head of Marketing—EMEA, Nicholas Styman as Chief Compliance 
institutional appetite for alternative credit strategies remained high. Many  Officer—EMEA, and James Harvey as Head of Finance—EMEA. 
pension fund clients initiated or increased allocations to private equity, which 
As we look forward to 2017, we are excited about the innovative products 
was reflected in successful capital raises for our secondaries and Dyal strategies 
we are making available to clients, providing access to more of our expertise 
as well as a growing number of client partnerships in the asset class. We were 
in areas such as options investing, risk premia and risk parity, multi-asset 
pleased to see a positive client response to our corporate hybrids capabilities, 
class solutions and liquid alternatives. 
as well as to new strategies from our Multi-Asset Class platform.
Tom W. Douie Edward J.M. Jones Cas A.H. Peters Mark Oestergaard Christian Puschmann Fabio L. Castrovillari
EMEA INTERMEDIARIES  U.K. INSTITUTIONAL   BENELUX   SCANDINAVIA   GERMANY AND AUSTRIA  SWITZERLAND 
(LONDON) (LONDON) (THE HAGUE) (LONDON) (FRANKFURT) (ZURICH)
Charles Soullard Javier Nunez   Marco Avanzo-Barbieri Jahangir Aka Maximiliano Rohm Jenna Lawrence
FRANCE   de Villavicencio ITALY   MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA   LATIN AMERICA   EMEA CLIENT SERVICE 
(PARIS) IBERIA (MADRID) (MILAN) (DUBAI) (BUENOS AIRES) (LONDON)
  44 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
TOKYO
SEOUL
RYO OHIRA
HEAD OF EAST ASIA 
EAST ASIA
In 2016 assets under management in the East Asia region grew by more 
than 50% for the third consecutive year, as we continued to expand our  
organization and capabilities, and further deepen our relationships with 
Komei Asaba Yutaro Nishihara Tomomi Hiratsuka
clients both in Japan and Korea.
INSTITUTIONAL &   INSTITUTIONAL   INTERMEDIARIES  
INTERMEDIARIES (TOKYO) (TOKYO)  (TOKYO)
The introduction of new investment ideas and fresh insights into the East 
Asia market led to steady growth in both AUM and client coverage in the 
region. We held approximately 50 seminars in 2016, both in and out of 
our offices, and hosted numerous client meetings featuring our U.S.-based 
portfolio managers traveling through the region.
In Korea, we won mandates from both institutional and retail clients, with 
the biggest wins coming in private equity strategies, including Dyal, Athyrium 
Takashi Ikushima Michi Suzuki Mitsuhiro Shimura
and our private debt fund. We also attracted inflows to our diversified asset  CLIENT PORTFOLIO   CLIENT PORTFOLIO   CLIENT REPORTING  
MANAGEMENT (TOKYO)  MANAGEMENT – FIXED  (TOKYO) 
classes in Japan. Our overall fixed income presence expanded due to signifi- INCOME (TOKYO) 
cant growth in such strategies as global investment grade, bank loans, short 
duration high yield, U.S. municipals and corporate hybrid securities. In the 
private asset space, Japanese clients entrusted with us a record $1.2 billion 
of capital in 2016 across Dyal, secondaries, private debt and private equity 
separate accounts. In equity, we experienced positive flows into strategies 
involving master limited partnerships in 2016, and we expect increasingly 
strong demand for this asset class following the Trump election in the U.S.  DaeYeon Kim YoungSun Na Yoshiyuki Yagisawa
INSTITUTIONAL &   INTERMEDIARIES   PRIVATE EQUITY  
and the recent decline of the REITs market. INTERMEDIARIES    (SEOUL)  (NEW YORK)
(SEOUL)
We believe our flexibility and speed, our wide range of strategies and our 
ability to customize will be of particular benefit to clients in the ongoing 
volatile environment. For example, to meet the specific needs of Japanese 
clients—such as containing rising hedging costs, thematic equity investment 
ideas, ESG investing, knowledge transfer and others—we enhanced our 
regional product development, client reporting and client portfolio manage-
ment functions as well as the Japan desks in New York and Chicago. We aim 
Hiroyasu Tamura
to continue to provide such high-quality service throughout the East Asia  CLIENT SERVICE  
(CHICAGO)
region, with “clients first” at the very heart of our team’s mindset.
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 45
|  CLIENT COVERAGE  | 
SHANGHAI
HONG KONG
TAIPEI
SINGAPORE
MELBOURNE
NICK J. HOAR
HEAD OF ASIA PACIFIC
ASIA PACIFIC
In 2016, we continued to deepen our client engagement and expand our 
local presence in the Asia Pacific region. Our business continued to grow  
at an impressive pace last year, as we secured mandates from multiple 
institutions in the major markets of China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore  Patrick Liu Marco Tang William Hui
COUNTRY HEAD, CHINA   FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS  INSTITUTIONAL  
and Australia. We continued to offer our clients tailored investment 
(SHANGHAI) (SHANGHAI) (SHANGHAI)
solutions in a part of the world that demands customization. In Australia, 
our smart beta emerging market equity strategy was the key contributor 
to growth, with inflows coming from one of the largest superannuation 
fund clients in that market. As clients continued to seek stable and  
uncorrelated returns to public markets, we saw increasing demand for 
our private equity strategies, especially in mainland China and Hong Kong.
Jovi Chen Tony Huang Thomas Holzherr
For our intermediary distribution business we remained committed to 
COUNTRY HEAD, TAIWAN  FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS  INSTITUTIONAL  
deepening client relationships and have launched important initiatives   (TAIPEI) TAIWAN (TAIPEI) (SINGAPORE)
to position the firm for future growth. For the private bank channel,  
our UCITS products that focus on generating income and mitigating  
interest-rate risk continued to gain traction. On the retail front, we 
expanded our client franchise by signing new partnerships with some 
of Asia Pacific’s largest consumer banks and insurance companies. In 
Taiwan, we have successfully obtained a Securities Investment Trust 
Enterprise (SITE) license, which will allow us to manage and distribute  Vincent Lim Pauline Cheng Paul D. O’Halloran
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS  FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS  AUSTRALIA  
onshore funds, a strategic move to building a competitive advantage   (SINGAPORE) (HONG KONG)  (MELBOURNE)
in this key market.
We continued to invest in our infrastructure and people. Key appointments in 
2016 included Jovi Chen, who joined us as the General Manager of Taiwan, 
and Patrick Liu, who joined us to be the head of our China Business. Given 
the continued expansion of our business in the region, we moved to larger 
offices in Taipei, opened up an office in Sydney and expanded our office 
Lucas J. Rooney Linda Lam Angela Verco
space in Hong Kong.
AUSTRALIA   CLIENT SERVICE  CLIENT SERVICE 
(MELBOURNE) (HONG KONG) (MELBOURNE)
  46 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
MATTHEW H. MALLOY SCOTT E. KILGALLEN
HEAD OF NORTH AMERICAN INSTITUTIONAL AND   HEAD OF NORTH AMERICAN INTERMEDIARY DISTRIBUTION
GLOBAL HEAD OF INSURANCE SOLUTIONS
NORTH AMERICAN INSTITUTIONAL NORTH AMERICAN INTERMEDIARY
Institutional client dynamics continue to evolve, driving divergence   Challenging and uncertain market dynamics in recent years have  
across client types in terms of both asset allocation and the underlying   accentuated the value that can be brought to bear by skilled financial 
investment strategies used to execute it—whether it be corporate  advisors. Neuberger Berman seeks to partner with these professionals. 
defined benefit plans increasing their focus on risk-reduction measures  We offer a broad range of flexible, strategic investment solutions  
in the face of funding and regulatory changes, or public defined benefit  across product types, fee structures and liquidity profiles. At year-end 
plans allocating more to alternatives in the face of funding shortfalls.  2016, we had $55 billion of assets under management and admin-
Union and multi-employer plans too are turning to more complex asset  istration in the Intermediary channel within North America and were 
allocation against similar funding shortfalls and high return targets,  represented on more than 50 intermediary platforms. 
while non-profit organizations turn to ESG to align their investment 
Throughout the year we continued to focus on bringing to market new  
goals and mission. These big industry changes also are accentuating the 
and innovative solutions for intermediaries and their clients. For example,  
role of consultants, who are increasingly required to provide capabilities 
we joined with a select group of distribution partners to launch our first  
and insights beyond the traditional evaluation of investment managers. 
registered private equity fund, enabling participation in this attractive 
Many are asked to expand their coverage to a broader range of traditional  
asset class by a broader cross-section of investors. We also expanded 
and alternative asset classes, increase resources and enhance the 
our collateralized put-write strategy offerings to include comingled fund 
breadth of solutions they offer. 
vehicles. The strategy is designed to provide individual investors with 
Amid such rapidly evolving client dynamics, our team of more than   exposure to equity market returns with less volatility.
40 professionals continues to develop a more focused and tailored 
Our deep commitment to providing clients with access to the best  
approach to how we engage with our 725 institutional clients. In  
thinking of the firm was apparent in 2016, as market-moving geopo-
2016, we worked to deepen our understanding of institutional client 
litical events like the U.K. Brexit vote and the U.S. elections highlighted 
issues, strengthen our relationships with global, regional and boutique 
the value of timely insights. Through our webcasts, blogs and other 
consultants, and serve as a thought partner to all our clients, with  
thought leadership vehicles—not to mention a variety of investment 
segment-specific insights as well as broad asset class and market  
forums, due-diligence meetings, conference speaking engagements and 
views.  We will remain focused on these priorities in 2017, in particular 
value-add training events—we were able to help guide thousands of 
developing strategies and providing solutions specific to institutional 
intermediaries through another turbulent year in the markets.
investors, and enhancing the quality of our interactions with clients  
and consultants.
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 47
|  CLIENT COVERAGE  | 
“ We have been managing a range of traditional 
and alternative assets on behalf of insurance 
clients for more than 20 years.”
MATTHEW H. MALLOY
HEAD OF NORTH AMERICAN INSTITUTIONAL AND  
GLOBAL HEAD OF INSURANCE SOLUTIONS
GLOBAL INSURANCE
Insurance companies, broadly speaking, remain well capitalized, with strong liquidity and capital positions and asset  
leverage at or below historical levels. That said, challenges persist. The ever-changing regulatory landscape is always top  
of mind for insurers, of course. Meanwhile, attractive investment opportunities remain difficult to source in a world of  
still-low interest rates, challenging supply and liquidity dynamics in fixed income markets, and equity markets at or near 
all-time highs amid expectations for increased volatility. These conditions have continued to drive insurers to diversify their 
portfolios and evaluate new asset classes and markets. As long-term investors, insurers continue to focus on allocations  
to risk assets—both traditional and alternatives such as non-investment grade fixed income and private equity—in an 
effort to enhance yield profiles and return potential, partnering with third-party asset managers for guidance and support 
when doing so. Given their longer investment horizons, many insurers are well suited to monetize liquidity and seek the 
extended return potential offered by many private market strategies.
With approximately $25 billion of insurance assets under manage- with our client coverage teams to deliver the firm’s broad fixed 
ment and committed capital as of December 31, 2016, Neuberger  income platform to insurance companies worldwide. In 2016,  
Berman has been managing a range of traditional and alternative  Steve Smith also joined the firm as our Head of Insurance Analytics, 
assets on behalf of insurance clients for more than 20 years. In our  providing a range of analytical capabilities, advice and portfolio 
continuing efforts to enhance the services and solutions we provide  solutions for insurers.
to insurers globally, in 2016 we added several new resources to the 
We expect change to remain a constant in 2017 for investors of  
effort. J.P. Sursock joined as a dedicated insurance Client Advisor 
all types. We stand ready to help insurers address the challenges  
focusing on U.S. insurers. Jason Pratt joined the firm as a Portfolio 
these changes may present with creative investment solutions and 
Manager and Head of Insurance Fixed Income; he partners closely 
unparalleled client service. 
  48 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
|  PERSPECTIVES  | 
WILLIAM A. ARNOLD
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
OUR COMMITMENT TO FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Consistent with our colleagues across the firm, a client-centric mindset  SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION  
($ in millions)  Dec 2016
drives our approach to financial risk management. Protecting the firm 
is one of our guiding principles. We take a long-term view, thinking in  Cash and Cash Equivalents     740
years, not months—and purposely keep our balance sheet liquid and  Investments 380
our capital structure conservative with longer-dated maturities. Receivables 227
Goodwill and Other Intangibles 583
This dedication to stewardship, in turn, has enabled us to invest prudently 
Other Assets 201
in our business, in our platform and in our people. We have broadened our 
Total Assets 2,131
capabilities, increased our resources, improved technology and built a more 
diversified and stable investment platform. More concretely for our clients,  Senior Notes Payable 763
we have introduced new strategies with existing investment teams, added  Accrued Compensation and Benefits 482
new investment teams and continued to invest in our global client coverage  Payables and Other Liabilities 359
franchise. We have made these investments not to improve our quarterly 
Total Liabilities 1,604
results but because we believe it will drive greater long-term stability across 
Common Equity 527
the firm and provide opportunities for deeper relationships with our clients. 
Total Liabilities and Equity 2,131
Importantly, as we focus on protecting the firm and investing for the 
Adjusted Net Revenues for 2016 $1,469
future, we do so in close partnership with our colleagues across the 
business. By understanding the objectives and long-term strategy of our 
investment and client coverage teams, we are able to ensure we are  
ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT ($ in billions)
properly allocating our resources and capital to initiatives that will  
ultimately serve our clients well. 
2016 255
2015 240
2014 250
2013 242
2012 205
2011 193
2010 190
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 49
|  BOARD OF DIRECTORS  | 
GEORGE H. WALKER  JOSEPH V. AMATO 
Chairman and Chief Executive  President, Neuberger Berman; 
Officer, Neuberger Berman Chief Investment Officer—
Equities
OUR FOUNDER—ROY NEUBERGER
The Art of Investment
When Roy Neuberger started collecting art in 1939,   ROBERT W. D’ALELIO  STEVEN A. KANDARIAN 
he bought pieces that spoke to him. “I buy because   Portfolio Manager,  Chairman, President and CEO, 
Small Cap Value MetLife; Formerly CIO, MetLife
I love the work,” he said. The fact that many of his   Formerly Executive Director, 
Pension Benefit Guaranty 
favorite artists—like Jackson Pollock, Edward Hopper  Corporation (PBGC)
and especially Milton Avery—went on to become 
household names is a testament to his unique insight.  
In art, as in investment, Roy didn’t follow the market—
the market followed him.
At the firm he founded in that same year of 1939, we 
try to live up to those principles. We value experience 
RICHARD B. WORLEY  LAWRENCE ZICKLIN 
but have an eye for innovation. Our culture is strong; 
our teams are independent. Company fundamentals  Formerly CEO and CIO,   Clinical Professor, New York 
Morgan Stanley Investment  University Stern School of 
Management Business
and client objectives are what drive us, not the noise 
Formerly Chairman, Miller  Chairman, Rand Center for 
Anderson and Sherrerd Corporate Ethics and Governance
of the markets. That is the art of investing, the art of 
Formerly Managing Partner  
and Chairman, Neuberger 
partnership, the art of service.
Berman
50 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
   
|  BOARD OF DIRECTORS  |  |  ‘40 ACT MUTUAL FUND BOARD  | 
JOSEPH V. AMATO  ROBERT J. CONTI  FAITH COLISH*  MICHAEL J. COSGROVE  MARC GARY  MARTHA C. GOSS  MICHAEL M. KNETTER 
President, Neuberger Berman;  President, Mutual Funds Securities Regulatory   President, Carragh   Formerly Executive   Formerly Corporate   President and CEO, 
Chief Investment Officer— Attorney  Consulting USA Vice President and   Treasurer and Enterprise Risk  University of Wisconsin 
Equities General Counsel,   Officer, The Prudential   Foundation
Trustee of the Year   Formerly Executive,  
Fidelity Investments Insurance Company  
(2001, 2008), Mutual   General Electric Company  Formerly Dean, School  
of America
Fund Industry Awards and Trustee, GE’s   of Business, University  
Pension and Benefits Plan of Wisconsin
DEBORAH  C. McLEAN  GEORGE W. MORRISS  TOM D. SEIP  CANDACE L. STRAIGHT  JAMES G. STAVRIDIS  PETER P. TRAPP 
Adjunct Professor,   Adjunct Professor,   Independent   Director, Montpelier Re  Dean, Fletcher School   Formerly Ford Motor  
Columbia University   Columbia University   Non-Executive Chairman   of Law and Diplomacy,   Company Executive 
Formerly Principal,  
School of International   School of International   of the Board  Tufts University
Head and Partners Formerly President, Sentry 
and Public Affairs and Public Affairs 
Formerly Senior Executive,  Formerly Admiral,   Life Insurance Company
Formerly Executive Vice  The Charles Schwab   United States Navy
President and CFO, People’s  Corporation
Bank, CT
|  UCITS FUND BOARD  | 
NOT PICTURED:
TOM FINLAY
Independent Non-Executive Director of the Board
Formerly Bank of Ireland Asset Management  
(the Fund Management division of the Bank of Ireland Group)
Formerly a Barrister by profession
PAUL SULLIVAN
Independent Non-Executive Director of the Board
Formerly Executive Director, the Irish Sovereign Debt Management Office,  
GRAINNE ALEXANDER  MICHELLE S. GREEN  ANDY OLDING  the National Treasury Management Agency
Formerly a Vice President, Chase Manhattan Bank (now JP Morgan)
Independent Non-Executive  General Counsel of EMEA  Head of EMEA Mutual Fund 
Director of the Board and Latin America,   Administration,  
Neuberger Berman Neuberger Berman 
Formerly a European 
partner, Mercer Investment 
Consulting
Formerly Chief Executive, 
F&C Management  
(F&C Ireland)
*Member closed-end funds Board of Directors only. Retired from Board of open-end fund, effective 12/31/2016.  2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 51
|  PARTNERSHIP COMMITTEE  | 
JOSEPH V. AMATO  WILLIAM A. ARNOLD  TIMOTHY F. CREEDON  ROBERT W. D’ALELIO  RICHARD J. GLASEBROOK  
NICK J. HOAR  ANDREW A. JOHNSON  SCOTT E. KILGALLEN  ANDREW S. KOMAROFF  RICHARD S. NACKENSON 
THOMAS P. O’REILLY  DAVID R. PEDOWITZ  CONRAD A. SALDANHA  MARVIN C. SCHWARTZ   BENJAMIN E. SEGAL 
ANTHONY D. TUTRONE   JUDITH M. VALE  GEORGE H. WALKER  HEATHER P. ZUCKERMAN 
52 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
|  OPERATING COMMITTEE  | 
JOSEPH V. AMATO  ROBERT J. ARANCIO  WILLIAM A. ARNOLD  WILLIAM A. BRAVERMAN  ROBERT J. CONTI  TIMOTHY F. CREEDON 
ALISON B. DELGADO  ALAN H. DORSEY  CÉLINE S. DUFÉTEL   ROBERT L. EASON  MARGARET E. GATTUSO  NICK J. HOAR 
SCOTT E. KILGALLEN  LAWRENCE J. KOHN  ANDREW S. KOMAROFF  JACQUES G. LILLY  PATRICK C. LOMELO  MATTHEW H. MALLOY 
RYO OHIRA  IAN D. PECKETT  MICHAEL D. REES  KENNETH G. RENDE  BRIEN P. SMITH  BRAD C. TANK 
ANTHONY D. TUTRONE   DIK VAN LOMWEL  GEORGE H. WALKER  HEATHER P. ZUCKERMAN 
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 53
|  MANAGING DIRECTORS  | 
A Michael E. Cohen F I
Jahangir Aka Robert J. Conti Ethan A. Falkove Takashi Ikushima
Kenneth Y. Amano Russ Covode Seth J. Finkel Fred R. Ingham
Joseph V. Amato Timothy F. Creedon Stephen J. Flaherty James L. Iselin
Bradley M. Anderson Christopher M. Crevier Patrick H. Flynn Corey A. Issing
Robert J. Arancio Elizabeth R. Cribbs Darren M. Fogel
Judd M. Arnold Robert T. Croke Ann Marie Foss J
William A. Arnold Drew D. Fox Marshall W. Jaffe
Komei Asaba D Francis L. Fraenkel Ajay Singh Jain
Sherrell J. Aston Robert W. D’Alelio Gregory P. Francfort Andrew A. Johnson
Paul D.S. Daggett Brian C. Jones
B R. Ross David G Edward J.M. Jones 
Sean M. Badcock Jacqueline E. de Sanctis Jacob B. Gamerman Jon B. Jonsson
Jonathan Bailey Luca Deantoni James J. Gartland
James C. Baker Alison B. Delgado Dmitry Gasinsky K
Thanos Bardas Anthony M. DeSantis Margaret E. Gattuso Michael W. Kamen
John J. Barker John D. DeStefano Maxine L. Gerson Gerald P. Kaminsky
Itai Baron Derek R. Devens Amy S. Gilfenbaum Michael J. Kaminsky 
Matthew F. Bird Sabrina Di Bartolomeo Michelle A. Giordano-Valentine Charles C. Kantor
Vivek Bommi Alan H. Dorsey Theodore P. Giuliano Susan B. Kasser
Stefano Bontempelli Tom W. Douie Richard J. Glasebrook  John A. Kauffmann
Jim D. Bowden D. Richard Dowdle Terrence J. Glomski Judith Ann Kenney
Richard N. Bradt Daniel J. Doyle Carolyn S. Golub Brian P. Kerrane
William A. Braverman Rob J. Drijkoningen Jennifer R. Gorgoll Clay R. Khan
Danielle B. Brown Céline S. Dufétel  Michelle S. Green David A. Kiefer
David M. Brown John D. Dyment Alan I. Greene Scott E. Kilgallen
David Bunan Ingrid S. Dyott Michael C. Greene Erik L. Knutzen
John P. Buser Virginia M. Guy Christopher J. Kocinski
Vasantha Butchibabu E Lawrence J. Kohn
Robert L. Eason H Andrew S. Komaroff
C Elliott H. Eisman Brian E. Hahn Cary A. Koplin
Fabio C. Cane Lillian Eisman Aisha S. Haque J. Douglas Kramer 
Darren L. Carter Steven Eisman James C.F. Harvey Michael S. Kramer
Brian M. Case Michael N. Emmerman Todd E. Heltman David G. Kupperman
Stephen J. Casey Jason C.D. Henchman Anton Kwang
Fabio L. Castrovillari  Nick J. Hoar
Marco Cerrina Feroni Lori L. Holland
Brad E. Cetron Michael J. Holmberg
Kent Chen
Dana Eisman Cohen
54 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
L O Kenneth G. Rende Raymond A. Sullivan
Sajjad S. Ladiwala Kevin J. O’Friel Carter P. Reynolds Jean-Paul Sursock
Ugo Lancioni Paul D. O’Halloran Christian F. Reynolds Richard J. Szelc
Andrew C. Laurino Thomas P. O’Reilly J. Blake Rice
Joseph W. Lawrence Mark A. O’Sullivan Joana Rocha Scaff T
Diane E. Lederman Ryo Ohira Lucas J. Rooney Brian G. Talbot
Stanley G. Lee David J. Rosa Brad C. Tank
Wai Lee P David M. Ross Lee J. Tawil
Richard S. Levine Daniel P. Paduano Martin J. Rotheram H. Tripp Taylor
Jacques G. Lilly Maria D. Pappas Joseph A. Rotter III Terri L. Towers
Vincent Lim Robert H. Pearlman Patrick C. Ru Kenneth J. Turek
Kristian J. Lind Ian D. Peckett Yolanda R. Turocy
Maria C. Llerena David R. Pedowitz S Anthony D. Tutrone 
Melinda L. Lloyd Tristram C. Perkins Conrad A. Saldanha
Patrick C. Lomelo Benjamin B. Perl Eli M. Salzmann U
Elisabeth S. Lonsdale Cas A.H. Peters Martin A. Sankey Gorky R. Urquieta 
Linda J. Ludwig William J. Peterson Paul A. Sauer
Raoul C. Luttik Stuart J. Pollak H. Axel Schupf V
James A. Lyman Sandy M. Pomeroy Marvin C. Schwartz  Judith M. Vale
Joseph P. Lynch Nish V. Popat Mindy G. Schwartzapfel Bart A. Van der Made
David J. Lyon Samuel N. Porat Benjamin E. Segal Dik van Lomwel
David S. Portny Saurin D. Shah Pim M. van Schie
M Brendan J. Potter Monica L. Sherer Peter J. von Lehe
Jeff A. Majit Jason L. Pratt Steve S. Shigekawa
Matthew H. Malloy Christian Puschmann Jonathan D. Shofet  W
Julian H. Marks Yves C. Siegel George H. Walker
Thomas J. Marthaler Q Zachary P. Sigel Ronit M. Walny
Martin E. Messinger Joseph F. Quirk Ronald B. Silvestri Jacquelyn A. Wang
S. Blake Miller Prashant Singh Sean J. Ward
Norman Milner R Laura J. Sloate David I. Weiner
David H. Morse Douglas A. Rachlin Brien P. Smith Eric D. Weinstein
Henry Ramallo Amit Solomon Richard M. Werman
N Michelle L. Rappa Thomas A. Sontag Obadiah J. Wilford
Richard S. Nackenson Elizabeth Reagan Gregory G. Spiegel Andrew Wilmont
Benjamin H. Nahum Michael Recce Dimitrios N. Stathopoulos
Christian Neira Lisa H. Reed Matthew L. Steege Z
Holly Newman Kroft Matthew D. Rees Michelle B. Stein Patricia Miller Zollar
Michael D. Rees Stephanie J. Stiefel Heather P. Zuckerman
Marc A. Regenbaum David S. Stonberg
Brett S. Reiner
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 55
This material is provided for informational purposes only and nothing herein con- kets may perform differently than the U.S. market. Changes in currency exchange 
stitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice, or a recommendation to buy,  rates could adversely impact investment gains or add to investment losses. Cur-
sell or hold a security. Information is obtained from sources deemed reliable, but  rency exchange rates can be affected unpredictably by intervention, or failure to 
there is no representation or warranty as to its accuracy, completeness or reliability.  intervene, by U.S. or foreign governments or central banks or by currency controls 
All information is current as of the date of this material (or as of the date indi- or political developments in the U.S. or abroad.
cated) and is subject to change without notice. Any views or opinions expressed 
Value stocks may remain undervalued during a given period or may not ever re-
may not reflect those of the firm as a whole. This material may include estimates, 
alize their full value. This may happen, among other reasons, because of a failure 
outlooks, projections and other “forward-looking statements.” Due to a variety of 
to anticipate which stocks or industries would benefit from changing market or 
factors, actual events may differ significantly from those presented. Neuberger Ber-
economic conditions.  Because the prices of most growth stocks are based on fu-
man products and services may not be available in all jurisdictions or to all client 
ture expectations, these stocks tend to be more sensitive than value stocks to bad 
types. Investing entails risks, including possible loss of principal. Investments in 
economic news and negative earnings surprises. Bad economic news or changing 
hedge funds and private equity are speculative and involve a higher degree of risk 
investor perceptions may adversely affect growth stocks across several sectors and 
than more traditional investments. Investments in hedge funds and private equity 
industries simultaneously.
are intended for sophisticated investors only. The use of tools cannot guarantee 
performance. Diversification does not guarantee profit or protect against loss in  Additional Risk Information for International Equity Fund
declining markets. Unless otherwise indicated returns shown reflect reinvestment of  Governments of emerging market countries may be more unstable and more likely 
dividends and distributions. Indexes are unmanaged and are not available for direct  to impose capital controls, nationalize a company or an industry, place restrictions 
investment. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. on foreign ownership and on withdrawing sales proceeds of securities from the 
country, and/or impose burdensome taxes that could adversely affect security pric-
Firm data, including employee and assets under management figures, reflect col-
es. These countries may also have less developed legal and accounting systems. 
lective data for the various affiliated investment advisers that are subsidiaries of 
Securities issued in these countries may be more volatile and less liquid than se-
Neuberger Berman Group LLC (the “firm”). Firm history and timelines includes the 
curities issued in foreign countries with more developed economies or markets. 
history and business expansions of all firm subsidiaries, including predecessor enti-
From time to time, the Fund may hedge against some currency risks; however, 
ties and acquisition entities. Investment professionals referenced include portfolio 
the hedging instruments may not always perform as the Fund expects and could 
managers, research analysts/associates, traders, and product specialists and team 
produce losses. Suitable hedging instruments may not be available for currencies of 
dedicated economists/strategists.
emerging market countries. 
Mutual funds are not available to investors outside of the U.S.   Neu-
The risks involved in seeking capital appreciation from investments primarily in 
berger Berman BD LLC is the distributor of the Neuberger Berman mutual funds. 
companies based outside the United States are set forth in the prospectus.  From 
Member FINRA.
time to time, based on market or economic conditions, the Fund may invest a signif-
An investor should consider the investment objectives, risks and fees  icant portion of its assets in one country or geographic region. If the Fund does so, 
and expenses of any fund carefully before investing. This and other  there is a greater risk that economic, political, social and environmental conditions 
important information can be found in each fund’s prospectus, and  in that particular country or geographic region may have a significant impact on the 
if available summary prospectus, which you can obtain by calling  Fund’s performance and that the Fund’s performance will be more volatile than the 
877.628.2583. Please read the prospectus, and if available the summary  performance of more geographically diversified funds.
prospectus, carefully before making an investment.
Additional Risk Information for Long Short Fund
Important Information about Risk Short sales involve selling a security the Fund does not own in anticipation that the 
All stocks are subject to investment risk, including the risk that they may lose val- security’s price will decline. Short sales may help hedge against general market risk 
ue. Small- and mid-capitalization stocks may have limited operating histories and  to the securities held in the portfolio but theoretically present unlimited risk on an 
resources and may trade less frequently and in lower volume than larger company  individual stock basis, since the Fund may be required to buy the security sold short 
stocks, which may make them more volatile and vulnerable to financial and other  at a time when the security has appreciated in value. The Fund may not always be 
risks. Compared with smaller companies, large-cap companies may be less respon- able to close out a short position at a favorable time and price. If the Fund covers 
sive to changes and opportunities and may lag other types of stock in performance. its short sale at an unfavorable price, the cover transaction is likely to reduce or 
eliminate any gain, or cause a loss to the Fund, as a result of the short sale. 
Foreign securities involve risks in addition to those associated with comparable 
U.S. securities. Additional risks include exposure to less developed or less efficient  Investing in foreign securities may involve greater risks than investing in securities 
trading markets; social, political or economic instability; fluctuations in foreign cur- of U.S. issuers, such as currency fluctuations, potential social, political or economic  
rencies or currency redenomination; potential for default on sovereign debt; na- instability, restrictions on foreign investors, less stringent regulation and less  
tionalization or expropriation of assets; settlement, custodial or other operational  market liquidity. 
risks; and less stringent auditing and legal standards. As a result, foreign securities 
Derivatives contracts on non-U.S. currencies are subject to exchange rate move-
may fluctuate more widely in price, and may also be less liquid, than comparable 
ments. Derivatives may involve risks different from, or greater than, those associat-
U.S. securities. World markets, or those in a particular region, may all react in similar 
ed with more traditional investments. Derivatives can be highly complex, can create 
fashion to important economic or political developments. In addition, foreign mar-
  56 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016
investment leverage and may be highly volatile, and the Fund could lose more than  The value of a convertible security typically increases or decreases with the price 
the amount it invests. The Fund’s investments in the futures markets also introduce  of the underlying common stock. In general, a convertible security is subject to the 
the risk that its futures commission merchant (“FCM”) would default on an obliga- risks of stocks when the underlying stock’s price is high relative to the conversion 
tion set forth in an agreement between the Fund and the FCM, including the FCM’s  price and is subject to the risks of debt securities when the underlying stock’s 
obligation to return margin posted in connection with the Fund’s futures contracts.  price is low relative to the conversion price. Many convertible securities have credit 
The use of options involves investment strategies and risks different from those  ratings that are below investment grade and are subject to the same risks as an 
associated with ordinary portfolio securities transactions. If the Fund’s portfolio  investment in lower-rated debt securities (commonly known as “junk bonds”). To 
manager applies a strategy at an inappropriate time or judges market conditions  the extent the Fund invests in convertible securities issued by small- or mid-cap 
or trends incorrectly, options may lower the Fund’s return. Derivative instruments  companies, it will be subject to the risks of investing in such companies. 
and short sales may also have an effect similar to that of leverage and can result 
There is no guarantee that the companies in which the Fund invests will declare 
in losses to the Fund that exceed the amount originally invested in the derivative 
dividends in the future or that dividends, if declared, will remain at current levels 
instruments. Leverage may amplify changes in the Fund’s net asset value (“NAV”). 
or increase over time.
ETFs are subject to tracking error and may be unable to sell poorly performing 
stocks that are included in their index. ETFs may trade in the secondary market at  Additional Risk Information for Intrinsic Value Fund
prices below the value of their underlying portfolios and may not be liquid. Through  Investing in companies in anticipation of a catalyst carries the risk that the catalyst 
its investment in exchange traded funds, the Fund is subject to the risks of the ETF’s  may not happen as anticipated, possibly due to the actions of other market partici-
investments, as well as to the ETF’s expenses. The Fund may engage in active and  pants, or the market may react differently than expected to the catalyst. Certain cat-
frequent trading and may have a high portfolio turnover rate, which may increase  alysts, such as companies emerging from, or restructuring as a result of, bankruptcy, 
the Fund’s transaction costs and may adversely affect the Fund’s performance. carry additional risks and the securities of such companies may be more likely to 
lose value than the securities of more stable companies. 
Additional Risk Information for Multi-Cap Opportunities Fund
From time to time, based on market or economic conditions, the Fund may have  From time to time, based on market or economic conditions, the Fund may have 
significant positions in one or more sectors of the market. To the extent the Fund  significant positions in one or more sectors of the market. To the extent the Fund 
invests more heavily in particular sectors, its performance will be especially sensitive  invests more heavily in particular sectors, its performance will be especially sensitive 
to developments that significantly affect those sectors. Individual sectors may be  to developments that significantly affect those sectors. Individual sectors may be 
more volatile, and may perform differently, than the broader market. The industries  more volatile, and may perform differently, than the broader market. The industries 
that constitute a sector may all react in the same way to economic, political or  that constitute a sector may all react in the same way to economic, political or 
regulatory events.  regulatory events.
Companies that are considered “special situations” include, among others: com- Barron’s “Best Fund Families of 2016” measures one year results of 61 fund families. 
panies that have unrecognized recovery prospects or new management teams;  Neuberger Berman was not ranked in the 5- or 10-year category by Barron’s because 
companies involved in restructurings or spin-offs; companies emerging from, or  it previously did not have broad enough categories for this survey. To qualify for the 
restructuring as a result of, bankruptcy; companies making initial public offerings  Barron’s/Lipper Fund Survey, a group must have at least (i) three funds in Lipper’s 
that trade below their initial offering prices; and companies with a break-up value  general U.S. equity category; (ii) one in world equity, which combines global and 
above their market price. Investing in special situations carries the risk that certain  international funds; (iii) one mixed-equity fund, which holds stocks and bonds; (iv) 
of such situations may not happen as anticipated or the market may react different- two taxable-bond funds; and (v) one-tax-exempt offering. Barron’s notes that their 
ly than expected to such situations. Certain special situations carry the additional  goal is to measure manager skill, independent of expenses beyond annual manage-
risks inherent in difficult corporate transitions and the securities of such companies  ment fees. As a result, each fund’s returns are calculated before deduction of any 
may be more likely to lose value than the securities of more stable companies. sales charge or 12b-1 fee. Each fund’s return is measured against those of all funds 
in its Lipper category (e.g., small-cap value). That leads to a percentile ranking, with 
Additional Risk Information for Equity Income Fund
100 being the highest and 1 the lowest, which is then weighted by asset size, relative 
There are greater credit risks associated with investments in high-yield bonds. A 
to the fund family’s other assets in its general classification. If a family’s biggest 
bond’s value may fluctuate based on interest rates, market conditions, credit quality, 
funds do well, that boosts its overall ranking. Poor performance in a big fund has 
political events, currency devaluation and other factors. You may have a gain or a 
a big effect on the ranking. Finally, the score is multiplied by the weighting of its 
loss if you sell your bonds prior to maturity. High Yield Bonds are not suitable for 
general classification, as determined by the entire Lipper universe of funds. Finally, 
all investors and the risks of these bonds should be weighed against the potential 
the score is multiplied by the weighting of its general classification, as determined 
rewards. The properties held by 
by the entire Lipper universe of funds. The category weightings for the one-year 
REITs could fall in value for a variety of reasons, such as declines in rental income,  results in 2016 were general equity, 39.6%; mixed asset, 17.4%; world equity, 
poor property management, environmental liabilities, uninsured damage, increased  17.2%; taxable bond, 22.3%; tax-exempt bond, 3.5%.
competition, or changes in real estate tax laws. There is also a risk that REIT stock 
Information about Professional Pensions Investment Awards (PPIA) “Emerging 
prices overall will decline over short or even long periods because of rising interest 
Market Debt Manager of the Year” award:  The PPIA process is unique within the 
rates. Convertible bonds tend to offer a lower rate of return compared to other 
industry - with the shortlist being drawn up in association with Aon Hewitt, high-
bonds in exchange funds for the value of the option to convert the bond into stock. 
lighting those asset managers who have demonstrated excellent performance and 
 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NEUBERGER BERMAN | 57
relative growth in assets under management over the 12 months ending June 30,  date or at any particular time.  The Neuberger Berman Multi-Asset Risk Premia 
2016 as well as strong performance over the past three years.  Shortlisted en- strategy is not in any way sponsored, endorsed, sold or promoted by CS, CSI or 
trants were then asked to complete a questionnaire detailing how they differentiate  any of their respective affiliates. None of CS, CSI or any of their respective affiliates 
themselves from their peers - detailing the product and client service innovations  have prepared, reviewed or approved this document. Neither CS, CSI nor any of 
they made over the 12 months ending June 30, 2016. The winners in each category  its affiliates shall have any responsibility to monitor whether Neuberger Berman 
were decided by a distinguished panel of industry judges. Europe Limited (“NBEL”) as the “Index Rebalancing Entity” in respect of the Index, 
is acting in compliance with the rules relating to the Index. “Credit Suisse”, the 
Awards, ratings or rankings referenced do not reflect the experiences of any Neu-
Credit Suisse logo and “Credit Suisse Actively Rebalanced Indices” are trademarks 
berger Berman client and should not be viewed as representative of any particular 
or service marks or registered trademarks or registered trademarks  or registered 
client’s experience.  It should not be assumed that any investor will have a similar 
service marks of Credit Suisse Group AG or one of its affiliates. The “Credit Suisse 
investment experience as any previous or existing client.  Awards, ratings or rank-
Neuberger Berman Multi-Asset Risk Premia Index” contains trademarks or service 
ings are not indicative of the past or future performance of any Neuberger Berman 
marks or registered trademarks or registered service marks of (i) Credit Suisse 
product or service.
Group AG or one of its affiliates and (ii) Neuberger Berman Europe Limited or one 
CS Index Disclaimer: This disclaimer extends to Credit Suisse Securities (Europe)  of its affiliates. Copyright ©2017 CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG and/or its affiliates. 
Limited (“CS”), its affiliates or its designate in any of its capacities and relates  All rights reserved.
to the Credit Suisse Neuberger Berman Multi-Asset Risk Premia Index (the “In-
This material is being issued on a limited basis through various global subsidiaries 
dex”). CS is described as “Index Sponsor” under the rules relating to the Index, 
and affiliates of Neuberger Berman Group LLC. Please visit www.nb.com/disclo-
as prepared by CS (the “Index Rules”) and Credit Suisse International (“CSI”) is 
sure-global-communications for the specific entities and jurisdictional limitations 
described as the “Index Calculation Agent”. The Index may, in accordance with the 
and restrictions.
Index Rules, be subject to change at any time by the CS but subject to consultation 
with the Index Committee (as described in the Index Rules).  None of CS, CSI or  The “Neuberger Berman” name and logo and “Neuberger Berman Investment Ad-
any of their respective affiliates makes any warranty or representation whatsoever,  visers LLC” name are registered service marks of Neuberger Berman Group LLC. The 
express or implied, as to the results to be obtained from the use of the Index, or as  individual fund names in this piece are either service marks or registered service 
to the performance and/or the value thereof at any time (past, present or future).  marks of Neuberger Berman Investment Advisers LLC, an affiliate of Neuberger 
CS as Index Sponsor does not warrant or guarantee the accuracy or timeliness of  Berman BD LLC, distributor, member FINRA.
calculations of Index Values or the availability of an Index Value on any particular 
©2017 Neuberger Berman BD LLC. All rights reserved.
  58 | NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016

GLOBAL HEADQUARTERS AMERICAS
New York, New York Bogota, Colombia
800.223.6448
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Los Angeles, California
REGIONAL HEADQUARTERS
San Francisco, California
Hong Kong, China 
+852 3664 8800 Tampa, Florida
London, United Kingdom  Toronto, Canada
+44 20 3214 9000
West Palm Beach, Florida
Tokyo, Japan  Wilmington, Delaware
+81 3 5218 1930
EMEA
GLOBAL PORTFOLIO 
Dubai, United Arab Emirates
MANAGEMENT CENTERS
Frankfurt, Germany
Atlanta, Georgia
Madrid, Spain
Boston, Massachusetts
Paris, France
Chicago, Illinois
Zurich, Switzerland
Dallas, Texas
The Hague, Netherlands
ASIA PACIFIC
Milan, Italy
Beijing, China 
Singapore
Melbourne, Australia
Seoul, South Korea
Shanghai, China
Sydney, Australia
Taipei, Taiwan
Neuberger Berman
1290 Avenue of the Americas
New York, NY 10104-0001
L0317  5/17 ©2017 Neuberger Berman Group LLC. All rights reserved. www.nb.com