


RESEARCH MEETINGS WITH PUBLIC  OF CLIENTS’ ASSETS MANAGED BY LEAD   RESEARCH MEETINGS WITH  
COMPANY MANAGEMENT TEAMS   PORTFOLIO MANAGERS WHO HAVE 20+  CONSULTANTS, ANALYSTS AND  
AT OUR OFFICES IN 2015 YEARS OF INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE EXPERTS IN 2015
19
COUNTRIES
ANNUALIZED RETENTION RATE OF   PORTFOLIO MANAGERS’ AVERAGE 
29 INVESTMENT PROFESSIONALS AT SVP   INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE
AND MD LEVEL SINCE 2009
CITIES
$243 $3
11 bn ~ bn
GLOBAL   TOTAL  
PORTFOLIO   ASSETS UNDER  
MANAGEMENT   MANAGEMENT
CENTERS
INVESTED BY  
NB EMPLOYEES  
AND THEIR FAMILIES  
1,968 522 IN NB STRATEGIES  
NUMBER OF  
INVESTMENT   AND ACCOUNTS1
EMPLOYEES  
PROFESSIONALS
WORLDWIDE
OUR MISSION IS     TABLE OF CONTENTS
2    A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO
TO PARTNER WITH
15     TURBULENT MARKETS
CLIENTS TO 19    EQUITIES
25    POLICY PARADOX
ACHIEVE THEIR
29    FIXED INCOME
UNIQUE INVESTMENT 35    THE CLIENT CONTEXT
39    ALTERNATIVES
OBJECTIVES.
45    DYNAMIC SOLUTIONS
49    QUANTITATIVE & MULTI-ASSET CLASS
51    PRIVATE CLIENT
57    CLIENT COVERAGE
1. Employee assets include current and former employees and their family members.
61    PERSPECTIVES
All information is as of March 31, 2016, except as otherwise noted. Data regarding number 
65    FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
of employees and investment professionals is as of April 30, 2016. Firm data reflects the 
collective data for the various subsidiaries of Neuberger Berman Group LLC. See Additional  66    LEADERSHIP
Disclosures at the end of this piece, which are an important part of this presentation, for  72    ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES
the definition of “investment professionals” and certain exclusions.  
1
A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO
GEORGE H. WALKER
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
2015 WAS A YEAR OF STRONG 
DEVELOPMENT FOR NEUBERGER BERMAN.
MOST IMPORTANTLY, WE REMAINED SINGULARLY FOCUSED ON DELIVERING 
FOR OUR CLIENTS: ACROSS OUR PLATFORM OF EQUITY, FIXED INCOME 
AND ALTERNATIVES, ENHANCING OUR CAPABILITIES AND CONTINUING OUR 
RECORD OF TALENT RETENTION. CLIENTS IN TURN ALLOCATED ADDITIONAL 
AMOUNTS OF THEIR IRREPLACEABLE CAPITAL TO NEUBERGER BERMAN.
2
In 2015, the Barclays Aggregate Fixed Income 
RETENTION LEVELS   
Composite and the S&P 500 Equity Index—two of the 
OF INVESTMENT  
most broadly cited benchmarks—generated modestly  PROFESSIONALS  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014  2015
positive returns. Likewise, global equity volatility 
(standard deviation) ended the year at 19.10%, identical  MANAGING DIRECTORS  97%  94%  99%  96%  98%  98%  99%
to where it started—19.10%.
SENIOR VICE PRESIDENTS  95%  91%  95%  97%  97%  97%  95%
Easy year? Hardly—2015 was enormously challenging 
for investors and we expect more of the same in the 
year ahead. Profound changes are occurring. EXPERIENCE MATTERS 
Experience, too, is critical: 97% of our clients’ assets are 
But first, let me address what has not changed.
managed by lead portfolio managers with 20+ years 
of industry experience. We often warn our prospective 
STABILITY MATTERS
clients to take a good look at the folks sitting across the 
Our clients have come to expect that our senior  table because they’re likely going to be sitting across 
investment professionals are focused on investing and  the table year after year.
are less likely to leave the firm to move to a competitor 
than are most in our industry.  ALIGNMENT MATTERS
Our focus is on managing client assets for the long 
2015 was no exception. Retirement remains our primary 
term. It is our only business. As an employee-owned 
competitor, this year enticing 1% of our Managing 
firm without an external parent, without proprietary 
Directors. 
trading and without market making activities, our 
We were pleased to be singled out by Moody’s Investor  focus is singular—delivering attractive investment 
Services in a recent industry review1 which pointed  results. Our employees and their families have invested 
to Neuberger Berman and a second competitor as  approximately $3 billion of their own capital alongside 
“examples of firms that are putting strong emphasis  clients in this pursuit. We are in this together.
on developing clear succession plans within investment 
teams and communicating these plans to investors.” 
We are proud of our record.  
1. Moody's Investor Services, March 16, 2016, In-Depth Insight,  
"Asset Managers Aim to Lock Out Key Person Risk."
3
RESOURCES MATTER   BREADTH OF  
UNDERSTANDING MATTERS
Technology is one example. In 2015 we continued to 
invest in investment technology and security capabilities  We benefit by having individuals who look at investment 
and were gratified to earn the 2016 Markets Choice  and industry dynamics from different perspectives—
Award for Best Buy-Side Trading Technology. equity and credit, public and private, large and small.  
We continue to add teams and individuals who will bring 
The same commitment applies throughout the firm 
a new perspective, such as the recent global credit  
and across the value chain. It is one of the reasons 
long/short team addition, as regulatory and other 
Neuberger Berman, for a third consecutive year, was 
changes transform credit markets. We continue to invest 
named as a Best Places to Work in Money Management 
in diversity of focus, thought and experience, as well as 
by Pensions & Investments. Our people and our culture 
in the sharing of those views, i.e., collaboration.
are our greatest asset and a source of real competitive 
advantage. 
INNOVATION MATTERS
ACCESS MATTERS Finally, we recognize that innovation and improvement 
matter. Throughout this report, we will share 
Our hands-on, bottom-up research philosophy is built 
examples of innovation across our platform, none 
on in-person meetings with company managements.  
more significant for the firm in 2015 than adding 
In 2015 alone, we hosted 1,657 meetings in our office, 
private equity focus to our industry-leading position 
another 1,600+ meetings on the road and an additional 
in acquiring for clients minority stakes in hedge fund 
1,479 meetings in our offices with outside industry 
firms, as part of our DYAL program, with the acquisition 
experts and analysts.
of minority stakes in Vista and EnCap Investments. 
The most substantial initiative is perhaps our pursuit 
of a best practices agenda across equity investment 
teams, seeking to continuously raise the bar in terms of 
process. That effort is led by Joe Amato, our President 
FIGURE 1
and Equities CIO, Lawrence Kohn, our equities COO, 
GLOBAL EQUITY MARKETS (2015)  
and former portfolio manager and member of the 
leadership team at Pzena, and Deirdre Ypma, who 
% joined our risk team this year. She previously hired/
3400 DEVELOPED MARKETS 29.74 EMERGING MARKETS fired managers for APG Asset Management, one of 
%
20 17.42 % the largest managers in Europe. We will continue to 
100 9.89 6.51% 4.05% 1.37% 0.53% 6.36% 0.08% cI haamll eonfgteen o ausrkseedlv,e “sW anhda to wuril lc Noleleuabgeurgese.r Berman look 
RETURNS (%)----43210000 -0.87% -1.67% -3.98% .-6.73% -8.42% -13.13% -13.52% -17.13% -23.00% -3.09% -8.06% -10.59% -13.15% -14.61%-18.38% -19.44%-19.60% -19.71% -18.76% -30.91% % lhigiimnkarvoevpe werisno tt1o vh10er 0 sfmy,o  eyearea ndgartvsrr  oisfsl?oiwok”rer t st hI 2hna’s0e nt  1esdb5ar em:kfi nesdset. u afioWcbtfi  iaeoloir tfuisy etrc sr olti.ive efOe nat emftt soac,,m  o inIm u,ho rpctos oreppon,eu vtt reihwns auauetiso n  wugsi l l 
-50 -41.97 masi swsieolnl a ws iollf n setoedrm tos,  bjues te xaesc iut theads  ionv peer rtihoed sp oasf tc alm  
IRELANDJAPANPORTUGALITALYU.S.FRANCEMSCI WORLDGERMANYHONG KONGU.K. AUSTRALIANORWAYSPAINSINGAPORECANADA HUNGARYCHINA RUSSIASOUTH KOREAINDIATAIWANMEXICOMSCI EMPOLAND MALAYSIASOUTH AFRICAINDONESIAHAILANDTTURKEY BRAZIL 7ch7a ylleeanrgsi.n Agn uds  oanll. that score, 2015 sure delivered, 
2015 MARKETS
Source:  Bloomberg.
Markets were tough in 2015, more so than the 
headlines imply. In equities (USD terms), developed 
markets globally lost 1.8% and emerging markets 
declined by 14.6%, driven by the oil glut, strengthening 
dollar and fundamental concerns about global growth, 
particularly China (Figure 1).   
4
While the S&P 500 gained ground, U.S. small-cap  Aside from energy and materials, U.S. corporates 
stocks retreated despite their greater alignment with  delivered solid earnings growth in 2015.
the domestic economy than many mega-caps. The 
Russell 2000 lost 4.4%. Within the S&P 500, energy  But equity markets in 2015 were driven by a very 
and materials firms were hit hardest, reflecting the  narrow group of securities. The 10 largest U.S. 
change in energy prices and earnings (Figure 2). securities, for example, appreciated 17% while the next 
490 in the S&P 500 were down 5.0%.2 Consider the 
Master Limited Partnerships (MLPs) performed poorly  so-called FANG Stocks: Facebook, Amazon, Netflix  
in 2015. The benchmark Alerian MLP Index declined  and Google (Alphabet). It wasn’t enough to own these 
by 32.6%. Although the correlation between oil prices   securities. It seemed as if outperformance almost 
and the price performance of MLPs has been relatively  required managers to be overweight members of this 
low over many years, during periods of extreme  group and at valuations that can cause heartburn, 
commodity price movement, the correlation can  irrespective of the strong quality of their franchises:
significantly tighten. Our MLP team believes the selloff 
in midstream MLPs/pipelines, where they have the 
2015    FB  AMZN  NFLX  GOOGL 
greatest exposure, has been overdone given their 
earnings, attractive yields and long-term growth  TOTAL RETURN    34.1%  117.8%  134.4%  46.6% 
outlook. The market is ignoring substantial future 
PE (Adj)    39.4x  102.2x  272.3x  29.8x 
growth in U.S. production, consumption and export  
        
of natural gas. Midstream MLPs will continue to play   As of December 31, 2015. 
a vital role in providing the infrastructure to facilitate 
this trend.
2. Source: Strategas Research Partners, 2016.
FIGURE 2
S&P 500 SECTOR RETURNS VS. EARNINGS—2015 (%)  
40
30
%
1200 10.11% 8.52% 6.89% 12.46 6.60% 1.86% 5.92% 3.49% 3.40% 8.70% 0.78% 6.00% 4.95% 1.37%
0
--2100 -1.56% -2.56% -4.84% -8.38% -4.52% % -2.02%
--4300 -21.12
RETURNS %
-50 EARNINGS -58.95
-60
-70
CONS DISC HEALTHCARE CONS STAPLES INFO TECH TELECOM FINANCIALS INDUSTRIALS UTILITIES MATERIALS ENERGY S&P 500
Source:  Bloomberg.
5
Collectively FANG contributed 142% of the S&P’s  track record suffered in that environment.  But our 
modest appreciation—the remaining universe produced  team’s focus and commitment to their strategy of 
a negative return. In addition to being unusually  finding “steady Eddies” remained steadfast (Figure 4). 
narrow, markets rewarded growth rather than value, 
driving that relationship well outside of its historical  The Fed’s rate hike in December, in our view, marked 
bounds. In the long term, valuation matters and we  an important early step in the long-term normalization 
expect reversion over time (Figure 3). of market behavior that is likely to lead to more 
fundamentally driven valuations. In fact, starting in late 
2015, our Genesis Fund, out of favor during most of the 
ACTIVE MANAGEMENT  
year, rebounded; the fund has outperformed 82% of its 
Some of the anomalies we’ve seen in small  peers for the 12 months ended December 31 and 95% 
capitalization equities are already normalizing.   of the competition for the ten-year period.3
Our U.S. small-cap value strategy, the primary vehicle 
for which is the “Genesis” mutual fund, has been  While the long-term track record of our fund  
managed for almost two decades by a team led by   is extremely gratifying, as a firm invested in client 
Bob D’Alelio and Judy Vale. They pursue a decidedly  success, it is frustrating to see clients redeem during 
long-term, almost private equity-like approach to  periods of tough performance. While some of those 
investing in high-quality smaller companies. Under  redemptions are likely individuals using the proceeds 
their leadership, the strategy has grown to become  for retirement or critical expenditures, I suspect many 
Neuberger Berman’s largest equity strategy.    are driven by short-termism—investors chasing better 
performing strategies or asset classes. Investors who race 
The world of zero interest rates, however, has   from strategy to strategy, manager to manager or ETF 
rewarded those with leveraged balance sheets, rather  to ETF may lose significant value. At the risk of grossly 
than high-quality, cash-flow-positive companies with  oversimplifying, in rough seas we believe “staying the 
low debt and strong management teams. Our Genesis  course” is a better approach than ”trust your gut” when 
waves grow. A recent strategy deck we shared with 
clients highlights not only the returns of the past handful 
FIGURE 3 of years, but the drawdowns (peak-to-trough losses) 
VALUATION SPREADS   
that one sustained in achieving those gains (Figure 5). 
THE TOP QUINTILE COMPARED TO THE MARKET AVERAGE 
The need for advice, judgment and a long-term focus 
has perhaps never been greater, and we salute those 
advisors who provide it to their clients.
4  11.20.08
HIGH
WIDE  Just as clients too often “chase the hot dot”, 
DISPARITIES
3  managers, too, can be self-defeating and short-
term oriented. There is a tendency in our business 
NS 
O 2  to mirror the benchmark, so as to reduce the risk of 
DEVIATI 02.1P1E.A1K6 underperforming. We fight that inclination. A defining 
ARD  1  characteristic across Neuberger Berman portfolios is a 
D
AN bias toward independent thinking, typically resulting in 
ST
0  a high active share. This metric—the percentage of a 
portfolio’s holdings that differ from benchmark—was 
-1  90 for the Genesis Fund (as of March 31, 2016).
NARROW 
DISPARITIES
-2 
52  56  60  64  68  72  76  80  84  88  92  96  00  04  08  12  16 
3. For the 5-year period ending December 31, 2016, Genesis Fund 
RECESSIONS outperformed 52% of its peers in the Morningstar U.S. Equity Funds 
Small Growth category (out of 531 funds). The 1- and 10-year time 
periods included 669 funds and 389 funds, respectively. The Morningstar 
Source:  Empirical Research Partners Analysis, National Bureau of Economic Research. rankings are based on Morningstar total returns, which include both 
income and capital gains or losses and are not adjusted for sales charges 
or redemption fees to all funds that have the same Morningstar category. 
Rankings information for the Genesis Fund, current as of the most recent 
quarter end, is available on www.nb.com.   
Past performance is no guarantee of future results.   
6
FIGURE 4
RUSSELL 2000 ANNUALIZED TOTAL RETURN
CHANGING IMPACT OF LOSS MAKERS IN THE POST-CRISIS ERA
25.0 %
5
9. % %
20.0 1 16.4 17.0
15.0
%
10.0 8.7 9%
6.
5.0
0.0
%
-5.0 1.0
-
-10.0 LOSS-MAKING COMPANIES %
-15.0 PARLLO FCIOTAMBPLAEN CIOESMPANIES -7.1 -8.8%
%
-20.0 5.0
1/1/96 — 12/31/11 1/1/12 — 6/30/15 -1 7/1/15 — 12/31/15
Source:  Bloomberg.
FIGURE 5
S&P 500 CALENDAR YEAR PRICE RETURNS VS. INTRA-YEAR DRAWDOWNS
THE LAST 5 YEARS HAVE ANNUALIZED RETURNS OF 10.2% BUT ALSO HAVE AN AVERAGE 11.0% INTRA-YEAR DRAWDOWN
40  4 
30  26  26  27  26  3 31  27  26  3  29 
Price Returns of S&P 500 (%)  ----4321120000000        -17  -18 -10  -17 15  17 -7  -13 1  -8  15 -9  -34 2  12 -8  -8  -20 -7  -6  -6 4  -5 7  -2 -9  -3  20 -8  -11  -19  -12 19  -10  71- -13 -30  -23 -34  -14  9 -8  3 -7  14 -8  4 -10  38  2-28  13 -16  -19 0  -10 13  -6  11 -7  -1 -12  Intra-year Drawdowns (%) 
ANNUAL PRICE RETURNS OF S&P 500 (%)  -
-50 
INTRA-YEAR DRAWDOWNS (%) 9 
-60  -4
0  5  0  5  0  5  0  5 
8 8 9 9 0 0 1 1
9 9 9 9 0 0 0 0
1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2
Source:  FactSet, Standard & Poor’s.
Intra-year drops refers to the largest market drops from a peak to a trough during the year. Returns shown are calendar year returns from 1980 to 2015.
7
The same is true for non-U.S. investing. Benjamin   And, yes, traders may profit if they are able to sell 
Segal, who manages our International Equity Fund,  these bonds as rates become even more negative as 
likewise seeks to identify quality businesses with  central banks pursue quantitative easing or as certain 
healthy financials and strong market leadership  institutional investors are required to own government 
positions. Its active share: 87 (as of March 31, 2016). bonds, but is this where you want to be invested? 
As noted with our Genesis team earlier, equity  Some of these fixed income ETFs also have fees that 
managers outside the U.S. benefitted in 2015 from a  rival active funds and many were also impacted by 
return to differentiation. For many years post-2008,  the August 24 “market event” where some large ETFs 
regions, countries and market-cap levels traded in  recorded unprecedented declines. 
tandem. As that ceased to be the case, flexibility and 
differentiation became key and we believe will be  We invest differently: our fixed income practice,  
increasingly so. for example, is grounded in deep research, active  
decision-making and continuity of leadership. Our 
Our emerging markets equity strategy, too, boasts a  proprietary research tools drive portfolio construction, 
differentiated approach consistent with a high active  including our State-Space Analysis protocol, which 
share of 76 (as of March 31, 2016). Later in this report,  assimilates research into multiple scenario analyses, 
we present a roundtable discussion capturing insights  our Torpedo Monitor, which helps manage downside 
and perspectives from the leaders of our international  risk from credit deterioration, and Everest, which helps 
and emerging market equity and debt teams, units  identify, select and monitor portfolio positions. As in 
whose excellence has made them increasingly  private and public equity, our fixed income team is 
important to Neuberger Berman and our clients. large, with 143 investment professionals, experienced, 
with an average industry tenure for our lead portfolio 
Part of the challenge is that passive and index inflows  managers of 26 years, and cohesive, with 94% of 
have come to dominate flows to investors like us over  our portfolio managers having been at Neuberger 
the past decade. Berman more than 10 years. Recognition of our 
fixed income leadership came this year in the form 
These index funds and ETFs tend to buy securities 
of Chief Investment Officer magazine selecting our 
based on market capitalization, although some employ 
Opportunistic Fixed Income team, led by Andy Johnson, 
valuation or quality characteristics. Flows to indices  
as a fixed income category winner at the publication’s 
and ETFs can exert significant upward or downward 
2015 CIO Industry Innovation Awards.
pricing pressure on securities held by the index. For 
some, indexing—a perfectly legitimate strategy—has  This matters in tough periods like 2015. High yield 
become almost religious despite some shortcomings   bonds continued to struggle into 2016, driven by 
in certain segments. concerns over a slowing global economy in general and 
much weaker commodity prices in particular. Our high 
Consider the idea of investing simply based on market 
yield team entered 2015 with an overweight view on 
capitalization in fixed income markets, for example. 
energy. In June, the team had the courage to reevaluate 
Why would you want to own much of the $4 trillion 
its position and changed to a significant underweight in 
of bonds outstanding today with negative rates—29% 
the sector, consistent with their expectation of a lower-
of the global government bond market as of February? 
for-longer oil price environment. This decision, as much 
Market-cap weights and indexing push you there. 
as any other, positioned the team to outperform in the 
second half of the year, clawing back performance lost 
earlier in the year and more. This defensive orientation 
also positioned the team to outperform as commodity 
prices continued to decline into 2016.
8
Looking forward, we have a favorable outlook for  20x the annual net income we receive for managing a 
the high yield market given positive, albeit modest,  pool of loans. That inventory burden would kill almost 
U.S. growth as current yields overestimate both the  any business (unless holding the inventory itself is the 
probability of a near-term recession and future default  business, as may be the case with certain insurance 
rates outside of the commodity-related sectors. We  companies, for example). Unfortunately, this is likely 
have an underweight view on commodity sectors and  to curtail CLO issuance, constraining loans which can 
lower-rated credits, and are more focused on large,  help facilitate economic growth and job creation. The 
liquid issuers. Liquidity in these vehicles is critical, a  same has occurred with leveraged loans, albeit here the 
point reinforced last year when a prominent high yield  objective isn’t alignment, but rather financial stability, 
fund suspended redemptions. The fund was not a  and the constraint is on banks holding those leveraged 
standard high yield fund (75%+ allocation to CCCs  6+ times, irrespective of the nature of the borrower, 
versus the market at 13%), but this event highlights the  the quality or predictability of its earnings or the rate 
importance of understanding credit risks and what’s in  received by the lender. 
a portfolio.
Public policy implications aside, markets adapt and so 
Rigorous work is also central to independent thinking,  will we. We have invested in building our private loan 
one of our core values. Herd behavior in 2015 wasn’t  origination effort, putting $524 million to work in 
limited to mechanistic index programs with low fees,  2015, and another $216 million thus far in early 2016. 
but also was found among certain hedge funds. An  David Lyon, who joined us after years at DE Shaw 
index tracking those companies owned by at least 20  and Goldman Sachs, will be leading our investing in 
different hedge fund investors plunged 45 percent  illiquid bank debt and bonds of private equity-backed 
from July 2015 through February.4  As these hedge  companies in the secondary market. We will look to 
funds sought to de-risk their portfolios simultaneously,  partner with clients in order to meet the risk retention 
buyers were lacking. Accumulation is typically gradual,  requirements required to operate our CLO business. 
but liquidation can be faster, crowded and messy,  Simultaneously, we see opportunities to take advantage 
particularly for smaller companies. Yet, as we start  of technical dislocations in the CLO market and have 
2016, three of the four FANG stocks account for 4%  built out our capabilities to invest on behalf of clients in 
of hedge fund long exposure, the highest ever, with  tranches of other managers’ CLOs and added Pim van 
Netflix being the largest short. Stay tuned. Schie to our team from Morgan Stanley to quarterback 
this effort.
Beyond the rapid growth of index/ETF investing, there 
are additional structural forces at work. Global bank  What is true of all three of these efforts is that  
regulation, for example, designed to strengthen those  investors need to accept meaningful illiquidity, indeed 
institutions, has shrunk balance sheets dedicated to  being prepared to hold the investments to maturity.  
market-making activities, eliminated key business units  The forced selling may increase, which could cause 
and resulted in a bifurcation of liquidity for market  tough near-term marks, but we expect that actual 
participants. A few examples of what this means for  defaults and recoveries will determine returns.  
Neuberger Berman: Today, we find these spaces particularly attractive  
for long-term investors.
PRIVATE DEBT/LOANS
Dodd-Frank requires firms like Neuberger Berman 
which manage securitized pools of loans (CLOs) to 
retain a share of the risk. While the stated general 
objective is laudable—alignment—we think the 
amounts are perhaps self-defeating. Our complying, for 
example, could require holding positions worth up to 
4. Novus, Feb 23, 2016, “Meet the New, Most-Crowded Hedge Fund Stocks.”
9
PRIVATE EQUITY commingled vehicle comprised of 17 direct investments, 
built a robust Italian team and acquired an indirect 
Our final addition of 2015 was the private investment 
portfolio via a secondary transaction. The early results 
portfolio business of Bank of America/Merrill Lynch. 
are encouraging for all parties. Most recently we 
With this unit, we welcomed an experienced team 
have launched a major investment in publicly traded 
led by Jim Bowden who had created vehicles for that 
Engineering Ingegneria Informatica S.p.A in partnership 
organization’s high net worth channels over the last 17 
with their outstanding management team and Apax 
years. Of particular note is a series of ’40 Act registered 
Partners. We are excited about the opportunity to 
private equity funds. This unique solution set aligns 
invest in great companies—public and private—in 
with our intermediary partners who seek to expand 
southern Europe.
their platform for client segments which did not have 
effective access to the asset class previously. DYAL
This commitment to reducing fees and improving access  While 2015 was a challenging year for hedge funds 
to alternative strategies has been fundamental to our  overall, Dyal Capital Partners I held up well, making 
success in hedge funds as well, most notably our Equity  net distributions to investors of over 11% of invested 
Long Short, our Global Long Short Credit and our  capital. Dyal Capital Partners II, which also is dedicated 
Absolute Return Multi-Manager strategies. Ultimately,  to acquiring minority stakes in established hedge fund 
it’s the net risk-adjusted returns that matter; however,  firms, held its final close with $2.1 billion of committed 
in a low interest rate, low return environment, fee  capital and began deploying that capital in Jana, 
efficiency is particularly valuable. Whitebox and Chenavari, three world-class investment 
organizations.
In June 2015, NB Private Equity formed a strategic 
partnership with Intesa Sanpaolo to pursue direct  Last year Dyal also began acquiring minority stakes 
investments in international mid-market companies  in large private equity firms. Across the industry, 
headquartered in Italy, typically with a global consumer  established private equity firms face challenges, 
base and a strong export-oriented approach. As part of  including generational transitions, increased investor 
this partnership, Marco Cerrina Feroni and Fabio Cane,  demand for large GP commitments and competition 
who previously led Intesa Sanpaolo’s merchant banking  from publicly listed private equity managers.
operations, and several members of their team, joined 
While private equity and hedge fund firms are different 
Neuberger Berman, together with Stefano Bontempelli, 
in many ways, the core attributes that Dyal seeks 
previously a leader of our European Private Equity 
in a partner are the same: a terrific team, strong 
business. They are terrific investors and great partners.
performance across market cycles, a stable institutional 
The transaction was privately negotiated with Intesa  platform and a focus on long-term enterprise value. 
Sanpaolo, the #5 bank in Europe and #1 bank in Italy  2015 investments in Vista Equity Partners and EnCap 
for middle market corporates. They sought to reduce  Investments, two of the largest and best-performing 
illiquid equity positions and wanted a strategic partner  private equity firms globally, demonstrate Dyal’s strong 
given the importance of delivering for both the bank  transaction pipeline for this new effort.
and its clients over time. Through an exclusive six-
 
month dialogue and due diligence process, the bank 
 
chose Neuberger Berman. We created a 50% funded 
 
 
 
 
 
10
OPTIONS AND MULTI-ASSET   to manage a multi-asset class mandate linked to their 
CLASS INVESTING unique liability profile. We view this as a reflection of 
not only our experience and track record, but also our 
In January 2016 we added a terrific investment team 
deep engagement with these clients. As a client-driven 
specializing in index-based options portfolios that 
firm, not driven by quarterly earnings, the opportunity 
seek to capture global volatility premiums. Overseen 
for our portfolio managers to work more directly with 
by Doug Kramer, who joined the firm in November 
clients who themselves manage huge pools of assets 
as co-head of Quantitative & Multi-Asset Class 
is a welcome learning opportunity. We gain from—as 
Investments alongside Erik Knutzen, this addition 
well as contribute to—the dialogue. And it helps us 
strengthens our lineup of systematic, outcome-oriented 
better put ourselves in clients’ shoes. Interestingly, this 
investment capabilities. Doug Kramer is a former 
same dialogue is what underscores our private client 
Goldman Sachs partner who led their $70 billion 
business—much of the firm’s heritage.
manager selection/OCIO unit before becoming CEO of 
a traditional equity manager. Derek Devens, a former  Individuals, like their institutional brethren, are asking 
colleague of ours from Goldman Sachs, leads the  more strategic-minded questions: Do I have the 
options investment program. right long-term investment strategy? Do I have the 
appropriate mix of asset types, of global exposures, 
We are now able to offer clients option investment 
of public and private investments? Should I be more 
solutions in a differentiated global format with an 
tactical—given recent extreme market volatility, 
established track record. The team’s strategies directly 
should I make short-term adjustments? And more 
address clients’ demands for risk efficiency and income 
opportunistic: Where are there unique opportunities 
generation. Their decision to join us speaks again to our 
with high risk-adjusted return potential that may exist 
investment culture. This established team chose to bring 
today but not be investable over time?  
their careers to Neuberger Berman and invest alongside 
our managers.  Earlier this year, we welcomed Richard Gardiner to our 
team as CIO of the Neuberger Berman Trust Company 
CLIENT PARTNERSHIPS  and head of our Investment Strategy Group, our high 
net worth advisory capability. Rich joins us following 
More of our business now is multi-asset class and 
senior roles at J.P. Morgan, Goldman Sachs and more 
solutions-oriented. This year we were proud to win 
recently an independent wealth management firm. 
multi-asset class strategic partnerships from a large 
Rich’s addition to the firm, combined with the deep 
Australian superannuation scheme and a prominent 
and experienced capabilities resident in our high net 
Asian insurance firm. Our focus on large, sophisticated 
worth advisors (eight of whom were recently honored 
investors led us to Matt Malloy, who joined the team 
by Barron’s in their annual Top 1,200 Financial Advisor 
in 2015 and previously had led the insurance asset 
rankings)5 strengthens our ability to deliver solutions to 
management effort for J.P. Morgan. More insurance 
our private clients and help them navigate increasingly 
clients are reaching out for partners who can help them 
complex markets. Please engage him on these issues. 
diversify their portfolios with non-traditional income 
strategies given their liability profile. We are excited to 
be expanding our footprint in this important space.  
These efforts have also enhanced our partnerships 
with other customized multi-asset class investors. One 
of the 20 largest insurance firms engaged us in 2015 
5. Barron’s Top 1,200 Financial Advisors, March 5, 2016. 
See additional disclosures at the end of this material for additional 
information regarding third-party rankings.
11
WHAT’S AHEAD? As we sail through these volatile waters, we believe 
Neuberger Berman is well positioned to continue to 
Our mission for the firm is clear. Continuous 
deliver for investors in 2016, just as we have for 77 
improvement—not growth—remains the mission, 
years: strategically, tactically and opportunistically. 
following the lead of our legendary investors, starting 
with Roy Neuberger through Marvin Schwartz and  We will be here for clients. In one of our larger offices, 
many of the portfolio managers introduced in the  New York City, “here” will change from 605 Third 
following pages.  Avenue to 1290 Avenue of the Americas in late 2016 
with the expiration of our 25-year lease. This change 
In terms of the economy, our outlook for 2016 is more 
has given us the opportunity to rethink our workspace 
benign than is implied by markets. We see the current 
to further drive collaboration. Come visit us.  
business cycle lasting longer than expected, resulting 
in low-low-low-low: low global growth, low rates  You are also invited to join us for our annual 
driven by continued European and Asian central bank  Celebration with Service, as our offices globally 
quantitative easing, low inflation albeit with commodity  participate in more than 100 projects. This important 
prices bottoming and low near-term U.S. recession risk,  firm tradition—now in its seventh year—allows us to 
well below that implied by fixed income markets. give back and connect with our communities, while 
also reminding us that at our core we exist to serve 
Unfortunately, this may not be positive for lower and 
others. It reinforces partnership and collaboration—
middle income citizens, who are still waiting for QE 
both of which are fundamental to our culture—and 
to trickle down. True, official unemployment rates 
provides our employees the opportunity to apply 
have improved markedly, but those generally are 
their skills to help those in need, from underprivileged 
more grounded in the long-term drop in labor force 
families in Hong Kong to students in London to 
participation and disappointing productivity growth 
veterans in New York. Join us.
rather than in real economic growth. We can do better, 
but likely won’t as fiscal policy and structural reform  For clients who were with us through the difficult 
have been victims of political dysfunction. periods, especially the global financial crisis, we again 
extend our deep thanks. For those who joined more 
Nonetheless, while we believe volatility is likely to 
recently, we pledge to remain focused on delivering for 
be high, equity valuations and credit spreads appear 
you over time. Thank you for giving us the opportunity.
reasonable, and in certain sectors attractive, given 
that outlook. Government securities appear mispriced, 
but the largest buyers often have other objectives 
and constraints. These programs, stunning in scope 
and scale, may ultimately pose the greatest risk facing 
markets, beyond energy supply, a Chinese hard landing, 
illiquidity in credit markets, Brexit, Mideast turmoil or 
the U.S. elections, as “unique” as this cycle is. Negative 
rates punish savers and introduce significant banking, 
market and economic risk globally. 
12
AS MARKETS AND CLIENT NEEDS HAVE EVOLVED,  
NEUBERGER BERMAN HAS ADDED CAPABILITIES OVER  
ALMOST EIGHT DECADES
2003–2008 2009–PRESENT
1 939:  2003:  2009:  
FIRM FOUNDED NEUBERGER BERMAN   NEUBERGER BERMAN GROUP LLC BECAME  
ACQUIRED BY LEHMAN  A PRIVATE, INDEPENDENT, EMPLOYEE-CONTROLLED  
1950:   BROTHERS ASSET MANAGEMENT FIRM
LAUNCHED ONE  
OF THE FIRST   2004:    2011:   
NO-LOAD ’40 ACT   HEDGE FUND PLATFORM  AMONG THE FIRST FIRMS TO OFFER MINORITY OWNERSHIP  
MUTUAL FUNDS ESTABLISHED STAKES IN HEDGE FUNDS IN A FUND STRUCTURE
1977:   2005:    LIQUID ALTERNATIVE FUNDS LAUNCHED: 
LAUNCHED   QUANTITATIVE   UCITS AND ’40 ACT PORTFOLIOS OFFERED
INSTITUTIONAL   INVESTMENT BUSINESS  
BUSINESS ESTABLISHED 2011 – 2016:   
SPECIALTY PRIVATE EQUITY STRATEGIES:   
 
1981:    2006:  BRAND AND HEALTH CARE ROYALTIES AS WELL AS ITALIAN PRIVATE INVESTMENTS
FIXED INCOME   UCITS FUNDS  
CAPABILITY   PLATFORM CREATED 2013:   
ESTABLISHED1  PRIVATE DEBT:  
2007:    INVESTMENT TEAM JOINED (NY)
PRIVATE EQUITY 
CLO/BANK LOAN  
PLATFORM  
CAPABILITIES LAUNCHED 2014:   
ESTABLISHED
GLOBAL REIT: 
2008:    EXPANDED THE INVESTMENT TEAM IN LONDON AND HONG KONG
1989:  
MULTI-ASSET CLASS  
SOCIALLY RESPONSIVE 
PLATFORM   2015:  
INVESTMENT TEAM 
ESTABLISHED GLOBAL LONG/SHORT CREDIT 
ESTABLISHED
ORCHARD SQUARE PARTNERS JOINED (NY)
1994:  
2016:   
TRUST COMPANY 
OPTIONS: 
ESTABLISHED2
INVESTMENT TEAM JOINED (NY) 
EVENT-DRIVEN: 
4 PROFESSIONALS JOINED IN CHICAGO AND NEW YORK
 
1. In 1981, the Fixed Income business was established at Lincoln Capital and subsequently acquired by Lehman Brothers. The Crossroads Group, a predeccessor entity to the Private 
investment Portfolios business, was founded in 1981.
2. Neuberger Berman Trust Company is a trade name used by Neuberger Berman Trust Company N.A. (NBTCNA) and Neuberger Berman Trust Company of Delaware N.A. (NBTCDE), 
which are subsidiaries of Neuberger Berman Group LLC. Predeccessors in interest of NBTCNA and NBTCDE were established in 1994 and 1996, respectively.
13
NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2015
INVESTING IS A VERB.
At Neuberger Berman, we encourage independent perspective, original research  
and a range of investment voices. Our investors choose to bring their careers to  
Neuberger Berman because of our culture and the resources they can access— 
from research, to company management access, to the breadth of perspectives from 
other investment teams across public and private markets, credit and equity. 
In the four featured roundtables that are interspersed throughout this annual  
report, we have brought together investors and client advisors to address issues  
and opportunities central to today’s investment marketplace.
14
NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2015
ROUNDTABLE DISCUSSION
THE STORM BEFORE THE CALM? 
A four-year bull market in developed equities came to a sudden 
halt in the spring of 2015 as a series of crises hit confidence.  
First came the latest chapter in the struggle to keep Greece in  
the Eurozone. Over the summer a bubble in China A-shares burst.  
Most recently, plummeting oil prices and negative central bank 
rates combined to spook markets about deflation and the  
banking sector.  
CONTINUED
15
BY THE END OF JANUARY 2016, GLOBAL MARKETS WERE PRICING IN 
GROWTH CONCERNS THAT HAD BEEN EVIDENT IN THE EMERGING 
WORLD FOR A LONG TIME: EMERGING EQUITIES HAD UNDERPERFORMED 
DEVELOPED MARKETS BY MORE THAN 50 PERCENTAGE POINTS SINCE 
OCTOBER 2011. BUT WAS THIS BOUT OF VOLATILITY THE FINAL PURGE? 
FROM MID-FEBRUARY, COMMODITIES RECOVERED STRONGLY AND 
EMERGING MARKETS OUTPERFORMED. 
FROM LEFT 
CONRAD A. SALDANHA
ROB J. DRIJKONINGEN
BENJAMIN E. SEGAL
BENJAMIN E. SEGAL economies has been questioned and those risk premia 
Clearly both developed and emerging markets have  widened again, considerably, and that has brought us 
come down in value over the past year. Emerging market  closer to fair value, at least. 
currencies in particular have depreciated substantially. 
This makes for more attractive value but I’m not sure  CONRAD A. SALDANHA
it gets us to fair value. It’s not obvious to me that any  The emerging world has more debt that it did 10 years 
broad equity markets are cheap, and emerging markets  ago, but it is nowhere near where it was during the 
will continue to struggle because capital is simply less  Asia crisis and it is absolutely nowhere near where it is 
trusting of them than it was five or six years ago.  in developed markets today. Concern over debt appears 
exaggerated, wouldn’t you agree?
ROB J. DRIJKONINGEN
DRIJKONINGEN
The lower level of institutionalization in most emerging 
There have been some major headwinds and 
economies makes it reasonable for many investors to 
fundamentals have been under pressure, but the 
say they should pay a risk premium to compensate. It’s 
buffers of reserves and sovereign wealth fund assets 
certainly true that those risk premia had begun to get 
have helped limit the damage. The big currency 
very tight before the period of underperformance we’ve 
depreciations we have seen are fueling a recovery in 
seen since 2011. But since the “tapering” of Federal 
many current accounts, too. Finally, we are beginning 
Reserve QE in summer 2013, which triggered huge 
to see policy changes in places like Indonesia, Mexico, 
outflows of retail capital, the financial stability of many 
India, Argentina and even Ukraine. 
16
MSCI EMERGING MARKETS FREE INDEX  
DOMINATED BY DOMESTIC DEMAND, NOT COMMODITIES
GLOBAL PRICE TAKERS
17%
GLOBAL CONSUMER DOMESTIC DEMAND
16% 55%
GLOBAL CAPEX
13%
Source: Datastream; MSCI; JPMorgan.  
Data as of December 31, 2015. 
SALDANHA on local currencies for a long time, but recently we  
The flip side of the currency depreciation is that  have neutralized that, which is quite a sea change.  
dollar-based purchasing power has been eroded, and  We also like local rates because of the low-growth  
these dynamics are important for what we see as one  and low-inflation environment. 
of the key themes in emerging markets—growing 
consumption. China’s massive impact on commodity  SALDANHA
prices resulted in a big wealth transfer to producer  I think it’s problematic to confuse the commodity-
countries and away from consumption-oriented  driven, high-beta markets with the reality of the 
economies, which had to battle inflation. In some of  emerging world. What we need to seek out are the 
these countries 45% of income is spent on food and  countries that are embarking on economic reforms, 
fuel. Of course, we are now in a commodity bust as  such as India and Indonesia. Many countries have yet to 
China’s demand tails off. That easing of inflation should  spend seriously on the infrastructure they need—China 
help emerging markets.  is the exception, really. We are seeing policymakers 
recognize the shortfall and come up with a response: 
DRIJKONINGEN Mexico is a good example, as is the “Make in India” 
Even currencies that have been extremely weak over  initiative, which is gaining traction in terms of attracting 
recent times, like the Russian ruble and Brazilian real,  investment, and creating infrastructure and jobs.
are beginning to stabilize. That should help to keep 
inflation under control. We’ve had an underweight bias 
17
TURBULENT DRIJKONINGEN
It’s true that a lot of misallocation of resources has to 
MARKETS be corrected, but we think companies in emerging 
markets have been more prudent than their peers in 
the developed world, on the whole. Moreover, while 
CONTINUED dollar liabilities are up, dollar earnings are also up if 
you’re an exporter. In China specifically, a lot of the 
dollar corporate debt has in fact been replaced with 
onshore funding. 
SEGAL
I would argue that investors likely get a lot of emerging 
markets exposure already in their developed markets 
portfolios, and they tend to get it from high-quality 
companies into the bargain: German and U.S. auto 
companies, Japanese machinery manufacturers, 
SEGAL
Lower prices can be good for emerging markets, but  European consumer and health care companies. Their 
we have to ask why commodities have become so  margins are higher than their emerging-market peers, 
much cheaper. China was building like crazy and now  and they have better access to capital. 
it isn’t, and that is not good for the broader Chinese 
DRIJKONINGEN
economy or for the rest of the emerging world as 
Contrast that with how pessimistic the market 
long as rising consumption isn’t taking up the slack. 
positioning has been with regard to commodities and 
Weakness in commodities has been a direct driver 
emerging markets. The unprecedented iron ore rally 
of poor performance in Brazil, Russia, South Africa, 
in March was a sign of that. If you think things are 
Indonesia and other commodity exporters, but China’s 
bottoming out and you have the nerve to get back in, 
slowdown also sucks demand out of the economy as a 
the highest beta often comes from local currency debt. 
whole. A lot of the optimism around emerging markets 
was about money flows and commodities, and those 
SALDANHA
days are over. I would also add a note of caution: the last big sell-offs 
in emerging markets, in 2008 and 1998, were even 
SALDANHA
greater, and at that time China was growing at 10% 
None of us can call the oil price, but I think I can 
and adding enormous stimulus, and you could export 
anticipate where I think the demand will be strong 
your way out of trouble. 
for businesses and that’s on the domestic side. For 
me, that’s where the benefit of current easing policy 
DRIJKONINGEN
will likely be felt, rather than in exports, given how  It may be fashionable to dismiss all of the big “BRIC” 
anemic trade growth is. The move to middle-income  economies apart from India, but we believe they are 
consumption is taking longer than expected, but that’s  too important to ignore completely. Brazil has well-
partly a function of this history of inflation. That’s  known problems but it remains attractive for private 
why we think the big populations and the big savings  equity and real estate investors, suggesting that the 
of Asia are more likely to be the source of future  broader business climate is not as bad as it is sometimes 
consumption growth.  appears. Sanctions have pushed Russia off the radar 
but again it is too important to ignore long-term. 
SEGAL
I certainly agree that it’s better for consumers today  And widespread concern about China should be  
than when commodities were expensive, currencies  offset by the degrees of freedom on policy, which 
were plummeting and inflation rising. But then again  has helped lend support to performance in debt 
asset prices are down, and a lot of people are trying  markets despite the rollercoaster ride equity investors 
to digest a huge credit boom, especially in places like  have endured. Perhaps the most important thing to 
China and Brazil. Both of those things would curtail  remember in all this is that emerging economies remain 
spending. The build-up of credit is my first concern  an important contributor to global growth and, from 
about the emerging world—among consumers and  the perspective of the bond markets, the source of 
corporates. Corporates have been borrowing a lot  more than $14 trillion of investable and tradable debt.
more, in both local currencies and U.S. dollars, and 
if they have both high debt and a currency mismatch 
that’s surely going to be a problem. 
18
JOSEPH V. AMATO,  
valuations of the high-quality 
PRESIDENT AND CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER — EQUITIES
companies sought out by many of our 
 
other equity strategies. This approach 
is exemplified by our U.S. small-cap 
BUSINESS REVIEW strategy, which recently experienced 
an impressive improvement in its peer 
HAS FUNDAMENTAL LONG-TERM   rankings. For two decades the team 
has pursued a very long-term, almost 
INVESTING BECOME AN ANACHRONISM?
private equity-like approach to high-
quality smaller companies.
We continue to invest in our risk 
Sometimes it can seem that way:  can still deliver better risk-adjusted 
management capability, making sure 
tough conditions for active managers  returns for our clients. It has not been 
our teams are using best practices.  
have been sending investors to passive  easy to buck the trends of short-term 
We welcomed Dierdre Ympa and 
solutions for some years. But we  trading, trend-following “momentum” 
Lawrence Kohn to important new 
believe that fundamental long-term  trading and, most of all, the flow of 
roles working with Jeff Eden, Director 
investing will stand the test of time. assets into passive vehicles. 
of Risk Analytics, to further quantify 
The past five years have seen  Whether markets “normalize” now  and articulate our portfolio managers’ 
significant macro events sowing  that the Fed has moved from zero  style, strategy and persistence.
confusion and uncertainty,  rates, or the recent environment 
We know that in an environment like 
compounded by the impact of central  persists, we will still engage in deep 
today’s it is all too tempting to change 
bank policies that bring a new element  fundamental research to develop 
investment philosophies in an attempt 
into the investment calculus. No  our best judgment on investment 
to ride volatility or chase recent return 
wonder some investors are asking  opportunities—this investment 
leadership. We resist that temptation. 
whether long-term fundamental  philosophy has served our clients well 
We believe the next five years will be 
investing has lost its way, throwing  over the past 77 years and we believe 
much more alpha-rich than the last 
their hands up and going passive: that  that discipline is more important than 
five, and we will continue to root out 
can seem like the easy solution for this  ever when the noise and confusion 
those stocks that can deliver long-term 
type of environment.  around us rise.
value to our clients. 
But at Neuberger Berman, we believe  The Fed’s rate hike in December, in 
that would be a mistake. We maintain  our view, marked the beginning of 
that long-term fundamental investing  a gradual normalization of market 
behavior that we believe should 
lead to more fundamentally driven 
19
Benjamin E. Segal INTERNATIONAL EQUITY
A STEADY FOCUS ON QUALITY  
International developed markets declined modestly in 2015—single-digit returns in local 
currency were eroded by currency depreciation against the U.S. dollar. 
For 2016, we are increasingly optimistic about the prospects for International equities:  
European economies are recovering, consumer confidence is improving, and companies are 
benefiting from more competitive currencies. Lower input costs (energy and commodities) and 
accelerating credit growth will drive corporate profits in the industrial and financial sectors. 
We think that in the current environment, our flexible, all-cap approach, which focuses on 
quality, is well suited as we see greater dispersion of returns. Further, we believe smaller cap 
valuations are conducive to an increase in M&A activity, potentially benefiting the portfolio. 
Incrementally higher interest rates will focus investors on companies with solid cash flow 
and clear discipline around capital allocation. Differentiated companies in the Consumer, 
Healthcare, Industrial, Financial and Technology sectors remain our focus for the year ahead.
EMERGING MARKETS EQUITY Conrad A. Saldanha
FUNDAMENTALS ON THE REBOUND?   
Emerging Markets (EM) sold off in 2015 as global growth remained scarce, investors lost 
confidence in China’s ability to manage its economic transition, and commodities—especially 
oil—retreated. With expectations and valuations reset across EM, individual markets and stocks 
could distinguish themselves in 2016. 
While a few commodity economies seem to appear destined to languish with poor leadership 
and a lack of reform, we believe most EM markets—including much of Asia—have the 
potential to implement reforms successfully, and the EM consumer could benefit from lower oil 
prices with subdued inflation.  
Focusing on individual companies linked to these beneficiaries and that exhibit quality 
characteristics could serve long-term investors well in coming years as confidence returns to  
the markets.
from left:   GREATER CHINA EQUITIES
Lihui Tang and Frank Yulin Yao
A YEAR THAT SHOOK THE CHINESE STOCK MARKETS  
Investors and policymakers will remember 2015 for slightly different reasons. For investors, 
China equities were characterized by exceptional volatility—a year that started with a 
solid ascent, followed by a summer meltdown, then ending with a rebound. For Chinese 
policymakers, they will recall facing an uneasy scenario—having to take efforts to reduce the 
fall of the Chinese stock markets while also attempting to implement bold reforms to turn 
around a slowing economy.  
For us, 2015 highlighted the importance of investing in high-quality companies that appear 
to have the ability to withstand short-term economic oscillations in order to create long-term 
value. Investing in this manner is no easy feat, but having the inquisitiveness and discipline to 
venture off the beaten path has often been rewarded.
20
Richard S. Nackenson  MULTI-CAP OPPORTUNITIES: THE NACKENSON GROUP
THE FUNDAMENTAL THINGS APPLY  
2015 reinforced the importance of maintaining perspective and focusing on fundamentals.  
We see evidence of ongoing improvement in the U.S. economy. This is translating into growth 
in corporate earnings. Free cash flow generation and balance sheets are strong.  
As a result, prudent management teams have a significant opportunity to create value for 
shareholders. This is being accomplished through investing in the business, returning cash 
through dividends and share repurchases, making selective and highly accretive acquisitions 
and improving the capital structure. 
As free cash flow-oriented investors, we are finding many attractive opportunities in the 
current market environment.
EQUITY INCOME: THE MESSINGER GROUP from left: 
David S. Portny, Richard S. Levine  
SOLVING FOR INCOME. INVESTING FOR GROWTH   and Sandy Pomeroy
Over the past few years, we have seen investor attention drawn to short-term performance.  
While we believe in the importance of maintaining a long-term focus, we also understand 
the stress short-term volatility can cause and the importance of managing portfolio risk. In 
addition, for a broad majority of clients, whether individuals, families, advisors or institutions, 
the income levels generated from traditional fixed income securities have also presented 
challenges given the historically low yield environment. In 2015, we continued to work 
with clients to address current income and longer-term growth objectives, deploying a mix 
of investment approaches and portfolio management solutions in a context of strict risk 
management discipline.        
Within our equity-income approach we allocate a portion of assets to income-oriented stocks.  
Over different market environments, these may include REITs, utilities, convertible bonds and 
dividend-paying stocks. While total return is what matters in the end, the current income from 
these stocks can help to dampen portfolio volatility, and the potential for slow but steady 
growth of dividends can help our clients keep up with inflation.   
Kenneth J. Turek MID CAP GROWTH
THE SWEET SPOT OF THE EQUITY MARKET   
2015 presented investors the challenging duality of attractive upside potential, but also 
meaningful headwinds and periods of volatility driven by unpredictable macro forces. Whether 
it was China’s slowing growth, falling commodity prices, hesitant U.S. monetary policy, a 
surging dollar or ongoing threats to global stability, it was ultimately a trying year for investors 
as markets proved to be increasingly intertwined and unpredictable with respect to embracing 
or avoiding risk.
We believe that active managers have the potential to shine in 2016 as balance sheet strength, 
fueled by consistent top- and bottom-line growth, compelling competitive characteristics 
and longer-term strategic reinvestments to grow the franchise, could prove to be positive 
differentiators in a post-monetary easing landscape.
21
from left:   SMALL CAP VALUE
Robert W. D’Alelio and Judith M. Vale
THE RETURN OF RATIONAL CAPITAL RATIONING?  
Given the precipitous decline in energy prices, we were surprised there were not more 
outright bankruptcies and greater credit losses at banks that loan to energy companies. 
Banks seemingly are willing to kick the can down the road regarding the value of energy 
reserves that serve as collateral for their loans.    
This year, we remain cautiously constructive on U.S. equities. The significant decline in energy 
prices could help support continued consumer spending, which represents a large portion of 
U.S. GDP. Additionally, lower energy prices might further investment in energy-consuming 
manufacturing projects, helping to offset the negative demand impact of sluggish global GDP.  
Corporate borrowing spreads have recently widened materially. While perhaps disconcerting, 
the capital markets are beginning to ration capital, making a distinction between businesses 
deserving of capital and those that aren’t. As active equity managers whose primary role is 
capital allocation, we welcome this development.
INTRINSIC VALUE from left:   not pictured:  
Benjamin H. Nahum   James F. McAree 
REPRICING TO A SLOWER RATE OF GROWTH   and Amit Solomon
For the second year in a row small-cap shares underperformed larger company shares despite 
the prevailing belief at the beginning of the year that small companies could provide some 
shelter from challenges emerging from overseas.  
2015 was a year where quality, growth and momentum strategies outperformed value 
regardless of market capitalization. Throughout the year, investors struggled to understand 
the significance of a collapse in commodity prices and the return of the “almighty” dollar 
against a backdrop of continued growth in U.S. economic activity and employment. A more 
fundamental analysis of market performance might suggest that stock valuations are simply 
repricing to a slower level of growth both here and abroad.  
We see this in our portfolios and believe earnings over the next two to three years are 
unlikely to grow at the rate we saw between 2012 and 2015. Given a cautious view of 
profit growth, we continue to lean towards attractively valued companies in industries 
with favorable long-term prospects rather than deep value ideas in basic industries and the 
commodity complex. Importantly though, should company profits and the economy continue 
to improve, we believe stock prices can move higher.
22
Eli M. Salzmann LARGE CAP VALUE
INVESTING INTO AN IMPROVING GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT  
The equity markets saw increased volatility as the year progressed, challenging large-cap value 
managers as growth outperformed value by about approximately 10% for the year. We are, 
however, broadly constructive on the global equity markets overall as we move forward.
Global business conditions appear to be improving, while at the same time the Eurozone is 
coming out of recession. Although China remains a notable risk, we do think the situation 
will stabilize as the government’s planned reforms and stimulus measures take shape. We 
think the Fed’s interest rate actions will likely lead to a weakening dollar, which would lend 
support to multinational companies. 
We will maintain our value discipline of finding underappreciated but strong companies 
that we believe are capable of generating attractive returns over the long term. Our current 
assessment indicates that the areas selling at the largest discounts are the Energy, Materials 
and Industrials sectors.
MASTER LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS from left:  
Yves C. Siegel and Douglas A. Rachlin
A HUMBLING YEAR FOR MLPs  
During 2015, the steep decline in oil prices weighed heavily on MLP stock performance, 
even though fundamentals for midstream companies held up reasonably well. MLP stock 
performance has generally not been highly correlated to commodity price movements, but 
during periods of extreme stress, correlations can tighten. While there may be reduced 
cash flow for MLPs as producers curtail their drilling activity and reduce volumes, this risk is 
mitigated by producer minimum volume commitments and increasing customer demand. 
Market sentiment has rarely, if ever, been this negative for MLP stocks. Longer-term, 
however, we remain constructive on the asset class. MLPs operate valuable franchises that 
are vital to the production and consumption of hydrocarbons in the United States. The U.S. 
has an abundant, reliable and cheap resource base that can meet both growing U.S. and 
global energy demand—and MLPs play a vital role in meeting this demand. 
from left:   U.S. AND GLOBAL REITS
Anton Kwang, Gillian Tiltman,  
Steve S. Shigekawa and Brian C. Jones LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION   
In 2015, real estate fundamentals and total returns diverged widely due to regional and 
country-specific dynamics. Operating fundamentals in the U.S. and U.K. were strong, 
while Continental European asset values continued to benefit from ECB easing. In Asia, 
performance was affected by the anticipation of higher U.S. interest rates and slowing 
economic trends.
In 2016, we remain focused on companies with low leverage and improving 
internal growth trends. We expect continued interest rate tightening in the U.S. and 
continued low rates globally. Companies with visible cash flow and dividend growth 
could outperform. Diverging outlooks across the globe point to continued market 
uncertainty. Strong balance sheets should help withstand volatility and allow for 
opportunistic investments.
23
from left:   SOCIALLY RESPONSIVE INVESTING
Mamundi Subhas, Sajjad S. Ladiwala 
and Ingrid S. Dyott  DOING WELL BY DOING GOOD   
We have maintained our steady fundamental focus on managing a bottom-up portfolio 
guided by ESG and SRI principles throughout this slow growth, volatile, policy-driven 
environment. We believe that by integrating these criteria into our investment process, we 
not only help to stimulate positive sustainable impacts across the global economy, but are 
also well equipped to identify high-quality companies that are thoughtfully and carefully 
managed from both an opportunity and risk perspective.  
We have also come to realize that a company's ESG records can have a significant impact 
on a company's bottom line. So we seek out companies that are able to actively apply these 
values in ways that augment their ability to succeed. ESG and SRI issues, we believe, will 
remain critical to businesses and investors for decades to come.
EQUITY RESEARCH from left:  
Todd E. Heltman (Energy Analyst), Terri L. Towers (Health 
ESSENTIAL RESEARCH VOCABULARY: DISRUPTION    Care Analyst), Jake Gamerman (Consumer Analyst), 
Timothy F. Creedon (Director of Research), Mike DiTillio 
“Disruption” was one of the key buzzwords of 2015 and one we expect to hear  (Technology Analyst), and Michael Barr (Industrials Analyst)
more of in 2016. The drivers behind it are clear—new technology and innovative 
business models are altering the status quo across multiple industries, from obvious 
sectors including Technology (machine learning, big data, etc.) and Health Care 
(genomic testing, personalized medicine, etc.) to the less obvious such as Financials 
(fintech business models are disintermediating traditional players) and Consumer 
(sharing economy businesses are shaking up established leaders). 
In this dynamic environment, we bring an experienced team of 40+ dedicated 
research professionals actively engaged in examining the investment opportunities 
across their sectors. Last year, our teams hosted 1,657 meetings with company 
managements in our offices and another 1,479 meetings with analysts and 
outside industry experts. The team also attended 1,650 meetings with companies 
externally, making sure to get out on the road to hear firsthand the impact the 
disruption trend is having across their sectors. 
We measure the value of our analysts’ industry acumen via the performance of 
their stock recommendations. We believe deep industry expertise is key to not just 
identifying the forces of change, but also identifying investment opportunities that 
can capitalize on them. 
24
ROUNDTABLE DISCUSSION
 
MARKETS SHIVER AT SUB-ZERO RATES 
Amid the wreckage of the global financial crisis in 2009, Sweden’s 
Riksbank took an unprecedented step: it cut its repo rate to 0.25%. 
Because that rate is linked to its overnight deposit rate, the latter 
fell to -0.25%. It was the first time in the modern era a central bank 
had imposed a negative interest rate.  By 2016, the Riksbank’s  
overnight deposit rate was -1.00%—and it had been joined in  
negative interest rate policy (NIRP) by the European Central Bank 
(ECB) and the central banks of Denmark, Switzerland and Japan, 
representing almost all of Europe and Japan. 
CONTINUED
25
BECAUSE THE EFFECTS OF THESE POLICIES ON COMMERCIAL BANK 
PROFITABILITY AND LONG-TERM LENDING INTO THE REAL ECONOMY  
ARE UNCERTAIN, MARKETS HAVE BEEN INCREASINGLY RELUCTANT TO 
RESPOND POSITIVELY TO THIS KIND OF MONETARY EASING, AS THEY HAVE  
TO OTHER KINDS OF EASING OVER THE PAST SEVEN YEARS. THE MOVES  
ALSO SUGGESTED CENTRAL BANKS WERE RUNNING OUT OF TOOLS AND 
IDEAS, UNDERMINING MARKET CONFIDENCE IN THEIR AUTHORITY.
FROM LEFT 
JOSEPH V. AMATO
ERIK L. KNUTZEN
JON B. JONSSON
BRAD TANK
JOSEPH V. AMATO AMATO
Central banks have become increasingly important since  That completely backfired. It simply undermined faith 
the financial crisis and this hit a new pitch late in 2015  in Abenomics and sparked fear that the entire world 
with the first Federal Reserve rate hike for a decade.  might be moving towards negative rates. At the height 
The market was soon communicating its concern that  of the market volatility in February we even had Fed 
this was a policy mistake.  Chair Yellen indicating that the Fed was looking at the 
idea again, having rejected it five or six years ago.
ERIK L. KNUTZEN
Right—and this loss of confidence went well beyond  BRAD TANK
concerns the Fed will hike too fast. Will negative  I think this was part of a wider conversation that 
interest rates create negative outcomes? Are the ECB  the BoJ decision triggered, which on the whole was 
and Bank of Japan (BoJ) “pushing on a string”? The  modestly critical. Bill Dudley from the New York 
catalyst for the last leg of the winter market drawdown  Fed said that talk of negative rates in the U.S. was 
was the BoJ’s move to a negative rate on deposits,  “extraordinarily premature,” for example. 
which it announced in late January. 
KNUTZEN
The BoJ move seemed like good news for 24 hours, but 
then sparked a big bout of volatility. We saw something 
similar around the ECB announcements in March, 
26
WILL THE FED HIKE TOO FAST?   
FUTURES MARKETS ARE HIGHLY SKEPTICAL ABOUT THE  
FEDERAL RESERVE’S EXPECTATIONS FOR INTEREST RATE HIKES 
3.5
3.0
%)
E ( 2.5 MEDIAN FOMC PARTICIPANTS’  
AT ASSESSMENTS OF APPROPRIATE  
R
S  2.0 FEDERAL FUNDS RATE
D
N
FU 1.5 FEDERAL FUNDS FUTURES  
AL  MARKET EXPECTATIONS
ER 1.0
D
E
F 0.5
0.0
6 6 6 6 6 6 7 7 7 7 7 7 8 8 8 8 8 8
01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 Source: Bloomberg.  
2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2
2/ 4/ 6/ 8/ 0/ 2/ 2/ 4/ 6/ 8/ 0/ 2/ 2/ 4/ 6/ 8/ 0/ 2/ Fed dot plot as of March 16, 2016. Futures 
0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 1 1
01/ 01/ 01/ 01/ 01/ 01/ 01/ 01/ 01/ 01/ 01/ 01/ 01/ 01/ 01/ 01/ 01/ 01/ data as of February 29, 2016.
when we got a cut in the deposit rate to -0.40%,  TANK
more quantitative easing, broader purchases of non- I agree, it was very powerful. We thought we’d lost 
sovereign assets and a new program of Targeted Long- “Super Mario,” but he again delivered precisely what 
Term Refinancing Operations (TLTRO). That pushed the  markets wanted to hear.
euro down and risk markets up, but it only took a few 
words in the press conference—“we don't anticipate it  JONSSON
will be necessary to reduce rates further”—to unleash a  We also see hints at coordination, suggesting an 
quick reversal for the euro. Was that another indication  attempt to stop the race to the bottom on interest rates 
of loss of confidence? Do central banks still have the  and currencies. That’s very significant in this context of 
wherewithal to move markets? loss of confidence that you’ve been describing.
JON B. JONSSON KNUTZEN
In the Investment Grade team we think this was a real  That could be significant for the path of U.S. rates. 
game changer. ECB President Draghi also used the press  From my point of view, an increase in the Fed Funds 
conference to confirm a shift “from rates instruments to  rate in June and one more later in the year would be 
other, non-conventional instruments.” He’s not putting  fine: there is more than enough fundamental economic 
the brakes on stimulus, but changing the channels  data to support a move like that.
through which stimulus will be applied. 
27
POLICY KNUTZEN
I would agree. One of the things that would make us 
PARADOX more comfortable taking risk would be less reliance on 
negative-rates policy. The shift of emphasis to non-
conventional policies probably explains why risk assets 
CONTINUED responded so positively.
JONSSON
Before the ECB meeting we were neutral and much 
preferred U.S. banks. These moves do not repair the 
many fundamental challenges that banks face, but 
they do enough to make us reassess that position. This 
consensus could also go a long way to restore central 
bank credibility. 
TANK
TANK
Looking at the Fed, my view is that if and when we 
I agree, the new consensus is important context here. In 
get into the next downturn and need more stimulative 
2015, the Fed’s roadmap was unclear: a bit about China 
monetary policy, negative rates are likely off the table.
and global conditions, a bit about U.S. employment and 
inflation, but not much about how it was all related. In 
AMATO
March, it really acknowledged that we can’t consider  The bottom line is that central bankers are not 
U.S. prospects without taking account of global  magicians. To restore growth we need structural 
conditions. We’ve had very modest Fed policy moves  reforms and significant changes to government policy 
so far and yet U.S. financial conditions have tightened  across the world, including investment in infrastructure 
significantly thanks to the strong dollar and wider  in the U.S., fiscal union in Europe, labor-market reform 
credit spreads. And the dollar is strong because slowing  in Japan, and market-driven capital allocation in 
growth led to aggressive monetary easing and weaker  China. This shift away from the traditional rates-and-
currencies in the rest of the world. Our view is that the  currency tools towards something more direct will 
dollar may hold its gains but it’s unlikely to rise further  be encouraging if it opens space for more fiscal and 
from here.  reforming interventions. 
JONSSON JONSSON
That should give the Fed leeway to be more hawkish.  And the risk to that scenario? Someone breaking 
The decisions from the BoJ on March 15 not to cut  the consensus. The most likely candidate is the BoJ, 
rates further despite its downbeat assessment of the  because it has already extended its balance sheet a lot; 
economy, and to implement measures to shield banks  but the People’s Bank of China could break ranks, too. 
from negative rates, might be seen to confirm this  Then the race could be back on again.
consensus. That would be very positive, as I am not a 
big fan of negative rates.
AMATO
We would share that view on the equities front. When 
yield curves are as flat as they are today, commercial 
banks already struggle. With negative deposit rates 
at the central bank, they’ll either scare depositors off 
by passing those rates on or end up subsidizing them 
by raising rates on long-term loans. Neither outcome 
would be good for the economy. 
28
BRAD TANK 
among others, to meet our clients’ 
CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER — FIXED INCOME 
need for yield and new return 
sources. These strategies increasingly 
support our strategic partnerships, 
BUSINESS REVIEW delivering flexibility and a bias toward 
customization.   
EXPANDING THE SOLUTION SET  
Among other milestones, we bid 
WELL BEYOND THE TRADITIONAL farewell to Ann Benjamin, who 
after serving many years as a leader 
of Non-Investment Grade Credit, 
leaves the team in the capable hands 
The market spent much of 2015  suffering the worst impacts, we 
of her business and management 
anticipating rate increases by the  believe that credit markets other than 
partner, Tom O’Reilly. Reflecting 
Federal Reserve, which made for a  commodity-related sectors should be 
our commitment to diversifying 
volatile environment. Market rates  resilient in terms of defaults. 
opportunities for clients, our EMD 
wound up close to their starting points 
More broadly, we continue to  team reached nearly $7 billion in AUM 
as the gravitational pull of divergent 
advocate the need for flexibility in  in just three years since inception. 
policy in the U.S. and elsewhere 
fixed income, whether in credit,  Finally, we were honored to be named 
seemed to balance each other out. We 
currency or emerging markets, or  a fixed income category winner by 
anticipate further turbulence this year 
through more flexible mandates  Chief Investment Officer magazine at 
based on soft economic news; in the 
that allow for selective investing  the publication’s 2015 CIO Industry 
second half, weak energy prices and 
across markets and absolute return  Innovation Awards, based on the 
a more stable U.S. dollar may start 
approaches. Opportunistic Fixed Income Team 
to benefit consumers and corporate 
led by Andy Johnson, and for our 
profit margins. Along these lines, we continue to 
“willingness to work with pension 
expand the range of offerings for 
In managing assets for clients last year,  clients on relaxing fixed-income 
investors. Our Global Credit Long/
we were a bit defensive on rates and  mandate constraints.”  
Short team joined us last year and 
selectively long in other markets, and 
introduced mutual fund and UCITS  Overall, 2015 was a year in which we 
participated in dollar strength. Today, 
strategies to augment its existing  faced a difficult environment, but also 
FX markets seem to have largely 
private fund. We introduced new  moved proactively to build capabilities 
priced in the divergence of central 
strategy offerings in residential loans,  and provide insights across a range 
bank policy. And although the credit 
municipal high income, corporate  of assets—something we intend to 
cycle has been choppy, with energy 
hybrids, global high yield and Asian  continue for the balance of 2016.
Emerging Markets Debt (EMD), 
29
from left:   GLOBAL INVESTMENT GRADE FIXED INCOME
Andrew A. Johnson and Jon B. Jonsson
DIVERGENT MARKETS DEMAND FLEXIBLE NAVIGATION  
Global fixed income markets had largely anticipated the Federal Reserve’s 25 basis-point 
December rate raise, thus minimizing the adverse impact typically associated with a rising rate 
environment. Instead, markets had to contend with a slowing China and the attendant volatility 
in the Energy and Commodities space which, in turn, negatively affected exposed issuers in 
the high yield and investment grade sectors. On the flipside, the non-agency segment of the 
mortgage-backed securities (MBS) market continued to do well, on the back of a recovering 
housing market. 
Looking ahead, we expect the divergence in terms of global growth and monetary policy to 
continue. We believe the U.S. and U.K. should expand at a solid pace, while the Eurozone and 
Japan work toward gaining economic momentum. We expect the Federal Reserve to continue 
along the path to policy normalization, while the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan 
intensify their quantitative easing campaigns.
Emerging markets continue to present a bifurcation of economic profiles. Net exporters of 
Energy and/or Commodities are likely to bear the brunt of lower energy and commodity prices, 
while those less tied to this space are likely to fare better. A strengthening U.S. dollar may 
present a major headwind for issuers in emerging markets. 
Pockets of opportunity may emerge as markets often exaggerate or misinterpret developments 
which, in turn, can breed meaningful investment opportunities. We believe flexibility, active 
management and the ability to navigate a volatile economic environment will continue to be 
especially critical.
CORPORATE CREDIT from left:  
Julian Marks and David M. Brown
UNDERLYING FUNDAMENTALS REMAIN STRONG
Investment grade credit remains one of the few reasonably liquid markets where investors can 
obtain a meaningful yield over government debt. We have had tremendous interest overseas 
where government yields are extremely low or negative—Europe and Japan—in building credit 
portfolios to capitalize on this attractive relative yield opportunity. With the benefit of our  
well-established, fundamental credit analysis, we are helping investors to benefit from these 
higher yields while always looking to avoid tail risk. During the year, we launched various 
dedicated corporate hybrid bond strategies, particularly aimed at European and Japanese 
investors—both institutional and retail—looking to purchase bonds of high-quality issuers,  
that we believe can offer a generous spread pick-up in the current low yield environment.
While there has been some volatility in credit markets stemming primarily from weak commodity 
prices, we continue to believe the underlying fundamentals in investment grade credit remain 
sound. We like opportunities in lower quality and subordinated debt where yield advantages 
are most acute, as in subordinated debt and preferred securities for U.S. banks, as well as 
hybrid corporates in Europe. These securities have sold off more than the market overall, but 
benefit from solid fundamentals not directly impacted by commodity price volatility. We have 
incorporated them in multi-asset class portfolios and also developed specific strategies and funds 
to benefit from these attractive investments.  
 
30
Thanos Bardas, PhD INTEREST RATES
HEADWINDS LIKELY FOR RATE NORMALIZATION  
During 2015, the Fed remained in “wait and see” mode, finally introducing a modest rate 
increase in December. We anticipate that Fed policy will remain accommodative this year.  
The U.S. central bank will likely be very gradual in its tightening cycle and allow labor markets 
to strengthen in order to increase its confidence that 2% inflation will be achieved and 
sustainable. All told, we anticipate a few rate hikes with Fed Funds modestly higher by the  
end of the year—a slow pace of increases by historical standards.
In Europe, 2015 saw a more aggressive ECB as it implemented its quantitative easing  
program, extending its asset purchase program through 2017. We anticipate that they will 
remain on high alert, given myriad growth challenges and downside risks elevated both 
domestically and abroad. 
Despite extraordinary measures, Japan’s growth remains volatile and without persistent trend, 
contributing to their renewed focus on easing late in 2015.
Overall, we anticipate that central banks will continue to struggle with deflationary forces, 
contributing to general activism in most key markets, while the U.S. Fed will nibble away 
at tightening. Given this backdrop, we anticipate that rates generally will be pressured, but 
potentially recover as economies move onto better footing later in the year.
CURRENCY Ugo Lancioni
A YEAR OF TRANSITION—ASSESSING THE  
EFFECTS OF DOLLAR STRENGTH
The much-awaited Fed hike is finally out of the way. In anticipation of expected monetary 
policy divergence, many investors had been overweight dollars for almost two years.  
The rally can certainly continue, but in our view, the “divergence theme” appears mature. 
We do not envision another year of large dollar gains.  
The Fed hike could potentially represent a turning point: the end of currency wars. So far, 
the U.S. economy has coped well with the much stronger currency, allowing other regions 
to benefit from competitive exchange rates. 
Europe is approximately two years behind the U.S. in the economic cycle. Progress still needs 
to be made in Europe; unemployment is still high and inflation far from target. But ongoing 
improvement in economic activity could turn into upside growth surprises. Even if Europe 
closes the growth gap, we still expect the single currency to stay low, but only if inflation 
expectations do not rebound. A pick-up in inflation could well be the catalyst for stronger 
European currencies, a scenario the market currently does not appear to be anticipating. 
31
from left:   NON-INVESTMENT GRADE GLOBAL
Daniel J. Doyle, Thomas P. O'Reilly,  
Russ Covode, Patrick H. Flynn   DESPITE RECENT CHALLENGES, REASONS FOR OPTIMISM  
and Andrew Wilmont
Commodity price declines in 2015 dragged down the commodities-related segment of the 
high yield market, but we believe fundamentals in other areas remain intact. Our team is 
actively managing commodity sector risk and has entered 2016 with an underweight bias.  
Our view is that the commodity-related sectors are likely to cause the majority of the 
increase in U.S. high yield bond default rates in 2016 – 2017. 
With our lead portfolio managers averaging 25 years’ experience, supported by 30 
investment professionals, a critical focus is mitigating against defaults and credit 
deterioration. We believe spreads, excluding commodity sectors, could tighten over the 
next 12 months due to reasonable fundamentals and moderate U.S. economic growth. 
Our active sector and quality rotation seeks to take advantage of these opportunities.   
We believe the current low interest rate environment should help support demand for 
non-investment grade assets more broadly.  
In Europe, credit quality in high yield appears strong, which we believe should help keep 
defaults below their long-term average. Moderate economic growth in the region may 
prompt businesses to be conservative. The continued low interest rate environment will 
likely drive solid demand for European high yield securities, and against this backdrop,  
we believe there will be ample opportunities to generate alpha, albeit with pockets of 
volatility in the market.  
BANK LOAN from left:  
Stephen Casey, Pim van Schei, Joseph P. Lynch  
PUTTING SHORT DURATION TO WORK   and Martin J. Rotheram
The Senior Floating Rate Loan asset class was the tale of two halves in 2015.  
During the first six months of the year, loans performed well—prices steadily 
increased as default rates remained low. But in the second half of the year, prices 
declined as economic concerns and macro fears overrode the continued benign 
default environment. 
We still maintain our view that this credit cycle has longer to run and as such,  
believe corporate credit remains an attractive investment. 
Senior floating rate loans, with their combination of floating rate coupons and 
relatively high yields, could see solid investor interest in 2016. Given that the Federal 
Reserve looks likely to embark on a gradual increase in interest rates, and combined 
with still solid, if unspectacular, economic data and expectations, we believe senior 
floating rate loans have the potential to perform well. 
The short duration nature of senior floating rate loans could also help investors 
mitigate against negative price movement associated with fixed-rate instruments in  
a rising rate environment.   
32
from left:   EMERGING MARKETS DEBT
Rob J. Drijkoningen and Gorky Urquieta
FUNDAMENTALS ON THE REBOUND?  
Emerging markets debt was under stress for much of 2015, with USD-based investors 
considerably challenged by the dollar’s strength, particularly against EM commodity currencies, 
more so than EUR-based investors. Still overall, sovereigns and corporates eked out modest 
gains thanks to certain lower-rated credits. Countries with stronger fiscal/current account 
profiles were better able to meet domestic needs, and were somewhat insulated from the 
impacts of Chinese economic slowdown and expectations of U.S. tightening. 
We believe that in 2016 we may begin to see pronounced return dispersion among countries, 
with likely policy improvements in Argentina and other key markets affecting default prospects. 
Currency levels are likely to remain highly contingent on the supply/demand balance of 
commodities, although we envision the environment improving in the second half of the 
year. Despite below-potential growth in Asia due to deleveraging, we believe that the still 
accommodative monetary policy in the U.S. and Europe could lend support to global growth 
and emerging markets fundamentals.
DISTRESSED DEBT Michael J. Holmberg
NEW AND GREATER OPPORTUNITIES ON THE HORIZON  
In 2015 we saw increased volatility and illiquidity in the credit markets, which we expect 
to continue in 2016. Volatility that started out as a result of declining commodity prices, 
specifically oil and gas, has spread to the broader credit market. Half of the U.S. high yield 
market as of March 1, 2016 trades at an average spread of over 1,000 basis points and bank 
loans are under similar pressure. 
In the U.S., banks are no longer using their balance sheets to provide liquidity and a 
number of liquid funds could be forced sellers of assets to meet liquidity needs, including 
redemptions. In Europe, banks continue to dispose of loan assets as non-performing loan 
levels remain elevated. And in China, banks could have to navigate a potential $6 trillion of 
problem assets. These dynamics create a compelling environment for distressed investors 
able to tolerate shorter-term volatility for longer-term return potential. 
33
from left:   MUNICIPAL FIXED INCOME
Blake Miller, James L. Iselin and James A. Lyman
EXPECT THE UNEXPECTED  
While we believe that markets tell you a lot, they often cannot fully account for the 
emotional impact on the broader investing public once an event such as a rate hike, a 
stressed credit or a volatile sector actually happens. When people are too confident in an 
outcome, even a potentially bad one, the slightest deviation can cause an outsized reaction, 
especially in a world where many trades are crowded.  
In 2016, we anticipate there will be no shortage of market-moving events like the pace  
of Fed tightening, restructuring of Puerto Rican debt, and whether the price of oil will 
continue to be volatile.  
Our focus will continue to start with fundamentals and how the market is currently pricing  
a particular investment, but we will seek a greater premium for the “unknowns”, given that 
we are anticipating increased volatility in 2016.
STRUCTURED PRODUCTS from left:  
Thomas A. Sontag and Terrence J. Glomski
ASSESSING MACRO IMPACTS   
2015 was a year of external shocks. We saw plenty of volatility in the energy and 
commodities sectors. The challenge for a manager in the securitized products markets is 
to think through the sometimes conflicting impacts that these external shocks have on 
particular securities.  
Take plunging oil prices as an example. Low gasoline prices are a positive to consumers, and 
could help them to more easily make personal debt payments, such as car payments and 
credit card payments. However, many companies in the energy sector have had to scale back 
operations and reduce their labor force. For these individuals, it becomes more difficult to 
keep up on their personal debt payments.  
Overall, we believe that the net impact to the consumer is positive and that portends well for 
the performance outlook of consumer-backed ABS in 2016.
from left:   not pictured:   FIXED INCOME RESEARCH
Vivek Bommi and  Jennifer R. Gorgoll,  
David m. Brown   Nish Popat,   DEEP CREDIT CAPABILITIES WORLDWIDE   
   Chris Kocinski
Central to our philosophy is that market mispricings provide opportunities to add value 
for those with unique insights and conviction. At the same time, we believe it’s imperative 
to extract those mis-pricings from the market without exposing portfolios to undue risk. 
Fundamental research is what enables us to wed these notions and comprises economic 
analysis, sector and issuer spread relationships, cash flow analysis and credit assessment,  
with support from research analysts within each market sector.
Today, where risk is elevated and return opportunities may come on an incremental basis 
from many locations, the role of research is especially heightened. The days when managers 
could “narrowcast” their expertise and ignore outside inputs is over—currency in China, 
rates in the Eurozone and spreads in the U.S. are just a few of the hundreds of signals that 
may come into play. Our 63 fixed income research analysts interact daily, in true partnership 
with portfolio managers to assure that we make well-informed decisions for clients.
34 NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2015
ROUNDTABLE DISCUSSION
SERVING A DIVERSE CLIENT BASE
2015 was a year of new challenges for institutional and individual 
investors alike—driven by continued new regulation and turbulent 
capital markets. In this environment, we continue to partner with 
our clients to help them achieve their unique investment objectives 
by exploring non-traditional approaches and solutions.  
CONTINUED
35
TODAY’S MARKETPLACE FACES CHALLENGES UNLIKE  
PREVIOUS GENERATIONS. FAMILIAR SOLUTIONS HAVE BEEN  
SUPERSEDED BY NON-TRADITIONAL, ALTERNATIVE AND  
GLOBAL APPROACHES. IN THE CONVERSATIONS BELOW,  
OUR SENIOR CLIENT COVERAGE PROFESSIONALS DISCUSS  
HOW WE PERCEIVE THESE CHALLENGES AND PARTNER WITH  
OUR CLIENTS TO ADDRESS THEM.
FROM LEFT
MATT MALLOY
SCOTT E. KILGALLEN
JASON R. AINSWORTH
KENNETH G. RENDE
Finding attractive investment opportunities remains 
INSURANCE:
an ongoing challenge in a world of historically low 
SOLVING FOR THE FUTURE   interest rates, unfavorable supply/demand dynamics 
in fixed income markets and increased volatility. These 
AMIDST REGULATORY AND 
conditions continue to prompt insurers to diversify their 
ECONOMIC UNCERTAINTY 
portfolios and evaluate new asset classes and markets. 
MATT MALLOY  
As long-term investors, insurers continue to allocate 
GLOBAL HEAD OF INSURANCE SOLUTIONS
to risk assets—traditional and alternative—to enhance 
From a structural perspective, insurers remain broadly 
yield profiles and return potential. Against this 
well capitalized, with strong liquidity profiles and risk 
backdrop, insurers continue to partner with third-
asset leverage at or below historical levels. 
party asset managers for guidance and support with 
managing their investments. 
However, regulation and economic uncertainty remain 
the two primary—and often conflicting—challenges 
With approximately $22 billion of insurance assets under 
facing insurers globally. Insurers continue to prepare 
management and committed capital, Neuberger Berman 
for evolving regulation, although the long-term 
has been managing a range of traditional and alternative 
consequences are not fully appreciated. 
assets on behalf of insurance clients for over 20 years. 
36
SERVING A DIVERSE CLIENT BASE  
AUM BY CLIENT AUM BY CLIENT DOMICILE
PENSION PLANS,  
64% 75%
SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS   AMERICAS
AND OTHER INSTITUTIONS
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS,  19% 16%
EMEA
RIAs AND ADVISORS
17% 9%
PRIVATE CLIENT ASIA PACIFIC
As of March 31, 2016. 
In 2016, we will continue to enhance the services  The growth of DC plans has increased the importance 
and solutions provided to insurers globally by actively  of providing investment strategies that meet the needs 
building our insurance business, deepening our  of today’s plan participants, as they strive to solve for 
investment platform and our support resources. their retirement outcomes. We continue to see advisors, 
consultants and plan sponsors trying to simplify yet 
  diversify the options on the retirement plan menus. In 
RETIREMENT
the current market environment, with high volatility 
and low interest rates, our discussions often center 
DIVERSIFYING WHILE SIMPLIFYING 
on the importance of diversification. Small caps and 
THE INVESTMENT SOLUTION SET
emerging markets can play an important role in adding 
SCOTT E. KILGALLEN   diversification and enhancing the return potential for 
HEAD OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS GROUP younger participants. 
We live in a world where traditional pensions are 
Low-volatility hedge fund strategies that are utilized 
becoming a thing of the past and, as of December 
in defined benefit plans are being explored as sensible 
2015, close to 70% of private sector workers only 
diversifiers within target date funds given their lower 
have access to a defined contribution (DC) plan. So, 
correlations and risk characteristics. For participants 
many U.S. workers now have primary responsibility for 
closer to retirement, more advisors and plan sponsors 
funding their own retirement. 
are looking beyond core bond and money market 
37
THE CLIENT We believe every client portfolio should be built to 
balance growth and income objectives and help 
CONTEXT mitigate against inflation, which can erode purchasing 
power. Our broad investment capabilities in equities, 
fixed income, alternative investments and multi-asset 
CONTINUED class provide solutions to solve for these objectives. 
Moving ahead, we will deliver investment solutions 
while working with financial advisors to educate on 
alternative investments: how to efficiently utilize them 
in portfolio construction (“A Practical Alternative”);  
to offer insights on multi-generational wealth transfer 
for their clients (“Family Love Letter”); and to advise 
them in building a local team of trusted advisors  
to serve their high net worth clients’ full financial  
funds and exploring more flexible offerings such as  needs (“ClientWise”).
opportunistic or multi-strategy approaches that can 
provide greater diversification and allow managers 
flexibility to invest across sectors.  MULTI-GENERATION
SERVING THE HIGH NET  
We see multi-asset class solutions as a streamlined 
WORTH FAMILY OVER TIME  
way to add exposure to asset classes that may be 
unavailable as a stand-alone option on plan menus.  AND EVOLVING GOALS
Additionally, as target date funds continue to grow 
KENNETH G. RENDE 
in popularity, we believe they need to evolve beyond 
HEAD OF WEALTH MANAGEMENT
proprietary solutions to more customized solutions that 
allow for the selection of both the asset classes and  For multi-generational families, one of the constants is 
asset managers used to construct the funds. seeking to generate current income while preserving 
wealth and investing for a long-term legacy.
In 2016, we will work closely with advisors and plans, 
drawing on our investment resources and best thinking  Low interest rates have made this objective more 
to provide innovative, economically sensible investment  challenging. As familiar paths to income have failed to 
solutions designed to help plan participants get on a  keep up with the need, we’ve been exploring “a new 
path to better retirement outcomes. yield order”, which emphasizes less traditional income 
sources—high yield, bank loans, dividend paying 
equities and even emerging market debt.  
PARTNERSHIP 
Stepping out along the continuum, we next address 
BUILDING GOALS-BASED SOLUTIONS  longevity needs—how can we help the high net worth 
FOCUSED ON CLIENT OUTCOMES family preserve wealth while prudently growing their 
capital? With an expanding tool kit of investment 
JASON R. AINSWORTH  ideas that range across asset classes, geographies and 
HEAD OF ADVISOR SOLUTIONS GROUP management styles, today’s solution set is markedly 
Simply stated, partnering with financial advisors to help  customized for multi-generational families.  
them meet their clients’ unique investment objectives is 
We describe the further stage of the family journey 
the core mission of the advisor solutions group.
as ”legacy“—how can we help design an investment 
Our financial advisor partners work every day to  program for the ages? We work with private equity and 
understand their clients’ needs and to construct  multi-manager hedge fund solutions that seek to find 
portfolios to help them achieve their short- and  opportunities in different styles and strategies at home 
long-term goals. Our job is to partner with these  and globally. Our broad platform of solutions allows for 
financial advisors to educate them on the New Tools  customized portfolios built for the long term.
for investing in the New Times we face in the capital 
Together with our trust company services and the 
markets today. 
insights and perspective of our Investment Strategy 
Group, we continue to help clients manage their assets 
with customized solutions to meet their unique needs. 
38
ANTHONY D. TUTRONE 
BUSINESS REVIEW
THE STAGE IS SET FOR MORE  
NON-TRADITIONAL INVESTMENT 
OPPORTUNITIES
During 2015, the private equity  market volatility, creating pockets of  Lynch traditional non-registered and 
market was robust. Despite volatility  potential opportunity in less liquid  ’40 Act-registered private equity 
in public markets, investors continued  credits.  fund of funds. Merrill Lynch selected 
to use private investment structures  Neuberger Berman following an 
While 2015 was a challenging year for 
to build and improve businesses and  extensive due diligence process 
hedge fund managers and strategies, 
seek differentiated, uncorrelated  focused on private equity investment 
we believe that the asset class has the 
returns.   expertise, ’40 Act capabilities and 
potential to reduce portfolio volatility 
dedication to client service. In 
Private equity, in our view, remains an  and enhance an investor’s overall 
addition, NB Private Equity also 
attractive asset class for 2016, with  return profile. 
formed a strategic partnership with 
the potential to generate attractive 
Rising rates have historically presented  Intesa Sanpaolo to pursue direct 
returns that are less correlated to 
attractive investment opportunities,  investments in Italian companies.  
traditional asset classes. We believe 
as hedge funds have typically often  The two transactions represent our 
that the year will bring increased 
outperformed during these periods.  continued effort to expand our 
opportunity, particularly to distressed, 
Higher interest rates could increase  capabilities and to bring private 
illiquid and private credit strategies.
the dispersion of stock performance,  equity solutions to our clients.
Specifically, a number of recent  potentially benefitting long/short 
Earlier in 2016, we welcomed an 
factors, such as the decline of  strategies in particular. 
established event-driven team to 
commodity prices, dislocation in the 
For 2015, NB Private Equity continued  further expand the suite of solutions 
energy sector (and related industries) 
to be an active investor and player  we can offer our clients. In addition, 
and the potential for slower economic 
in the private equity space. Earlier in  Dyal launched a new effort focused 
growth, have contributed to higher 
the year, NB Private Equity completed  on acquiring minority stakes in large 
the acquisition of certain Merrill  private equity firms.
39
from left:   PRIVATE INVESTMENT PORTFOLIOS
John P. Buser, Jonathan D. Shofet,  
Peter J. von Lehe and Brien P. Smith  INVESTMENT DISCIPLINE AND OPERATIONAL  
VALUE ENHANCEMENT  
Private equity has been a long-term outperformer relative to the public equity markets. 
This outperformance has been based largely on the ability of private investors to 
implement operational and strategic initiatives to create excess value. Our team invests in 
private businesses with clear opportunities for achievable operational and strategic value 
enhancements. We do this while seeking to mitigate downside risk created by extraneous 
global, macro risks.
In 2015, the strengthening U.S. dollar eroded value for investors who took the additional  
macro risk of investing in weaker economies and countries with turbulent political 
environments. Additionally, commodity declines exposed risks in businesses that protective 
hedges could not fully protect. Our investment selection process seeks to identify and  
mitigate exposure to such broad macro risks.
SECONDARY INVESTMENTS from left:  
Tristram Perkins, Brian Talbot,  
LEVERAGING OUR PLATFORM HAS BEEN AN EDGE Ethan Falkove and Benjamin B. Perl 
While the secondary market continues to grow and become more competitive, it can 
still be an inefficient, private market. We believe information asymmetries exist and as 
part of a global asset manager and broad private equity platform, we found ourselves 
well positioned to identify and capitalize on such informational advantages in 2015. 
We also continued to successfully leverage our platform to source differentiated and 
proprietary investment opportunities.
Looking to 2016, we are optimistic that attractive opportunities will again present 
themselves as the growth drivers of recent years—the expanding universe of sellers, 
changing regulations, more active portfolio management and the growth in private 
equity generally—are, in our opinion, sustainable long-term trends. Our targeted 
investment approach allows us to source differentiated and proprietary investment 
opportunities.
Finally, we would note that our secondary strategy can benefit from broader market 
volatility in terms of increased deal flow and more favorable pricing. Rapidly changing 
market conditions can provide attractive opportunities for value-oriented buyers, like 
Neuberger Berman, who have an understanding of the underlying fundamentals and 
are well positioned to capitalize on potential market dislocations.
40
from left:   CO-INVESTMENTS
David H. Morse, Joana Rocha Scaff,  
David S. Stonberg and Michael S. Kramer   SEEKING SOLID INDUSTRY LEADERS 
Well into 2016, we are acutely aware of the risk and uncertainty surrounding both global 
asset prices and future economic growth. This is a market where we are biased toward 
investing in companies that are industry leaders with resilient business models, even if 
those names command a premium.  
We are looking for companies and industries that can sustain growth in a less robust 
economic climate by means of operating improvements, market share gains and industry 
consolidation.  
We tend to favor those investments that can generate high levels of free cash flow, are  
less sensitive to economic fluctuations, have prudent capital structures and are being  
led by strong management teams backed by experienced and proven private equity 
firms. Our third flagship co-investment fund is off to a strong start, having made three 
investments since January 2016.
PRIVATE DEBT from left:   not pictured:  
Susan B. Kasser and   David Lyon
CAPITALIZING ON CREDIT MARKET VOLATILITY    Elizabeth Traxler
De-risking has spread from energy and commodity high yield issues to the broader high 
yield and leveraged loan markets. Increased volatility may make private debt more attractive 
to issuers seeking certainty, creating attractive opportunities in the new issue market.  
Additionally, we believe that recent market turbulence has enhanced the return potential of 
the secondary market.  
The effect of this volatility is magnified by the absence of marginal buyers of credit.  
Investment banks are restrained by ongoing regulatory issues and many institutional 
investors are facing headwinds raising new capital following a year of difficult performance. 
Broader de-risking sentiment is inclining the market to a more lender-friendly posture, 
including lower leverage and increased pricing.
from left:   DYAL CAPITAL
Michael D. Rees and Sean Ward
DIRECT OWNERSHIP IN ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT COMPANIES  
At Dyal, we focus on acquiring minority stakes in leading global alternative asset manage-
ment firms with the goal of producing strong cross-cycle cash flow for our investors. As 
market volatility increases, we believe most investors will continue to see value in owning 
yielding assets that exhibit reduced correlation to the broader markets and interest rates.
Our Business Services Platform is a crucial piece of our program. This dedicated team 
and its suite of strategic services help us to partner with high-quality firms that value 
our team’s breadth of experience and insight. As the number of firms in our portfolios 
increases, we continually seek to enhance the capabilities of the BSP to provide high-
quality support across the full spectrum of our partners’ varied needs. 
In 2015, we welcomed John Dyment as the Head of our Business Services Platform. 
John brings significant managerial, business-building and marketing experience to the 
now 15-person Business Services Platform team, and we look forward to adding new 
partnerships and capabilities to our program in 2016.
41
from left:   MARQUEE BRANDS
Cory M. Baker, Michael DeVirgilio,  
Zachary Sigel and Samuel N. Porat  A HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT FOR THE HUNT  
FOR UNDER-MANAGED BRANDS  
In 2015, the markets made it clear that demonstrated organic growth is top of mind for 
investors. Business models which are overly reliant on M&A are under fire and, at the same 
time, global economic headwinds are putting pressure on retailers and brand owners, creating 
a challenging market dynamic for licensors. Quality brands matter, especially in difficult 
conditions such as these. 
The Q4 holiday shopping period was mixed. Overall retail sales rose 3.3% (as reported by 
First Data Corp.), but traditional retailers struggled while e-commerce sales grew 13% (as 
reported by ComScore). More than ever, it is clear that brand owners need an omni-channel 
marketing plan that provides for both advertising and distribution in both brick-and-mortar 
and e-commerce channels. 
Having just recently closed the Marquee Brands fundraising, we feel that we can take 
advantage of the dislocation caused by changing market conditions and difficult macro-
economic conditions. With the vast majority of capital available to us, we feel that we are in 
a good position to capitalize on potential opportunities where we see good, under-managed 
brands available at attractive prices due to market conditions.
RENAISSANCE GROUP not pictured:  
Fabio Cane, Marco Cerrina Feroni  
FOCUS ON SOUND FUNDAMENTALS AND   and Stefano Bontempelli
MODERATE USE OF LEVERAGE  
Over the course of 2015, the European private equity market experienced increasing leverage 
levels and rising asset valuations, further reinforcing our approach of focusing on sound 
business fundamentals rather than financial engineering. 
In a climate of consistently high valuations, we believe that pursuing disciplined investments 
in high-quality businesses with moderate use of financial leverage is an appropriate strategy 
for 2016. Consistent with our current portfolio, we will seek to invest in companies with a 
defensible market position and visible value growth opportunities in partnership with strong 
management teams.
42
from left:   HEDGE FUNDS SOLUTIONS GROUP
Jeff A Majit and 
David G. Kupperman, PhD   ACTIVE OPPORTUNITIES ON THE HORIZON?   
We may finally be seeing the light at the end of the tunnel. Quantitative easing has been a 
headwind for hedge fund strategies, with low rates and rising asset values making shorting 
difficult. When asset values rise with suppressed volatility, there are often limited downturns 
that present opportunities to capitalize on the short side. But with tapering of the Federal 
Reserve’s asset buybacks and a shift toward rate hikes, we are encouraged by potential 
opportunities across many hedge fund strategies.
2015 was largely a year to forget for the majority of hedge fund strategies. After a strong 
first half, a confluence of factors put the second half on track to be one of the worst relative 
performance periods for hedge funds in history. This was particularly the case for bottom-
up, value-focused long/short funds, event-driven funds and credit strategies. As much of this 
difficulty was driven by non-fundamental reasons, the opportunity set for these strategies 
heading into 2016 appears stronger to us than it has for several years.
U.S. LONG-SHORT Charles C. Kantor
UNWILLING TO BET AGAINST INGENIOUS  
BUSINESS LEADERSHIP  
We believe that both equity and debt markets are wrestling with two alternative views of 
the future—secular stagnation vs. gradual normalization. Under the first scenario, deflation 
concerns will persist. This “stagnant economic state” may not encourage banks to lend, 
consumers to spend and businesses to invest. Under a more optimistic scenario in which 
current imbalances normalize over time, businesses and consumers will recover an appetite to 
spend as credit conditions continue to stabilize. For now, our long-term thinking on the U.S. 
economy lends support to the belief that current imbalances will normalize over time.  
Investor sentiment appears increasingly fickle given the bombardment of market news flow 
in an internet and social media-driven world. We believe investors have become too short- 
term in nature. We highlight this dynamic because an increasingly long-term approach is a 
competitive advantage. As a reminder, we are investors with a longer-term view, and remain 
unwilling to bet against the ingenuity of the corporate managers that lead our businesses. 
In our view, corporate managers’ willingness to drive innovation, enhance productivity and 
allocate capital to the best risk-adjusted return could ultimately provide investors with suitable 
long-term risk-adjusted returns.
43
from left:   GLOBAL LONG-SHORT CREDIT
Itai Baron, Rick Dowdle, Norman Milner  
and Darren L. Carter POSITIONED FOR CREDIT SELECTION 
High yield credit remains an attractive asset class in a challenging global growth and  
low interest rate environment. Fixed income investors continue to deliberate the potential 
for volatility that stems from economic growth deceleration and shifting central bank  
rate policies.
We believe that opportunities abound, both long and short, for fundamental credit 
selection to uncover opportunities to generate attractive long-term returns. Alternative 
strategies are uniquely positioned to translate market volatility into investor opportunity.
In our view, the key drivers of performance in 2016 will remain fundamental credit selection 
and nimble risk management.
EVENT-DRIVEN from left:  
Judd Arnold, Joseph Rotter, Gabe Cahill  
THE EVENT-DRIVEN OPPORTUNITY SET EXPANDS,   and Sean Badcock
AS DOES THE DISPERSION OF INVESTOR RETURNS 
Through mid-March 2016, the aggregate deal value of announced M&A in the U.S. has 
increased 15% over 2015’s historically high deal volume. The combination of low interest 
rates, lack of organic revenue growth, increased shareholder activism and the temporal 
end of the oil/commodities up-cycle continues to power a robust opportunity set.  
As with past cycles, many investors throughout the post-March 2009 lows readily 
embraced a mixture of extreme portfolio concentration, levered long market exposure and 
limited liquidity at the position level. While this approach may have worked well, recent 
market volatility has put many of the darlings of yesterday on the defensive when upside 
opportunities are increasing. We believe this market activity is likely to create greater 
disparity amongst event-driven returns in 2016, and place even greater importance on risk 
management, uncorrelated returns, dynamic hedging and portfolio construction to drive 
outperformance and extract alpha.
from left:   GLOBAL LONG-SHORT EQUITY
Thuy Tran, Daniel Geber and Alan Freeman
LONG AND SHORT IDEAS—WORLDWIDE  
2015 can be categorized by significant volatility in the equity markets, largely due to several 
bouts of investor risk aversion, some or all of which were triggered by moderating growth 
overseas, questions regarding future monetary policies, geopolitical issues, and economic/
corporate-related fundamentals, particularly in the U.S., Europe, China and Japan. Investor 
expectations regarding those same policies and fundamentals shifted throughout the year, 
which further compounded market volatility. 
Nonetheless, we maintain a relatively constructive view of global equity markets, with a 
great deal of focus on seeking to capitalize on a particular—and vast—set of long and short 
themes that we have identified, such as Europe’s quantitative easing (long), gradual healing 
of the U.S. economy (long) and economic deterioration in Brazil (short). 
44
ROUNDTABLE DISCUSSION
CHARTING NEW PATHS  
THROUGH CUSTOMIZATION
Strategic partnerships transcend the familiar single  
mandate-based relationship. Highly customized and specific  
in the challenge being addressed, these relationships drill  
deeper into each organization’s resources, culture and strategic  
perspective. And the explicit commitment to work together  
strategically opens the door to better deliver the firm, engaging  
a wider range of investment professionals. 
CONTINUED
45
GIVEN THE CHALLENGES AND RAPID CHANGES IN THE MARKETPLACE  
TODAY, THE ABILITY TO WORK CLOSELY TOGETHER WITH A SHARED  
FOCUS IS COMPELLING. FOR MANY INSTITUTIONS, ACCESS TO KNOWLEDGE 
TRANSFER, STAFF TRAINING AND JOINT RESEARCH INITIATIVES EMPOWERS 
THE RELATIONSHIP.
FROM LEFT 
WAI LEE, PhD
ANDREW A. JOHNSON
CARTER P. REYNOLDS
ERIK L. KNUTZEN
LORI L. HOLLAND
ERIK L. KNUTZEN    WAI LEE 
In a strategic partnership, the conversation starts with  Both sides need patience as they learn about one 
”What are the biggest problems you’re facing? How  another—the capabilities on the investor’s side—not only 
can we help?” That usually leads to solutions that reach  the investment acumen, but the culture and personality 
beyond products—and encourages thinking about  behind the solutions. On the partner’s side, it’s important 
markets and risk in the broadest possible sense. to understand who they are, how they approach their 
portfolio objectives, their constraints and biases.  
ANDREW A. JOHNSON 
It’s about allowing the process to lead the two parties  LORI L. HOLLAND 
to the right solution. There is a lot of dialogue, a lot  By design, strategic partnerships should be mutually 
of back-and-forth that allows us to better understand  beneficial, and each side needs to bring something 
what they’re really looking to accomplish. We find  to the table. Asset managers bring custom solutions, 
ourselves deeply engaged with the consultant and with  improved nimbleness, and their best ideas to the asset 
the client, leading to an agreed-upon solution. owners. Partners bring a willingness to engage on joint 
research projects, invest in innovative strategies and a 
desire to explore “solutions” versus one-off mandates.  
46
STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS:  
CUSTOMIZED TO DELIVER THE FULL RANGE OF OUR PLATFORM, AS NEEDED
U.S. GOVERNMENT   U.S. PUBLIC   U.S. PUBLIC   ASIAN SOVEREIGN  U.S. CORPORATE 
MANDATE PENSION PLAN PENSION PLAN WEALTH FUND PENSION PLAN
EQUITY
FIXED INCOME
COMMODITIES
CURRENCIES
PRIVATE EQUITY
PRIVATE DEBT
HEDGE FUNDS
We’ve been able to offer unique strategies that fill  CARTER P. REYNOLDS 
a particular niche in our partner’s portfolio; recently  In a bespoke relationship, we have the opportunity to 
we launched a Trend strategy for a strategic partner  introduce strategies that might not have been considered 
that addressed their need for mitigating tail risks of  without the in-depth dialogue and candid sharing of ideas.  
traditional asset classes without giving up much of the 
Also, if we can apply our resources to newer, more 
upside potential of strong market environments.
complex strategies or simply deliver more resources 
JOHNSON  which can be tapped into for training and development, 
Getting to know the partner has led us to propose  that’s a win-win. Client teach-ins are a natural and even 
solutions that are bespoke, calibrated to respond to  essential part of the relationship. Recent examples are 
their needs—risk profile, income objectives, asset class  the evolving state of the fixed income markets, and 
outlooks. A customized solution will reflect our best  some of the more opportunistic approaches which have 
thinking for the specific client situation.   been borne out of the current environment, such as 
ways to invest in collateralized loan obligations (CLOs) 
The quality of the conversation is what it’s all about—  or private debt.  
brainstorming a particular problem they need help 
solving. We’ve been able to help our partners early  
on because of the acknowledgement that we were in 
this together.  
47
DYNAMIC REYNOLDS   
Through dialogue, we often reach beyond the initial 
SOLUTIONS mandate. For example, where we manage only a portion 
of a client’s assets—which informs our thinking in a 
particular area—this has inspired dialogue across the 
CONTINUED client’s total assets, often leading to tapping into our 
broader resources. Some of our formal agreements 
actually specify that we will share our best ideas, hold 
educational events and teach-ins, and travel with clients 
to our different offices globally, sitting with portfolio 
managers on site, which is of course our goal—to serve 
as an extension of our client’s staff and to educate.
KNUTZEN     
It’s hard to work with a partner who has only a short-
HOLLAND  term focus. We understand that relationships will evolve 
The people commitment is paramount. A strategic  over time and solutions will evolve as client needs 
partnership is going to work best when there are  change. That’s one reason why knowledge transfer and 
dedicated people on both sides who “own” its success.   ongoing dialogue are so important. As partners, we 
The dedicated team within the asset manager must  move ahead together.
“deliver the firm” to the asset owner partner; the 
REYNOLDS    
dedicated team within the asset owner needs to find 
While we may manage a particular asset class for a 
ways to leverage their partner relationships for the 
client, meeting a particular need at the time, we aim to 
benefit of their constituents.
expose our partners to all aspects of our organization 
Asset owners who manage money internally might  —which impact the particular asset class but also  
want our insights on their own positioning, and we  asset classes more broadly—tapping into our asset 
will bring our experts in that asset class to the table to  allocation, risk management, compliance, operations 
share our thoughts and views.  and trading resources as a way to understand and 
develop best practices.  
JOHNSON  
As we were talking, going back and forth, I began  KNUTZEN    
homing in on what they were expressing, helping them  It’s a different level of client involvement, a broader, 
define the objective. We created a custom benchmark  deeper and more rewarding engagement. The 
as a result, and that became a central yardstick for the  customization is tremendous. The operational leverage 
engagement. They liked what we did, how we thought  is high and requires a lot of work for our risk team.  
about it, using some standard financial markets  The outcome is that we’re stretching and learning and 
techniques and making some assumptions about  becoming better investors.
expected returns. 
LEE 
We’ve seen the development of a more fluid investment 
vocabulary and dialogue over time with many 
partnerships. One current trend is to look for alternative 
ways to expand the premia they can collect. Now 
there’s a bucket called alternative risk premia, usually 
a long/short allocation, to seek to capture the premia 
that are embedded in the traditional market exposure.  
48
NEEDS BACKGROUND
FROM LEFT
ERIK L. KNUTZEN  AND  DOUGLAS KRAMER 
BUSINESS REVIEW
BUILDING OUR  
SOLUTIONS CAPABILITIES
For decades, the asset management  into a single business unit during 2015.  Importantly, the capabilities we offer 
industry has been judged by its  The Quantitative & Multi-Asset Class  continue to resonate with clients—we 
strategies and products. That mindset  (QMAC) offerings provide a variety  were hired in several new strategic 
has evolved—many clients today  of Multi-Asset Class (MAC) solutions  partnering relationships over the past 
are looking for help in designing  that strategically and tactically allocate  year, including MAC mandates for a 
customized solutions to address their  among Neuberger Berman strategies  large Chinese insurer, an Australian 
unique goals and challenges. as well as a platform of systematic  superannuation fund, and for a U.S. 
and outcome-oriented investment  defined benefit plan where we are 
To that end, we have made significant 
capabilities to address our clients’  tasked to manage against their total 
investments in a select roster of 
specific needs.  liabilities. One additional strategic 
complementary strategies and added 
partnering mandate also came from 
key investment and market leaders to  During the year, we continued to 
an Australian “super” fund for a 
deepen and expand our cross-asset  invest in quantitative capabilities, a 
customized systematic emerging 
class capability.   business we’ve developed over the last 
markets equity strategy.
12 years. Earlier in 2016, we welcomed 
For the global client seeking bespoke 
the Options Investment team led by  As we look to 2016, we are excited to 
solutions, the ability to design 
Derek Devens, thus strengthening  grow our capabilities to build unique 
portfolios that reflect unique risk, 
our lineup of systematic, outcome- and innovative investment solutions 
income and growth targets is critical.  
oriented investment capabilities. Their  for a broad range of clients, while 
Our ability to serve such institutions  differentiated global format seeks  delivering solid investment results.
reflects both our quantitative and  to capture risk premia in a liquid, 
multi-asset class capability, organized  transparent manner. 
49
from left:   OPTIONS GROUP
Erik Zhou, Derek Devens and Rory Ewing
UNLEASHING PORTFOLIO POTENTIAL THROUGH OPTIONS  
Five years ago, when we began developing our collateralized index option strategies,  
we believed that index option writing could enhance income and appreciation in a  
risk-managed manner for investors. Today, demand is on the rise from institutional 
investors who are creating designated allocations to options-based strategies. Among 
non-traditional niche strategies, we have seen very few that offer the scale, customization, 
transparency, liquidity and cost-effectiveness of index option writing. 
Our challenge has been educating clients on the risks and merits of option strategies and 
overcoming clients’ preconceived notions regarding derivative strategies. The unique risk 
premium and return profiles of index option writing strategies afford asset allocators the 
ability to broaden their portfolio implementations with different risk/return distributions 
for a specific underlying equity index. We believe this additional degree of freedom is 
valuable to asset allocators in their pursuit of client investment objectives.
MULTI-ASSET CLASS from left:  
Atul Kumar, Natalia Groysberg, Ajay Singh Jain  
SOLVING FOR UNIQUE CLIENT REQUIREMENTS   and Tokufumi Kato, PhD
Investors face myriad uncertainties across global markets, tied to growth, commodity 
prices, regulations and monetary policy, to name a few. Meanwhile, longer-term 
outlooks for traditional stock and bond investments have become muted, given low 
growth and interest rates.  
Using a solutions-driven risk-aware portfolio construction framework, we can efficiently 
combine directional, tactical and relative value exposures to customize and integrate an 
entire alpha to beta spectrum of approaches to meet specific investor needs.  
Throughout this year, we have used our framework to expand our offerings, including 
new absolute return-focused UCITS fund offerings, a new strategy focused on capturing 
alternative sources of risk premia, and a new completion management solution for a 
Japanese client.  
from left:   QUANTITATIVE INVESTMENT GROUP
Ping Zhou, Hakan Kaya, PhD, Wai Lee, PhD,  
and Alexandre DaSilva DELIVERING RISK-BALANCED SOLUTIONS    
We were excited to see investors’ growing appreciation of investing using a risk-balanced 
framework of systematic factor exposures across asset classes. Looking ahead we expect 
increasing adoption of such approaches. We believe that balancing macro and asset 
class risks with managed exposures to proven alpha factors can provide more attractive 
performance over the long term.  
In the current uncertain environment of decoupled economic cycles, non-synchronized 
monetary policies, geopolitical and event risks across regions, we take calculated 
and intentional risks to deliver performance profiles that are consistent both with the 
investment processes and clients’ objectives.
We attempt to extract rewards from securities within asset classes that have favorable 
characteristics such as attractive value, high quality, improving business and growth 
prospects, while maintaining balanced and managed risks at the total portfolio level.
50
FROM LEFT
provide individuals, families and 
KENNETH G. RENDE, RICHARD GARDINER AND DIANE E. LEDERMAN 
smaller and midsized institutions with 
a range of trust, estate-planning 
and fiduciary services. These may 
BUSINESS REVIEW range from advising on the proper 
estate planning vehicles to helping 
WORKING WITH INDIVIDUALS, FAMILIES  achieve tax-efficient intergenerational 
wealth transfer, and assisting in 
AND BUSINESSES IN AN AGE OF IDEAS 
resolving sensitive family matters 
surrounding it, to acting as a fiduciary 
or outsourced CIO for a family office 
At Neuberger Berman, managing  Working alongside the advisor  or institution.
for the long term has been a central  are members of our Investment 
During the year, we continued to 
tenet of our mission and our purpose.   Strategy Group (ISG), who bring 
invest in financial planning capabilities 
We are privileged to actively engage  deep investment knowledge to help 
that support our client relationships. 
with generations of families—from  establish clearly defined investment 
Helping individuals and families 
millennials up through their great-  policy statements to align allocation 
evaluate multiple financial and 
grandparents—focusing on their  parameters and manager selection 
investment scenarios, each driven by 
specific investment and wealth  with specific objectives. Early this 
specific time frames and customized 
management objectives at each  year, we welcomed Richard Gardiner, 
objectives, deepens the ways in 
stage of their lives. We seek to help  who brings more than 20 years of 
which we add value.  
meet these current liquidity needs  investment experience, as Head of 
while planning for longevity and  ISG. As CIO of the Neuberger Berman  Continuing into 2016, the platform  
legacy goals through an approach  Trust Company, Rich is instrumental  of public and private market 
wherein we align our well-established  in analyzing and implementing  investment strategies complemented 
investment, trust and planning  investment solutions that can  by ISG, trust and planning capabilities 
capabilities. complement Neuberger Berman-  brings to each client relationship a 
managed solutions. broad, established and deep suite 
Across the country, our locally based 
of solutions.
wealth advisors work closely with each  Our capability extends beyond 
client to build customized portfolios in  investment management through 
a tax-sensitive framework, reflective  the services of our Trust Company, 
of income, growth and risk tolerances.  connecting clients to wealth planning 
and personal and institutional 
fiduciary planning. Our trust experts 
51
from left:   INVESTMENT STRATEGY GROUP
Ahmad Farrah and Richard Gardiner
A PURPOSE-BUILT ANALYTIC AND ADVISORY ENGINE   
The Neuberger Berman Investment Strategy Group (ISG) provides thought leadership on the 
global markets, the economy and investing. We also engage with the firm’s Wealth Advisors 
and Trust Officers in assisting clients on asset allocation and manager selection. The team helps 
design customized proposals that can enhance the risk-reward profile of an overall portfolio.
While our role has not changed, financial market volatility and changing economic conditions 
have caused drastic shifts in the risk-reward characteristics of various asset classes. ISG provides 
insights in helping clients reassess asset allocations and investment strategies as needed.
One of the most vexing issues today is that income-oriented investors face a troublesome 
dilemma in fixed income: historically low yields on traditional safe haven fixed income assets 
and increased risk profile and duration on higher yielding investments. ISG seeks to identify 
opportunities to enhance income and balance risk/reward.
THE STRAUS GROUP from left:  
Stephanie J. Stiefel, David I. Weiner,  
INVESTING WITH EYES WIDE OPEN IN 2016    Jeremy R. Kramer, Marvin C. Schwartz,  
Henry Ramallo and Richard J. Glasebrook
2015 was a difficult year for the Straus Group. Our equity investments faced 
many challenges throughout the year. The August 2015 12% U.S. stock market 
correction, the first in four years, was long overdue. We are optimistic that 2016 
can be a much improved year. 
The 2016 business outlook for the U.S. economy appears reasonably solid, with 
unemployment continuing to decline, strength in residential home sales likely  
to continue and car sales remaining at a high level.  
The S&P 500 Index is valued at approximately 16 times estimated 2016 expected 
record earnings. Record corporate share repurchases and record merger and 
acquisition activity will likely reduce the gross outstanding share count by 
approximately 6% – 8% each for both 2015 and 2016. We believe the U.S. stock 
market and the price of oil could both surprise on the upside in 2016.
We are optimistic about 2016. We are deeply committed to our approach, which 
has served investors well for decades. Our emphasis on deep research and intimate 
knowledge of company managements will continue to guide our portfolio 
strategies as we invest in 2016 and beyond. 
52
from left:   not pictured:   THE BOLTON GROUP
John D. DeStefano, Christian F. Reynolds,   Leo Bretter,  
Darren M. Fogel, David R. Pedowitz,   Mark D. Sullivan,  
UNNERVING VOLATILITY SPAWNS  
James C. Baker, Maria Pappas and   Brian M. Case,  
Linda J. Ludwig Miles Price,   QUALITY OPPORTUNITIES   
John A. Kauffmann
The U.S. stock market endured recurring episodes of panic in 2015. As a 
result, it was a year of consolidation for the S&P 500, and the median S&P 
500 stock produced a negative total return for the year. 
The market decline continued into early 2016 due largely to China’s 
disappointing growth outlook, freefalling oil prices and uncertainty about 
the Fed’s plans on interest rates. Naturally, after two market corrections in 
six months, concerns arise whether we are headed for a bear market or  
even a financial crisis.
While we are not pessimistic about the markets, we have positioned 
portfolios to be incrementally more defensive in the face of greater global 
uncertainty. Our ultimate goal, however, is to continually enhance the quality 
of portfolios via opportunistic purchases of excellent companies. It helps  
to remember that unnerving volatility has historically been a vast source of 
such opportunities. 
THE GREENE GROUP from left:  
Stanley Lee, Michael C. Greene,  
DIVING DEEPLY TO IDENTIFY CATALYSTS and Benjamin H. Nahum
Our well-established approach to invest in companies selling at a material discount to 
our intrinsic value estimates is central to our goal of growing client assets.  
We utilize a research process that is similar to a private equity firm’s due diligence, and 
enhance this process by looking for those companies that have a potential catalyst that 
may help increase the stock price over time.  
We’ve been employing this approach since the strategy’s inception. Our conviction in 
our investment approach is underscored by the Greene Group’s commitment of our own 
capital into the strategy.
53
from left:   TEAM KAMINSKY
Richard M. Werman, Mindy Schwartzapfel,  
Michael J. Kaminsky, Gerald P. Kaminsky,  
POSITIONED FOR DISRUPTIVE ENVIRONMENTS  
David G. Mizrachi and James Gartland
Our portfolios employ a more concentrated approach, which we believe can 
add value in the environment we see moving forward, one geared more 
towards individual stock selection rather than a passive approach. 
In 2015 we reduced our exposure to more cyclical businesses and purposefully 
kept a more domestic focus given our belief that the global economic super 
cycle would slow. 
We added greater exposure to Technology, Health Care and Consumer-related 
industries while avoiding more cyclically oriented businesses, and increasing 
our cash positioning to take advantage of anticipated volatility.
We believe the marketplace will be increasingly volatile as global macro issues 
play out. Our capitalization and sector flexibility positions us to benefit from 
the current volatility as opportunities present themselves. The team believes 
that a portfolio of carefully analyzed and selected securities can add value over 
an index, with less risk, when thinking longer term.
THE KSE VALUE GROUP from left:  
Michael N. Emmerman, Brooke Johnson,  
Michelle B. Stein, Richard Wesolowski  
STAYING STEADY AND FOCUSED   
and Kenneth M. Kahn
We build portfolios using a time-tested investment process based on intensive fundamental 
analysis, evaluation of potential catalysts and stress-testing against multiple economic 
scenarios. 
We look for superior management teams that have proven they can navigate rough waters 
but also maximize opportunities during more stable periods.  
As we believe that uncertainty in the stock market will persist in 2016, we will stay laser- 
focused on managing portfolio risk while allowing for flexibility to take advantage of market 
fundamentals. 
For our clients, this means the application of decades of experience over market cycles  
and wide-ranging economic landscapes to address the challenges and opportunities that 
2016 offers.
54
from left:   THE KAMEN GROUP
Stuart J. Pollak, Michael W. Kamen  
and Lee J. Tawil LESSONS FROM 2015 AND OUTLOOK FOR 2016  
Our longstanding fundamental precepts of focusing on high-quality companies with  
attractive valuation remain a constant. 
However, 2015 was a strong reminder that, at times, inherent value and price can move 
apart. While short-term price volatility can be challenging, we believe valuation and 
earnings growth are the key long-term drivers to equity returns. 
The headwinds facing equity markets in 2016 will likely be similar to those of 2015. 
Earnings growth remains tepid, and we do not find valuations compelling. Nonetheless, 
we believe equities continue to present attractive long-term return potential. 
THE PADUANO GROUP from left:  
David A. Wilson, Daniel P. Paduano,  
FUNDAMENTAL FOCUS ON THEMES   Sherrell J. Aston, and Jason H. Vintiadis
Market dislocations in the summer of 2015 provided increased evidence that ETFs, 
programmatic trading and other momentum and risk factor strategies have the capacity to 
significantly exacerbate volatility: the proverbial herd has been amplified.  
Short-term price distortions seem increasingly disconnected from underlying business 
conditions. It is our contention that with volatility comes opportunity. It’s these periods 
of instability that test one’s convictions; in 2016, it’s important that we remain focused 
through the steadiness of our themes and maintain our diligent study of the businesses  
we own. 
from left:   THE FRAENKEL GROUP
Robert H. Pearlman, Francis L. Fraenkel,  
Kenneth Y. Amano, Ann Marie Foss and David Ross GUIDED BY OUR LONG-TERM PERSPECTIVE   
2016 is poised to be a year of change. The Federal Reserve recently raised the Federal 
Funds target for the first time in nine years. The pace and tenor of further increases will 
be a central topic throughout the year. 
The U.S. will have a new president for the first time in eight years. As the candidates 
navigate through the primaries, there will be many discussions on what to expect in 
the next four years.
The energy industry will likely continue to experience volatility. Nonetheless, Saudi 
Arabia still possesses the ability to reverse the energy markets with one announcement.
In a year that has the potential for so much change, we will continue to invest in 
companies with superior management teams that have demonstrated the ability to grow 
revenues and earnings.
55
from left:   LARGE CAP DISCIPLINED GROWTH
Rick Bradt, John J. Barker  
and Jason Tauber DISRUPTIVE MODELS DOMINATING  
Over time, our strategy has benefitted from investing in companies with disruptive business 
models and 2015 was no exception. Looking to 2016, we seek to uncover opportunity 
not only from companies who are continuing to rewrite the rules in their respective areas, 
transcending their native sectors and migrating across the landscape into other areas, but in 
other new-look businesses as well.  
“Old Technology” services companies slower to adapt and flex are reeling in the aftermath.   
One of our focus themes is the millennials‘ desire to live “asset light”, eschewing ownership of 
cars, homes and even clothing and music in favor of rental or pay-per-use solutions.  
The dramatic rise of new models in lodging, transportation and entertainment are a testament 
to the power of this trend. We believe this powerful theme could be one of the biggest sea 
changes in consumerism of the next 20 years.
THE   THE   THE   THE  THE CAPITAL  THE  
KOPLIN LLOYD   ANDERSON   SLOATE   SCHUPF  GROUP EISMAN  
GROUP GROUP GROUP GROUP GROUP
from left:   from left:   from left:  from left:   from left:   from left:  
Cary A. Koplin  Bradley M. Anderson  Laura Sloate   Axel Schupf Yolanda R. Turocy Michael E. Cohen, Dana Eisman Cohen,
and Melinda L. Lloyd and John E. Terzis & “Gizmo” Elliott H. Eisman, Lillian Eisman  
and Steven Eisman
56 NEUBERGER BERMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2015
ANDREW S. KOMAROFF   
the firm capabilities in this evolving 
CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER
marketplace. Finally, near the end 
of the year we added an investment 
BUSINESS REVIEW team that manages collateralized 
index-based options portfolios seeking 
SUPPORTING AND BUILDING  to capture global volatility premiums, 
RELATIONSHIPS WITH CLIENTS IS   augmenting our lineup of systematic, 
outcome-oriented investment 
THE HEART OF WHAT WE DO
capabilities.
With our existing investment teams, 
during the year we launched a number 
In 2015, we continued to refine our  To maintain the relevance of our 
of new strategies, such as Corporate 
client organization, focused on our  team, we continue to innovate within 
Hybrid Bond, Municipal High Income, 
mission of a) staying close to clients,  our investment platform. During 
Multi-Asset Class Income and 
b) bringing to them solutions that  the year, we did this by continuing 
Marquee Brands, as well as follow-
are suited to their specific goals and  our disciplined approach of adding 
on offerings of existing strategies, 
requirements, and c) delivering new  investment capabilities and launching 
such as Private Debt II, Co-Invest 
ideas that can make a difference in  new strategies for existing investment 
III and Crossroads XXI. In total, 
their long-term investment results.  teams. In many cases, this expansion 
for institutions, private clients and 
We continued to attract exceptional  was geared toward investors  
advisors, we added during the year 
talent to the firm and our global client  seeking solutions that complement 
over 30 new investment vehicles to 
coverage organization now stands at  components in their current portfolio. 
the range of solutions our team brings 
approximately 550 professionals. Our  Early in the year, we welcomed 
to clients. This innovation of course 
culture as an independent partnership  Orchard Square Partners and their 
ultimately drives growth of our client 
with a sole focus of investing our  global long/short credit investment 
franchise. 
clients’ assets is a powerful draw for  strategy, and subsequently launched 
attracting and retaining professionals  a mutual fund that is supported by  We followed up on our 2014 office 
who embrace this collaborative  our global distribution capabilities.  additions in Paris and Bogota with 
approach. We understand that  We also entered into a strategic  the opening of a Madrid office 
attaining a position of trust with our  partnership with a leading Italian bank  supporting Iberia. As highlighted 
clients is something that follows from  to create NB Renaissance Partners,  on the accompanying pages, our 
years of commitment and service,  a private investment team based in  client coverage commitment is local, 
and starts with the people we have in  Milan, and acquired an investment  substantial and delivered across 
place to nurture the client relationship. team and series of registered private  diverse markets. 
equity funds from Merrill Lynch, giving 
57
EAST ASIA   2015 WAS A FRUITFUL YEAR FOR THE EAST ASIA BUSINESS. 
CLIENT ORGANIZATION
Our AUM grew by more than 50% for the second consecutive year, we expanded our organization 
and capabilities, and we further deepened our relationships with clients. 
Introducing new investment ideas and providing fresh insights into markets through seminars and 
client meetings led to steady growth in both AUM and client coverage in the region. In Korea, we 
won mandates from both institutional and retail clients, with the biggest wins coming in private 
and global equity strategies. We also attracted inflows to our diversified asset classes in Japan. In 
fixed income, we grew in existing strategies such as Investment Grade, Senior Floating Rate Loans, 
Short Duration High Yield and Unconstrained Fixed Income. We also introduced new strategies 
such as Corporate Hybrid Securities and U.S. Municipals that helped grow our overall fixed income 
presence. Our U.S. portfolio managers had many meetings with Asian clients, exchanging valuable 
and timely information with clients. 
In the context of the current volatile environment, we believe our flexibility and speed, our wide 
range of strategies and our ability to customize and adjust to investors’ needs will ultimately be 
affirmed. In Japan, by enhancing our client portfolio manager functions and focusing on our 
local investors’ needs (such as containing rising hedge costs), we aim to continue to provide 
service that is both timely and high quality.
In order to aid in forming stable assets for our investors, we will continue to support current 
strategies and introduce products that align with our clients’ goals. Providing superior service 
that attains the highest levels of satisfaction remains a central tenet in our mission as an 
independent asset management company.
Ryo Ohira 
TOKYO
SEOUL
 
 
 
Takashi  Komei  DaeYeon   YoungSun   Mitsuhiro  Hideyo   Yuichiro   Eugene  
Ikushima  Asaba  Kim Na Shimura  Umetani Tanaka Kamiyama 
HEAD OF PRODUCT  HEAD OF SALES AND  HEAD OF KOREA  INTERMEDIARY SALES  HEAD OF CLIENT  HEAD OF CLIENT   HEAD OF FINANCE   HEAD OF  
MANAGEMENT   MARKETING  BUSINESS  (SEOUL)  REPORTING  SERVICES &   & GENERAL   INFORMATION  
(TOKYO)  (TOKYO) (SEOUL)  (TOKYO)  OPERATIONS  ADMINISTRATION  TECHNOLOGY 
  (TOKYO) (TOKYO) (TOKYO)
58
ASIA PACIFIC   NEUBERGER BERMAN CONTINUED TO MAKE SIGNIFICANT  
CLIENT ORGANIZATION PROGRESS IN ASIA-PACIFIC IN 2015, EXPANDING RELATIONSHIPS  
AND DELIVERING SOLUTIONS.
For both institutions and private banks we continued to innovate and introduce new  
portfolio management solutions. For example, we customized multi-asset and smart-beta 
solutions for a selection of large superannuation fund clients in Australia. We continue to see 
growing client demand for flexible fixed income and private equity strategies with a focus on 
income generation, an ongoing theme for our clients in Asia and elsewhere in the world.
Within the retail channel, we expanded our business by signing new partnerships with key 
consumer banks, insurance companies and IFA groups. We registered an additional twenty 
UCITS funds in Hong Kong and Singapore. In Taiwan, we launched additional products 
for distribution to our existing bank and insurance company customers. Most recently, our 
Taiwanese business applied for a Securities Investment Trust Enterprise (SITE) license to  
allow the firm to manage and distribute onshore funds. In Australia, we launched our Systematic 
Global Equity strategy, which was selected as an underlying holding by a listed equity charitable 
trust that plans to donate 1% of its net assets to charities that support individuals with mental 
and learning difficulties. 
We continue to recruit talented individuals to support our growing business. Jovi Chen joined  
us in January 2016 as the General Manager for our Taiwan business. We also created new client 
portfolio manager positions and added experienced professionals Adam Grotzinger (Fixed Income) 
and Michael Dyer (Equities & Alternatives). Given the growth in our private equity business, 
we hired Kent Chen as Head of Private Equity, Asia. These key appointments demonstrate our 
commitment to providing clients with support that is local, relevant and engaged.
Nick J. Hoar
SHANGHAI
HONG KONG
TAIPEI
SINGAPORE
MELBOURNE
 
 
Paul D.   Lucas J.   Vincent   Mark   Jovi   Tony   Thomas   Marco  
O’Halloran  Rooney  Lim  Serocold  Chen  Huang  Holzherr  Tang
CO-HEAD OF   CO-HEAD OF   HEAD OF BUSINESS   DIRECTOR, BUSINESS  GENERAL MANAGER,  RELATIONSHIP   INSTITUTIONAL   HEAD OF RETAIL 
INSTITUTIONAL   INSTITUTIONAL   DEVELOPMENT,  DEVELOPMENT,  TAIWAN   MANAGER,    BUSINESS   BUSINESS,  
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT,   BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT,   FINANCIAL   FINANCIAL   (TAIPEI)  FINANCIAL   DEVELOPMENT,   CHINA & HONG KONG 
AUSTRALIA   AUSTRALIA    INSTITUTIONS,   INSTITUTIONS,   INSTITUTIONS,  ASIA-PACIFIC   (HONG KONG)
(MELBOURNE)  (MELBOURNE) SOUTH EAST ASIA  ASIA (HONG KONG) TAIWAN (TAIPEI)  (SINGAPORE)
(SINGAPORE)
59
EMEALA  IN 2015, WE CONTINUED TO DIVERSIFY OUR PLATFORM,  
CLIENT ORGANIZATION EXPAND OUR FOOTPRINT AND DEEPEN RELATIONSHIPS. 
2015 was an active time for the EMEALA business as we built upon our increasingly diversified 
investment platform, delivering outcome-oriented solutions for our clients, whilst expanding our 
local footprint with strategic hires and the opening of new offices. 
We continue to respond to a growing client desire to work more closely with fewer partners 
and many clients are choosing to partner with us across more than one investment strategy, 
reflecting the breadth of our investment platform. 
During Q2, we entered into a strategic partnership with Intesa Sanpaolo, one of Italy’s leading 
banks, to create NB Renaissance Partners, a private equity investment team based in Milan. 
In 2016 we are extending this partnership and Neuberger Berman EMEA fund offerings will 
become available through the Fideuram and Intesa Sanpaolo Private Banking networks. 
In Q3, we established an office in Madrid, servicing the Iberia region, and hired Javier Nunez de 
Villavicencio to run client relationship management and business development across Spain and 
Portugal. In addition, in Q4 we hired Christian Puschmann to join our team in Frankfurt to lead 
our business in Germany and Austria. 
In 2016, we remain committed to delivering strong investment solutions to our clients and to 
providing regular communication and insight as they navigate the challenging markets. 
THE HAGUE ZURICH FRANKFURT
Dik van Lomwel 
PARIS
LONDON
MADRID
BOGOTA
MILAN DUBAI
BUENOS AIRES
Fabio  Cas  Tom  Edward  Christian  Jahangir 
Castrovillari  Peters  Douie  Jones  Puschmann  Aka 
HEAD OF CLIENT GROUP  HEAD OF CLIENT GROUP  HEAD OF INTERMEDIARY  HEAD OF   HEAD OF CLIENT GROUP   HEAD OF CLIENT GROUP  
(SWITZERLAND)   (BENELUX)  CLIENT GROUP   INSTITUTIONAL   (GERMANY & AUSTRIA) (MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA)
(EMEA) CLIENT GROUP  
(UK)
60
PERSPECTIVES:  CLIENT EXPERIENCE
APPLYING AN  
END-TO-END PERSPECTIVE 
ACROSS CLIENT  
TOUCH POINTS
CÉLINE DUFÉTEL
HEAD OF MARKETING AND CLIENT SERVICE
AT THE HEART OF OUR SINGLE MISSION—TO PARTNER WITH OUR CLIENTS  
TO ACHIEVE THEIR UNIQUE INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES—IS A DEEP COMMITMENT  
TO DELIVERING AN EXCEPTIONAL CLIENT EXPERIENCE.
We approach this in three ways: 1) by being a flexible and nimble organization with whom it is easy 
to do business while demonstrating the ability to tailor solutions to meet client needs, 2) by providing 
timely access to our investment professionals and their insights and ideas to help investors drive 
tangible outcomes, and 3) by being both responsive and proactive in meeting our clients’ day-to-day 
needs, whether investment, operational, reporting or service-related.
In 2015, we made significant strides along those three themes: customization, client access to insights, 
and reporting. On customization, we launched 30 new vehicles across U.S. mutual funds, CITs, UCITs 
funds, registered listed funds and private partnerships to meet client needs for more tailored vehicles. 
We also entered into four new highly customized strategic partnerships. 
To improve access to insights and investment updates, we launched a new subscription service via 
www.nb.com, allowing institutions, advisors and individuals to elect the topics, authors and content 
they wish to access on a regular basis. 
Finally, we further developed our reporting capabilities on a number of fronts, including for our fixed 
income platform on the heels of our new system implementation, and alternatives reporting.
We were also fortunate to attract 24 new talented client service professionals across geographies 
and client segments to deepen our ability to deliver an end-to-end client experience grounded in 
responding to and anticipating client needs.
61
PERSPECTIVES:  RISK
BURNISHING OUR  
TOOLS AND PROCESSES  
TO SUPPORT A CAREFUL, 
THOROUGH DISCIPLINE
ALAN H. DORSEY
CHIEF RISK OFFICER
ESTABLISHED PROCESS. CONTINUOUS REVIEW.
Risk Management continues to be amongst the firm’s core competencies in the conduct of 
identification, monitoring and mitigation of risks that may impact our clients and our firm.  
We remain committed to executing this function across the enterprise, covering its five pillars of risk: 
Strategic, Financial, Investment, Operational and Regulatory. 
Key areas of our focus are investment performance and risk evaluation, investment liquidity risk 
oversight and operational risk assessment.   
Performance and risk decomposition facilitates discussions with portfolio managers. Of particular  
note have been risk factors, interest rate movements, credit spreads and currency volatility.  
Our liquidity risk oversight enables us to more acutely gauge the liquidity of our retail mutual funds. 
To this end, we monitor the liquidity of our proprietary retail mutual funds on a daily basis, including  
estimated timeframes to liquidate securities positions in our funds. We also believe that stress testing 
is a crucial part of any liquidity analysis; we conduct stress tests of our funds based on hypothetical 
scenarios, including redemption activity.   
Monitoring is conducted through our Asset Management Guideline Oversight (AMGO) and 
Performance Analysis & Risk (PAR) departments. AMGO monitors investment, regulatory, client and 
internal risk guidelines for our investment strategies, using pre- and post-trade systems and reviews. 
PAR monitors performance and its sources, risk metrics and liquidity using a variety of tools.
In operational risk, we continue to enrich our ability to assess and track areas for enhancement 
across our enterprise through incident and error loss management, risk self-assessment, and metrics 
monitoring, with the support of third-party enterprise risk assessment tools. Furthermore, we remain 
committed to guarding against cybersecurity threats.
62
PERSPECTIVES:  CULTURE | LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE
CELEBRATING  
THE VITALITY AND 
STRENGTH OF  
THE FRANCHISE
HEATHER P. ZUCKERMAN WILLIAM A. BRAVERMAN
CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER GENERAL COUNSEL
CULTURE:  STAYING TRUE TO OUR CULTURE OF COLLABORATION
Our move to 1290 Avenue of the Americas later this year will mark the end of a multi-year, multi-
faceted process. It reflects more than a newly renovated workplace designed to accommodate 
a global business across asset classes and client channels. It was an opportunity for cultural 
introspection, a validation of client needs and an assessment of best practices.
We stayed true to our culture of collective input and debate. Working groups advised on topics from 
functional bifurcation to the best way to support global teams and clients. Feedback was garnered 
through interviews, surveys and employee expos.
Our design approach, like our business philosophy, didn’t focus on fads or changing things that 
weren’t broken. Most importantly—in the spirit of supporting our diverse perspectives, work 
styles and functions—we didn't insist on “one size fits all.” The collaborative process and design 
customization was certainly not the easiest path, but we were true to ourselves and are now well 
positioned to serve our clients for the coming decades.
LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE:  ADAPTING TO NEW BUSINESS AND NEW RULES
2015 was a year of significant business expansion and regulatory proposals that radically revisit 
longstanding rules and introduce entirely new regimes. Our team has created new investment vehicles, 
negotiated separate accounts and facilitated portfolio investments, while working closely with the 
business to assess and implement new rules and oversee complex global compliance directives.  
From Taiwan to the United Kingdom to the United States, the regulatory environment is richly layered 
and quickly evolving. Among many activities, we adjusted our business model in the Far East so that 
we can offer local securities and created a new entity in Europe to manage alternative investment 
vehicles. In the United States, we are evaluating the SEC’s proposed liquidity and mutual fund 
derivative rule changes. 
The past year witnessed even more radical potential change from the United States Department 
of Labor, which resurrected its effort to rewrite the definition of a fiduciary under the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act and exemptions from that status. Working closely with our 
colleagues in risk, other control functions and business leaders, the firm will be well prepared to 
adapt our practices to the new requirements.
63
Patrick Lomelo          
PERSPECTIVES:  TECHNOLOGY
SOLUTIONS-ORIENTED  
APPROACHES  
ACROSS THE FIRM
Ian D. Peckett  Patrick C. Lomelo  Anthony DeSantis 
HEAD OF TECHNOLOGY HEAD OF OPERATIONS HEAD OF INFRASTRUCTURE
PATRICK C. LOMELO           We’re adopting agile methodologies to bring us 
Given the rapid evolution and complexity of  closer to the business agenda and improve our 
the firm’s investment platform, we’ve been  ability to respond to changes and new learnings.   
accelerating how we implement mechanics and 
This year witnessed the wholesale adoption 
systems. Front and center is the alternatives 
of the fixed income trading platform, the 
product set and ensuring that we have the  
implementation of Salesforce to help serve 
right people, processes and technology.
our HNW clients and enhancements to our 
Delivering these more complex strategies in   equity research platform/alts reporting. We’re 
’40 Act and UCITS vehicles inspires us to move   transitioning our clearing operations to NFS.
in a fast forward mode. We’re tackling front 
The focus here is service to our partners—clients 
office and service provider challenges while 
and colleagues—and their unique business 
addressing higher regulatory demands and  
goals. Technology needs to be a trusted partner, 
daily liquidity needs.
identifying opportunities, delivering solutions.
Last year, we enhanced our middle office 
capabilities to handle OTC derivatives and asset  ANTHONY DESANTIS 
classes linked to new alternative strategies.   We don’t lose sight that our mandate is to 
The capability to manage collateral allowed us  protect and enable the business—a constant 
to automate the overall process and increase  and escalating proposition. We’re investing 
volumes drastically without adding risk/expense.   strategically on specific, actionable ways to stop 
the most pervasive and dangerous attacks.   
We’re client-focused, in there with the portfolio 
teams, client coverage and service. Today, we  Our clients, partners and our own colleagues 
have so many more global and multi-asset class  expect an alignment of technology Infrastructure, 
products that require operations engaging early.  information security, and business continuity. It’s 
And we do—often in relationship development  about reliability and dependability in this complex 
process and in the onboarding stage.   and changing technological eco system.   
It’s what our clients ask about and we’re able 
IAN D. PECKETT 
to discuss tangible, specific steps we’ve taken 
We’ve invested in a new data platform allowing 
to address and solve security issues and better 
us to bring new products and teams to market 
enable our business.
quicker and to better service the demands of an 
increasingly information-enabled user base.
 
 
64
NEUBERGER BERMAN    DEC 2015  DEC 2010
AUM By Asset Class  ($ IN BILLIONS) 
  Equity      $      96  $    81
  Fixed Income      $    105  $    78
  Alternatives      $      39  $    14
Total      $    240  $   173
AUM By Client  ($ IN BILLIONS)
  High Net Worth      $    42  $    32
  Institutional      $    151  $   112
  Intermediary      $    47  $    29
Total      $    240  $   173 
AUM By Client Domicile  ($ IN BILLIONS)
  U.S.      $    175  $   142
  Non-U.S.      $    65  $    31
Total      $    240  $   173
SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION ADJUSTED NET REVENUES
($ IN MILLIONS) ($ IN MILLIONS)
Cash and Cash Equivalents  $  610 
8
Investments    427  88 52
Receivables    219  1,4 1,
0
Goodwill and Other Intangibles    590  0
3
Other Assets    118 1,
0
9
Total Assets  $  1,964  1,0 017
  1, 3
0
Senior Notes Payable  $  800  9
Accrued Compensation and Benefits    424 
Payables and Other Liabilities    266
Total Liabilities  $  1,490 
 
Common Equity  $  474
Total Liabilities and Equity  $  1,964
ADJUSTED NET REVENUES FOR 2015  $  1,488
65
 
 
Joseph V. Amato   Robert W. D’Alelio   Richard B. Worley 
     
PRESIDENT OF   PORTFOLIO MANAGER,   FORMER CEO AND CIO  
NEUBERGER BERMAN;   SMALL CAP VALUE OF MORGAN STANLEY  
CHIEF INVESTMENT   INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT; 
OFFICER –   FORMER CHAIRMAN OF  
EQUITIES MILLER ANDERSON &  
SHERRERD
George H. Walker  Larry Zicklin  Steven A. Kandarian 
     
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF   FORMER MANAGING   CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT AND 
EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF   PARTNER AND CHAIRMAN  CEO OF METLIFE; FORMER 
NEUBERGER BERMAN OF NEUBERGER BERMAN;  CIO OF METLIFE; FORMER 
CLINICAL PROFESSOR AT THE  EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 
STERN SCHOOL AT NEW YORK  PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY 
UNIVERSITY; SENIOR FELLOW  CORPORATION (PBGC)
AT THE WHARTON SCHOOL  
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF  
PENNSYLVANIA; CHAIRMAN 
OF THE RAND CENTER FOR  
CORPORATE ETHICS AND 
GOVERNANCE
66
Tom D. Seip  Robert J. Conti  Joseph V. Amato  Faith Colish  Michael J. Cosgrove 
INDEPENDENT   PRESIDENT, CEO-  PRESIDENT AND CIO,  SECURITIES   PRESIDENT, CARRAGH 
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIR- MUTUAL FUNDS NEUBERGER BERMAN REGULATORY   CONSULTING USA
MAN OF THE BOARD  ATTORNEY 
FORMERLY, EXECUTIVE, 
FORMERLY, SENIOR   TRUSTEE OF THE YEAR   GENERAL ELECTRIC 
EXECUTIVE WITH THE  (2001, 2008) MUTUAL  COMPANY AND TRUSTEE 
CHARLES SCHWAB   FUND INDUSTRY  OF GE'S PENSION AND 
CORPORATION AWARDS BENEFITS PLAN
Marc Gary  Martha C. Goss  Michael M. Knetter  Howard A. Mileaf  Deborah C. McLean 
FORMERLY EXECUTIVE  FORMERLY, CORPORATE   PRESIDENT AND CEO,  FORMERLY, VICE   ADJUNCT PROFESSOR, 
VICE PRESIDENT AND  TREASURER AND   UNIVERSITY OF WIS- PRESIDENT AND   COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 
GENERAL COUNSEL,  ENTERPRISE RISK   CONSIN FOUNDATION GENERAL COUNSEL,   SCHOOL OF INTERNA-
FIDELITY INVESTMENTS OFFICER,   WHX CORPORATION TIONAL AND PUBLIC 
FORMERLY, DEAN, 
THE PRUDENTIAL   AFFAIRS
SCHOOL OF BUSINESS, 
INSURANCE COMPANY  
UNIVERSITY  
OF AMERICA
OF WISCONSIN 
George W. Morriss  Candace L. Straight  James G. Stavridis  Peter P. Trapp 
ADJUNCT PROFESSOR,   DIRECTOR,   DEAN, FLETCHER  FORMERLY, FORD 
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY  MONTPELIER RE  SCHOOL OF LAW AND  MOTOR COMPANY 
SCHOOL OF INTERNA- FORMERLY, PRINCIPAL,   DIPLOMACY, TUFTS  EXECUTIVE 
TIONAL AND PUBLIC  UNIVERSITY
AFFAIRS  HEAD AND PARTNERS  FORMERLY,  
FORMERLY, ADMIRAL,  PRESIDENT, SENTRY LIFE 
FORMERLY, EXECUTIVE  UNITED STATES NAVY INSURANCE COMPANY 
VICE PRESIDENT AND 
CFO, PEOPLE’S BANK, CT 
67
Timothy F. Creedon Robert W. D’Alelio Richard J. Glasebrook Nick J. Hoar
Andrew A. Johnson Scott E. Kilgallen Richard S. Nackenson Thomas P. O’Reilly
David R. Pedowitz Marvin C. Schwartz Benjamin E. Segal Anthony D. Tutrone
Judith M. Vale
The Partnership Committee serves as an advisory board for senior management on material decisions 
and the strategic direction of the firm.
68
Jason R. Ainsworth Joseph V. Amato Robert Arancio William A. Arnold William A. Braverman
Robert J. Conti Timothy F. Creedon Alison B. Delgado Alan H. Dorsey Céline Dufétel
Robert Eason Margaret E. Gattuso Nick J. Hoar Scott E. Kilgallen Lawrence J. Kohn
Andrew S. Komaroff  Jacques G. Lilly Patrick C. Lomelo Matt Malloy Ryo Ohira
Ian D. Peckett Michael D. Rees Kenneth G. Rende Brad Tank Anthony D. Tutrone
The Operating Committee is engaged in the 
day-to-day management of the firm. 
Dik van Lomwel George H. Walker Heather P. Zuckerman
69
A Dana Eisman Cohen Darren M. Fogel I
Jason R. Ainsworth Michael E. Cohen Ann Marie Foss Takashi Ikushima
Jahangir Aka Robert J. Conti Drew D. Fox Fred Ingham
Kenneth Y. Amano Russ Covode Kristina C. Fox James L. Iselin
Joseph V. Amato Timothy F. Creedon Francis L. Fraenkel
Bradley M. Anderson Christopher Crevier Gregory P. Francfort
J
Robert Arancio Elizabeth Cribbs Gordon K. Froeb
Marshall W. Jaffe
Judd Arnold Robert T. Croke Kenneth G. Fuller
Ajay Singh Jain
William A. Arnold
Andrew A. Johnson
Komei Asaba
D G Brian C. Jones
Sherrell J. Aston
Robert W. D'Alelio Xinyu Gao Edward Jones
Jacqueline de Sanctis Richard Gardiner Jon B. Jonsson
B Luca Deantoni James Gartland
Sean Badcock Alison B. Delgado Dmitry Gasinsky
K
James C. Baker Anthony DeSantis Margaret E. Gattuso
Kenneth M. Kahn
Thanos Bardas John D. DeStefano Daniel Geber
Michael W. Kamen
John J. Barker Derek Devens Maxine L. Gerson
Gerald P. Kaminsky
Itai Baron Sabrina Di Bartolomeo Amy S. Gilfenbaum
Michael J. Kaminsky 
Vivek Bommi Teresa M. Donahue Michelle A. Giordano-Valentine
Charles C. Kantor
Stefano Bontempelli Alan H. Dorsey Theodore P. Giuliano
Susan B. Kasser
Jim Bowden Tom Douie Richard J. Glasebrook 
John A. Kauffmann
Rick Bradt Rick Dowdle Terrence J. Glomski
Judith Ann Kenney
William A. Braverman Daniel J. Doyle Carolyn S. Golub
Brian Kerrane
Leo Bretter Rob J. Drijkoningen Jennifer R. Gorgoll
Clay Khan
David M. Brown Céline Dufétel  Michelle Green
David A. Kiefer
Jeffry P. Brown John Dyment Alan I. Greene
Scott E. Kilgallen
David Bunan Ingrid S. Dyott Michael C. Greene
Erik L. Knutzen
John P. Buser Virginia M. Guy
Chris Kocinski
Vasantha Butchibabu
E Lawrence J. Kohn
Robert Eason H Andrew S. Komaroff
C Elliott H. Eisman Brian E. Hahn Cary A. Koplin
Fabio Cane Lillian Eisman Aisha Haque Douglas Kramer 
Darren L. Carter Steven Eisman Todd E. Heltman Jeremy R. Kramer
Brian M. Case Michael N. Emmerman Jason Henchman Michael S. Kramer
Stephen Casey Joseph K. Herlihy David G. Kupperman
Fabio Castrovillari Nick J. Hoar Anton Kwang 
F
Marco Cerrina Feroni Lori L. Holland  
Ethan Falkove
Brad E. Cetron Michael J. Holmberg   
Seth J. Finkel
Kent Chen
Stephen J. Flaherty
 
Patrick H. Flynn
70
L O Carter P. Reynolds T
Sajjad S. Ladiwala Kevin J. O’Friel Christian F. Reynolds Brian Talbot
Ugo Lancioni Paul D. O’Halloran Blake Rice Lihui Tang 
Andrew C. Laurino Ryo Ohira Joana Rocha Scaff Brad Tank
Joseph W. Lawrence Bradley F. Okita Lucas J. Rooney Lee J. Tawil
Diane E. Lederman Thomas P. O’Reilly David J. Rosa Tripp Taylor
Wai Lee Mark O’Sullivan David Ross Terri L. Towers
Richard S. Levine Martin J. Rotheram Kenneth J. Turek
Jacques G. Lilly Joseph Rotter Yolanda R. Turocy 
P
Vincent Lim Anthony D. Tutrone
Daniel P. Paduano
Maria Llerena
Maria Pappas S
Melinda L. Lloyd
Robert H. Pearlman Sevan N. Sakayan U
Patrick C. Lomelo
Ian D. Peckett Conrad A. Saldanha Gorky Urquieta 
Liz Lonsdale
David R. Pedowitz Eli M. Salzmann
Linda J. Ludwig
Tristram Perkins Martin A. Sankey
V
Raoul Luttik
Benjamin B. Perl Paul A. Sauer
Judith M. Vale
James A. Lyman
Cas Peters Axel Schupf
Bart Van der Made
Joseph P. Lynch
William J. Peterson Marvin C. Schwartz 
Dik van Lomwel
David Lyon  
Stuart J. Pollak Mindy Schwartzapfel
Peter J. von Lehe
Sandy Pomeroy Benjamin E. Segal
M Nish Popat Saurin D. Shah
W
Jeff A. Majit Samuel N. Porat Monica Sherer
George H. Walker
Matt Malloy David S. Portny Steve S. Shigekawa
Ronit Walny
Thomas Marthaler Brendan J. Potter Jonathan D. Shofet 
Sean Ward
Martin E. Messinger Christian Puschmann   Yves C. Siegel
David I. Weiner
Blake Miller Ronald B. Silvestri
Eric D. Weinstein
Norman Milner Prashant Singh
Q
Richard M. Werman
David H. Morse Laura Sloate
Joseph F. Quirk
Obadiah J. Wilford
Brien P. Smith
Andrew Wilmont
Amit Solomon
N
R David A. Wilson  
Thomas A. Sontag
Richard S. Nackenson  
Douglas A. Rachlin
Gregory G. Spiegel
John D. Nadell
Henry Ramallo
Y
Dimitrios N. Stathopoulos
Benjamin H. Nahum
Michelle L. Rappa
Frank Yulin Yao
Matthew Steege
Christian Neira
Elizabeth Reagan
Michelle B. Stein
Holly Newman Kroft 
Matthew Rees
Stephanie J. Stiefel Z
 
Michael D. Rees
David S. Stonberg Patricia Miller Zollar
 
Marc A. Regenbaum
Raymond Sullivan Heather P. Zuckerman
 
Brett S. Reiner
Richard J. Szelc
 
Kenneth G. Rende
 
71
This material is provided for informational purposes only and nothing herein  Morningstar rankings are based on Morningstar total returns, which include 
constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice, or a recommendation to buy,  both income and capital gains or losses and are not adjusted for sales charges or 
sell or hold a security. Information is obtained from sources deemed reliable, but  redemption fees to all funds that have the same Morningstar category. The highest 
there is no representation or warranty as to its accuracy, completeness or reliability.  percentile rank is 1 and the lowest is 100. Ratings are ©2016 Morningstar, Inc. All 
All information is current as of the date of this material (or as of the date indicated)  Rights Reserved. The information contained herein: (1) is proprietary to Morningstar 
and is subject to change without notice. Any views or opinions expressed may not  and/or its content providers; (2) may not be copied or distributed; and (3) is not 
reflect those of the firm as a whole. This material may include estimates, outlooks,  warranted to be accurate, complete or timely. Neither Morningstar nor its content 
projections and other “forward-looking statements.” Due to a variety of factors,  providers are responsible for any damages or losses arising from any use of this 
actual events may differ significantly from those presented. Neuberger Berman  information. 
products and services may not be available in all jurisdictions or to all client types.  
All stocks are subject to investment risk, including the risk that they may lose 
Investing entails risks, including possible loss of principal. Investments in hedge 
value. Small- and mid-capitalization stocks may have limited operating histories 
funds and private equity are speculative and involve a higher degree of risk than 
and resources and may trade less frequently and in lower volume than larger 
more traditional investments. Investments in hedge funds and private equity are 
company stocks, which may make them more volatile and vulnerable to financial 
intended for sophisticated investors only. Diversification does not guarantee profit 
and other risks. Compared with smaller companies, large-cap companies may be 
or protect against loss in declining markets. Unless otherwise indicated returns 
less responsive to changes and opportunities and may lag other types of stock in 
shown reflect reinvestment of dividends and distributions. Indexes are unmanaged 
performance. 
and are not available for direct investment. Past performance is no guarantee 
of future results. Additional Risks for Neuberger Berman International Equity Fund 
Firm data, including employee and assets under management figures, reflect  Because the prices of most growth stocks are based on future expectations, 
collective data for the various affiliated investment advisers that are subsidiaries  these stocks tend to be more sensitive than value stocks to bad economic news 
of Neuberger Berman Group LLC (the “firm”). Firm history and timelines includes  and negative earnings surprises. Value stocks may remain undervalued during a 
the history and business expansions of all firm subsidiaries, including predecessor  given period or may not ever realize their full value. To the extent the Fund invests 
entities  and  acquisition  entities.  Investment  professionals  referenced  include  more heavily in particular sectors, its performance will be especially sensitive to 
portfolio managers, research analysts/associates, traders, and product specialists  developments that significantly affect those sectors.
and team dedicated economists/strategists. 
Investing in foreign securities involves greater risks than investing in securities of U.S. 
Additional Information Regarding Barron's “Top 1,200 Financial Advisors” Rankings  issuers, including currency fluctuations, potential political instability, restrictions on 
and Chief Investment Officer's 2015 Industry Innovation Award: Barron's rankings  foreign investors and withdrawals, burdensome tax regimes that could adversely 
are based on a proprietary formula that has three major components: assets  affect security prices, less regulation, less market liquidity and less stringent 
managed, revenues produced and quality of practice. Investment returns are not  auditing and legal standards. These risks may be more pronounced for emerging 
a component of rankings as returns are dictated largely by the risk tolerances of  market countries, which involve additional risks and may be more volatile and less 
clients. The Chief Investment Officer (CIO) Industry Innovation Awards are split  liquid than foreign securities tied to more developed economies.  Securities issued 
into two general categories: asset management/servicing and asset owners. With  in emerging market countries may be more volatile and less liquid than securities 
input from CIO's awards advisory board (last year's asset-owner winners), as well as  issued in foreign countries with more developed economies or markets. 
surveys and data where applicable, the CIO editorial team makes the final decisions 
Changes in currency exchange rates bring an added dimension of risk. Currency 
as to finalists and eventual winners. Third-party accolades referenced do not reflect 
fluctuations could erase investment gains or add to investment losses.
the experiences of any Neuberger Berman client and readers should not view such 
information as representative of any particular client's experience or assume that  This material is being issued on a limited basis through various global subsidiaries 
they will have a similar investment experience as any previous or existing client.   and affiliates of Neuberger Berman Group LLC. Please visit www.nb.com/disclosure-
Third-party accolades are not indicative of the past or future performance of any  global-communications for the specific entities and jurisdictional limitations and 
Neuberger Berman product or service.   restrictions.
An investor should consider the Genesis Fund’s and International Equity  The “Neuberger Berman” name and logo are registered service marks of Neuberger 
Fund’s investment objectives, risks and fees and expenses carefully  Berman Group LLC. “Neuberger Berman Management LLC” and the individual fund 
before investing. This and other important information can be found  names in this piece are either service marks or registered service marks of Neuberger 
in the Fund’s prospectus, and if available summary prospectus, which  Berman Management LLC.
you can obtain by calling 877.628.2583. Please read the prospectus, 
and if available the summary prospectus, carefully before making an  ©2016 Neuberger Berman Group LLC. All rights reserved. 
investment.
Mutual funds are not available to investors outside of the U.S. Neuberger 
Berman Management LLC is the distributor of the Neuberger Berman mutual funds. 
Member FINRA. 
72

Neuberger Berman
1290 Avenue of the Americas
New York, NY 10104-0001
www.nb.com
GLOBAL HEADQUARTERS AMERICAS
New York, New York Bogota, Colombia
800.223.6448
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Houston, Texas
REGIONAL HEADQUARTERS
Los Angeles, California
Hong Kong, China 
+852 3664 8800 San Francisco, California
London, United Kingdom  Tampa, Florida
+44 20 3214 9000
Toronto, Canada
Tokyo, Japan  West Palm Beach, Florida
+81 3 5218 1930
Wilmington, Delaware
GLOBAL PORTFOLIO 
EMEA
MANAGEMENT CENTERS
Dubai, United Arab Emirates
Atlanta, Georgia
Frankfurt, Germany
Boston, Massachusetts
Madrid, Spain
Chicago, Illinois
Paris, France
Dallas, Texas
Zurich, Switzerland
The Hague, Netherlands
Milan, Italy
ASIA PACIFIC
Singapore
Melbourne, Australia
Seoul, South Korea
Shanghai, China
Taipei, Taiwan
L0317 02/17 ©2017 Neuberger Berman Group LLC. All rights reserved.