
2020
CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY 
REPORT
  3
EDITORIAL CONTENTS
P.4  OUR COMPANY 
P.6  Ostrum AM in a nutshell 
P.8  Business combination: a new era
P.9  Constant dialogue with our stakeholders 
“
P.10  Balanced governance 
P.12  Our key CSR achievements in 2020
2020 was characterized by a series of 
transformations here at Ostrum Asset Management, 
while we also made considerable strides forward 
P.14  OUR PEOPLE ARE THE DRIVING FORCES 
in a number of areas. Against the backdrop of an 
  BEHIND OUR TRANSFORMATION 
unprecedented pandemic, we successfully staged 
our business combination with teams at La Banque 
P.16  Safeguarding social cohesion during the Covid-19 crisis
Postale Asset Management and launched our new  P.18  Supporting our staff in their day-to-day working experience
tagline – Enhancing your power to act – reflecting our  P.19  Developing our staff’s skills
P.21  Promoting diversity and inclusion 
overarching aim to bring meaning to the investments 
we make on behalf of our clients as we strive to 
build a better future with them day after day. In this 
respect, we hit a number of milestones in our CSR 
P.24  INFORMING OUR CLIENTS AND SUPPORTING 
policy in 2020, attesting to our determination. We 
  THEM IN THEIR RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT
ramped up our coal exit policy and will pursue our 
sector policies on oil and gas in 2021. We developed 
P.26  A 360-degree approach to support our clients’ ESG policies
our expertise and exposure on green, sustainability  P.28  Responsible management for open-ended funds
and social bonds. We also made strong progress  P.29  Bolstering integration of ESG criteria in our investment 
in achieving SRI accreditations for our open-ended    management policy
P.30  Robust sector policy 
funds and drew on constant dialogue to bolster our 
P.31  A tailored range of SRI and ESG products 
engagement with bond issuers. Our people are the 
main protagonists in our responsible investment 
approach, so we are committed to supporting them in 
developing their expertise, offering training programs 
P.32  SUPPORTING ISSUERS 
on ESG challenges for all our teams this year as well 
  IN THEIR TRANSFORMATION 
as additional training in this area for our specialist staff.
P.34  Our engagement policy 
Promoting diversity and inclusion will be one of  P.35  Bolstering our engagement as shareholder and bond investor
our priorities for 2021: I resolutely believe that by  P.37  Stringent and exacting voting policy 
mobilizing our talents and fostering engagement for 
each and every one of us, we can enhance our positive 
impact on the society we live in.
P.38  PROMOTING BEST PRACTICES 
”   ON THE FINANCIAL MARKET 
P.40  Developing our SRI accreditations 
Philippe Setbon, 
P.41  Awards for our responsible approach
Chief Executive Officer of Ostrum Asset Management P.42  Committed to defining CSR and SRI standards 
P.43  Supporting collaborative engagement 
P.44  A POSITIVE IMPACT ON OUR ECOSYSTEM 
P.46  Portfolio management: acting for the climate
P.47  Coal: an ambitious sector policy
P.49  Promoting responsible practices from our suppliers
P.50  Measuring, reducing and offsetting our carbon footprint
P.52  Displaying solidarity in our sponsorship programs
OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY:
SUPPORTING TRANSFORMATION
3. 
Di
OUR   wi al
t o
h  g
I ui
g s n
n s s g
COMPANY mi nt ue
or e r
s
f i
n l
C
 I
.
2 r 
u
o
1. 
s
Engaging 
e
v
our Staff
i
t
a
i
Ostrum Asset Management (Ostrum AM)  g  t
i
n n
of rehsapso lnosnigb lbee inevne csotmmmenittt. eWde t oh athvee  dpelavceelodp smoceinatl   5.  orti t i
p e
F p
responsibmilitayn aatg tehme veenrty b cuesninteesr so fa onudr  aint vtehset hmeeanrtt   on  or a  4. Su ark
o po m
OstrumCS oARfM t ph,o ewl iwec yafi yirsm w tlreyu  rlbyue nrlei oefluveerc  cttohemadt ip naa  tcnhoyem.  aHpceatrineoy na’sst    ur Ecossitive impact a n cial 
of its people, and so we strive to develop  yst fi  n
e
our positive impact as an employer and foster m
 our staff’s engagement, making them 
the key drivers of our responsible approach. 
6 OUR  COMPANY OUR  COMPANY 7
OSTRUM AM A COMMENDED RESPONSIBLE 
APPROACH1
IN A NUTSHELL
Ostrum AM achieved a number of awards and rankings in 2020, applauding the high quality 
of our investment management and our ESG approach. 
2020 PRI2:  The quality AAA 
 
scores of A to A+  of our updated coal policy was  score awarded by Citywire 
for all our asset classes under  commended by Reclaim Finance3  for our ABS management4
management
DUAL OFFER: ASSET 
LEADING PLAYER  GO-TO PARTNER FOR  Award 
MANAGEMENT AND 
IN EUROPE EUROPEAN INVESTORS Ostrum AM achieved the award for 
SERVICES PLATFORM
Best regional company in the money 
25 funds
  market category from Quantalys 
with SRI  Inside 20205 2020 2021
accreditations
€448 
billion
1 References to a ranking, award or rating are not indicative of the future results of the fund or fund manager
35 
in assets under management  years 2 https://www.unpri.org/signatories/reporting-and-assessment
3 https://coalpolicytool.org/
4 https://citywire.fr/news/ratings-and-rankings/list
Extensive range  of trusted relationships  5 https://www.quantalys.com/
including of fixed-income  with our clients
strategies and insurance 
€340 
billion management solutions OUR SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE
for insurance-related 
management 
  25 50% 50%
> 
Modular services 
€581  insurer clients 
billion platform 
in Europe
of assets administered  tried-and-tested for more 
2nd largest banking group in France
on the services platform than 10 years
71 %
25 % 70 % 5 %
Source: figures at 12/31/2020, Ostrum AM.
29 %
Flottant
Corporate &  Asset and 
investment  wealth  Insurance Payments
banking management
LBP TOPCO
55 % 45 %
8 OUR  COMPANY OUR  COMPANY 9
BUSINESS COMBINATION:  CONSTANT DIALOGUE 
A NEW ERA WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS
On October 31, 2020, Ostrum AM and La Banque Postale Asset Management (LBP AM) completed  Ostrum AM pursues close dialogue with all our stakeholders – clients, shareholders, employees, suppliers 
the combination of their fixed-income and insurance-related asset management businesses, creating  and associations – to further increase the positive impact of our activities on broader society. 
a new European asset management leader with more than €448 billion in assets under management 
(source Ostrum AM at 12/31/2020). Ostrum AM now provides two distinct and independent offerings: 
asset management and investment services.  Stakeholders  Relationships 
  Answering questionnaires
  Calls for tender and management proposals
  Consulting, product development and management
Clients   Creating and amending contracts
  Economic and financial communications and information
NEW BRAND POSITIONING    Corporates   Management, credit, SRI and product monitoring 
  Institutional investors  committees
FOR A NEW VISION
  Distribution platforms   Seminars, working meetings
  Informal discussions, client lunches
As they join forces, Natixis and 
To embody this change and support the company’s    Site visits
growth ambitions, Ostrum AM evolved its positioning  La Banque Postale have undertaken    Operational due diligence
and identity. Its new tagline “Enhancing your power  an ambitious growth strategy for 
to act” refers to the meaning of Ostrum AM’s mission:  Ostrum AM. By combining excellence 
to support its clients in delivering on their commitments to  in investment and modular services,    Internal information media, information meetings, 
their own clients and in underpinning the long-term goals,  Employees informal discussions
we are completely reinventing the way 
health and retirement of European citizens. This ambition    Monthly staff meetings
is a natural extension of Ostrum AM’s longstanding  we serve liability-driven investors.   Employees of Ostrum AM   Conferences
commitment to sustainable development and responsible    Staff and union representatives    Specific committees e.g. Committee for Hygiene, 
investment over the past more than 35 years1. Safety and Working Conditions - CHSCT
Mathieu Cheula, 
Deputy Chief Executive 
Shareholders   Several shareholders
Officer of Ostrum AM  
  Ostrum AM’s CEO sits on the Natixis Investment Mana-
  Natixis, Natixis Investment Managers  gers management committee
(NIM) and LBP AM shareholders   Multiple meetings and committees
Institutional bodies, 
  Active participation in several national and international 
regulators 
market groups and bodies.
  Sharing of information and documents for control 
  Financial regulatory bodies and audit purposes 
  Market bodies
OUR APPROACH
Associations 
  Presentation of associations to staff
  Forums, presentations by Ostrum AM
  Planète Urgence
  Discussions and skills sponsorship
  Sciences Po Accessible
COMBINE  AMPLIFY 
OVERCOME  INNOVATE TOGETHER, 
ROBUSTNESS AND  OUR CLIENTS’ 
THE CONSTRAINTS INNOVATE USEFULLY Universities and schools
CUSTOMIZATION COMMITMENTS   Partnership: mentoring, student presentations, forums
  Hiring of interns and students on work-study or appren-
  Business and finance schools 
ticeship contracts
and universities
Issuers 
  Participation in shareholder meetings, dialogue with 
  Equities
companies 
  Corporate debt
  Sovereign debt
1 Via capital operations that led to the creation of Ostrum AM on October 1, 2018.
10 OUR  COMPANY OUR  COMPANY 11
BALANCED  OUR MANAGEMENT TEAM
Ostrum Asset Management is led by Chief Executive Officer Philippe Setbon, supported by Deputy Chief Executive 
GOVERNANCE 
Officer Mathieu Cheula. The executive committee comprises nine members, who represent our business lines and key 
functions: it is tasked with collegial and cross-business consideration of the company’s strategic goals. The committee 
meets once each week.
Ostrum AM’s corporate governance is designed to ensure the independent management of our business 
and products, while promoting the long-term interests of our clients, the company and our stakeholders. 
In accordance with the principles of governance for subsidiaries in the Natixis integrated scope, along 
with our regulatory requirements, our set-up is based on a structure with a board of directors and senior 
management to ensure a balance of powers between supervisory bodies and executive management.
OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS AT 12/31/2020
Ostrum AM’s board of directors is chaired by Jean Raby1  and consists of 11 members. The body ensures balanced 
representation between our shareholding group Natixis (integrated scope), and our retail banking network partners, 
while the presence of two representatives from the economic and social unit further promotes this balance: they attend 
board meetings as non-voting participants. The role of the board of directors is to ensure the independence of senior 
management in the performance of its duties, in the long-term interests of the company and its shareholders. The 
board also ensures the highest quality of service for the company’s distributor clients, particularly the Banque Populaire 
and Caisse d’Epargne retail banking networks.
Philippe Setbon Mathieu Cheula Guillaume Abel
Chair of the Board of Directors at 12/31/2020 Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chief Executive Officer Head of Development
Jean Raby1
Chief Executive Officer of Natixis 
Investment Managers
Directors
Sarah Russell
Cyril Marie
Véronique Sani member of the Supervisory Board and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee of The 
Chief Financial Officer and Head 
Currency Exchange Fund NV (Netherlands), 
of Strategy and Corporate Development  Chief Operating Officer of Natixis
Member of the Board of Directors and 
of Natixis Investment Managers Chairman of the Audit Committee of Nordea 
Bank Abp, Finland
Rémi Ardaillou Ibrahima Kobar Gaëlle Mallejac1
Estelle Castres Tony Blanco
Head of Risk Chief Investment Officer Head of Portfolio Management 
Christiane Marcellier for Insurance and ALM Solutions
Co-Head of Western Europe, Head of Key  General Secretary and member 
Insurance Clients, Head of Institutional  of the Executive Board 
Chair and Founder of JD4C Conseil
Channel at Natixis Investment Managers  at la Banque Postale
International
A key role on ESG 
& climate matters
Philippe Heim BPCE represented by
Hélène Madar
The board of directors approves 
Chairman of the Executive Board 
strategic decisions, including matters 
of La Banque Postale Director of Offers at BPCE
involving our duty as a responsible 
asset manager. By way of example, 
our revised coal exit strategy was 
presented to the members of the 
LBP AM Holding represented by  board and approved by the body.
Joseph Pinto
Emmanuelle Mourey
Global Chief Operating Officer  Emmanuelle Portelle Julien Raimbault Sylvie Soulère Guidat
CEO of La Banque Postale Asset 
of Natixis Investment Managers 
Management Head of Permanent Control Head of Operations & Technologies Head of Human Resources
1 Jean Raby resigned on April 12, 2021
1 Gaëlle Mallejac joined Ostrum AM on 05/25/2021.
OUR KEY CSR  Here at Ostrum AM, we draw on our social responsibility strategy to support transformation for our 
clients and society as a whole. We are committed to developing our responsible investment management 
strategy and conducting our role to the highest standards as a company and an employer. Our staff form 
ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2020
the cornerstone in this strategy, as they closely support both clients and issuers, while simultaneously 
driving and drawing on this approach.
100 % 5,193 93/100
of staff took the CSR and ESG  hours of training achieved by Ostrum AM in the 
challenges training program dispensed French Gender Equality Index
1. 
OUR GOALS FOR 2021
ENGAGING
40 %
OUR STAFF Co-develop our new  Train all our staff Train our staff on inclusion
women recruited corporate culture on biodiversity challenges and bias in the workplace
to open positions
2.  3.  4.  5. 
INFORMING DIALOGUING  SUPPORTING FINANCIAL  FOR A POSITIVE IMPACT
OUR CLIENTS WITH ISSUERS MARKET INITIATIVES ON OUR ECOSYSTEM
91.5% A to A+
10
> 600 We engaged with 7 €14.9bn 100%
of our AuM  in PRI assessment  53 financial market 
incorporate ESG  for all our asset classes  meetings with bond  bodies where  new collaborative  in AuM in green, of carbon
criteria under management issuers to pursue  Ostrum AM  initiatives  social and sustainability  emissions offset
companies
constant dialogue supported bonds each year
is a member
OUR GOALS FOR 2021 OUR GOALS FOR 2021 OUR GOALS FOR 2022
OUR GOALS FOR 2021
Incorporate  Support 
ESG analysis for  99 %
100%
 
Strengthen and formally set out 
100% Define our oil & gas sector policy
   of our clients  engagement with debt issuers of AuM in our open-ended
of asset classes  interested in SRI  funds to carry SRI accreditations
(excl. ABS) accreditations
OUR PEOPLE 
 ARE THE DRIVING  
FORCES BEHIND  
63% 37%
OUR TRANSFORMATION
men women
354
employees
Here at Ostrum Asset Management (Ostrum 
93/100  in the French Gender 
AM), we have placed our staff resolutely 
Equality Index
at the center of our CSR strategy as we support 
the transformation of our businesses. We rolled 
out a raft of exceptional measures to address 
the unprecedented environment we witnessed 
in 2020, characterized by the Covid-19 crisis, 
as well as the business combination with 
La Banque Postale Asset Management
 (LBP AM). We strove to provide the best  45 13.7
possible working conditions
 for our people, and support the arrival is the average  years’ seniority 
 of our new staff, as we continued age on average1
 to implement our responsible employer
 policy, with a view to promoting diversity 
in our teams and supporting each
5,193
and every one of our staff in developing 
their skills.
hours of training dispensed2
6.7%
of our staff are students 
on work-study programs
68%
16%
of staff telework 
(excluding work remotely 
of staff are aged  due to Covid-19)
55 or over
Source: Ostrum AM
1 Based on permanent staff numbers
2 This figure includes all employees who received training from Ostrum AM in 2020, 
including those who left the company at the end of 2020.
16 OUR PEOPLE  ARE THE DRIVING  FORCES BEHIND  OUR TRANSFORMATION OUR PEOPLE  ARE THE DRIVING  FORCES BEHIND  OUR TRANSFORMATION 17
SAFEGUARDING SOCIAL COHESION  MOBILIZING OUR PEOPLE TO SUPPORT 
DURING THE COVID-19 CRISIS OUR BUSINESS COMBINATION 
Ostrum AM adapted its practices in real time to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, with a priority focus  The combination of Ostrum AM’s and LBP AM’s fixed-income and insurance-related investment management 
on safeguarding our staff’s health while ensuring business continuity. Remote working was already  operations was finalized in November 2020 and involved the arrival of more than a hundred staff to our teams. 
practiced broadly within the company since 2015, and our business continuity plan (BCP) then extended  We rolled out an extensive – and remote – onboarding program to welcome them under the best possible 
this program to all types of work contracts. We rolled out a slew of initiatives to support remote working,  circumstances and help them engage in their new environment in an unprecedented context.
keep teams connected and ward off psychosocial risks during this unprecedented period.
2020 saw teams at Ostrum AM and LBP AM come 
SUPPORTING REMOTE  COMMUNICATING  together, while 2021 will be the year to consolidate 
our people’s engagement by building our new 
WORKING AND STAYING CONNECTED
corporate culture together. We will draw 
on our group’s values to develop Ostrum AM’s 
  Training sessions and webinars for staff and managers    A coronavirus information intranet was developed by 
unique corporate culture and reflect our own identity 
(managing teams remotely, teleworking, stress  Natixis to share useful information on the crisis
management, etc.) and experience.
105
  Discussion sessions were organized with the executive 
  Training sessions on collaborative digital tools  committee once a month
(Teams, etc.) staff joined Ostrum AM 
Sylvie Soulère Guidat,
  The Ostrum@Home weekly newsletter was designed  following the business 
Head of Human Resources
to share the latest news from Ostrum AM
combination with LBP AM
  Virtual breakfast meetings were set up between 
the CEO and teams 
WARDING OFF    HR corners were organized from March onwards 
to help managers and staff stay connected
PSYCHOSOCIAL RISKS 1. 2. 3.
  Frequent short surveys to “take the pulse” with teams  Prepare  Welcome Support
were conducted with Your Pulse.
Regular communication on the  A virtual visit of the Ostrum AM  A buddy to support each 
  A support and assistance program by phone 
various stages of the business  offices and a visit in small groups  newcomer in settling into 
or videoconference was provided with Axis Mundi.
combination in an all-staff newsletter  when IT tools were handed out the company day-to-day
and a meeting with members of the 
  A free and confidential remote medical consultation 
executive committee An onboarding booklet  Training programs on business line, 
platform was made accessible 24/7 (MédecinDirect).
The online events – like the HR corner  to introduce staff to their  communications and HR tools
– were really useful in helping us stay  HR corners to answer questions from  new working environment 
  A counselling helpline service was set up by Natixis 
staff and managers  
(La Ligne) to talk to a counsellor by phone 24/7 all year  connected during lockdown. They 
round, free of charge.  were an opportunity for me to talk 
about the difficulties I experienced 
and come up with some solutions 
to address them. They also helped 
me keep in touch with my team 
and better manage the way I 
100%
organize my work. We successfully  The business combination raised a twofold challenge for me as a manager 
managed to adapt remotely!  – we were bringing together teams with different ways of working and diverse 
business cultures, with the whole process happening remotely to boot! 
Engagement from all our teams – both at Ostrum AM and LBP AM – 
Charles Constant,  was crucial in making this move a success. 
Head of portfolios controls 
of Ostrum AM’s employees were able 
to work remotely as part of our business  Alexandre Caminade,
continuity plan CIO Rates, Aggregate & Total Return
18 OUR PEOPLE  ARE THE DRIVING  FORCES BEHIND  OUR TRANSFORMATION OUR PEOPLE  ARE THE DRIVING  FORCES BEHIND  OUR TRANSFORMATION 19
SUPPORTING OUR STAFF IN THEIR  DEVELOPING
DAY-TO-DAY WORKING EXPERIENCE OUR STAFF’S SKILLS 
With our work and personal lives increasingly overlapping – particularly during the recent Covid-19 crisis –  In a fast-changing market, developing our staff’s skills and furthering their knowledge are crucial drivers 
Ostrum AM has developed working arrangements to build an environment that fosters staff engagement  for both our current and future performance, helping us maintain our leadership and our innovation 
and ensures an enhanced work-life balance, both in the office and when working remotely.  capabilities, while constantly offering each and every one of our people new career prospects.
PROMOTING TELEWORKING
DEVELOPING CORE 
Ostrum AM has promoted the development of teleworking since 2015, as it aims to support employees in organizing  102
their schedule fully independently, while remaining flexible in the way teams organize their work. We had already made  BUSINESS SKILLS
considerable headway in remote working over recent years – particularly in the use of remote working tools – enabling 
staff took a course
us to be fully operational when the country went into lockdown in March 2020.  
We are committed to supporting our staff’s skills 
leading to a certification
development and developing their employability, 
as we offer courses to prepare for industry-recognized  or qualification in 2020 
100% 68% 2 certifications and qualifications.  
of staff of staff practice teleworking  days teleworking per week
 eligible for teleworking (excl. remote working) available for all staff
TRAINING PROGRAM TAILORED TO ESG CHALLENGES1
2020 figures, excluding Covid-19 crisis
Sustainable finance and responsible investment are crucial components of our business, so with this in mind, Ostrum 
AM set out an ambitious training program in 2020 with a view to giving all our people a solid grounding in CSR as well 
as the ESG challenges facing the asset management industry. Additionally, an expert training course was offered 
A RANGE OF SERVICES FOR OUR STAFF’S WELLBEING  to our client-facing investment management staff to help them consolidate their insight into responsible investment, 
covering regulation, risk management, etc. 
A concierge service, gym and a range of other services are available in our offices to support 
1. 2.
our staff and make Ostrum AM a great place to work.
3 % 2 %
Raising awareness on CSR  Expert training program 
and general ESG training program  on responsible investment
Concierge service  A network of children’s daycare facilities  
100% of Ostrum AM staff Portfolio managers, analysts 
dry cleaning service, hairdresser,  is provided to help parents, with access 
and client-facing staff  
beautician, sale of day-to-day objects:  to a number of slots in 1,900 daycare  14 %
our concierge service offers a range  centers (Babilou, 1001 crèches) as well  31 %
of services in the Ostrum AM building  as the Babirelais service for occasional 
to facilitate our staff’s daily lives daycare needs
91.5% 5,193 
16 %
A gym A secure bike parking lot  of staff have hours of training
is available for staff in the BPCE building  is available for employees, to encourage  received training2 dispensed, with 13%
to help them take care of their health non-motorized mobility of this in e-learning courses
21 %
4
conferences devoted to product specialists and analysts   training courses leading to certifications 
(exclusion policy, ESG integration, collaborative engagements, etc.) and qualifications     general courses   
COLLABORATIVE WORK SPACES  business specialty     languages   
 other courses     office/IT
Our work spaces have been designed to adapt fully to our staff’s range of work needs, support communication 
between our people and encourage community, while also providing areas for calm and concentration.
OUR GOALS FOR 2021
Further anchor our responsible 
Train our staff  Draw on Natixis’ values 
company engagements 
Open work spaces to promote  So-called bubbles for confidential  A range of collective spaces  on biodiversity  to co-develop our cultural 
in our teams’ day-to-day work 
communication and give all our  conversations and individual quiet  for more relaxed moments  challenges transformation
via fresh concrete initiatives
people the kind of areas they  work 
need depending on their working 
requirements 
1 Environmental, Social and Governance
2 This figure includes all employees who received training from Ostrum AM in 2020, including those who left the company at the end of 2020.
20 OUR PEOPLE  ARE THE DRIVING  FORCES BEHIND  OUR TRANSFORMATION OUR PEOPLE  ARE THE DRIVING  FORCES BEHIND  OUR TRANSFORMATION 21
SOCIAL PRACTICES  PROMOTING DIVERSITY 
TO FOSTER ENGAGEMENT AND INCLUSION 
Our staff’s engagement here at Ostrum AM is the true cornerstone of our success. Our social practices  Our people’s diversity is a true source of innovation and creativity for our company, so Ostrum AM 
align with policies at our parent company Natixis and embody our determination to safeguard our people’s  has placed inclusion at the very center of our human resources policy as we strive to ensure that 
wellbeing, drawing on a fair and attractive compensation policy, responsible working time practices  each of our staff can fully unlock their talent. 
and transparent social dialogue.
SUPPORTING WOMEN’S CAREERS 
TO PROMOTE GENDER DIVERSITY
AN ATTRACTIVE 
COMPENSATION POLICY Ostrum AM takes concrete action at each step in our staff’s careers – from recruitment to training, as well as 
compensation and career management – to promote gender diversity in our teams and eliminate gender inequality.
Our compensation policy ensures that our staff can benefit from our company’s success, as we take a fair 
and transparent approach, and foster employee loyalty for the long term. Our policy is built on three crucial 
principles, strictly complying with regulation and particularly legislation on gender equality and non-discrimination: 
Promoting diversity in recruitment  Accelerating women’s careers
1. 2. 3.
Ostrum AM is committed to working with students  Ostrum AM supports its female talents in their career paths 
to promote careers in finance, and takes part in  to promote gender diversity on a sustainable basis, raising 
Selective and attractive  A fixed compensation system  Collective compensation 
the Shadowing Day as part of the Women in Finance  awareness among managers. WINN – Natixis’ women’s 
compensation which  in line with market practices,  programs to help our people 
program, when our female staff welcome around fifty  network – was set up in 2012 to promote gender diversity 
includes a loyalty program  along with performance-related  benefit from our success and 
female students to help them find out more about  in leadership circles within the company and attract 
for high-performance staff. remuneration, based on  promote alignment of interests.
our businesses. and retain our female talents. Ostrum AM also takes part 
quantitative and qualitative 
in Natixis’ annual Women’s Sponsorship Program, aiming 
criteria that reflect individual 
at developing women’s skills, supporting them in their 
performance.
career goals and encouraging them to raise their profile 
in the company.
Ensuring wage equality
TRANSPARENT SOCIAL DIALOGUE
Ostrum AM sets aside a specific budget each year  Communicating and raising awareness 
Ostrum AM is committed to communicating closely with its staff and taking account of their interests in strategic  to close the gender wage gap, while all women returning 
decisions. Our social dialogue draws on employee representative bodies in the Natixis Investment Managers economic  from maternity leave also have a wage review. Our diversity indicators are regularly published 
and social unit, devoted to asset management businesses. Staff representative coordinators in Natixis Investment  to all our staff to raise awareness on the importance 
Managers’ economic and social unit are management’s key discussion partners in organizing social dialogue.  of gender diversity issues.
Additionally, Ostrum AM is part of the Natixis integrated scope and therefore also benefits from agreements  A program on the prevention of sexist behavior 
signed by Natixis’ staff representatives.  is implemented across Natixis.
Our social dialogue also involves listening and transparently sharing information right throughout the year, 
via information meetings, informal discussions between management and teams, and HR corners.
37% 43% 31% 2
10
women in management  among directors women 
in the company teams on the executive committee 
(out of 8 members)
agreements 93/100  in the French Gender 
Equality Index
signed in 2020
OUR GOALS FOR 2021
7 3
30% 40%
agreements or amendments  at Natixis France
women women recruited
at Ostrum AM
on the executive committee to open positions 
22 OUR PEOPLE  ARE THE DRIVING  FORCES BEHIND  OUR TRANSFORMATION OUR PEOPLE  ARE THE DRIVING  FORCES BEHIND  OUR TRANSFORMATION 23
DISABILITY: WELCOMING  PAVING THE WAY FOR OUR YOUNG STAFF, 
ALL TALENTS IN OUR COMPANY DRAWING ON THE EXPERIENCE OF OUR SENIOR EMPLOYEES
Each and every one of us may experience disability to some extent and on a temporary or permanent basis  Here at Ostrum AM, we believe that a diverse range of career paths and experience brings true value to our company, 
at any stage in our lives. As a community, we are committed to better understanding disabilities in the workplace,  as we roll out a raft of initiatives to promote age diversity. We are committed to attracting young talents and drawing 
limiting the effects on working conditions for our staff and supporting them in their careers. We have five key priorities  on the experience of our more senior staff. These actions are part of our overall agreement signed by Natixis in 2013 
for action, as outlined in the agreement signed in 2019:  and extended in 2017, including a generation contract. 
1. 2.
Recruiting and onboarding  Adapting working 
conditions
We draw on HandiFormaFinance, 
3.36% a financial market-wide program 
We make our premises 
driven by Ostrum AM and supported 
more accessible. Paving the way  Keeping senior staff  Accompanying our staff 
by AGEFIPH2 that seeks to promote 
access to finance roles for staff with  for young graduates in the workplace towards retirement
We adapt workstations i.e. 
disabilities by means of tailored 
workstation ergonomics, financing 
training programs. for specific equipment, etc.   We focus on the under-30 age    We offer career management    A conference on retirement 
group for a significant portion  training and support services  is organized for all staff at Natixis 
of staff with a disability We are involved in devoted  We ensure close support for staff  of our hires for our staff aged over 55 aged over 57 every year
partnerships and initiatives i.e. 
from the occupational health officer, 
in 20191 Sciences Po Accessible, forums,  the social worker and the company    We develop work-study programs    We facilitate access to part-time    An individual meeting is available 
presentations of our business lines  disability advisor. and professional training contracts work for staff over 58  for all staff who wish 
to young people with disabilities, etc.
  We offer integration days    We promote our skills sponsorship 
for junior profiles program to facilitate the transition 
3. 4. 5. from work to retirement 
Supporting companies in  Challenging perceptions  Supporting families
the protected work sector on disability 
We offer specific support to staff 
who have a close family member 
We opt to work with companies  We regularly take part in events, 
with a disability.
in the protected work sector where  conferences and training courses 
possible, in cooperation with  provided by Natixis. At the 2020 
the team in charge of these aspects  Handi’Days, a webseries to raise 
at Natixis.  awareness, along with a competition 
were provided for staff.
45%
16% 6.7%
6%
1 Following legislative changes in calculation and declaration methods, the direct employment rate in 2020 is currently being calculated.
2 Association for the Management of Funds for the Vocational Integration of Disabled People (Association des Gestion du Fonds pour l’Insertion Profes-
sionnelle des Personnes Handicapées) - https://www.agefiph.fr/articles/propos-de-lagefiph/la-mission-de-lagefiph-ouvrir-lemploi-aux-personnes-handi-
capees (website in French only) of staff are students 
of staff are under 30 
on work-study placements
(including permanent and 
fixed-term contracts)
of new recruits
of staff
on permanent contracts 
are 55 or over
in 2020 were under 30
SUPPORTING INCLUSION 
FOR LGBT+ STAFF
Ostrum AM supports the All Equals network, an organization 
devoted to promoting the inclusion of LGBT+ staff at Natixis  OUR GOALS FOR 2021
launched in 2020. The network is open to all staff, regardless 
of their sexual orientation, gender identity, location or business line, 
Conduct a third-party assessment  Provide all staff with training 
and strives to prevent any form of discrimination in the company,  to develop our future  on inclusion and unconscious bias 
as well as rolling out programs to raise awareness across  areas for improvement in the workplace
all our geographies.
all-equals.com 
INFORMING OUR CLIENTS 
AND SUPPORTING THEM 
IN THEIR RESPONSIBLE  INTEGRATION OF ESG CRITERIA IN 2020
INVESTMENT 
Client satisfaction is a key goal for us all 
in our role as a responsible asset manager,  91.5%
as we consistently strive to meet their 
requirements and support them on a daily 
basis in incorporating ESG criteria into their  €14.5bn
investment policies. We stand alongside 
our clients at each stage in their responsible  of our AuM in green, social and 
investment management processes  of our assets incorporate  sustainability bonds 
and provide tailored solutions to meet their 
ESG criteria
goals and address their constraints in today’s 
demanding regulatory environment. 
We ensure optimum transparency in our client 
i.e. €42.5bn 
communication in terms of the methodology 
€410bn
we use for investments and extensive 
in our SRI
data reports we provide.
accredited funds1
OUR TRIED-AND-TESTED GREaT METHODOLOGY 
> 70
non-financial indicators 
to analyze issuers’ engagement  
Source: Ostrum AM, 12/31/2020
1 Socially Responsible Investment
26 INFORMING OUR CLIENTS AND SUPPORTING THEM IN THEIR RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT  INFORMING OUR CLIENTS AND SUPPORTING THEM IN THEIR RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT  27
A 360-DEGREE APPROACH TO SUPPORT 
OUR CLIENTS’ ESG POLICIES
Supporting our clients is the keystone in our CSR approach, as we seek to inform, accompany and advise 
them at every stage in their ESG programs, from defining their policies to complying with regulation.
3. 4.
1. 2.
ACCOMPANYING  TRANSPARENCY 
DEFINING  DEVELOPING 
THE IMPLEMENTATION  TO SUPPORT OUR CLIENTS 
ESG POLICIES SRI ACCREDITATIONS
OF REGULATION
We provide regular data reports for our clients, 
All decisions regarding exclusions, accreditations  We stepped up our program to achieve accreditations  offering a full range of information on our responsible 
and sector policies have an impact on investments  for our open-ended funds in 2020, covering 63%  Taxonomy1 , SFDR2 , Energy Climate Law3 :  investment policy. 
and our portfolios’ performances, so we are constantly  of our assets under management at 12/31/2020  regulation on sustainable finance is stepping up 
on hand to support clients in their decision-making with  (cf. page 40). We are actively pursuing this program  in France and Europe to address environmental 
a view to developing with them ESG policies that combine  on our open-ended funds and achieve accreditations  and social challenges. We support our clients    CSR policy   Reporting
their duty of stewardship to their own clients with their  for investments mandates and dedicated funds  in understanding these changes and addressing fresh 
responsibility as investors.  on client request. regulatory requirements, in terms of their investment  CSR report ESG and carbon reporting 
choices and transparent reporting. for our funds
OUR GOALS FOR 2021 OUR GOAL FOR 2021   ESG policy
- Report on the French Law  - Voting report
Explain to 100%  on Energy Transition for  - Engagement report
Train all portfolio 
of our clients  Green Growth - Policy on management 
managers and  - TCFD report4 of sustainability risks and 
the methodology  Support 100% of our clients 
client-facing staff  1 Taxonomy: the European Taxonomy is a classification system that  - Voting policy adverse impacts
used to derive  on fundamental  interested in accrediting their  provides all financial market participants with a shared view of what  - Engagement policy - Sector policies
should be considered as a green or sustainable business.
the temperature  dedicated funds and mandates
biodiversity  2 SFDR: Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation
trajectory for  3 French Energy Climate Law: this law was adopted on November 8, 2019, 
challenges  and sets ambitious goals for France’s climate and energy policy, with the 
portfolios
gradual phase-out of fossil fuel, the development of renewable energy, the 
fight against buildings that are not energy-efficient, and the development 
of new steering tools.
4 TCFD: Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
28 INFORMING OUR CLIENTS AND SUPPORTING THEM IN THEIR RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT  INFORMING OUR CLIENTS AND SUPPORTING THEM IN THEIR RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT  29
RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT  Bolstering integration of ESG criteria 
in our investment management policy 
FOR OPEN-ENDED FUNDS
EQUITY INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT 
We are convinced that material non-financial criteria provide crucial information on issuers’ risk profiles 
and their securities’ performances: we therefore incorporate ESG screening into 91.5% of our assets 
in our open-ended funds. This comprehensive integrated ESG analysis covers the majority of our asset  ESG criteria are deemed to be an integral component of a company’s overall quality in equity portfolio management, 
classes1 i.e. investments in equities, credit, sovereign securities, and multi-asset. We have also developed  with our analysis designed to address three goals: 
our leadership position on responsible investment, and obtained a PRI score of A or A+ for all our asset 
1.  2.  3. 
classes under management in 2020 (cf. page 41). Identify risks Assess quality Address more
demanding requirements
Analysis of ESG dimensions further  ESG criteria round out our 
SYSTEMATIC ESG ANALYSIS
adds to traditional financial analysis  assessment of each portfolio’s 
We guarantee significantly stronger 
by identifying long-term trends that  quality, as environmental and social 
ESG quality that exceeds the 
We firstly screen to exclude the worst offenders from our investment universe using our various exclusion policies  may disrupt certain sectors. risks can be deemed to flag 
benchmark in some portfolios and 
(cf. page 30). Our investment teams then systematically assess non-financial factors and determine their impact  a company’s weakness. Our portfolio 
investment mandates with clear SRI 
on development and sustainability for each issuer, as well as the likelihood that material events will occur.  managers will therefore exclude 
requirements. Some of our equity 
companies with ESG shortcomings 
portfolios also target an additional 
or harboring ESG risks. 
goal i.e. an ESG score for the portfolio 
Total assets surpassing the ESG score for the first 
€448 bn four quintiles of the index: this goal 
is also included in the French SRI 
Responsible funds
accreditation’s requirements. 
ESG integration into 
analysis
€410 bn
BOND INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (CREDIT RESEARCH)
91.5%
63%
Our team of credit analysts systematically factors in material non-financial information, 
drawing on a twofold approach:
Sustainable funds
An issuer-by-issuer approach 
SRI management A sector approach 
€94.5 bn to identify material non-financial aspects 
21.1% defined and shared by all our credit analysts 
and hence each company’s strengths and weaknesses 
in Europe, Asia and the United States.
Funds with  of AuM in  in terms of specific ESG challenges.
accreditations our open-ended funds
€42.5 bn
9.5%
i.e.
ANALYSIS  2 assessment methods combined
OF SOVEREIGN RISK
Sovereign Sovereign Debt Selection Risk
Risk Model Model - Sector Team
Non-financial aspects 
are systematically taken on board in 
our sovereign investment processes. 
€14.9 bn Our assessment methodology is  1. 
Internal vulnerability  Business and financial 
built on two components including  variables   criteria
a sovereign risk assessment model  ( unemployment rate, etc.)
in our assets in green, social and sustainability bonds2 
developed by our quantitative  2.  Environmental Criteria
Exter nal vulnerability variables 
engineers.
(primary balance,etc.)
Social criteria
3. 
Extra financial material factors 
(control of corruption, etc.) Governance criteria
OUR GOALS FOR 2021
Incorporate ESG criteria into financial 100% Horizon : Medium term Horizon : investment process
analysis for 100% of asset classes (excl. ABS)
integration of ESG criteria
Risk and performance analysis 
into sovereign investments  Country risk
Comparison with investment 
assessment
universe
1 Excluding ABS
2 Bonds where proceeds are used exclusively to fund or refinance projects with environmental, social and sustainability benefits.
30 INFORMING OUR CLIENTS AND SUPPORTING THEM IN THEIR RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT  INFORMING OUR CLIENTS AND SUPPORTING THEM IN THEIR RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT  31
Robust sector  A tailored range of SRI 
policy  and ESG products 
Ostrum Asset Management (Ostrum AM) has rolled out a series of strict exclusion and sector policies  In addition to integration of ESG criteria on virtually all our asset classes, we also apply SRI management 
to exclude all sectors and issuers that do not comply with certain fundamental responsibility standards from  practices on €94.5 billion in assets under management. With a longstanding track record on responsible 
our investment universe. Some policies apply to all our funds (weapons, blacklisted states), while others cover  investment, we can offer our clients SRI and ESG products that are tailored to suit their needs.
all our open-ended funds (coal, tobacco, worst offenders). We also offer tailored exclusion policies for our clients 
to support them in meeting their own individual goals.  Four strategies to suit all our clients’ needs
COAL C02
Ostrum AM constantly strives to improve its practices, as we ramped up our coal sector policy in 2020 
(cf. page 47), with several exclusion criteria. Best-in-class  Best-in-Universe Reinforced  Smart carbon 
and Positive  Favor the best exclusions   strategies
1. 2.
 Develop new coal capacity   Fail to set out a coal phase-out strategy in 2021  Screening performing issuers  Exclude issuers  Provide portfolio 
          to comply with the Paris agreement   Exclude issuers  in terms of ESG  with the highest ESG  decarbonization 
in the investment 
with a high ESG risk  risk profiles.  strategies and 
3. profile and favor  universe, across  portfolios with 
 
Exceed the following thresholds: all sectors.
the best-rated issuers.  minimized carbon 
footprints.
25% 20 10 GW 30%
of revenue streams million tons of coal  in installed energy generation
derived from coal production per year capacity  from coal
production 
ROBUST TOOLS
Our SRI strategies draw on external databases renowned for their quality and vast coverage scope, particularly 
the SDG Index for sovereign issuers – a United Nations initiative – and Sustainalytics1, world leader in ESG analysis 
CONTROVERSIAL WEAPONS TOBACCO and non-financial scores for the past 25 years.
Ostrum AM has excluded from its portfolios  Since 2018, Ostrum AM has been committed to halting 
THE GREaT METHODOLOGY
all companies involved in the production, use, stockpiling,  support for the tobacco sector, which has particularly 
sale and transfer of anti-personnel mines and cluster  negative social and environmental effects and runs 
bombs, in line with the Ottawa Treaty and the Oslo  contrary to the United Nations Sustainable  We have been able to draw on the GREaT methodology since the business combination with La Banque Postale Asset 
Convention. Development Goals.  Management (LBP AM). GREaT not only incorporates ESG criteria, but it is also applied to assess investments 
via a broad range of non-financial criteria, based on four pillars and more than 70 indicators. 
GREaT score 4 GREaT dimensions 16 criteria  71 Indicateurs
WORST OFFENDERS BLACKLISTED STATES
Balance of powers
Fair compensation
Responsible
Business ethics
Ostrum AM excludes from the investment scope  Ostrum AM strictly complies with current regulation  governance
Tax policy
all companies – both listed and unlisted – that are proven  and as such does not invest in countries under US 
Client relationships
to contravene a range of fundamental responsibility  or European embargo, or those which have been identified 
MSCI indicators2
standards (United Nations Global Compact, OECD  as failing to combat money laundering and terrorist 
Working conditions
Guidelines), particularly as regards human rights, labor  financing by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF).
Sustainable resource  Supplier chain
rights, environmental protection and business ethics.
management Environmental respect
Contribution to energy
transition
Product range
Energy & economic  Greenhouse gas emissions
Company / issuer transition
Contribution to the economic 
transition
VIGEO indicators3
We refer to sector policies rather than exclusion policies, as we support 
companies and help them stage their transformations: we hold constant  Job development
& training
dialogue with them to encourage them to enhance their practices: exclusion  Regional
development Management of restructuring
is the last resort in our view. Local development
Product range
Joséphine Chevallier, 
1 https://www.sustainalytics.com
ESG Strategy Expert Leader 
2 https://www.msci.com
3 https://www.vigeo-eiris.com
SUPPORTING BOND 
& SHARE ISSUERS 
OUR ENGAGEMENT  ENHANCING DIALOGUE 
POLICY WITH ISSUERS
IN THEIR TRANSFORMATION 
8 > 600
engagement themes shared  meetings 
across all portfolio  or conferences each year 
management departments with bond issuers
ROBUST SHAREHOLDER  STRINGENT VOTING 
ENGAGEMENT  POLICY
100%
Ostrum AM has a responsibility to have 
a positive influence on bond and share issuers 
in our role as an asset manager, as we support 
them in developing enhanced environmental, 
social and governance practices. We draw 
on our constructive dialogue with them,  We engaged with
along with our stringent voting policy to make 
53
a positive impact on the companies we invest  participation in votes 
in, as well as society in the broadest sense.  in our voting universe1
companies in 2020
We reinforced our dialogue with bond issuers 
in 2020, and published a comprehensive 
engagement policy applying to all our portfolio 
management operations. 
1 Voting scope covered by Ostrum AM’s voting policy in 2020.
34 SUPPORTING BOND & SHARE ISSUERS IN THEIR TRANSFORMATION  SUPPORTING BOND & SHARE ISSUERS IN THEIR TRANSFORMATION  35
OUR ENGAGEMENT  BOLSTERING OUR ENGAGEMENT AS 
POLICY SHAREHOLDER AND BOND INVESTOR 
Ostrum Asset Management (Ostrum AM) set out eight themes for engagement on environmental, social  Ostrum AM believes that a committed asset manager must take the same responsible approach 
and governance themes in 2020, covering both our equity and bond portfolio management. Each individual  across all companies held in the portfolios it manages, whether via shares or bonds.
department – equity and bond – then draws on these shared themes to focus on specific initiatives in line 
with our updated voting policy. 
CONSTANT DIALOGUE 
  By reducing CO  emissions to 
Support mitigation  2 WITH BOND ISSUERS
achieve carbon neutrality by 2050
1. and adapt 
  By managing physical 
to climate change  Ostrum AM pursues regular dialogue with bond issuers across the full spectrum of environmental, social and 
and transition risks 
governance themes, and supports them in enhancing their ESG risk management practices, and promoting transparent 
disclosure. We organize this dialogue process as part of our due diligence prior analysis procedure, either before making 
our investments or during our constant monitoring efforts for positions in our portfolios. 
Limit impact    By optimizing resource 
2. on environmental  management 
OUR GOAL FOR 2021
ecosystem   By safeguarding biodiversity
  By maintaining strong 
Promote human  relationships with staff > 600
3.
capital   By ensuring staff’s and 
Strengthen and formally set out 
subcontractors’ health and safety  meetings
engagement with debt issuers
or conferences each year 
  By guaranteeing human rights  withbond issuers 
Enhance 
in supply chains 
4. relationships 
  By maintaining strong relationships 
with stakeholders
with local communities 
Ensure consumer    By ensuring consumers’ security 
5. security and protect  and health  
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 
their data    By ensuring their data security 
TO PROMOTE STRONGER PRACTICES
  By rolling out 
Ostrum AM is committed to supporting the companies it invests in and as such we promote constructive dialogue 
Safeguard  an anti-corruption policy
6. with them ahead of shareholder meetings. Our teams draw on extensive responsible investment analysis to single out 
business ethics    By ensuring a transparent  the main challenges facing each business sector and ascertain any areas for improvement, with a view to supporting 
tax policy issuers as they strive for progress. 
  By implementing balanced  1.
Balance powers governance
7
and compensation    By making the compensation  We assess each issuer’s 
policy transparent ESG practices  
ahead of the shareholder meeting 
8. Improve data    By facilitating access to financial  2.
transparency and non-financial data 
We communicate on areas 
We engaged with 
for improvement
and expected results with the company
53
Engagement is one of the asset management industry’s most crucial responsibilities   
3.
as we strive to build a more sustainable world. It is vital not only to focus on voting, but also   
companies in 2020
to sustain constant dialogue with companies, including in bond portfolio management.
We monitor each issuer’s progress  
over the long term and review 
Ibrahima Kobar, Chief Investment Officer its ESG score accordingly 
36 SUPPORTING BOND & SHARE ISSUERS IN THEIR TRANSFORMATION  SUPPORTING BOND & SHARE ISSUERS IN THEIR TRANSFORMATION  37
OUR THEMES  STRINGENT AND EXACTING 
FOR DIALOGUE IN 2020 VOTING POLICY 
Our dialogue with 30 companies in our funds in 2020 (before the business combination  Ostrum AM holds itself to the highest standards as a responsible shareholder and takes a stringent and 
on October 30, 2020) covered the following themes: exacting approach to the exercise of voting duties1 at shareholder meetings, as part of a comprehensive 
voting universe addressing environmental, social and governance themes. We pursue a transparent 
approach and as such we disclose details on all our votes from the shareholder meetings we attend. 
vir onme S ocial o v ernan
En nt G ce
a
l
participation in votes 
100%
in our voting scope
  Energy transition (renewable    Turnover   Data protection 
energy, carbon footprint)
  Shareholder payout   Transparency of ESG reporting
  Biodiversity (species 
  Health and security (Covid-19)   Balance of powers
and ecosystems)
  Human rights   Covid-19
  Waste management
KEY VOTING FIGURES FOR 2020
For portfolios held by Ostrum AM at 12/31/20, depending on initial scope, whether Ostrum AM 
or La Banque Postale Asset Management (LBP AM).
1 1
1
1
2
Ostrum AM scope LBP AM scope
6 12 12
3 6 2
issuers issuers issuers
2
8
3
Shareholder 
101 87
meetings
 France      North America      Europe      Rest of world
Resolutions
1,865 1,570
Voted 
o/w o/w
91 % 79 %
for for
9 %  21 % 
against2 against2
1 Read our voting policy and our report on the exercise of voting rights: https://www.ostrum.com/en/our-csr-and-esg-publications
2 Opposition or abstention.
PROMOTING  BOLSTERING OUR SRI ACCREDITATIONS1
BEST PRACTICES 
25 Goal for 2022 
ON THE FINANCIAL 
open-ended funds carry 
SRI accreditations2
MARKET
as at 12/31/2020 99%
equating to
63%
of AuM in our open-ended funds 
of AuM in our
to carry SRI accreditations 
open-ended funds
PLAYING AN ACTIVE ROLE  ESG APPROACH WIDELY 
IN FINANCIAL MARKET INITIATIVES  APPLAUDED
Ostrum AM is a member of 
10 
A to A+
market-wide groups and 
bodies that foster the deve- score for all our asset 
lopment of the ESG and SRI  classes managed from 
standards of tomorrow the PRI
Ostrum AM looks beyond its investment 
business and plays an active role in the broader 
financial market, with a view to supporting 
the industry’s transformation 
and the development of more responsible 
practices. Our approach involves bolstering 
7 10/10
our SRI accreditation policy, taking a proactive 
part in developing CSR-SRI standards 
and engaging in specific market-wide  new collaborative  for the quality of the 
initiatives. Our responsible investment  initiatives in 2020 to support  coal phase-out strategy 
approach was commended again in 2020,  gender equality, safeguard  criterion in the Reclaim 
with excellent scores in the annual  biodiversity, etc.  Finance Coal Policy Tool3
PRI campaign. 
1 Any reference to a ranking, a rating or an award provides no guarantee for future performances of the fund or fund manager. 
2 https://www.lelabelisr.fr/ (website in French only)
3 https://coalpolicytool.org/
40 PROMOTING BEST PRACTICES ON THE FINANCIAL MARKET PROMOTING BEST PRACTICES ON THE FINANCIAL MARKET 41
DEVELOPING OUR SRI  AWARDS FOR OUR RESPONSIBLE 
ACCREDITATIONS APPROACH
Ostrum AM is committed to working to the highest standards of responsible investment and resolutely  Ostrum AM is fully committed to taking all ESG dimensions on board in its investment decisions, 
believes in the importance of accreditations, as we pursue an ambitious SRI (Socially Responsible  as we draw on the main international standards to guide our actions, particularly the Principles 
Investment) accreditation policy. Our aim is to achieve SRI certifications for 99% of assets managed  for Responsible Investment, where we have been a signatory for 12 years.
in our open-ended funds out to 2022, while we are also working towards accreditations for mandates 
and dedicated funds.
PRI: SCORES OF A TO A+ 
OUR GOAL FOR 2022
FOR ALL OUR ASSET CLASSES 
Ostrum AM was once again applauded for the quality and ambition of our ESG approach during 
25 the PRI 2020 campaign, with excellent scores across all the asset classes we manage.
open-ended funds carry SRI 
99%
accreditations as at 12/31/2020
B- B A A+
Ostrum AM scores
Strategy & governance
Median scores for Peer Group
equating to
Listed equity incorporation
63% of AuM in our open-ended 
funds to carry SRI  Listed equity active ownership
of AuM (€42.5bn) accreditations
Fixed income SSA*
Fixed income corporate financial
Fixed income corporate non-financial
IMPORTANCE OF SRI 
Source: Ostrum Asset Management’s 2020 PRI assessment.
ACCREDITATIONS FOR OUR CLIENTS
* SSA: supranational organizations, sovereign states, government agencies, subnational entities.
1. OUR COAL POLICY COMMENDED BY RECLAIM FINANCE  
Transparency & reporting Ostrum AM achieved outstanding 2020 scores in NGO Reclaim Finance’s Coal Policy Tool, highlighting both the quality 
and stringency of our new coal policy, with its strict requirements in terms of exclusion, dialogue and engagement. The 
SRI-accredited funds are required to disclose environmental, social,  tool was developed as part of Reclaim Finance’s commitment to stepping up the decarbonization of financial flows, and 
governance and human rights performances entirely transparently, in addition  is designed to analyze the quality of coal policies and assess all French financial companies’ practices and policies on 
to details on CO  emissions. They must therefore issue four ESG-human rights  the basis of five criteria. 
2
indicators, one of which must also display greater showings than the reference 
universe. 
  Projects : halt support for new coal projects
Develo- Relative  Absolute  Phase-
Criterion  Projects   Developers : halt support for companies that 
2. pers threshold threshold out develop new coal projects
  Relative threshold : halt support for companies 
Diverse range of sectors highly exposed to coal
  Absolute threshold : halt support for 
companies that are very active in the coal sector
Accredited funds cover a diverse range of sectors: the key criteria assessed  Ostrum 
are the portfolio’s ESG quality along with the transparency of our investment  AM’s score N/A 9/10 8/10 8/10 10/10   Phase-out : adopt a robust strategy to support 
the closure of existing coal infrastructure
processes. 
Source: Reclaim Finance.
42 PROMOTING BEST PRACTICES ON THE FINANCIAL MARKET PROMOTING BEST PRACTICES ON THE FINANCIAL MARKET 43
COMMITTED TO DEFINING  SUPPORTING COLLABORATIVE 
CSR & SRI STANDARDS ENGAGEMENT
Ostrum AM plays an active role in developing the responsible investment standards of the future across  Ostrum AM has been committed to collective initiatives for several years as we seek to raise awareness 
various industry groups and bodies, supporting the promotion and standardization of CSR and ESG  among issuers, public authorities and regulatory bodies on the importance of environmental, social and 
practices. governance challenges. We focus first and foremost on actions that target Sustainable Development Goals 
3 (Good Health and Wellbeing), 5 (Gender Equality), 13 (Climate Action), 14 (Life Below Water) and 15 (Life on 
Land). In 2020, Ostrum AM supported the following seven initiatives1 :
SUPPORTING INDUSTRY BODIES CDP’s science-based targets 
campaign 
Investor statement 
to accelerate the adoption 
on coronavirus response 
of science-based climate targets 
In France Internationally
in the corporate sector 
Letter to meatpackers and processors 
on traceability of indirect suppliers 
Global investor engagement  in their Brazilian supply chains 
on meat sourcing – Phase II 
The need for biodiversity 
impact metrics 
30% Club Investor Group  
Open letter to EU leaders 
for the promotion of better gender 
from investors on a sustainable 
diversity within the SBF 120’s 
recovery from Covid-19
executive management teams 
TAXONOMY, COAL: 
FOCUS ON TWO INITIATIVES WE SUPPORTED IN 2020
ACTIVELY INVOLVED IN WORKING GROUPS
Open letter to EU leaders from investors  The 30% Club Investor Group
Ostrum AM played an active part in a raft of initiatives in 2020, such as the PRI Taxonomy Practitioners Group, and the 
on a sustainable recovery from Covid-19
development of the white paper “Coal Best Practices Guide” (in French only) alongside the French Asset Management 
This group seeks to promote greater female 
Association (AFG, or Association Française de la Gestion Financière). This guide was published in February 2020 and is 
representation in executive management teams 
designed to support asset managers in their coal phase-out strategies by sharing best practices. Ostrum AM was also  This letter is organized by The Investor Agenda 
in SBF 120 companies, by combining the engagement 
involved in initiatives by French and European authorities, such as the application of regulatory measures on disclosure  and calls for a sustainable recovery from Covid-19. 
and voting capacities of its members. The group 
of sustainability risks (SFDR) and the IOSCO questionnaire on questions related to ESG and the climate.  It urges European Union states to include climate-
particularly urges companies to set clear goals relating 
related considerations in developing economic recovery 
to gender diversity, as well as setting up actions plans 
programs, in line with the Green Deal and the Paris 
to achieve them by using their voting rights at annual 
Agreement. It recommends prioritizing net zero emissions 
shareholder meetings. 
economic solutions and facilitating fresh investment 
and jobs in clean energy and sustainable infrastructure.
Launched in November 2020
Launched in May 2020
Ostrum AM has a strong presence in industry-wide 
Target for 2025
work in this arena, as we resolutely voice our convictions 
and promote stringent, transparent and sustainable  183 €12    30%
trillion
market practices.
investors  in assets under women in executive management 
Nathalie Beauvir-Rodes,  involved  management teams in SBF 120 companies 
Senior Impact Bond Analyst
1 View our engagement report: https://www.ostrum.com/en/our-csr-and-esg-publications 
A POSITIVE IMPACT  COMMITTED TO A LOW-CARBON ECONOMY 
ON OUR ECOSYSTEM 
€14.9bn 
in assets held in green, 
social and sustainability bonds 
Enhanced coal policy 
  at end-2020
in 2020 
CURBING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT
2,314 
metric tons CO -eq of carbon 
2
emissions in 2020
100%
-90% 
in paper use 
(compared with 2018)  of emissions offset
with our paperless program
COMMITTED TO SPONSORSHIP PROGRAMS 
Ostrum Asset Management (Ostrum AM) 
is committed to developing its positive impact 
on broader society by developing a responsible 
investment policy and ensuring an exemplary 
approach in the way we operate our company, 
particularly as regards our carbon footprint. 
This commitment was reflected in 2020 
Partner since 20181   Partner since 2020, 
in our more robust climate policy, with a stronger 
for 3 years2 
coal phase-out strategy in particular. Our people 
here at Ostrum AM also play a leading role 
in our social policies, with responsible resource 
management, ethical practices and involvement 
in sponsorship programs. 
Source: Ostrum AM at 12/31/2021.
1 https://www.groupe-sos.org/structure/planete-urgence/ (website in French)
2 https://fondationrechercheaphp.fr/ (website in French)
46 A POSITIVE IMPACT ON OUR ECOSYSTEM  A POSITIVE IMPACT ON OUR ECOSYSTEM  47
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT:  Coal: an ambitious 
sector policy
ACTING FOR THE CLIMATE 
Efforts to ramp up our coal exit policy1 were among our priorities in 2020. In 2019, Ostrum AM had already 
Ostrum AM firmly believes that investment has a crucial role to play in combating climate change and  halted investment in companies that derive more than 25% of their revenue streams from coal-fired energy 
as such we support protection of the climate via our responsible investment management policy. Our climate  vs. 50% previously. We rolled out additional criteria in 2020, and bolstered our engagement and dialogue 
commitment sits at the very center of the way we operate our business, and draws on six areas for action:  efforts with companies. In 2021, we will further pursue our climate strategy and look at other high-polluting 
sectors, such as oil and gas, where we also have ambitious dialogue and exclusion goals.
1.
Bolster our sector policy, 
by excluding sectors and companies that do not comply with certain 
FOUR EXCLUSION CRITERIA FOR OUR INVESTMENTS:
fundamental responsibility standards, first and foremost our coal sector 
withdrawal policy.
1. 
Companies that develop new coal capacity
This exclusion criterion also applies to coal infrastructure developers.
2.
Develop a low carbon emission 
Deadline for application:
funding strategy.
Today’s climate 
emergency is at the center  At January 1, 2021, for investments
of our decisions and those  With a six-month timescale for divesting holdings in companies concerned 
of our clients. Protection  under normal market conditions
3. of biodiversity has also 
Provide a responsible and active investment 
become a crucial theme  2. 
management approach for our open-ended funds  Companies that have not set out a coal phase-out policy in 2021
that is supported 
to support our clients in their own climate policies. (cf. page 31)
by the French Energy- The phase-out plan must comply with the Paris agreement. We will undertake constant engagement efforts 
with companies, which were informed in 2020 of the timeframe for action via our individual engagement policy. 
Climate Law.
We will monitor the credibility of the exit plans proposed and their funding.
4. Deadline for application:
Dialogue with companies  
Nathalie Pistre,
to raise awareness on the risks and opportunities resulting  At January 1, 2022: end to investments
Head of Research and SRI
from climate change. (cf. page 35)
With a six-month timeframe to run down existing positions under normal market conditions
5. 3. 
Contribute to financial market initiatives  Companies whose main business relies on coal 
and industry bodies that work to fight global heating. (cf. page 42) This criterion covers companies producing, transporting and selling coal derived using aggressive 
mountain top removal methods (MTR), used in the Appalachian Mountains in the United States.
4. 
Companies that exceed the following thresholds
6.
Adopt tailored resources 
as defined by the Global Coal Exit List (GCEL): 
with a view to addressing climate challenges i.e. organization, tools, etc.
OUR GOALS FOR 2021
20 million metric tons 
of thermal coal production 
on an annual basis  10 million 
DEVOTED ORGANIZATION 
metric tons of thermal 
10 GW > 30%  coal production 
We have also set up a specific organizational structure in the Research and SRI department designed to drive 
forward our ESG and climate pledges. Meanwhile a number of committees and working groups address climate  on an annual basis
in installed  coal share 
matters in the company: 
capacity of power generation 
5 GW  20% 
Sector Worst offenders  TCFD working  CSR  Financial risk  Operational risk 
Deadline for application: in installed  coal share of power 
committees committee group committee & performance  committee
committee At January 1, 2021, for investments capacity  generation
With a six-month timeframe for divesting holdings 
under normal market conditions
1 Ostrum AM applies this policy to all dedicated funds and mandates, unless our clients request otherwise.
48 A POSITIVE IMPACT ON OUR ECOSYSTEM  A POSITIVE IMPACT ON OUR ECOSYSTEM  49
Financing a low-carbon  PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE 
economy 
PRACTICES FROM OUR SUPPLIERS 
Beyond our SRI management and accreditation policy (cf. pages 26-31), we also significantly ramped up 
our exposure to and expertise on sustainability bonds in 2020, with a view to playing an active role  Our responsible procurement policy is managed by Natixis’ Procurement department as part of 
in financing projects that support the fight against climate change, drive the energy transition and foster  the shared program with the Groupe BPCE Procurement division and aims to promote products 
a strong social impact. and services that support the environment and provide social value-added. Our goals are: 
OUR EXPOSURE TO GREEN, SUSTAINABILITY 
AND SOCIAL BONDS IN 2020
1. 2. 3.
44 social bonds 
Assess our suppliers   Promote official eco-labels  Encourage our suppliers to provide 
19.5% (€1.4bn) on CSR challenges related  and eco-designed products greater transparency on their 
€14.9bn 
1 to their products, services  products’ environmental features
12.5% 50 sustainability bonds  and industries
in AuM at end-2020 (€1.9bn)
2
405
8 OUR TOOLS
311 green bonds  
bonds issued 
78% (€11.6bn)
A responsible procurement charter:  A responsible purchasing database  
signed in 2017 by Natixis, this charter requires our  which sets out regulatory or recommended social 
suppliers to comply with certain fundamental principles  and environmental criteria for each procurement 
in the United Nations Global Compact regarding human  category.
EXPERT AND SPECIALIST 
rights, working conditions, the environment, and the fight 
against corruption.
ANALYSTS 
Ostrum AM draws on the expertise of two specialist sustainability bond analysts  Sustainable development clauses   A supplier relationship 
as well as a proprietary methodology to analyze and assess this type of bond. 
in our requests for proposals and contracts. charter  
setting out our values on sustainable 
development.
SAFEGUARDING 
BUSINESS ETHICS
OUR MAPPING FOR CSR RISKS 
IN PROCUREMENT
The Natixis Code of Conduct was developed in 2017 and covers best practices and behavior required 
to safeguard our business ethics. The code applies to all our staff, as well as Natixis’, its subsidiaries’ 
Natixis has measured the various CSR risks for each country and procurement category since 2018, 
and affiliates’ suppliers and partners. Each of our staff took a training course on the code of conduct  drawing on a shared mapping process for the entire Banking and Insurance industry. 
to ensure that ethical behavior is firmly rooted in our company.
Loyal and ethical  Environment Human rights
Act responsibly  Protect Natixis’  practices
Be client-centric Behave ethically and Groupe BPCE’s assets  Natural resource consumption Health & safety
towards society
and reputation
Fraud and corruption
Pollution (air, water, land) Working conditions 
 Respect employees   Behave in accordance   Protect assets ;
 Protect clients’ interests
and ensure their personal  with Natixis’ commitments   Ensure business continuity ;
 Communicate clearly  Personal data protection Biodiversity Discrimination
development ; with regard to Environmental   Communicate responsibly 
with clients ;
 Demonstrate professional  and Social Responsibility ; with external stakeholders.
 Protect clients’ information  Greenhouse gas emissions Forced labor and modern slavery
ethics ;  Ensure financial security.
and data ; Property rights and patents
 Ensure market integrity.
 Handle clients’ after-sales 
Waste management Child labor
requests in a fair and timely 
manner.
50 A POSITIVE IMPACT ON OUR ECOSYSTEM  A POSITIVE IMPACT ON OUR ECOSYSTEM  51
MEASURING, REDUCING AND  OFFSETTING 100% OF OUR EMISSIONS 
Ostrum AM has offset 100% of its direct carbon emissions every year since 2016 via a range of avoidance projects 
OFFSETTING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT
in partnership with Eco Act. Rather that compensation via carbon capture, this approach is designed to make a direct 
and immediate impact by avoiding emissions. 
We take concrete action to reduce the carbon footprint resulting from running our company, 
Access to drinking water to avoid 
with a three-pronged strategy to measure, reduce and offset our emissions. We act at all levels of 
CO  emissions
our business and draw on our staff’s support to better manage our buildings’ energy use, address  2   2
business travel and offset our emissions. 
The borehole rehabilitation project in Eritrea provides local 
populations with drinking water by repairing boreholes. 
The project supports the avoidance of carbon emissions  boreholes 
MEASURING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT IN 2020
in several ways: families no longer need to burn wood  rehabilitated 
to purify water, thereby curbing combustion-related 
Information for our 2020 carbon assessment cannot be compared with previous years as a result of the Covid-19  emissions, while deforestation is also reduced. Meanwhile  in 2020
pandemic. A significant drop in our emissions as compared with the previous year would have been expected,  access to clean drinking water offers a number of indirect 
but figures were almost on a par with 2019 as a result of an increase in service provision following on from  benefits for communities, supporting children’s schooling 
the business combination with La Banque Postale Asset Management (LBP AM).  and providing paid work for women. 
or
2,314   81% purchases and services 100% 
DID YOU KNOW?
Recovering energy from our data center of metric tons of 
5% business travel
metric tons CO  -eq CO -eq emitted
2 2
Natixis’ 3,000 m2 VEGA datacenter is the first in France to 
5% energy recover and reuse heat generated to heat other buildings.
or
7 5% tangible assets
SUSTAINABLE RESOURCE 
metric tons CO -eq 
4% other
2
for each employee MANAGEMENT
We have rolled out a raft of initiatives and actions to raise awareness in our offices and encourage 
TAKING A COMPREHENSIVE APPROACH TO REDUCING OUR EMISSIONS
our people to take ecological initiatives and use our resources responsibly day-to-day.  
Guaranteeing ecological building  Warding off environmental 
Manage waste End single-use items
management   and pollution risks
 Sorting and recycling paper, pens, cups, cans   All our staff received a vacuum flask to their home
 ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certifications for the Real   We organize specific training programs  and plastic bottles  Plastic cups have been removed in our buildings, 
Estate department at Natixis’ Workplace division, which  on environmental and pollution-related challenges   Collecting and recycling used ink cartridges  and replaced by mugs and glasses
manages and ensures maintenance for Ostrum AM’s  for teams in charge of monitoring, managing  and batteries
buildings and operating our buildings  Recovering waste electrical and electronic equipment OUR GOALS FOR 2021
 High environmental performance building, with   We regularly test monitoring, alert 
certifications from NF Bâtiments Tertiaires, HQE®, HPE,  and management procedures
Eliminate 100% of still 
Effienergie+ and BREEAM®3  We apply Groupe BPCE’s regulatory and environmental  Gradually eliminate 
and sparkling water 
charter incorporating environmental standards single-use cups
bottles
Eliminate cigarette ends
 
Engaging our staff Reducing our energy use
26,200
 We organize awareness programs to encourage   Our lighting systems are equipped with motion sensors 
cigarette ends were collected 
all our staff to adopt the right habits to curb  and our building relies on natural light
Paperless program
our environmental footprint  Our building is fitted  and recycled with the company Cy-clope
with light-emitting diodes (LEDs) Our paperless program was launched in 2018 
and has met its goals on a long-term basis:  
this means
90%    
13,100 m3   reduction
If we are to expect other companies to manage their environmental footprint, 
we must also be exemplary in the way we run our own business. in paper used vs. 2018 (3.6 tons)
of water protected from pollution
Valérie Chaussende, CSR Manager
52 A POSITIVE IMPACT ON OUR ECOSYSTEM 
DISPLAYING SOLIDARITY 
IN OUR SPONSORSHIP PROGRAMS 
Ostrum AM has made sponsorship programs a true company-wide initiative, showcasing our staff’s 
engagement. We offer our people the opportunity to make their contribution to the initiatives we support 
as we partner with the various associations. 
360° PARTNER 
FOR PLANÈTE URGENCE
Ostrum AM has partnered with the NGO Planète Urgence 
since 2018, in an initiative selected following consultation 
with all our staff. The organization conducts development 
projects in communities that are economically and 
socially vulnerable and where natural habitats have been 
damaged. In 2020, we extended our support to two new 
continents and we accompany the organization across 
all its areas of work. 
France
Supporting the development of new volunteer 
programs: e-volunteership and Congé Solidaire 
volunteer assignments in mainland France 
India, Peru, Ecuador
Madagascar
Financing national delegates Additional notes
Supporting reforestation programs: 
20,000 trees planted Ostrum Asset Management 
Asset management company regulated by AMF under n° GP-18000014 – Limited company with a share capital of 48 
518 602 €. Trade register n°525 192 753 Paris – VAT: FR 93 525 192 753 – Registered Office: 43, avenue Pierre Mendès-
France, 75013 Paris – www.ostrum.com
This document is intended for professional and non professional clients in accordance with MIFID. It may not be used 
for any purpose other than that for which it was conceived and may not be copied, distributed or communicated to third 
parties, in part or in whole, without the prior written authorization of Ostrum Asset Management.
SUPPORTING CORONAVIRUS RESEARCH
None of the information contained in this document should be interpreted as having any contractual value. This 
document is produced purely for the purposes of providing indicative information. This document consists of a 
Ostrum AM decided to support the Fondation AP-HP in its research on Covid-19 for a period of three  presentation created and prepared by Ostrum Asset Management based on sources it considers to be reliable. Ostrum 
years to address the recent unprecedented pandemic. Our contribution will help support one or several  Asset Management will not be held responsible for any decision taken or not taken on the basis of the information 
of the Foundation’s research projects across all areas i.e. patient treatment trials, prevention efforts  contained in this document, nor in the use that a third party might make of the information. 
for carers, research on at-home care for patients, etc. We also offered our staff the opportunity to get  Figures mentioned refer to previous years. Past performance does not guarantee future results. Any reference to a 
involved in this initiative by setting up a donation system for all our people to contribute as they wished. ranking, a rating or an award provides no guarantee for future performance and is not constant over time. Reference to 
a ranking and/or an award does not indicate the future performance of the UCITS/AIF or the fund manager.
Under Ostrum Asset Management’s social responsibility policy, and in accordance with the treaties signed by the 
French government, the funds directly managed by Ostrum Asset Management do not invest in any company that 
manufactures, sells or stocks anti-personnel mines and cluster bombs.
All statutory documents, including our commitments with regard to voting policy, are available on our web site ostrum.
com (https://www.ostrum.com/en/statutory-documents).
www.ostrum.com
Ostrum Asset Management 
Asset management company regulated by AMF under n° GP-18000014 – Limited company with a share capital of 48 518 602 euros– 
Trade register n°525 192 753 Paris – VAT: FR 93 525 192 753 – Registered Office: 43, avenue Pierre Mendès-France, 75013 Paris – 
www.ostrum.com