
2021 PRUDENTIAL 
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND 
GOVERNANCE SUMMARY REPORT
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Table of Contents
Prudential Environmental, Social and Governance Summary Report 02
Board of Directors and Corporate Governance Framework 03
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion at Prudential 05
Inclusion and Diversity by the Numbers 09
Practices to Promote Pay Equity 12
Learning and Talent Development Programs 13
Global Employee Engagement 15
Environmental Sustainability 16
PRUDENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE SUMMARY REPORT  1
Prudential Environmental, 
Social and Governance      
Summary Report
As a leading global insurance provider and asset manager, Prudential is firmly committed to sound 
environmental, social and governance stewardship (ESG) practices, on behalf of our employees, 
shareholders, customers and society as well as future generations. ESG issues are an integral 
component of our long-term strategy and our Company’s purpose to make lives better by solving the 
financial challenges of our changing world.
The pressing challenges facing our world today highlight the intersectionality of issues such as ethical 
governance, environmental stewardship and systemic inequities. As a Company, we believe Prudential 
must be part of the solution not only within its own scope of control, but by using its influence and 
example in a spirit of mutual advancement. To further expand on our historical leading ESG practices, 
this report features enhanced disclosures in the following areas: 
•  Reporting on the status of the Company’s Global Environmental Commitment’s operational and    
investment targets.
•  Disclosure of our employees’ race/ethnicity and gender by job category, including preliminary  
EEO-1 data for 2020.
• Actions taken to support the Company’s nine commitments to racial equity, including  
disclosure of our diversity talent goals, which will serve as a baseline to illustrate our progress  
going forward.
• Disclosure of the Company’s gender and pay equity results.
This report was created as a supplement to our existing suite of environmental, social and governance 
disclosures located on our website, in our Sustainability Report, which includes related Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) indices, our Global 
Environmental Commitment, and our annual report and proxy statement.
Our commitment to implementing strong environmental, social and governance policies and activities 
remains a key priority. We intend to share our progress annually to ensure our investors and other 
stakeholders are informed of our commitment to this critical work as a moral and business imperative.
Disclosure Statement: Portions of this report contain aspirational or otherwise forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ,  
possibly materially, from the Company’s expectations or predictions expressed in the report. See our annual report for the year ended  
December 31, 2020 and our 2019 Sustainability Report for additional important information about these forward-looking statements.
PRUDENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE SUMMARY REPORT  2
Prudential’s Board of Directors 
and Governance Framework
Prudential’s Board of Directors is committed to sound and effective corporate governance practices  
on behalf of our employees, shareholders, customers and society. The Board’s oversight extends  
to Prudential’s corporate strategy, environmental sustainability, human capital and corporate culture. 
In addition, three of our Board members sit on the Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility 
Oversight Committee. These Directors inform the Company’s social responsibility efforts in investing  
for financial and social returns, strategic philanthropy, employee engagement and corporate    
community involvement.
BOARD STRUCTURE
As reflected in our Corporate Governance Principles and Practices, our Board believes that strong, 
independent leadership is a critical aspect of effective corporate governance. Eleven of our 13 board 
members are independent. With oversight by the Corporate Governance and Business Ethics 
Committee, the Board’s current composition is the result of a thoughtful process informed by the 
Board’s annual self-evaluation, which is conducted by an independent third party, and feedback 
received from the Company’s engagement with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Over the last five years, the Board has undergone significant Director refreshment. When evaluating 
qualified Board candidates, the Corporate Governance and Business Ethics Committee considers 
individuals who possess skills that align with Prudential’s current and long-
term global business strategy. 
The Corporate Governance and Business Ethics Committee also considers  THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & 
the Board’s composition in the context of the diverse communities and  BUSINESS ETHICS COMMITTEE
geographies we serve. We require a diverse candidate pool for all Director 
oversees Prudential’s environmental 
searches and evaluate a nominee’s experience, education, skills, gender, 
and sustainability strategy and 
race, ethnicity and other qualities in the context of the entire Board. Today, 
progress to minimize reputational risk 
82% of our independent Directors are diverse.
and focus on future sustainability, 
including climate change. Our 
HUMAN CAPITAL commitment to mitigating the risks of 
climate change is collaborative across 
The Board’s commitment to inclusion and diversity cascades throughout 
the global businesses to achieve our 
the organization. We believe Prudential’s diverse, global talent pool is a 
investment and operational goals 
point of differentiation in the market and the foundation for our success. 
and targets. Each individual business 
The Company’s investment in attracting, developing and retaining talent 
is responsible for implementing our 
representative of our multicultural and global customers is vital to the 
environmental commitment, with 
creation and protection of Prudential’s long-term shareholder value. 
oversight from the Board and support 
Talent development is discussed at every Board meeting, and once per   from key personnel within the business. 
year, the Board devotes time to discuss talent at each business and 
functional leadership level across the Company. This engagement gives  
the Board rich insight into the Company’s talent pool and succession plans.
PRUDENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE SUMMARY REPORT  3
Prudential’s Board of Directors 
and Governance Framework
CULTURE
Our culture is a critical asset and reflects our values, our practices and our people. Prudential’s culture 
unifies our employees across our businesses. Our Board believes employees’ actions are significantly 
influenced by an organization’s culture and that corporate environment influences how employees make 
decisions. Our Directors are encouraged to directly engage with Prudential employees — at all levels —  
to gain insight regarding how employees throughout the organization are aligned with the business  
model and our values. Prudential Directors have spoken at our Business Resource Groups’ (BRG)  
events including the Black Leadership Forum, Juntos (Latinx employees), PRIDE (LGBTQ+ employees)  
and Women Empowered.
For more information about Prudential’s Board of Directors, please see Prudential’s corporate governance 
section of our website prudential.com.
13 Total Number 
of our independent   of Directors
Directors are diverse
85% 7.9 
are  are African  yrs.
Women American
are is Asian is of our Directors  Average 
Hispanic American LGBTQ+
are independent Director Tenure
PRUDENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE SUMMARY REPORT  4
Diversity, Equity and   
Inclusion at Prudential
Prudential has long had a commitment to advancing inclusion and racial equity. Our ongoing efforts 
are aimed at driving positive change by creating opportunities for success both within and outside of 
our organization. Our approach is rooted in the belief that this is both a moral and business imperative. 
Our senior management team understands that this work takes time. We are acting with a sense of 
urgency to identify and take action in areas that allow Prudential to have a meaningful impact and 
serve as a model for inclusion and diversity by:
LEADING BY EXAMPLE
Creating an inclusive environment starts at the top and extends to all employees. Our Board and 
Executive Leadership Team (ELT) are accountable for our inclusion and diversity practices  
and policies. We lead by example — fifty percent of our Executive Leadership Team are diverse. 
Prudential’s Enterprise Inclusion Council, which has met quarterly since it was founded in 2019, 
is chaired by Prudential Chairman and CEO, Charles Lowrey. The Council is tasked with ensuring 
C-suite accountability for inclusion and diversity, and comprised of executive and senior leaders, and 
the heads of Prudential’s Business Resource Groups. Discussions include real-time feedback on 
employee sentiment as well as our talent practices. The meetings are a valuable source of input for 
senior leaders to understand how our inclusion and diversity practices are impacting the day-to-day 
experiences of our employees.
COMMITTING TO EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY GOALS WITH ACCOUNTABILITY
Our Diversity Goals
Our Board expects Prudential’s senior leadership team to set the standard for inclusive behavior 
and weave their standards into our corporate culture. Recognizing that diversity is imperative to the 
Company’s vitality, in 2018, we instituted a modifier for our 2018–2020 performance shares plan 
for the senior vice president level and above that was subject to a performance objective intended to 
improve the representation of diversity among senior management. As disclosed in our Company’s 
2021 proxy statement, we achieved our goal of increasing representation of diverse persons among 
our senior management by five percentage points. 
Due to the success of this program, in December 2020, we committed to the following set of diversity 
goals for our senior and mid-level leaders to be attained by 2023:
• Increase overall diversity of our most senior leader population by 10% and increase our percentage 
of Black and Latinx employees by at least 25%.1 
• For our mid-level leaders, increase the percentage of people of color by 8% and increase our 
percentage of Black and Latinx employees by at least 25%.2
• Close the gap in our employee engagement scores of our Black employees relative to other 
employees.
1 Our definition of “diverse” includes people of color, women, LGBTQ+, differently abled and veterans. 
2 Our definition of “people of color” includes Black, Hispanic, Asian, Pacific Islander, Native American, Alaskan native and Hawaiian natives.
PRUDENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE SUMMARY REPORT  5
Diversity, Equity and   
Inclusion at Prudential
Actions to Achieve Our Diversity Goals:
• Tie compensation to achievement of our diversity goals through a diversity modifier that is applied to 
the long-term compensation plan of senior executives. Please see the Company’s 2021 proxy statement 
for a description of the Inclusion and Diversity Talent Goals.
• Build a talent marketplace that emphasizes skills to drive access to jobs to all candidates and stretch 
opportunities for internal candidates.
• Change our promotion process so all employees are aware of open opportunities and have more  
access to advancement.
• Identify and address talent micro-practices to promote greater access, opportunity and equity by 
integrating best-in-class external practices internally at Prudential such as ensuring diverse candidate 
slates and interviewers for open positions.
• Incorporate significant changes introduced in 2020 into performance management process to  
further ensure a process based on merit and accountability.
ENHANCING INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY DISCLOSURE
To solidify our commitment and provide transparency on our progress, we have provided enhanced 
disclosures around the diversity representation of our workforce in the Inclusion and Diversity by the 
Numbers section of this report. 
COMMITTING TO INCLUSION
Promoting Inclusion Through Our Business Resource Groups
32%
Our eight Business Resource Groups (BRG) are employee-led organizations designed 
to promote an inclusive culture to support strategic business goals. Today, 32% of our 
U.S. employees participate in at least one BRG. Members can grow professionally and  U.S. BRG Employee 
expand their networks. Additionally, the BRGs provide an opportunity for our businesses 
Membership
to leverage diverse employee perspectives to inform product development, talent 
management and market strategy.
ADAPT: Abled and Differently Abled Partnering Together
APA: Asian Pacific Islander Americans
BLF: Black Leadership Forum
Prudential’s Business  PRIDE: Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer+ 
Resource Groups: (LGBTQ+)
Generations: Promoting Open Dialogue Across Generations
Juntos: Latinx and Allies
VETNET: Military, Veterans and Veteran Supporters
Women Empowered
PRUDENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE SUMMARY REPORT  6
Diversity, Equity and   
Inclusion at Prudential
Cultivating Diverse Talent
64%
We utilize traditional and emerging strategies and organizations to recruit and support 
diverse talent. Our efforts have been successful. As illustrated in the Inclusion and Diversity 
by the Numbers section of this report, 64% of external hires in 2020 were diverse. We have  of external hires in 
long-standing relationships with many organizations to help us attract diverse candidates.  2020 were diverse 
These include:
ASCEND • Association of Latino Professionals for America (ALPFA) • Anita 
Borg Blue Circle Leadership • Hispanic Association on Corporate Responsibility 
(HACR) • Getting Hired • GI GO Fund • Integrate Advisors • Jopwell • National 
Association of Black Accountants (NABA) • National Organization on Disability 
(NOD) • National Association of Female Executives (NAFE) • Odyssey • 
Prospanica CT & NJ • Reaching Out MBA (ROMBA) • Student Veterans of 
America • YearUP • Disability:IN • Out and Equal, and more.
Our inclusion vision is the shared responsibility of all Prudential employees, supported by an in-house 
team of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) experts. In addition to expertise, the team brings capabilities 
in strategic philanthropy and impact investing and a robust set of partnerships that are driving Prudential’s 
efforts to promote social justice by building inclusive workplaces inside and outside of Prudential, 
accelerating economic mobility and creating thriving neighborhoods. This work spans over 40 years and 
remains a critical part of our DEI efforts.
COMMITTING TO ADVANCE RACIAL EQUITY
With the Board of Directors’ full support, in August 2020 Prudential announced nine commitments to 
advance racial equity for our people, through our businesses and in our society. These commitments 
build on Prudential’s long history of promoting inclusive economic growth through our investments, buying 
power, thought leadership, hiring practices and professional development initiatives. The table below 
describes our commitments and highlights of our progress.
TAKING ACTION FOR OUR PEOPLE
COMMITMENT ACTIONS
Provide Equal Opportunity  •  Refining performance management and promotion processes.
for All Employees •  Building a skills-based talent marketplace.
Establish Goals with  •  Rigorous analysis of our workforce and talent markets resulted in    
Accountability   establishing the diversity goals discussed on page 5.
Mandate Inclusion Training  •  2,500 employees completed inclusion training between September and    
for all U.S. Employees   December 2020. 
•  The remaining approximately 13,500 U.S. based employees to complete    
  at least one inclusion training program by December 31, 2021.
Create Ways to Reflect   •  Observe Juneteenth as a day of education and reflection.
and Engage •  Election Day established as meeting-free for U.S. employees. Non-exempt   
  employees offered up to two hours of paid time off to vote.
•  7,000 U.S. employees attended two racial equity Town Halls.
PRUDENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE SUMMARY REPORT  7
Diversity, Equity and   
Inclusion at Prudential
TAKING ACTION WITH OUR BUSINESS
COMMITMENT ACTIONS
Design and deliver  •  Launched business strategy to address financial wellness priorities of    
products, services and    Black consumers.
operations in every business  •  B  usiness and function leaders creating inclusion plans to embed inclusion 
and function to improve  and racial equity into their strategies supported by 25 Racial Equity 
racial equity outcomes Ambassadors.
Allocate resources for R&D  •  $10 million contribution to the Financial Solutions Lab to help      
capital to incubate inclusive    move low- to moderate-income consumers to the middle class.
products, services and 
distribution channels
TAKING ACTION IN SOCIETY
COMMITMENT ACTIONS
Accelerate our social justice  •  Partnered with nonprofits and community organizations to help educate    
public policy agenda,    policy makers on economic justice issues.
focusing on criminal justice  •  C hairman and CEO Charles Lowrey serves on New Jersey Governor 
reform, police reforms  Phil Murphy’s Restart and Recovery Commission.
addressing racism, voting  •  Supported New Jersey police body camera requirements.
rights and closing the racial  •  S upport Congressional bills requiring C-suite and Board diversity 
wealth gap disclosures.
Allocate resources to invest  Prudential has more than $100 million in active corporate contributions 
in institutions, ventures  and philanthropic grants focused on advancing racial equity. In addition 
and high-impact nonprofits  Prudential:
working to remove  •  Made a $180 million commitment to opportunity youth through 2025,    
structural barriers to Black    creating pipelines to quality jobs for underserved young adults around    
economic empowerment   the world.
•  Provided $1.25 million in new financial contributions to support criminal   
  justice and police reform, mentorship and narrative change in 2020. 
•  $58.41 million in new authorizations as part of our $1 billion in impact    
  investment portfolio focused on equity and inclusion.
•  C ommitted $10 million to Rutgers-Newark campus Honors Living-Learning 
Community to fund the “Prudential Scholars Program” for the city’s 
residents.
PRUDENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE SUMMARY REPORT  8
Inclusion and Diversity        
By the Numbers
TOTAL WORKFORCE
GLOBAL U.S. INTERNATIONAL WOMEN MEN
41,671 16,196 25,475 48% 52%
PRELIMINARY 2020 CONSOLIDATED U.S. EMPLOYER INFORMATION REPORT (EEO-1)
The summary table below displays Prudential, Inc.’s U.S. workforce by EEO-1 job category as of 
December 31, 2020. The preliminary results in the table are supplied in advance of the official EEO-1 
filing, which commences in April 2021.
American  Size of 
Black or  Native  Two or  All 
Hispanic or  Indian or  Population 
Job Categories Gen. White African  Hawaiian or  Asian More  Race 
Latino Alaskan  by Job 
Americans  Pacific Islander Races Groups
Native Category
M 3.3% 53.1% 2.5% 0.0% 6.4% 0.0% 0.7% 66.0%
Executive/Sr. 
3.7%
Managers F 1.5% 26.8% 1.8% 0.0% 3.5% 0.0% 0.5% 34.0%
M 3.0% 44.0% 2.2% 0.1% 11.1% 0.1% 0.5% 60.9%
First/Mid-Level 
30.0%
Managers
F 1.9% 27.1% 2.3% 0.1% 7.2% 0.1% 0.4% 39.1%
M 3.4% 30.4% 3.0% 0.1% 7.2% 0.0% 0.9% 45.0%
Professionals 47.9%
F 4.0% 36.1% 6.8% 0.1% 7.0% 0.0% 1.0% 55.0%
M 3.8% 63.7% 6.4% 0.0% 3.0% 0.0% 1.7% 78.6%
Sales Workers 3.9%
F 0.8% 16.3% 1.7% 0.0% 2.2% 0.0% 0.3% 21.4%
M 4.7% 17.0% 4.1% 0.0% 1.2% 0.0% 0.5% 27.4%
Administrative 
14.4%
Support Workers
F 9.9% 42.9% 15.0% 0.1% 2.5% 0.3% 1.8% 72.6%
M 14.3% 39.3% 25.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 78.6%
Service 
0.2%
Workers
F 14.3% 7.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 21.4%
M 3.5% 34.7% 3.1% 0.1% 7.3% 0.0% 0.7% 49.3%
All Job 
Categories
F 4.0% 33.2% 6.3% 0.1% 6.1% 0.1% 0.9% 50.7%
PRUDENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE SUMMARY REPORT  9
Inclusion and Diversity    
By the Numbers
U.S. DIVERSITY TRENDS AND BENCHMARKS
Prudential benchmarked its workforce composition against the most recently available EEO-1 Finance & 
Insurance Industry data. The Company exceeds the industry in the following categories: 
• Executive/Senior Level Officials and Managers: Women, People of Color, Asian, Black and Latinx 
• First/Mid-Level Officials and Managers: People of Color, Asian 
• Professionals: Women, People of Color, Asian, Black and Latinx
PEOPLE 
JOB CATEGORY WOMEN ASIAN BLACK LATINX
OF COLOR
Executive/Sr. Level  Prudential 34% 20% 9.9% 4.3% 4.8%
Officials and 
Managers EEO 31% 14% 6.1% 2.6% 3.7%
First/Mid-Level  Prudential 39% 29% 18.3% 4.5% 4.9%
Officials and 
Managers EEO 48% 25% 9.8% 6.9% 6.5%
Prudential 55% 34% 14.2% 9.8% 7.4%
Professionals
EEO 52% 31% 12.5% 9.2% 6.9%
The table includes the latest 2018 EEO-1 benchmarks published by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
U.S. WORKFORCE COMPOSITION 2019 vs. 2020
The table below compares the composition of Prudential’s U.S. workforce between 2019 and 2020. In 
2019, Prudential offered a Voluntary Separation Program (VSP) to its U.S. employees for separation dates 
throughout 2020. In the context of the VSP and workforce-reduction impact, the Company’s diversity 
representation remained relatively consistent. 
Prudential’s annual turnover rate in 2020, excluding those who participated in the Company’s VSP, is 
9%. When VSP participants are included, the turnover rate increases to 20%. In both cases, Prudential 
remains below the Finance and Insurance Industry’s benchmark of 24% (Source: Bureau of   
Labor Statistics).
PEOPLE OF 
JOB CATEGORY WOMEN ASIAN BLACK LATINX
COLOR
Executive/Sr.  2020 34% 20% 9.9% 4.3% 4.8%
Level Officials 
and Managers 2019 33% 17% 8.9% 3.9% 3.7%
2020 39% 29% 18.3% 4.5% 4.9%
First/Mid-Level 
Officials
2019 40% 28% 17.3% 4.7% 4.6%
2020 55% 34% 14.2% 9.8% 7.4%
Professionals
2019 56% 33% 13.7% 10% 7.6%
2020 51% 32% 13.4% 9.4% 7.5%
Total Population
2019 52% 31% 12.6% 9.8% 7.1%
PRUDENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE SUMMARY REPORT  10
Inclusion and Diversity    
By the Numbers
U.S. TOP LEADERSHIP DIVERSITY METRICS
Top Leadership is defined as senior leaders who are within three reporting-levels below our Chairman and 
CEO and Vice-Chairman. We consider this population as key decision-makers and influencers of change 
and culture at the Company.
PEOPLE OF 
DIVERSE WOMEN ASIAN BLACK LATINX
COLOR
Top Leadership 54% 37% 27% 15% 5% 6%
1  Level Down from Chairman and 
44% 38% 11% 11% 0% 0%
Vice Chairman
2  Levels Down from Chairman and 
59% 41% 28% 14% 7% 5%
Vice Chairman
3  Levels Down from Chairman and  
53% 35% 28% 15% 4% 6%
Vice Chairman
Note: Administrative assistants, support staff and individual contributors are excluded from the above figures.
Top Leadership cohort represents less than three percent of the total U.S. employee population.
U.S. EMPLOYEE RECRUITING
In 2020, Prudential filled over 2,700 positions in the United States. We seek to hire diverse talent and our 
active outreach and recruitment efforts help ensure that a broad slate of candidates are considered. We 
drive internal mobility by continuously introducing and improving existing tools and processes to cultivate 
the talents of Prudential’s current employees. As a result of these efforts, in 2020, half of the Experienced 
positions were filled internally.
PEOPLE OF 
POSITIONS FILLED DIVERSE WOMEN ASIAN BLACK LATINX
COLOR
All Recruiting 67% 49% 35% 14% 9% 9%
Internal Recruiting 73% 57% 33% 13% 10% 8%
External Recruiting 64% 43% 37% 14% 9% 10%
PRUDENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE SUMMARY REPORT  11
Practices to Promote       
Pay Equity
Our Board of Directors’ actions are guided by our commitment to be a leader in the advancement of 
equal pay for equal work. In support of this commitment, Prudential’s Board of Directors reviews and 
provides oversight of the Company’s pay practices.
Prudential’s pay policies and practices promote pay equity throughout an employee’s career in a 
holistic integrated approach. This practice starts before an employee joins our organization. We reduce 
the likelihood of perpetuating historical or a prior employer’s pay inequity by not considering or asking 
(except where required by law) a candidate’s compensation history in the application process, and 
establishing starting pay based on gender- and race-neutral considerations.
Throughout an employee’s career with Prudential, we review pay on an ongoing basis to safeguard 
against any systemic gender- or race-based pay inequity by:
• Periodically engaging independent external experts to audit for any systemic pay inequities  
and empowering them to determine the appropriate methodology to analyze our results.
• Providing multiple avenues, including on an anonymous basis, for any employee to raise a  
concern about discrimination including with respect to pay.
We periodically retain independent external experts to conduct pay equity analyses for our U.S. 
population. Described below are the 2018 and 2020 results.
PAY EQUITY RESULTS
2018 2020
Total Compensation (specifically, salary, bonus  Salary was evaluated and the results showed, 
and equity) was evaluated and the results  when accounting for relevant factors including 
showed, when accounting for relevant factors  job and location:
including job and location:
•   Women employees were paid at least 100% 
•   Women employees were paid at least 100% of  of the pay of male employees.
the pay of male employees.
•   Asian employees were paid at least 100% of 
•   Asian employees were paid at least 100% of  the pay of White employees.
the pay of White employees.
•   Black employees were paid 99.0% of the 
•   Black employees were paid 99.9% of   pay of White employees. 
White employees.
•   Hispanic employees were paid 98.3% of the 
•   Hispanic employees were paid 99.4% of   pay of non-Hispanic White employees.
non-Hispanic White employees.
The next pay equity analysis of Total Compensation is planned for 2022. 
Board Oversight of  Independent Third  Multiple Avenues to 
Pay Practices Party Analysis Address Pay Concerns
PRUDENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE SUMMARY REPORT  12
Learning and Talent 
Development Programs
Prudential is building a future-ready workforce and anticipating the required skills through a large-
scale, transformative initiative that is addressing the impact of rapid changes in customer behaviors 
and needs, technology and the competition. 
Our holistic and transparent talent development practices are embedded in Prudential’s culture.  
The systemic method begins with our talent acquisition process. We take a skills-based approach  
to presenting job opportunities in alignment with the Company’s strategic business objectives.  
Our development mechanisms are rooted in our continuous learning offerings, transparent 
performance management process, and talent transformation programs to help our employees  
train for and perform the jobs of tomorrow. 
SKILLS ACCELERATOR
80%
Our “Skills Accelerator” is a personal professional development program that is open 
to all employees, and “EMPOWER” is a program designed to encourage employees 
to dedicate time to aligning their skills with Company needs and jobs of the future.  of employees 
Through EMPOWER, employees earn badges that are displayed on their Skills  activated Skills 
Accelerator profile to recognize the time they have spent on skills development. 
Accelerator
Skills Accelerator allows employees to access career support services, upskilling and 
reskilling options without manager approval, and most importantly, to seek new career 
opportunities within the Company. 0ver 80% of our employees activated their profiles 
within the Skills Accelerator and are currently using the site to take charge of their careers in  
a transparent, frictionless way. 
LEADERSHIP ESSENTIALS
“Leadership Essentials” focuses on areas of development for leaders of others. The course is 
composed of four main modules and each module is aimed at providing leaders with the core 
development experiences needed to lead teams at Prudential and deliver on the Company’s purpose 
and aspirations. Inclusion and diversity themes were embedded throughout the course to help 
managers more fully embody Prudential’s culture and values.
PRUCORPS
We are applying agility and flexibility to deploy our resources, enabling us to build capacity 
where it is needed. “PruCorps” is an example of our adaptability and culture of customer 
service. When high volumes in our call centers demanded more resources, PruCorps 
was created to rapidly reskill and deploy over 200 employees to centers to respond to 
our customers’ needs. This successful program instilled pride and collaboration across 
the enterprise.
PRUDENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE SUMMARY REPORT  13
Learning and Talent  
Development Programs
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
PERCENT OF ELIGIBLE   NUMBER OF HOURS 
INITIATIVE
EMPLOYEES COMPLETED COMPLETED
Skills Accelerator 81% N/A
EMPOWER 44% 67,483
Career Partner Sessions 11% 6,245
Compliance Training 100% 38,000
Leadership Essentials 75% 3,785
TRANSFORMATIONAL LEADERSHIP PROGRAM
The “Transformational Leadership Program” is designed to expand Prudential’s talent pipeline by 
addressing the unique challenges of multicultural women in the workplace. The program provides a 
framework and tools to enhance leadership effectiveness through web-based discussions, course-specific 
learning, case studies and peer to peer interactions.
INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY TRAINING
Our most recent mandatory diversity and inclusion training for all U.S. employees commenced in late 
2020 and addresses core issues such as understanding racism and bias, building cultural intelligence 
and using tools and techniques to take action to support an inclusive culture. The goal is for all employees 
to develop a baseline understanding of these concepts. All U.S. employees will complete  
at least one inclusion training program by December 31, 2021.
All employees have access to career coaching services and training courses that elevate our culture 
and drive our commitment to racial equity and best in class leadership. Our strong commitment to the 
employee experience and development of future skills has been a driver of our employee engagement, 
which you can read more about in this report’s Global Employee Engagement section.
PRUDENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE SUMMARY REPORT  14
Global Employee Engagement
We believe the best and most transformative decisions are made when we listen and reflect on the  
diverse voices of our people. In 2020, Prudential’s polling and survey programs collected over 
52,000 responses across 48 events, some of which related to our pandemic response. We “listen” 
with the goal of understanding experiences, behaviors, attitudes and perceptions of leadership,  
culture and key organizational issues at any given time, in order to help inform decisions about our 
people, programs, processes and policies.
Prudential’s global employee engagement survey, fielded across 21 countries and in six languages, 
received an 83% response rate in 2020. Survey results showed that employee engagement 
increased, and our Inclusion Index remained steady despite an unprecedented year. Results also 
revealed that talent development remains a key driver of engagement and a prominent theme in 
employee comments. Survey respondents raised topics addressing common hurdles such as career 
advancement at Prudential, and opportunities for exposure within the larger enterprise, which feel 
magnified by the reality of working remotely during the pandemic. 
Over time, we will use our Engagement and Inclusion Index scores, which we created to better gauge 
diverse employee sentiment, to reflect progress and tell us what is working and areas where we can  
do more. 
The survey results and the process of continuous improvement that ensues is discussed with the 
Board at least annually. Senior leaders are committed to listening and responding in ways that have 
meaningful impact, including recent changes to our performance management practices, manager 
training and internal mobility enhancements.
2020 EMPLOYEE SURVEY
23,677 28,699 19,456
Respondents Employees  Comments 15% 14%
Invited 8% 7%
 Favorable
21 6  Neutral
77% 79%
 Unfavorable
Countries* Languages
*Excludes the Field Office in U.S. and the  ENGAGEMENT  INCLUSION 
sales forces of Gibraltar. Excludes PII Taiwan,  INDEX INDEX
Malaysia, parts of DHFL Pramerica and Chile. 
Also excludes Pramerica Ireland.
Engagement: Average favorability score of employee engagement indicators: job satisfaction, advocacy, discretionary effort and intent to stay.
Inclusion: Average favorability score of various facets that reflect an inclusive environment: communication, respect, ethical culture, growth opportunities, empowerment, 
innovation, flexibility and feeling valued.
PRUDENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE SUMMARY REPORT  15
Environmental Sustainability
In 2019, Prudential issued a Global Environmental Commitment to ensure the long-term value of 
both our operations and investments by acknowledging the risk of global climate change, meeting the 
challenges and opportunities that climate change presents for our business, and reducing our own 
environmental impacts. For additional information visit our website.
ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING
GOALS STATUS
Increase robust reporting in annual 
Scope 3 emissions employee travel added
sustainability report
Achieve and maintain Management-Level   Received A- CDP Climate Rating
CDP scores
Approximately $183B (34%) of the General 
Publish specific asset level reporting
Account’s assets have ESG identifier
Publish information and progress on General  Engaged Trucost to perform carbon footprint and 
Account investment allocations climate change analysis covering 70% of full 
portfolio across all asset classes
A physical and transition risk analysis covered 
50–70% of public debt and equity 
portfolios metric dependent
RESPONSIBLE USE OF NATURAL RESOURCES
GOALS STATUS
Reduced domestic emissions 19% in 2020 from 
Reduce domestic emissions by 65% by 2050
2017 base year — 30% toward goal
Achieved 42% waste diversion for countries 
Achieve 65% waste diversion by 2025
within our goal boundary in 2019
Created American Forest partnership to support 
Continue internal initiatives to reduce paper use
Zero Paper aspiration
Develop both internal and public-facing  Implemented internal ESG Investment    
ESG Policy Policy Statement
Invest in companies and projects that responsibly   Issued green bond in March 2020 in alignment 
reduce emissions, water consumption and/or   with SDG 6, 7, 11, 12 and 15
waste generation
As of 12/31/2020, Impact Investments has 
Allocate 10% of Impact Investing portfolio 
$61 million, or 6% of its fair market value 
to companies and projects that promote 
of investments in companies and projects 
sustainability and resiliency by 2025
promoting sustainability and resiliency
Grant $25 million by 2025 to support response  Prudential Foundation provided $2.5M 
to climate-related natural disasters via   investment to ROOT Capital for sustainable 
Prudential Foundation farming operations in developing countries
PRUDENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE SUMMARY REPORT  16
Environmental Sustainability
RESILIENCY PREPARATION
GOALS STASTTUASTUS
Continue strengthening our business   Examined geographic concentrations of risk 
continuation activities related to pandemics or natural disasters
PGIM Real Estate mapping water risks against 
location of investments in the portfolio
Invest in long termism and businesses and  Completed ASHRAE Level 2 Energy Audit of 
projects that support resiliency Prudential Plaza and Washington Buildings
ENGAGEMENT & EDUCATION
GOALS STASTTUASTUS
Create robust employee engagement  Green Teams organized a weeklong virtual Earth 
opportunities to creatively and consistently  Day event
communicate the importance of  
environmental sustainability
Commit to engaging 100% of our top vendors  Engaged 100% of top vendors to complete the 
to support progress toward the Global  CDP Supply Chain survey
Environmental Commitment
Expand our public policy engagement to support  Climate initiatives engagement resulted in 
topics aligned with the Global    development insurance sector climate risks 
Environmental Commitment papers and providing feedback on global 
supervisory guidance to the supervision of 
climate-related risks
Become a go-to provider for thought leadership  Increased industry engagement through Geneva 
on sustainable investing strategies Associations, 2 Degree Investing, Ceres, NYDFS 
and BlackRock ESG group
Invest or grant dollars to companies and   Provided predevelopment loan to repurpose 
organizations that change public perception   vacant elementary school in Chicago into 
toward a more environmentally  102 apartments, reducing waste and meeting  
responsible society the city’s green building standards
PRUDENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE SUMMARY REPORT  17