
Sustainable Finance, 
a new era for asset 
managers
24 March 2020
pwc.com
Sustainable Finance, a new era for asset managers | 1
2 | PwC
Executive summary
The last few years have seen a rally  rather than focusing on high returns  •  Two new categories of benchmarks 
towards Environmental, Social and  over a short timeframe.   will be introduced: (i) the EU Climate 
Governance (ESG) products and ESG  In order to fulfil these objectives, the  Transition Benchmark and (ii) the EU 
integration, with sustainable funds  EC identified in its Action Plan ten  Paris-aligned Benchmark.
capturing a significant portion of inflows  measures including legislative measures  •  All Asset Managers (the “Managers”), 
in Europe and some asset managers  that will have a pervasive impact on the  Investment firms, Authorised 
announcing that they will integrate ESG  financial sector in Europe. Among the  Alternative Investment Funds Managers 
within their entire range of products. And  ten measures, the most noteworthy are  (AIFMs) and UCITS management 
this trend is likely to further accelerate  three proposed regulations (in the areas  companies will be required to review 
over  the coming years among others due  of taxonomy, disclosure and low carbon  their operating models to ensure 
to expected regulatory developments in  benchmarks) as well as amendments  sustainability matters and sustainability 
Europe. to the existing MiFID II, UCITS and  risks are adequately addressed in 
On 8 March 2018, the European  AIFMD level 2 regulations, alongside  governance, processes, remuneration 
Commission (the “EC”) issued its “Action  other consultations and non-legislative  policies, conflict of interest policies, 
plan on Financing Sustainable Growth”  measures.   product governance, risk management, 
(the “Action Plan”). This initiative stems  The EC had also set up a Technical  etc.
from the Capital Markets Union Action  Expert Working Group (“TEG”) to  •  “Financial market participants” and 
Plan and is part of the broader efforts to  provide technical expertise and support  “financial advisors” will be subject 
connect finance with the specific needs  in the following areas: taxonomy of  to new and extensive disclosure 
of the European and global economy for  environmentally sustainable activities, low- requirements not only on “sustainability 
the benefit of the planet and our society.  carbon benchmarks, sustainability factors  risks” (impact of ESG matters on the 
The EU defines “Sustainable Finance”  and risks’ disclosure and EU green bond  performance of investment), but also 
as the process of taking due account of  standards. on “adverse impact on sustainability 
environmental and social considerations  factors” (impact of investment 
in investment decision-making, leading  These measures will not only affect  decisions on environmental, social 
to increased investments in longer-term  Asset Managers (“Managers”) and their  and employee matters, respect for 
and sustainable activities – whilst the plan  products, such as investment decisions  human rights, anti-corruption and 
recognises the key role of “Governance”,  and product distribution, but also how  anti-bribery matters). These new 
there is a clear focus on “Environmental”  Managers incorporate “ESG” in their  disclosure requirements will pose 
and “Social” considerations.   business operations and strategy. As  significant challenges, in terms of 
such, Managers will be asked to consider  timing, methodology as well as data 
This very ambitious Action Plan will impact  and measure both the effect of their  accessibility and reliability.
all managers doing business in the EU in  products and services on sustainability 
one way or another (operations in the EU,  topics as well as the impact of  And new measures can be expected in 
products sold in the EU). It aims to: sustainability topics on their products and  2020, as the new EU Commission already 
reiterated the importance of financing the 
•  Finance the transition to a more  services.  transition to a greener economy (“Green 
sustainable and inclusive growth –  Once these measures are finalised, the  Deal Action Plan”). Expansion of the 
the objective is to direct investment  following significant changes can be  Sustainable Finance plan and revision of 
into sustainable activities, aimed at  expected in the market: the non-financial reporting directives are 
leveraging on the financial sector  envisaged for 2020.
to close the investment gap and  •  Investors will be systematically asked 
finance an economically and socially  about their ESG preferences, and  The Action Plan will affect all market 
sustainable economic system; offered products matching such  players, even the most ESG agnostic will 
preferences within their target market  have to modify their processes. But, unlike 
•  Better manage financial risks stemming 
definition – with the vast majority of EU  much of the regulatory agenda, it shall 
from climate change, resource 
citizens considering climate change  not be seen as a compliance exercise 
depletion, environmental degradation 
as a significant issue, this measure is  – market demand is present and will be 
and social issues – acknowledging that 
likely to have a pervasive impact on the  accelerating – but as a real business 
environmental and climate risks are 
product mix on offer and on the viability  opportunity. There will be a significant 
currently not always adequately taken 
of non-ESG products; advantage for early movers embracing 
into account by the financial sector, 
the change and capitalising on this new 
including the potentially destabilising  •  Two new categories of products 
paradigm in order to further engage with 
impact of climate change; will be defined: (i) products that 
their investors.
promote environmental or social 
•  Foster transparency and long-termism 
in financial decisions – sustainability  characteristics and (ii) sustainable  This paper explores the impact of the 
and long-termism go hand-in-hand  investments products. Each category  expected measures on AM operations. It 
and transparency is key to ensure that  will be required to disclose how such  includes published regulation drafts and 
investors can take better informed and  characteristics or objectives are  reports available as of 13 March 2020.
attained.
more responsible investment decisions 
Sustainable Finance, a new era for asset managers | 3
Overview of Action Plan main 
measures and timeline
Three regulations are currently under finalisation:
TAXONOMY BENCHMARKS DISCLOSURES
Regulation (EU) 2019/2089 of the 
Proposal for a Regulation of the European  Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 of the 
European Parliament and of the Council 
Parliament and of the Council on the  European Parliament and of the Council 
Description establishment of a framework to facilitate  amending Regulation (EU) 2016/1011  on sustainability-related disclosures in 
as regards EU Climate Transition 
sustainable investment.  the financial services sector. 
Benchmarks and EU Paris-aligned. 
•  Criteria for determining the degree of  •  Climate Transition Benchmark = Index 
sustainability of economic activities  whose underlying assets would be  •  Large scope: Financial market 
(contributing to 6 environmental  selected, weighted or excluded such  participants and financial advisers 
objectives) that the resulting benchmark portfolio  which provide investment advice.
•  Taxonomy alignment disclosures  is on a de-carbonisation path. •  Transparency obligations for the 
Focus on •  Market monitoring by ESAs •  EU Paris-aligned Benchmark = Index  publication of sustainability information 
•  Platform on sustainable finance win hsousceh  uan wdearyly tihnagt  athssee rtess aurltein sge lceacrtbeodn   for EU products. 
•  Minimum safeguards emission reductions in the benchmark  •  From the disclosure of sustainability 
portfolio are aligned with the Paris  risks to the adverse impact on 
Climate Agreement’s long-term global  sustainability factors. 
warming target objective
•  The Regulation entered into force on  •  The Regulation will apply from 10 
•  Awaiting publication in OJEU following  10 December 2019.  March 2021.
Latest  tDheec peomlibticear l2 a0g1r9e.e ment reached in  •  Oann  i1n8te Jriumn ere 2p0o1r9t ,o tnh eC TlimEGa tpeu blished  •  Tclhime aTtEeG-r epluabtelidsh deidsc itlos sruepreosr ti no Jna nuary 
Developments •  On 9 March 2020, the TEG published  benchmarks and benchmarks’ ESG  2019.
its final report on EU Taxonomy, with  disclosures. The Final version of the 
a short user guide. report was published on 20 December  •  Level 2 (delegated acts) to be drafted 
2019.   in the course of 2020.
1.  Taxonomy or “Framework” Proposal
The difficulty to define what is a sustainable product or what is  An activity will be considered as environmentally sustainable 
an ESG investment, is a recurring debate amongst the industry  when its contributes significantly to one of the 6 environmental 
professionals. In fact, it is inherent to the nature of ESG and  objectives identified by the Commission (climate change 
the related investment approaches. Different approaches  mitigation, climate change adaptation, sustainable use 
are indeed being pursued by Managers in order to meet the  and protection of water and marine resources, transition to 
demand of investors, depending whether the latter are more  a circular economy, pollution prevention and control and 
or less ESG aware. Such approaches range from negative  protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems), 
screening (such as norm- based exclusion), ESG integration,  provided it does not significantly harm any of the other 
positive screening (best-in-class approach), “Engagement”  environmental objectives. A Platform on sustainable finance 
(also called shareholders’ activism) and thematic investing  will be created to advise the Commission on the technical 
(investing in environmental or social projects/sectors) to impact  screening criteria to be applied in order to determine when 
investing (where investors are ready to sacrifice part of their  an activity contributes to (or significantly harm) any of the 
financial performance as the societal impact is more important  environmental objectives. The platform will leverage on the 
for them). ESG products usually combine several of these  work performed by the TEG, who published their final report on 
approaches. the Taxonomy on 9 March 2020.
The “Taxonomy Proposal” does not aim at defining or  The delegated acts on screening criteria in relation to climate 
classifying ESG approaches, but tries to define sustainable  changes objectives shall be adopted by December 2020 and 
investments through a focus on the activities financed by  will apply from 31 December 2021. The technical screening 
a financial product, aiming at defining “environmentally  criteria in relation to the other four objectives will be finalised by 
sustainable activities”.  the end of 2021 for application from 31 December 2022.
4 | PwC
The taxonomy regulation also includes disclosure  and (ii) further disclosures applicable to sustainable 
requirements for financial products, which will add to the  investments products and products promoting 
sustainability disclosure requirements imposed by the  environmental or social characteristics.
“Disclosures Regulation” as developed below.
“Sustainable investments” are being defined as 
All financial products with environmental characteristics  investments in economic activities that contribute to 
or which are promoted as environmentally sustainable will  an environmental objective or a social objective or 
be required to disclose the proportion of their portfolio  investment in companies following good governance 
invested in taxonomy aligned activities. Other financial  practices whilst the taxonomy proposal gives more 
products will be required to include a disclaimer indicating  precision on the definition of Environmentally Sustainable 
that they do not take into account the EU criteria for  activities (see above). 
environmentally sustainable investments.
Another category has been added (products promoting 
Recognising that obtaining the underlying data on  environmental or social characteristics) to accommodate 
the alignment of the activities performed by investee  for ESG products whose objective will not be confined 
companies will be a real challenge, the regulation also  to invest in sustainable activities as defined by the EU 
introduces the requirement for large listed EU companies  regulations. Both categories of products will be subject 
to disclose the percentage of taxonomy alignment as part  to specific disclosure requirements from pre-contractual 
of their non-financial reporting. disclosures to periodic reports.
A political agreement was found on the taxonomy  The Disclosures Regulation also requires disclosure on 
proposal in December 2019 and publication of finalised  how the remuneration policies are consistent with the 
text is expected soon.  integration of sustainability risks and does not promote 
excessive risk-taking in this matter.
2.  EU Climate Transition Benchmark and 
Moreover, additional requirements will be imposed on 
EU Paris-Aligned Benchmark Proposal
large financial market actors exceeding 500 employees, 
The “Benchmarks Proposal” will amend the Regulation  extending the scope of the sustainability disclosure from 
(EU) 2016/1011 (i.e. the Benchmark Regulation) in order  being the risks “to” the portfolio (risk of negative impact 
to include a “Climate Transition Benchmark” and also an  on portfolio financial return) to include the impact “from” 
“EU Paris-Aligned Benchmark” definition to impose ESG  the portfolio (i.e. the impact of all the investment decisions 
factors disclosure requirements. made may have on the society (environmentally or socially 
adverse factors)).
3.  Disclosures Regulation 
Availability of complete and reliable data on the underlying 
Transparency is a key feature of ESG investment and a  companies is indeed a key concern in this context. Timing 
key concern of EU regulators – hence it is not surprising  will also be challenging, as implementing measures 
that one of the first initiatives is to further regulate  (defining content of disclosures and methodologies to be 
disclosures. followed) are unlikely to be finalised ahead of the planned 
implementation date of the regulation.
The “Disclosures Regulation” distinguishes between (i) 
disclosure on sustainability risks applicable to all financial 
market participants, advisors and all financial products, 
Estimated timeline 
Publication in the 
Official Journal of the 
European Union (OJEU)  Methodology Compliance  Main Application Date 
of the Benchmarks and  Deadline for Benchmark  for Regulation on  Annual report 
Disclosures Final Texts Administrators Disclosures disclosures
9 Dec.  30 April  30 Dec.  10 March  31 Dec.  1 January  31 Dec. 
Q4 2019
2019 2020 2020 2021 2021 2022 2022
Finalisation of  ESA’s to submit draft  Taxonomy  Taxonomy 
inter-institutions  RTS on Disclosures  Regulation (Climate  Regulation  
negotiations on the  Regulation Change objectives) (4 remaining 
Taxonomy File objectives)
Sustainable Finance, a new era for asset managers | 5
Amendments to existing level 2 measures
4.  Amendments to MiFID II suitability tests – ESG preferences
The proposed amendments will modify MiFID II suitability test requirements, asking for a systematic inquiry about 
investors’ ESG preferences. Whilst amendments to a level 2 text could go relatively rapidly, timing is expected to be 
aligned with the “Disclosures Regulation” mentioned above due to cross reference between the two texts (sustainable 
investment definition).
5.  Amendments to MiFID II, UCITS and AIFMD to include sustainability risks
Following the mandate granted by the EC, the European Securities and Markets Authority (the “ESMA”) has 
issued advice on possible amendments to MiFID II, UCITS and AIFMD level 2 texts in order to include references 
to sustainability risks and factors within organisational requirements, operating conditions and resources, risk 
management and product governance requirements. Such changes would require all management companies, AIFMs 
and MiFID firms to review processes and resources as well as to include sustainability risks within risk management 
processes.
1 Sustainability Risks 3 Product Governance
On 3 May 2019, the ESMA issued its  •  On 3 May 2019, the ESMA issued its Technical Advice 
Technical Advice to the EC on integrating  to the EC on integrating sustainability risks and factors 
sustainability risks and factors in the UCITS  in MIFID II (ESMA35-43-1737)
Directive and the AIFMD (ESMA34-45-688).  •  On 3 May 2019, the EIOPA issued its Technical Advice 
•  Organisational requirements;  on the integration of sustainability risks and factors in 
•  Operating conditions; and the delegated acts under Solvency II and IDD (EIOPA-
4 1 •  Risk management. BoS-19/172).
•  Both product manufacturers and distributors would be 
required to take account of whether the products or 
services they offer in the EU fulfil their EU customers 
Legislative 
ESG preferences.
Proposals
2 Non-Financial Disclosures 4 ESG Preferences
3 2 •  On 20 June 2019, the EC  •  On 4 January 2019, the European Commission (EC) 
Communication entitled “Guidelines on  published draft rules to ensure investment firms and 
non-financial reporting: Supplement on  insurance distributors (hence with amendments to 
reporting climate-related information  MiFID II/IDD) take sustainability considerations and 
(2019/C 209/01)” was published in the  preferences into account when providing advice to their 
OJEU. It consists of a new supplement  clients. 
to the existing guidelines on non-financial  •  The EC is expected to adopt these rules in early 2020.
reporting, which remain applicable.
•  On 20 February 2020, the EC published 
a consultation on the revision of the non-
financial reporting directive.
6 | PwC
Other initiatives to follow up
6.  EU Ecolabel criteria for retail financial products
The EU has recently consulted (December 2019) on the opportunity to create an EU Ecolabel for financial products 
addressed to retail investors – such a label would be awarded to the products with the best environmental performance, 
setting some requirements regarding alignment of the portfolio with the taxonomy.
7.  Transparency on engagement policy
Amendments to the shareholders right directive (referred as “SRD II”) were transposed this summer. Asset managers, 
management companies and AIFMs are now required to develop and publish their engagement policy, including on ESG 
matters and shall report annually on how this has been implemented, including explanation of the most significant votes.
Upcoming Regulation Areas impacted Impact
Disclosures Regulation Strategy, Products definition, Remuneration, Risk  Very high
management, Reporting, Data, Distribution, Legal 
documentation
Taxonomy Proposal Products definition, Reporting, Strategy disclosure Very high
Benchmarks Regulation Passive products Low to Medium
Amendments to MiFID II Suitability  Strategy, Products range, Distribution Very high
Tests (ESG Preferences)
Amendments to UCITS & AIFM L2  Governance, Processes and Controls, Risk management,  High
Texts Conflict of interests
Amendments to MiFID L2 Texts Product governance, Conflict of interests, Processes and  High
Controls
EU Ecolabel for Retail Financial  Label for taxonomy aligned products Low to Medium
products
What is next?
The new EU Commission has, through the announcement of the Green Deal 
Action Plan, confirmed that financing the transition to a greener economy 
is more than ever a key priority. We shall therefore be expecting new 
consultations and additional measures, through for instance an announced 
consultation on the renewed Sustainable Finance action plan as well as 
revision to the non-financial reporting directive.
Sustainable Finance, a new era for asset managers | 7
Impact for Asset Managers 
(“Managers”) – How to surf the 
wave
1
Strategic Positioning – ESG, Do or Die?  
When considering ESG strategic positioning, there is 
a variety of possible positions which could be taken. 
Ranging from compliance considerations through to a 
full assessment of the business opportunities, which 
arise both from the industry to the growing interest from 
investors and other stakeholders in this area, Managers 
Leading the 
will certainly be impacted. 
way
Listen & learn
Minimum compliance 
only basis
The above spectrum can also vary from jurisdiction  and for every company. No Manager can continue 
to jurisdiction - whilst some jurisdictions could  to ignore industry-wide potential divestment costs 
themselves be seen as leading the way in terms  from fossil fuels, tobacco, controversial weapons, 
of attitude and regulation, others may not be so  animal testing products etc., and needs to assess 
advanced in their ESG journey.  the impact of future investments.
But the trend is a global one. Regardless of  At a minimum, companies will have to comply 
the journey that is being taken within individual  with the upcoming EU regulations. Managers 
jurisdictions, the sustainability / ESG agenda  could decide to wait until current texts in draft / 
is not one which can be ignored - this will be a  discussion / feedback stages are finalised by the 
global long-term journey which every country and  EU, but this will not leave enough time for proper 
company will have to take, and therefore it is at  implementation as the calendar will be tight and the 
the stage of “ESG …. do or die” for every country  changes are pervasive. 
8 | PwC
Additional consideration will also be required by  exclusions but have not yet articulated this fully to 
local regulators, leading to additional and different  investors, or reported on these policies. 
focus from jurisdiction to jurisdiction – e.g. “Value 
“Winners” in this market will be those who can 
for Money” reporting within the UK. 
articulate their ESG policy and position their 
If the sustainability journey is perceived as a  products early to take advantage of the growing 
compliance exercise only, the focus will be on the  interest in the market. 
associated costs of compliance - whilst, this is 
 
always a concern, once the legislation is passed, 
it will be unavoidable. Additionally, whilst the 
monetary cost of non-compliance may be less than 
the cost of implementation, the non-financial cost 
could include adverse publicity, and could have a 
potential impact on longer-term financial returns.
Therefore, for Managers choosing the compliance 
only route - they need to consider whether 
this is actually the best avenue - investors and 
stakeholders may demand more. This choice 
of strategic positioning, whilst initially being the 
“cheaper” option, may cost more in the long run - 
and not just from a financial point of view.
Consideration of the “long term” within 
your strategic positioning is no longer just a 
consideration of short-term opportunities; they 
rather reflect a longer-term risk perspective. 
Companies that actively follow and engage with 
the ESG agenda can work to mitigate medium-
term and longer-term risks both within their own 
businesses, and within their investee companies 
through strong governance engagement, leading 
to the possibility to generate longer-term and more 
sustainable returns over time for investors.
Adapting investment offerings to incorporate ESG 
products and strategies helps align both investors, 
other stakeholders and also regulators’ long-term 
and evolving requirements. 
It is also an opportunity to add value for clients and 
to engage with them – many are already involved in 
ESG activities through engagement with investee 
companies regarding governance, diversity and 
Sustainable Finance, a new era for asset managers | 9
2
Investors – Where will the ESG agnostic be hiding?  
Most sustainable investors 
expect better performance, 
bigger impact (“Return on 
Values” report), UBS
For many years, investment decisions were not necessarily aligned with investors’ 
value or long-term concerns. Even though more than 90% of EU citizens mention that 
climate change is a key concern to them*, climate change investment products have 
remained niche so far. Per UBS “Return on Values” report entitled, “Most sustainable 
investors expect better performance, bigger impact”, 65% of HNW investors believe 
it is highly important to help create a better planet, however only 39% say they have 
sustainable investments in their portfolio (View QR Code). 
PwC conducted a survey of 750 institutional investors and 10,000 retail investors 
around the world in 2019 (PwC: Asset and Wealth Management revolution: investors 
perspectives – View QR Code). ESG is the third priority in importance among investors 
surveyed, as a whole group, and it outranks fees. According to the PwC survey, 
investors in Europe, as a general group, care more about ESG than their counterparts in 
North America. ESG is a key focus for many large pension and sovereign wealth funds 
demanding from the managers to whom they allocate mandates to meet their ESG 
expectations. And institutional investors expectations are rising rapidly. While the focus 
Asset and Wealth  is currently stronger in Europe, no one managing money from an allocator in the EU 
Management revolution: 
can feel immune from these demands. And it’s also increasingly important to younger 
investors perspectives, PwC
generations, who will be receiving large wealth transfers from older generations over the 
coming years.
In addition, the anticipated changes in the EU regulatory environment are expected to 
further accelerate this shift in investors’ appetite. Indeed, imagine that in less than two 
years’ time, suitability tests under MiFID II will include questions about investors’ ESG 
preferences… How many investors will articulate to their advisors that they do not care 
at all or that they are totally ESG agnostic? And for the majority who will express ESG 
interest, the intermediary will have to propose products whose ESG considerations 
match the investor’s ESG preferences. Will any of the product range without any ESG 
integration survive this expected ESG wave?
Several Managers have already anticipated the trends and indicated that they are 
switching their entire product range towards ESG integration. 
In this new market dynamic, the winners will be not only those who offer the right 
product at the right time, but also those who will be able to engage with the head and 
the heart of the investors, with comprehensive reporting that will tell the story of the 
investment decision impact on the investee company and the sustainability factors.
* source: EU 2019 Survey - Citizen support for climate change
10 | PwC 
3
Governance – Will the change come from the top? 
Younger generations have led the way in marching for the climate. Will we note a similar trend within the 
financial sector with changes coming from the youngest employees? Youth can certainly be a force for 
change and innovation, but as in any significant strategic change, in particular those driven by regulation, the 
tone from the top will be critical.
These changes will not only affect Manager’s products, investment decisions and product distribution but 
also how Managers incorporate ESG in their business operations and strategy. As such, companies will be 
asked to consider and measure both the effect of their products and services on sustainability topics as well 
as the impact of sustainability topics on their products and services. 
In order to identify the impact of sustainability on the company’s business model as well as strategy, it will 
be necessary to define oversight, accountability and responsibilities within the company. Processes and 
frequencies around board information need to be established. 
This applies to both risks as well as opportunities linked to sustainability. 
Identifying exposed business areas, on the one hand, requires a breakdown of assets under management 
(“AUM”) by business sector across asset classes such as equity, bonds, infrastructure, real estate, structured 
products, Mortgage-Backed Securities or derivatives, which is needed to demonstrate awareness. On 
the other hand, this heat map will identify current economic exposure and concentrations in industries or 
geographies that might be positively or negatively affected by sustainability topics, such as climate change. 
Identifying, measuring and monitoring of ESG risks and opportunities will require investment in data tools and 
technology. High data quality as well as a high portfolio coverage are essential to measure and report on ESG 
performance and attributes. 
The regulatory changes will require top management to ensure that:
•  Sustainability risks are adequately taken into consideration at all levels: in decision-making procedures 
and organisational structure, in staff training, in internal control mechanisms, in internal reporting and in 
the communication at all levels and with any third party, in orderly business records;
•  Employees (including those in charge of governance) possess the skills, knowledge and expertise, taking 
into account the effective integration of sustainability risks;
•  Disclosure on remuneration policies is updated to show how they are consistent with the integration of 
sustainability risks; 
•  Conflicts of interest potentially arising from integrating sustainability risks are adequately identified 
and managed. Conflicts of interest could arise from remuneration or personal transactions and any 
sources of conflicts that could give rise to greenwashing, mis-selling, misrepresentation of investment 
strategies or churning. Consideration should also be given to conflicting interests between funds with 
different investment strategies managed by the same Manager as well as situations where there are other 
business-relationships with investee companies, conflicting group interests, investments in entities with 
close links or similar circumstances.
Sustainable Finance, a new era for asset managers | 11
4
Product Strategy – Is there a future for non-ESG products? 
As mentioned above, the requirement to match ESG consideration with investors’ ESG preferences will require a 
profound review of the product range and their target market definition.
Moreover, the “Disclosures Regulation” introduces two categories of products, with specific reporting requirements. 
Managers will therefore be required to map products to these new categories:
•  Products promoting, amongst other characteristics, environmental or social characteristics, or a combination 
of those characteristics (provided that the companies in which the investment is made follow good governance 
practice);
•  “Sustainable investment”, meaning investment in an economic activity that contributes to an environmental 
objective or a social objective, provided that such investment does not significantly harm any of the other 
objectives and the investee company follows good governance.
Environmental objective Social objective
Investment in economic  Measured, for example, by: •  Contributes to tackling inequality
activity that contributes to  •  Key resource efficiency indicators on the use of energy,  •  Fosters social cohesion, social integration and labour 
renewable energy relations
one of environmental or  •  Key resource efficiency indicators on the use of raw  •  Investment in human capital of economically or socially 
social objective materials disadvantaged communities
•  Key resource efficiency indicators on the use of water 
and land
•  Production of waste
•  Greenhouse gas emission
•  Impact on biodiversity and the circular economy
DNSH “Do not significantly harm (DNSH)” - such investments do not harm significantly any of the above objectives 
Provided that the investee company follows good governance practices, in particular with respect to sound management 
Governance
structure, employee relations, remuneration of staff and tax compliance 
Implication on product range - Integration versus sustainability objective? 
Many different approaches exist for incorporating ESG considerations into products. This creates some important strategic 
questions for Managers and their business models.
On one hand, the “Disclosures Regulation” may encourage Managers to integrate ESG considerations into their investment 
decisions by requiring them to be more transparent with investors about how this is being done. This is likely to be done at 
group-level and applied consistently across all portfolios.
Managers may also have funds with explicit sustainability objective, which will typically be marketed on this basis. 
The “Disclosures Regulation” will require firms with such funds to publicly report on their performance against relevant 
sustainability objectives. While the “Disclosures Regulation” stops short of mandating funds with this type of strategy, it may 
have the practical effect of encouraging firms to develop these types of products, as firms seek to respond to the ambitions 
of policymakers and evolving public attitudes. 
12 | PwC
A number of different approaches exist in relation to funds  Conduct risks associated with products
with explicit sustainability mandates:  
As the prominence of ESG investing increases, new 
•  Negative screening: an investment strategy, which  conduct risks may arise. Firms need to be mindful of these 
excludes specific sectors, companies or business  risks when developing their products.
activities on the basis that they are deemed not worth 
investing in. Possible conduct risks include:
•  Positively managed investment approaches: an  •  Information asymmetries between investee companies 
investment strategy that positively screens sectors,  and Managers in relation to the ESG credentials of the 
companies or business activities to focus on  former. Poor company data on ESG credentials means 
investments with good ESG ratings. This can include,  that Managers do not have a clear understanding of 
for example, thematic investing (i.e. investing on the  whether their investments are supportive of a fund’s 
basis of specific themes) or ‘best in class’ (i.e. investing  specific investment strategy. This could result in 
in the best companies within a given sector). investments that do not adequately align with clients’ 
•  Impact investing: an investment strategy that aims to  investment objectives. In addition, it could mean 
generate a positive social and/or environmental impact,  that Managers reflect the uncertainty they have in 
even if financial returns are compromised. relation to ESG credentials of investee companies 
into the price formation process (in both primary and 
Practical considerations will arise as to how to map 
secondary markets), distorting the efficiency/integrity of 
these against ESG consideration and product categories 
price formation and, ultimately, bringing into question 
introduced in the new “Disclosure Framework”.
whether they are securing the best pricing outcome 
There is a legitimate question over the future for funds that  for their clients. Emerging technology can assist fund 
do not, in any way, have an ESG component. It seems  managers in overcoming problems relating to information 
difficult to imagine that firms will not integrate ESG factors  asymmetry. Some firms are employing innovative ways 
into decisions over how their funds are invested. However, it  of obtaining data, including using AI systems to churn 
remains to be seen as to whether firms will develop a wider  through unstructured data, linking sustainable initiatives 
range of sustainable investment products.  to companies through searching through patent filings, 
news stories and other sources of information in cases 
Will some firms move towards a position where all AUM are 
where public reporting may be less transparent.
managed in accordance with ESG criteria, or will portions of 
•  Greenwashing/mis-selling: Firms also need to be 
AUM be carved out and managed according to a discrete 
mindful of how they are presenting their funds to 
ESG strategy? What is clear is that the current regulatory 
investors from an ESG perspective. In practice, investors 
environment presents an opportunity for firms to adapt their 
may have little visibility of the ESG credentials of the 
business models and product strategy to give a bigger role 
companies funds they are investing in - this information 
to ESG and sustainability. Firms should, therefore, review 
asymmetry creates a conflict of interest between 
their fund ranges and consider opportunities to develop 
the Managers and the client, which firms need to 
funds with these sustainability mandates.   
manage. Linked to this, firms may also be mis-selling 
Implications for product governance without realising. There are numerous components 
to this, including a lack of agreed standards for green 
The MiFID II product governance regime requires firms 
investments and patchy reporting. Firms should be clear 
to clearly define a target market, establish and monitor 
on where the proceeds of capital marketed as a green 
appropriate distribution channels (and potential conflicts of 
investment is allocated, and reflect this in their reporting. 
interests) and communicate this clearly to stakeholders.
The EC’s green bonds standard and the UK’s green 
In practice, Managers rely on intermediaries to distribute  finance strategy will help support the development and 
products in a heavily intermediated market, but it is still  credibility of the market by boosting transparency and 
incumbent upon Managers to construct products with a  thereby raising the standards for green bond issuance. 
clear demographic in mind, ensuring that the product meets  •  Re-packaging existing products/strategies and 
their investment needs and objectives, and communicate to  presenting them as fulfilling ESG preferences where they 
distributors for whom the product is intended. do not.   
In relation to defining what constitutes ESG products,  •  Value/costs agenda dimension: how do firms consider 
target markets, and other areas that require more regulatory  any additional costs associated with screening and 
guidance, the ESMA has proposed a flexible approach, at  research into ESG-related instruments - if market 
least initially, which is intended to serve as a starting point  participants and their representatives, in response to 
allowing market participants to accommodate themselves  ESMA, believe that there is no inherent rationale for why 
to ESG-requirements in the context of product governance. ESG products should be more costly, the question will 
arise as to who will bear these costs.
On this basis, firms could expect a degree of deviation to 
be tolerated as the regulatory position on sustainability 
continues to evolve.
Sustainable Finance, a new era for asset managers | 13
5
Distribution – The last missing link? 
On 4 January 2019, the EC published the updated  Such requirements may increase the complexity of 
MiFID II/IDD rules on how investment firms and  the suitability process, and general references to 
insurance distributors should take sustainability  ESG could lead to divergent interpretations of how 
issues into account when providing advice to their  the amendments should be implemented.
clients.
Moreover, incorporating ESG preferences into the 
The EU publication allows for differentiation  target market assessment for distributors could also 
between investment objectives on one hand and  create problems as that responsibility for reliably 
ESG preferences on the other. The EC stated that  ensuring that a product has ESG characteristics 
this differentiation is important in order to avoid  primarily resides with the manufacturer and not 
mis-selling, which may happen should an ESG  the distributor of the product. A lack of available 
consideration take precedence over a client’s  ESG data on issuer activities can aggravate this, 
personal investment objective. particularly when a manufacturer is not subject to 
MiFID II and therefore is not obliged to assess a 
The amendments also state that investment firms 
target market. 
should identify “at a sufficiently granular level the 
potential target market for each financial instrument  In this case, the distributor has to assess a target 
and specify the type(s) of client for whose needs,  market “as a substitute” – a task which is regarded 
characteristics and objectives, and ESG preferences  even more difficult by the respondents given the 
(where relevant), the financial instrument is  aforementioned information gaps.
compatible.”
ESMA has maintained that it expects distributors 
In its advice to the EC, ESMA elaborated on  to conduct their own target market assessment 
proposed changes to MiFID II suitability guidelines -  according to Article 10(2) of the MiFID II Delegated 
the amendments would require firms to (i) take into  Directive.
account ESG preferences in the context of assessing 
•  In doing so, the distributor scrutinises the 
client’s investment objectives and (ii) to consider 
manufacturer’s target market and eventually 
ESG factors in the context of product classification. 
refines it according to its own data or the specific 
The ESMA has suggested adopting a high-level 
needs of the client base. 
approach that will allow firms to decide how best to 
incorporate these preferences within their existing  •  Without sufficient information, distributors will not 
suitability processes. be expected to recommend or to market products 
for which they are unable to check the plausibility 
Manufacturers and distributors should specify,  of certain features – especially if they are used for 
with a meaningful level of granularity, which ESG  marketing purposes. 
preferences the investment product fulfils. For 
example, it would not be sufficient to specify that the 
investment product has, as a target market, clients 
who are interested in environmentally sustainable, 
social and good governance investments. Firms 
should instead specify more precisely which ESG 
preferences it fulfils.
14 | PwC
Practical steps for product manufacturers
Clear product labelling
Manufacturers may look to obtain a product label to make it clear how ESG has been incorporated 
into funds. Labels have been flourishing in Europe in the past years as labelling could, in some way, 
address the mis-selling conduct risks mentioned.
Ongoing engagement with product distributors
Including training sessions and materials that can be accessed by product distributors.
Publicly available ESG policies
Making firm-wide and product-specific ESG policies publicly available increases the chances that 
end-investors will be able to access the information they need.
Engagement apps and robo-advice
Develop tools to capture ESG investor preferences and direct them to appropriate products.
Could be integrated into existing tools used by distributors or simply provided alongside publicly 
available ESG policies.
Any tool would need to consider (and appropriately weigh) wider investment considerations such as 
risk appetite, historic performance, expected returns and fees.
Assurance and standards
Consider obtaining external verification of the ESG credentials for certain products to reduce risks of 
mis-selling.
Data collection
Obtain data from distributors to understand who is investing in these products and how these 
products are being marketed as regards ESG preferences.
Reward and remuneration
Consider linking a component of distributor incentives (where the regulatory regime allows) to the 
capturing of ESG preferences of end-investors.
Sustainable Finance, a new era for asset managers | 15
6
Business processes and operations – The practical challenges 
The data challenge 
Dealing with non-financial information embeds practical key challenges as this data is mainly partial (non-
financial reporting is not imposed on all companies nor is the content harmonised by binding regulation) and 
very often self-declaratory (not subject to mandatory external assurance). In this context, Managers shall 
ensure implementing strong data processes around:
•  Choosing the appropriate data vendors;
•  Filling in any data gap;
•  Choosing the right set of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs);
•  Establishing a robust process in data collection;
•  Enhancing current data systems to integrate these new ranges of data and new sources for challenging 
available data (AI); 
•  Obtaining assurance vis-à-vis the data reliability.
The risk management challenge
Managers (including management companies and AIFMs) will have to ensure that ESG risks are assessed in 
relation to each investment and that a proper risk management system is implemented.
In this context, the following aspects should be considered:
•  Documented and regular due diligence process when investing on behalf of the investors (respectively on 
behalf of the fund(s)). The criteria for such due diligence should be adapted to the investment strategy, 
objectives and risk profile of the fund and they need to fully integrate the ESG dimensions;
•  Risk Inventory: risks towards each investment in the portfolio should be properly identified, measured, 
managed and monitored on an ongoing basis;
•  Risk measurement: management and monitoring of each risk, including ESG, towards each product;
•  Risk Management policy: an adequate and written policy with appropriate frequency of review;
•  Quantitative and qualitative risk limits for each product, taking into account the ESG criteria, the risk 
appetite of the product and any commitments to investors;
•  Alignment of the prospectus / offering document with the risk management process;
•  Effective and proper implementation of ESG factors into the Risk Management Policy;
•  Reporting on ESG risks.
16 | PwC
The people and skills challenge
ESG and sustainability trained resources will be required at all levels of the organisation (from top 
management, investment managers, analysts, product design, sales, oversight of delegates and outsourced 
functions, risk management, reporting, controls function and internal audit). 
Recruitment of new talents will be the obvious answer, but skilled resources are limited. In the absence of 
available talent pools, upskilling might be the right tactical answer to this challenge. Managers should also 
anticipate the skills challenge faced by delegates and service providers, who will also be required to upskill 
their teams.
The accountability challenge  
The “Disclosures Regulation” will require Managers to disclose the ESG policy towards a wider group of 
stakeholders. Managers will have to ensure that they meet their commitments towards these stakeholders. In 
this context, Managers will have to answer the following questions:
•  What to disclose without over-committing and remaining balanced? 
•  How to ensure the principles disclosed in the ESG policy are those consistently applied prior to the 
investment decision and also when monitoring AUM?
•  How to monitor the activities in a timely manner?
•  How to cater to shareholders’ voting activity with relevant topics and effective influence?
Sustainable Finance, a new era for asset managers | 17
7
Reporting and Investor Engagement – The winner takes it all 
Transparency is a key component in the sustainability agenda. The “Disclosures Regulation” will impose very 
demanding reporting requirements. All financial market participants and advisors will be required to report on 
sustainability risks: how these risks are integrated in their investment decisions as well the assessment of the 
likely impacts of these risks. If these risks are deemed not relevant, Managers will be required to justify this 
decision. 
All Managers will be required therefore to collect data (refer to the data challenge mentioned above) and 
implement adequate methodology, processes and systems to assess, monitor and disclose these risks.
Moreover, specific products will be required to add specific disclosure requirements (in the prospectus, 
on the website and in periodic reports). And the recently approved Taxonomy regulation already modifies 
the “Disclosures regulation”, by imposing disclosure of the proportion of the investments aligned with 
the Taxonomy for any product promoting environmental characteristics or considered as environmentally 
sustainable.  
Products promoting 
environmental or social  Sustainable investment Non-ESG products
characteristics
Disclosures  Sustainable risks Sustainable risks Sustainable risks
Regulation
How objective will be attained, 
How E or S characteristics achieved 
methodologies to measure impact and 
methodologies used to measure and 
overall impact measurement (sustainability 
extent met (or through benchmark 
indicators) and/or benchmark disclosure 
disclosure if passive)
(passive products)
Products promoting  Environmentally sustainable 
Other products
environmental characteristics investment
Additional 
environmental 
disclosures  Information on environmental objective(s),  Information on environmental objective(s), 
(Taxonomy   how and to what extent invested in  how and to what extent invested in  Statement that the financial product does 
proposal) environmentally sustainable activities  environmentally sustainable activities  not take into account the EU criteria for 
(including portfolio percentage and details  (including portfolio percentage and details  environmentally sustainable products
on enabling and transition activities) on enabling and transition activities)
Besides the obligation of impact measurements applicable to sustainable investments, Managers are also 
encouraged to disclose their due diligence policy in measuring the adverse impacts of their investment 
decision on sustainability factors (i.e. measuring the cumulated environmental and social impacts of their 
investment decisions and portfolios). These requirements will become mandatory for large Managers of over 
500 employees and their products (comply or explain approach).
Impact assessment and disclosure will be a real challenge, given the data challenge mentioned before and 
the lack of a universally recognised methodology. Timing will be particularly challenging as the implementing 
measures are not expected to be finalised ahead of the implementation deadline: the regulation will apply 
from 10 March 2021.
Frontrunners may nevertheless consider the reporting requirement not just as a burdensome challenge but as 
a real business opportunity. 
Mandatory reporting will indeed make any greenwashing temptation more difficult. With the new “Disclosures 
Regulation”, as soon as Managers refer to “Environmental” or “Social” characteristics or “Sustainable” 
objectives in their prospectus, they will be required to disclose how they intend to achieve these objectives, 
how they will measure the results as well as the results achieved in their periodic reports.
Systematic reference to ESG risks in pre-contractual documentation will be an eye-opener even for the most 
ESG agnostic investors, who will realise that proper investment decisions need to integrate consideration of 
ESG factors and events.
18 | PwC
And last but not least, those who will go beyond the mandatory reporting requirements, shall seize the 
opportunity to tell the real impact story to their investors – how their investment has delivered positive 
impacts on the market, or has helped to stop inadequate ESG policies – and reconnect their investment 
decision with their personal interest. This is a real opportunity for Managers to talk not only to the minds of 
the investors (risks/performance), but also to their hearts and engage with them for the longer term.
Impact of Action Plan Implementation
•  Decide on ESG/RI strategy (leader or follower)
•  Assess interaction with local regulations as well as 
•  Capture engagement activities, 
global developments (US/Asia)
ESG activities and sustainable 
•  Decide on products strategy (e.g. which proportion to 
activities within organisation
redefine, active or passive, etc.)
•  Establish reporting lines and 
•  Assess strategic impact with benchmark regulation 
processes
and other EU regulation (SRD II)
•  Decide on communication plan 
(corporate, products), decide on 
whether minimalistic approach  •  Assess impact on current 
(versus “telling a story” to investors)  investor base (which 
and assess on whether to perform  percentage are likely to 
impact reporting  have ESG preference(s)? 
•  Perform gap analysis Strategic impact Sustainable activities 
•  Implement product reporting  products?)
(interact with administrators and  •  Decide on market positioning 
Reporting/ 
other suppliers) process including  01 and communication strategy
Investor 
quality control aspects Investors •  Assess and monitor 
Engagement
engagement activities
06 02
•  Update suitability tests as 
required
Implications
05 03
Distribution 04 Governance
•  Refine target market definition and 
communicate to intermediaries Product  •  Upskill management/board
•  Assess current distributors,  Strategy •  Embed ESG within corporate 
intermediaries  culture
•  Adapt distribution network and/or  •  Assess ESG risks and decide 
educate intermediaries as required upon corporate approach
•  Review process to assess target  •  Review product governance
market efficiency  •  Interaction with stewardship 
code
•  Decide on whether more ESG products (or to remap 
existing ones) more thematic/sustainable activities
•  Review existing product range, assess gap and 
decide on actions
•  Categorise existing and amend documentation 
(prospectuses, marketing documents, KIDs)
•  Launch additional products as required
•  Decide on whether product label shall be required
Sustainable Finance, a new era for asset managers | 19
Contacts
Olwyn Alexander,    Steven Libby,      Nathalie Dogniez,     
Global  EMEA  Luxembourg
Partner Partner Partner
+353 (0) 1 7928719 +352 49 48 48 2116 +352 49 48 48 2040
olwyn.m.alexander@pwc.com steven.libby@lu.pwc.com nathalie.dogniez@lu.pwc.com
Lesley Bell,       Toufik Chaïb,       Leo Donnachie,    
PwC Ireland PwC Luxembourg PwC UK
Director Partner Senior Associate
+353 17928133 +352 49 48 48 2335 +44 (0)7483 329595 
lesley.bell@pwc.com toufik.chaib@lu.pwc.com emilio.donnachie@pwc.com
Lex Huis in het Veld,     Lucas Penfold,      Carol Storey,      
PwC Netherlands PwC UK PwC UK
Senior Manager Manager Senior Manager
+31 (0)887925953 +44 7483 407581 +44 7718 979726
lex.huis.in.het.veld@pwc.com lucas.penfold@pwc.com  carol.storey@pwc.com
Benedikt Tschinkl,     Martin Weirich,     
PwC Germany PwC Germany
Manager Director
+49 6995856769 +49 69 9585 3806
benedikt.tschinkl@pwc.com martin.weirich@pwc.com 
At PwC, our purpose is to build trust in society and solve important problems. We’re a network of firms in 
157 countries with over 276,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in assurance, advisory and 
tax services. Find out more and tell us what matters to you by visiting us at www.pwc.com.
This content is for general information purposes only, and should not be used as a substitute for consultation 
with professional advisors.
© 2020 PwC. All rights reserved. PwC refers to the PwC network and/or one or more of its member firms, 
each of which is a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details.