
 
2020 
ANNUAL 
SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT 
 
QUAERO CAPITAL | info@quaerocapital.com | quaerocapital.com 
   
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 
    May 2021 
 
 
 
      
     
   
 
 
 
 
    CONTENTS 
     
Disclaimer .............................................................................................................................. 2 
A reflection on sustainable investments in 2020 ............................................................. 4 
1. The transformation at QUAERO CAPITAL ....................................................................... 5 
2. Our responsible investment approach ........................................................................... 9 
3. Our funds .......................................................................................................................... 12 
4. Other public commitments ............................................................................................ 16 
5. Corporate Social Responsibility at QUAERO CAPITAL .............................................. 17 
 
     
 
 
    For any question, please contact info@quaerocapital.com. 
   
 
  QUAERO CAPITAL | info@quaerocapital.com | quaerocapital.com  1 
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 
    May 2021 
 
 
 
DISCLAIMER 
     
    This report includes information regarding Quaero Capital SA (together with its affiliates, 
“QUAERO CAPITAL”) and its efforts on environmental, social, and governance performance. 
No part of this report constitutes investment, legal, tax, regulatory, accounting, or other 
advice of any kind. This document is confidential and is intended only for the use of the 
person(s) to whom it was delivered. It is neither directed to, nor intended for distribution or 
use by, any person or entity who is a citizen or resident of or located in any locality, state, 
country or jurisdiction where such distribution, publication, availability or use would be 
contrary to law or regulation. By receiving these materials, recipients agree to maintain all 
information contained herein strictly confidential and not to disclose the information to 
anyone, except within the recipient’s organization and limited to those who need to know 
such information and who are bound by duties of confidentiality or as otherwise required by 
law. The information presented and contained herein may not be reproduced or redistributed 
for any other purposes without the prior written permission of QUAERO CAPITAL. 
 
This document does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to purchase any 
security of any fund or any other investment vehicle or product sponsored or managed by 
QUAERO CAPITAL. Any offer to purchase or buy securities or other financial instruments will 
only be made pursuant to an offering document and the subscription documents, which will 
be  furnished  to  qualified  investors  on  a  confidential  basis  at  their  request  for  their 
consideration in connection with any such offering. The prospectus, KIID, articles, annual and 
semi-annual reports (the "Legal Documents") may be obtained free of charge at the address 
mentioned below. Any investment decision in connection with Quaero Capital Funds (Lux), 
Quaero Capital Funds (Ireland) Plc and/or Quaero Capital Funds (CH) (collectively, the 
"Quaero Funds") should be based on the information contained in the Legal Documents. 
 
Unless specified, any views, including any general discussions regarding the market or market 
conditions, reflected herein are those solely of QUAERO CAPITAL, dated as of December 31, 
2019, and are subject to change without notice. Neither QUAERO CAPITAL nor any of its 
affiliates are under any obligation to update or keep current the information contained 
herein. The reported impact of initiatives is based on internal analysis of QUAERO CAPITAL 
and information provided by the applicable portfolio company. Impacts of such initiatives are 
estimates that have not been verified by a third party and are not necessarily reported 
according to established voluntary standards or protocols. QUAERO CAPITAL does not 
guarantee the accuracy, adequacy, or completeness of such information. They may also 
reflect  the  influence  of  external  factors  such  as  macro-economic  or  industry  trends. 
Additionally, certain information contained in this presentation constitutes “forward-looking 
statements”. Due to various risks and uncertainties, actual events or results or the actual 
performance of any QUAERO CAPITAL investment may differ materially from those reflected 
or contemplated in such forward-looking statements. 
 
There is no guarantee that results shown will be replicated in the future and actual results 
may be better or worse in future years. Past performance is not indicative of future results. 
Any information provided in this report about past investments is provided solely to illustrate 
the  investment  process  and  strategies  previously  used  by  QUAERO  CAPITAL.  No 
representation is being made that any investment or transaction will or is likely to achieve 
profits or losses similar to those achieved in the past or that significant losses will be avoided. 
Investment professionals and portfolio managers may use some or all of the techniques 
and/or processes described herein. The specific securities and portfolio companies identified 
and described in this report do not represent all of the securities or portfolio companies 
purchased, sold or recommended by QUAERO CAPITAL. The reader should not assume that 
investments in the securities and portfolio companies identified and discussed were or will 
be profitable. 
 
  QUAERO CAPITAL | info@quaerocapital.com | quaerocapital.com  2 
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 
    May 2021 
 
 
 
ESG/ investing strategies aim to consider and in some instances integrate the analysis of 
environmental,  social  and  governance  (ESG)  factors  into  the  investment  process  and 
portfolio. Strategies across geographies and styles approach ESG analysis and incorporate the 
findings in a variety of ways. Incorporating ESG factors may inhibit the portfolio manager’s 
ability to participate in certain investment opportunities that otherwise would be consistent 
with its investment objective and other principal investment strategies. The returns on a 
portfolio consisting primarily of ESG or sustainable investments may be lower or higher than 
a portfolio where such factors are not considered by the portfolio manager. Because 
sustainability criteria can exclude some investments, investors may not be able to take 
advantage of the same opportunities or market trends as investors that do not use such 
criteria. Companies may not necessarily meet high performance standards on all aspects of 
ESG or sustainable investing issues; there is also no guarantee that any company will meet 
expectations  in  connection  with  corporate  responsibility,  sustainability,  and/or  impact 
performance. 
 
Notice for Swiss investors: The Legal Documents may be obtained free of charge in French 
from the Swiss representative of the Fund. Swiss representative: FundPartner Solutions 
(Suisse) S.A., route des Acacias 60, CH-1211 Geneva, Switzerland. Swiss paying agent: Banque 
Pictet & Cie S.A. route des Acacias 60, CH-1211 Geneva, Switzerland. Latest prices are 
available on www.swissfunddata.ch. Notice for UK investors: This document has been issued 
in the United Kingdom by Quaero Capital LLP (authorized and regulated aby the Financial 
Conduct Authority with registration number 434203)The Legal Documents may be obtained 
free of charge in English at the registered office of Quaero Capital LLP, 2-4 King Street, London 
SW1Y 6QL. Notice for other investors: The Legal documents may be obtained free of charge 
in English at the registered office of the Fund 15, avenue J.F. Kennedy L-1855 Luxembourg. 
 
Although  QUAERO  CAPITAL’S  information  providers,  including  without  limitation, 
MSCI  ESG  Research  LLC  and  its  affiliates  (the  “ESG  Parties”),  obtain  information  (the 
“Information”) from sources they consider reliable, none of the ESG Parties warrants or 
guarantees the originality, accuracy and/or completeness, of any data herein and expressly 
disclaim all express or implied warranties, including those of merchantability and fitness for 
a particular purpose. The Information may only be used for your internal use, may not be 
reproduced or redisseminated in any form and may not be used as a basis for, or a component 
of, any financial instruments or products or indices. Further, none of the Information can in 
and of itself be used to determine which securities to buy or sell or when to buy or sell them. 
None of the ESG Parties shall have any liability for any errors or omissions in connection with 
any data herein, or any liability for any direct, indirect, special, punitive, consequential or any 
other damages (including lost profits) even if notified of the possibility of such damages. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  QUAERO CAPITAL | info@quaerocapital.com | quaerocapital.com  3 
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 
    May 2021 
 
 
 
A REFLECTION ON SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENTS IN 2020 
 
2020 was a key year for responsible investing and ESG funds. As the pandemic raged for most of the year and investors remained 
cautious, sustainable investing became mainstream as it managed to grow by over 50% in an otherwise subdued fund market1. 
Whether this rate of growth will repeat itself in the coming years remains to be seen, but we can clearly see a paradigm shift in asset 
owners’ attitude towards responsible investing. The superposition of 3 global problems – climate change, rising inequalities and 
corporate governance – with an increased realisation that finance has a massive responsibility in tackling these very pressing issues 
have initiated a Copernican revolution in the role that saving plays in shaping tomorrow’s world. This change has percolated at every 
level: the political and regulatory environment, the financial industry and the savers who no longer ignore the impact that their 
collective pool of assets can have in defining the future. 
In Europe, this change has given birth to the new regulations that are aiming at creating both common standards and a level playing 
field for responsible investing. The introduction of the Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 
27 November 2019 on sustainability-related disclosures in the financial services sector (SFDR) and several other national initiatives 
should help investors navigate through the maze of claims made by the investment management industry. It is clearly only a beginning, 
and it is easy to be critical of the first step in trying to regulate any claim that is being made by financial service firms. However, the 
direction of travel is now very clear, and we foresee a much healthier environment, where claims of adherence to ESG standards are 
now set in a clear framework and funds are classified according to their degree of commitment to integrating ESG criteria in their 
investment policy. 
For boutique players like QUAERO CAPITAL, this has been a most welcome development. The asset management industry’s role is to 
manage saving and maximize risk adjusted after fee returns for the savers. At the same time, we are also committed to key investment 
principles that are grounded in our core belief that our industry must have a positive contribution to some of the world’s most pressing 
issues. Such principles drive our exclusion policy and our conviction for the need for good corporate governance. As a firm, we are 
also striving to improve on some metrics, such as carbon footprint and climate change. In 2020, we were very pleased to be awarded 
A+ in our PRI assessment for Strategy & Governance, reflecting the strong commitment and investment made in recent years to 
responsible investment. 
At the same time, we have also made strong commitment to strategies and projects that have a meaningful impact on climate change 
and responsible investing. The QUAERO CAPITAL European infrastructure strategy has committed substantial capital to several clean 
energy projects and monitors closely the impact its target investments have towards the achievement of the UN SDG. Equally, the 
QCF (Lux) - Accessible Clean Energy has seen strong growth in 2020 and we are pleased that it meets the “article 9” criteria of the new 
SFDR regulations in Europe. 
During this unusual year we managed to maintain a Business Continuity Plan in order to stay close to our clients and employees. Our 
IT infrastructure has always been designed to cope with such disruptions and allowed us to a smooth flexible working adaptation. We 
are thankful to our teams for the great work during the pandemic and we are proud of the resilience that our employees have shown 
during this difficult period. 
 
 
Jean Keller   
QUAERO CAPITAL 
Chief Executive Officer 
 
   
 
1 Source: “Greenwashing in finance: Europe’s push to police ESG investing”, Financial Times, 10.03.2021. 
 
  QUAERO CAPITAL | info@quaerocapital.com | quaerocapital.com  4 
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 
    May 2021 
 
 
 
1. THE TRANSFORMATION AT QUAERO CAPITAL 
     
Milestones from 2015 to 2020   
 
Graph 1: Our history in responsible investment  
Our history with responsible investment dates back a couple of years with the launch of the 
European Infrastructure strategy in 2015, a fund with a significant portfolio of renewable 
energy assets. As the responsible investment market has developed at an extraordinary pace 
since then, so too have we made great changes at QUAERO CAPITAL in both our investment 
processes and our own operations.  
     
   
 
    Graph 2: Critical campaigns are changing the face of the business 
     
    The last few years has seen major movements which are changing not just society and values 
but also affecting confidence in the shareholder capitalist model. The understanding and 
appreciation of the growing threats of climate change are fundamentally altering major 
industries far beyond previous expectations. Discussions around the role of business are 
evolving, incorporating sustainability into the responsibility of business as well as society and 
individuals. The interconnected threats of biodiversity loss, as well as developing science 
regarding changing weather patterns such as the weakening of the gulf stream could have 
even further impact that we currently understand. 
 
  QUAERO CAPITAL | info@quaerocapital.com | quaerocapital.com  5 
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 
    May 2021 
 
 
 
     
    In the face of these changes, we recognise the fundamental importance of considering 
sustainability risks in our investment processes alongside emerging opportunities.  
The challenge for us is that our philosophy to invest away from the crowds leads us to areas 
of the market that are under appreciated and under covered by the market; by nature, 
companies that are not rated by ESG agencies.  
In addition, our significant investments in small to mid-cap companies and emerging markets 
has meant less company disclosure of valuable ESG insights and data. We therefore recruited 
an in-house ESG team who could develop knowledge and expertise beyond what was known 
in the market. This led us to a bottom-up process for ESG analysis, leveraging our relationships 
with companies and combining it with extensive desk research across multiple sources, in line 
with our core philosophy for active, qualitative stock selection. 
Through our active and long-term approach to investment, sustainability has always formed 
part of our analysis, but over the past five years we have built strong and specific expertise in 
responsible investment. This includes industry leading expertise in investments in the energy 
transition through the combination of experiences in the QUAERO CAPITAL European 
infrastructure strategy and in the teams behind the QCF (Lux) – Accessible Clean Energy and 
QCF (Lux) – Infrastructure Securities, all of which have a significant focus on the green energy 
transition and immense experience and knowledge.  
As the company grows, and the variety of funds and asset classes increases, it is important 
that we develop our approach to responsible investment in a consistent and coordinated way. 
Thus, QUAERO CAPITAL has in place a dedicated ESG Committee which includes several senior 
partners of the company. The ESG Committee has oversight and responsibility for the 
development and integration of the ESG policy and for driving progress. 
     
QUAERO CAPITAL’s 2020   
Achievements 
 
     
PRI Assessment    QUAERO CAPITAL scored an ‘A+’ rating for ‘Strategy & Governance’ in the 2020 PRI Annual 
Assessment Report, reflecting the commitment and investment made in recent years to 
responsible investment. All modules in the annual assessment saw an improvement since last 
year. In particular, QUAERO CAPITAL achieved an ‘A’ rating for its active ownership and for 
the incorporation of ESG criteria in its listed equities strategies. Moreover, QUAERO CAPITAL’s 
infrastructure strategy obtained an ‘A+’ score. 
     
Fund Successes    We are delighted to see three of our funds stand out as best-in-class funds on sustainability 
metrics in 20202.  
 
2 Sources: Conser performs a quarterly sustainability check on each equity portfolio. Conser uses the intelligence of the sustainability market to rate each holding in 
the portfolio, aggregated to a portfolio score between A+ and D-. More information on the scores and methodology is available on request. https://www.conser.ch/en/ 
(scores as of 31.12.2020). 
© 2021 Morningstar. All Rights Reserved. The information contained herein: (1) is proprietary to Morningstar and/or its content providers; (2) may not be copied or 
distributed; and (3) is not warranted to be accurate, complete or timely. Neither Morningstar nor its content providers are responsible for any damages or losses arising 
from any use of this information. Past performance is no guarantee of future results (scores as of 31.12.2020). 
©2021 MSCI ESG Research LLC. Reproduced by permission (scores as of 31.12.2020). 
 
  QUAERO CAPITAL | info@quaerocapital.com | quaerocapital.com  6 
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 
    May 2021 
 
 
 
 
Graph 3: ESG scores for QUAERO CAPITAL funds 
 
These high recognitions are reflected by the funds specific objectives to allocate capital to 
companies that either demonstrate superior sustainability characteristics or actively pursue 
impact objectives. We are immensely proud of our early commitment to these funds and their 
subsequent success. 
     
The launch of our new Climate policy   In 2020, we have implemented a climate policy to reflect our commitment to the clean energy 
end of 2020  transition. QUAERO CAPITAL acknowledges the responsibility of the asset management 
industry in the fight against climate change and takes climate issues into account as an 
integral part of its responsible investment policy.  
We see the integration of climate risk as a core part of our fiduciary duty to clients. We also 
believe that the climate transition provides great opportunity for enhanced financial returns 
as well as positive impact, and as such continue to innovate and develop opportunities for 
clients in this sphere. 
We recognise the Paris Agreement ambition to keep global temperatures to 2 degrees above 
pre-industrial  levels,  and  the  further  ambition  to  limit  warming  to  1.5  degrees  as 
fundamentally important for society as well as our own investments.  
We have signed the statement of support for the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).  
One element of this policy is our new climate exclusion list, which excludes companies that 
continue to have a significant part of their business exposed to coal mining and coal powered 
energy without any public plans to significantly reduce this reliance to meet the 2-degree 
scenario. We have set this limit at 20% revenue exposure from coal mining and/ or coal 
thermal power generation. 
     
Our Portfolios     As part of the climate policy we will be measuring, monitoring and reporting the carbon 
footprint of each of our public equity and fixed income funds. With the active integration of 
ESG analysis into all fund processes we actively avoid those companies with most exposure 
to climate change mitigation and therefore, with only one exception, report lower carbon 
intensity than relevant benchmarks.   
The data reflects the different carbon intensities of industries, and the exposure to these 
industries in different geographies and benchmarks. For example, there are many carbon-
heavy oil and gas companies and carbon intensive energy producers in Eastern Europe. For 
our QCF (Lux) – New Europe, we invest only in those that have made a commitment to reduce 
carbon intensity in line with the Paris agreement.   
 
  QUAERO CAPITAL | info@quaerocapital.com | quaerocapital.com  7 
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 
    May 2021 
 
 
 
It is important to highlight the carbon intensity of the QCF (Lux) – Accessible Clean Energy and 
its clean energy benchmark. This is due to the inclusion of certain developers who, despite 
major investments in renewable energy and commitments to a zero-carbon future, are still 
divesting and/or retiring fossil fuel powered energy plants. We consider potential avoided 
emissions i.e. the future impact of these renewable energy investments a more important 
metric for this fund, alongside % green revenue.  
     
 
QUAERO CAPITAL Funds   Weighted  Benchmark3  Benchmark carbon intensity  
average carbon  (tco2 / USDm sales) 
intensity (tco2 / 
USDm sales) 
QCF (Lux) - Accessible Clean Energy   224.6  IShares Global Clean Energy ETF  233.8 
QCF (Lux) - Infrastructure Securities  523.6  S&P Infrastructure  983.0 
QCF (Lux) - Cullen ESG US Value   75.6  Russell Value 1000  249.0 
QCF (Lux) - Argonaut  81.8  MSCI Europe Mid  196.7 
QCF (Lux) - Bamboo  148.1  MSCI AC Asia Pacific  127.5 
QCF (Lux) - China  42.4  MSCI China  141.0 
QCF (Lux) - New Europe  490.0  MSCI Eastern Europe  652.3 
QCF (CH) - Swiss Small& Mid Cap  24.8  SPI Extra  116.0 
QCF (Lux) - Taiko Japan  64.6  Topix  75.0 
QCF (Lux) - Global Convertible Bonds   82.1  Refinitiv GCB ETF  135.8 
 
Table 1: QUAERO CAPITAL funds carbon intensity – data as of 31.03.2021 
   
 
3 Note: the term “Benchmark” used in this report does not refer to the index benchmark used for investment purposes and measures. 
 
  QUAERO CAPITAL | info@quaerocapital.com | quaerocapital.com  8 
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 
    May 2021 
 
 
 
2. OUR RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT APPROACH 
     
QUAERO CAPITAL Responsible    As a reminder, during 2018 we designed and implemented responsible investment policies 
Investment Framework  to provide a framework in our ESG approach for our UCITS funds. This continues to be the 
framework we apply to UCITS funds4. 
 
 
 
Graph 4: QUAERO CAPITAL ESG approach  
 
Dialogue & engagement    Our engagement and dialogue opportunities vary by investment strategy, but our policy 
supports the pursuit of active dialogue with company management where possible in line 
with our commitment to sustainability. This may mean making sure that we ask questions 
about a company’s approach to key sustainability risks during management meetings and 
that we ensure companies’ management teams are aware of our broad commitment to 
sustainable,  long-term  investment.  Disclosure  and  transparency  of  sustainability  risk 
management are a central theme to these conversations. If we can be one of many voices 
repeating the same message, we believe executives will increasingly take notice. 
We welcome opportunities to collaborate. We are a signatory to the IIGCC and co-sign their 
engagement letters to governments and companies on climate change issues. 
 
4 Note: this applies to all funds investing in listed securities except Quaero Capital Funds (Lux) – Yield Opportunities and Quaero Capital Funds (Lux) – World 
Opportunities which are sub-managed by asset managers outside of the QUAERO CAPITAL Group. 
 
  QUAERO CAPITAL | info@quaerocapital.com | quaerocapital.com  9 
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 
    May 2021 
 
 
 
 
We started working with CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) in 2018. We recognise 
climate risk and impact as the most important issue for most industries and consider this a 
priority for our engagement across the group. 
 
 
For two years, we have taken the role of lead investor and co-signatory, engaging with 
companies designated as those in industries with significant carbon risk profiles.  
We request that companies start to disclose to CDP the full details of their climate strategy, 
including an assessment of climate risks and opportunities, a description of the structure of 
accountability and importantly Scope 1 – 3 carbon emissions. This information enables us and 
other investors to better understand the profile of the investment from a climate risk 
perspective. 
We know this to be an important step in encouraging companies to take further steps forward 
in their management of the issue. According to CDP, in the first year of disclosure only 38% 
of companies have an emissions reduction target. By the third year of disclosure, that figure 
is up to 69%5. The process of addressing the risk, measuring the footprint and disclosing the 
strategy should ultimately result in targets to reduce and manage climate risk and footprint. 
For our small cap funds, to date we have initiated a dialogue with 13 companies, resulting in 
five companies replying to the CDP for the first time. We continue to see this campaign as 
highly valuable and a project through which we can have real influence on companies and 
their climate strategy. 
We participate to these campaigns also with our larger funds often as co-signatory, and up to 
now, we have signed more than 20 engagement letters.  
     
Voting    We consider the voting process essential to responsible investment, paying a key role in the 
development and direction of the company, and influencing important corporate governance 
structure. 
In late 2019, we invested in our voting process, enrolling Glass Lewis not to make our voting 
decisions for us, but to assist us with research which adds a great amount of value to our 
internal voting process.  
This information included comparison with country and industry peers, in depths analysis of 
the balance of skills of a corporate board, and evaluation of compensation plans. Voting 
decisions are made by fund managers, assisted by the ESG team. 
 
 
     
 
5 Source: CDP’s disclosure platform 
 
  QUAERO CAPITAL | info@quaerocapital.com | quaerocapital.com  10 
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 
    May 2021 
 
 
 
Funds  Total votes  % of votes  % against/  Reasoning 
made  absentee 
QCF (Lux) - Accessible Clean Energy  507  100%  5.7%  Against proposals shareholder dilution and about: 
audit/financials, board related, capital 
management, changes to company statutes, 
compensation elements 
QCF (Lux) - Argonaut  904  97%  12.2%  Against proposals shareholder dilution and about: 
audit/financials, board related, capital 
management, compensation, and meeting 
administration elements 
Atlantis Japan Growth Fund Limited  42  100%  11.9%  Against proposal about: board related, and 
compensation elements 
QCF (Lux) - Bamboo  89  91%  11.1%  Against proposal about: board, changes to 
company statutes, and compensation elements 
QCF (Lux) - China*  1  100%  0%  - 
Essor Japan Opportunities  50  100%  10%  Against proposals about: board, and 
compensation elements 
QCF (Lux) - Infrastructure Securities  375  100%  7.5%  Against proposals about: board, capital 
management, compensation, governance 
element, and social elements 
QCF (Lux) - New Europe  391  100%  14.1%  Against proposals about: audits/financials, board, 
capital management, changes to company 
statutes, meeting administration elements 
QCF (Lux) - Smaller European  785  100%  11.1%  Against proposals about: audit/financials, board 
Companies**  related, capital management, and compensation 
elements 
QCF (CH) - Swiss Small& Mid Cap  712  96.2%  12.4%  Against proposals about: board related, capital 
management, compensation elements 
QCF (Lux) - Taiko Japan***  26  100%  3.8%  Against proposals about: board related elements 
QCF (Lux) - Cullen ESG US Value ****  408  100%  7%  Against S/H Proposal on corporate governance 
Table 2: QUAERO CAPITAL voting record 2020 
 
*  QCF (Lux) - China was launched in November 2020 
** QCF (Lux) - Smaller European Companies merged with QCF (Lux) - Argonaut on 22 February 2021 
*** The fund transitioned to a new platform during the year, resulting in some missed votes 
****Funds not covered by QUAERO CAPITAL voting guidelines. Proxy voting is managed by the investment manager 
     
 
   
 
  QUAERO CAPITAL | info@quaerocapital.com | quaerocapital.com  11 
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 
    May 2021 
 
 
 
3. OUR FUNDS 
     
    The Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation (SFDR), one of the first elements of the 
European Commission’s Action Plan on financing sustainable growth, came into practice on 
10 March 2021. This regulation includes transparency requirements and integration of 
sustainability risks for all funds. The SFDR requires that funds declare themselves to be either 
funds with a sustainable objective (article 9), funds that promote ESG characteristics (article 
8), or ‘standard’ funds (article 6) and disclose sufficient information about the investment 
process for investors to understand how this is met, as well as additional disclosures about 
the impact of investments on sustainable objectives at organisation level. 
     
Article 8    Two of our funds, QCF (Lux) – Infrastructure Securities and QCF (Lux) – Cullen ESG US Value, 
have been classified Article 8 funds.  
These are funds that are committed to invest in companies that demonstrate a real 
appreciation and commitment to sustainability throughout their operations. Both funds aim 
to invest in companies with strong ESG profiles, meaning they manage ESG risks but also have 
more serious sustainability commitments in place than their peers and competitors. This may 
be  down  to  the  impact  of  their  business  on  the  environment  and  society,  or  their 
consideration of other stakeholders such as clients, employees, or suppliers.  
Fundamental to this approach is management for the long-term, and alignment of the 
executive team with that time horizon.  
The ESG commitment is demonstrated through exclusion of companies with low ESG ratings 
(i.e. below BBB) according to MSCI, as well as the bottom-up analysis by our ESG team which 
is integrated by the portfolio managers. In addition, industries or markets where business 
practice is controversial, and confidence is low in adherence to sustainability principles are 
underweighted or avoided.   
     
QCF (Lux) - Infrastructure Securities   Infrastructure  investments  are  intrinsically  environmentally  challenging  in  terms  of 
greenhouse  gas  emissions,  environmental  pollution,  habitat  destruction  and  species 
extinction. Current announced infrastructure spending plans make it the number one sector 
for global capital investment over the next ten years. Consequently, there is an immense 
challenge to promote responsible investment in this sector.    
The fund aims to support only those companies which are focusing on continuing their 
investments and activities in a sustainable way, reflected in the ESG best-in-class approach. 
These are companies that demonstrate good standards of governance, take into account and 
make effort to minimise negative externalities and who operate with social responsibility. We 
believe these companies have superior prospects for financial out-performance. 
     
QCF (Lux) – Cullen ESG US Value     The QCF (Lux) – Cullen ESG US Value is unique in the market in its combination of a value-
driven approach and prioritization of ESG principles. Portfolio holdings include high-quality 
companies for which market valuations do not accurately reflect long-term fundamentals. 
We  aim  to  take  advantage  of  market  dislocations,  namely  times  when  the  market 
undervalues a company’s sustainable position and long-term earnings growth potential. The 
ESG analysis is an important part of our quality assessment, identifying companies with strong 
governance,  stable  and  responsible  stewardship  and  consistent  management  of 
environmental and social risks. 
 
 
 
 
     
 
  QUAERO CAPITAL | info@quaerocapital.com | quaerocapital.com  12 
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 
    May 2021 
 
 
 
Article 9    Funds that pursue a sustainability objective are regulated as Article 9 funds. These are funds 
that are committed to allocate capital to companies that have a meaningfully positive impact 
on a sustainability objective, aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 
     
QCF (Lux) – Accessible Clean Energy   The fund has been classified as an Article 9 fund. As the name suggests, the fund has a clear 
sustainable objective from launch – to allocate capital to companies that will make clean 
energy accessible to all and meaningfully contribute to climate change mitigation. This is 
achieved by investing in companies that have proven clean technology. 
The impact of this fund can be monitored by measuring the revenue exposure to green 
revenues involved in climate change mitigation – through industries such as renewable 
energy developers, battery technology, de-centralised grid management, energy efficiency 
and electric vehicle components. 
 
    76% of holdings have > 50% of revenue exposed to green activities6 
 
     
    100% of holdings in the portfolio have a clear vision and strategy in line with 
zero carbon future. 
     
Small Cap Funds    A  key  part  of  the  team’s  investment  process  is  getting  out  and  meeting  companies, 
competitors and suppliers. Forming a long-term relationship with company management 
ensures we fully understand the company and has allowed us to influence holding companies 
in various ways. 
This includes recommendations on capital structure, introducing management to brokers to 
help improve the financial market coverage, and encouraging a simplification of over-
complex businesses to release value. 
Increasingly we are encouraging companies to make sustainability a priority in company 
strategy, requesting greater disclosure of key ESG risks and metrics, communicating the 
growing priority this has become for QUAERO CAPITAL, and assisting the company as they 
embark on major improvements. 
It has been surprising to hear during many of our engagements with companies that we are 
the first investor to raise these issues with the company. Some companies have welcomed 
this interaction, recognising that investor support is fundamental to enact real change. Others 
have been more reluctant, and we must work harder to press the issue at each meeting.  
As we invest for the long term, our time horizon to influence change is also long. 
Over the past two years we have sought to influence companies along three main themes – 
management of climate risk, transparency of ESG issues, and adaptation of strategies 
involving significant E&S risks. We have logged 34 engagements in total. 
We are particularly proud of our engagement with CDP. We believe we differ from many 
other investors in doing so: we do not send an email to investor relations as part of a big 
group of investors as others may do, but instead send emails directly to the CEO or CFO with 
whom we often have a good relationship. 
 
6 Green activities are understood as primary business that lies along the clean energy value chain including (i) clean energy technology development and production 
including solar, wind, bioenergy, hydraulic, geothermal energy; (ii) renewable energy transmission and distribution; (iii) smart grid management; (iv) energy storage 
technologies including hydrogen and batteries; (v) carbon capture and renewable energy services; (vi) raw materials used in the clean energy value chain; (vii) and 
energy efficiency including energy efficient products, systems and processes. (% green revenue as of 31.03.2021).  
 
  QUAERO CAPITAL | info@quaerocapital.com | quaerocapital.com  13 
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 
    May 2021 
 
 
 
For most of these engagements, we receive a prompt direct reply, which usually results in 
further dialogue between our Head of Sustainability, our fund managers and the company. 
     
Private Equity Funds    The investment time horizon for our investments in real assets is long, and our influence on 
projects is considerable as we usually take majority ownership positions.  
ESG analysis is a key part of our due diligence process, and an assessment of the impact of 
these assets on key sustainability objectives is important.  
KPIs are collected on an annual basis for projects, using the Sustainable Development Goal 
(SDG) framework to identify those that are most material, and objectives are agreed over 
time to align the projects to contribute towards the achievement of the SDGs more 
meaningfully. 
     
European Infrastructure Strategies    The  team  strives  to  incorporate  ESG  considerations  into  their  decision-making  and 
management practices.  
To date, the team has selected investments in renewable energy, social infrastructure such 
as hospitals and universities, optic fibre, data centres and water efficiency projects.  
A framework based on the SDGs is used to measure the positive contribution of the strategy. 
     
    > 604’089 medical treatments for patients in Spain and Italy in 2020 
 
     
    102 wind turbines and 5 hydro turbines built and in operation. 
452’856 MWh clean energy generated (wind and hydro) in 2020 
 
     
    213 new jobs created in 2020 
7’364 jobs across all projects, directly and indirectly 
 
     
    EUR 369m Capex invested in 2020 
More than EUR 278m of local tax contribution over project lifetimes 
 
     
Real Estate     QUAERO CAPITAL French Real Estate follows the evolution of working methods to offer new 
generation office buildings, but also real estate services whose needs are growing, such as 
nurseries, post-secondary schools and nursing homes7. 
The fund has the following objectives: 
     
 
7 We plan to report specific KPIs by next year. 
 
  QUAERO CAPITAL | info@quaerocapital.com | quaerocapital.com  14 
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 
    May 2021 
 
 
 
    Improve the technical quality of buildings 
     
    Ensure access to quality buildings and services for all 
     
    Improve energy and carbon performance through proactive 
improvements 
     
    Engage stakeholders, including tenants and suppliers, in a collaborative 
approach 
 
   
 
  QUAERO CAPITAL | info@quaerocapital.com | quaerocapital.com  15 
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 
    May 2021 
 
 
 
4. OTHER PUBLIC COMMITMENTS 
     
    Over the recent years, QUAERO CAPITAL has become signatory or a member of various 
organisation and associations.  
     
  2015 – UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI)    
 
       
  2016 – France Invest   
 
       
  2018 – The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP)    
 
       
  2018 – The Institutional Investor Group against Climate Change (IIGCC)   
 
       
  2018 – Sustainable Finance Geneva    
 
       
  2018 – Swiss Sustainable Finance    
 
       
  2020 – Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosures. We have publicly pledged our   
  support to the aims of the TCFD  
     
 
   
 
  QUAERO CAPITAL | info@quaerocapital.com | quaerocapital.com  16 
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 
    May 2021 
 
 
 
5. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT QUAERO CAPITAL 
     
Our Offices    At QUAERO CAPITAL we hold ourselves accountable for making every effort to ensure that 
our  business  positively  impacts  society,  while  simultaneously  achieving  our  business 
objectives. 
In 2020, we continued and solidified the policies we have put in place in 2018 in our offices – 
in Geneva, Zurich, Luxembourg, London, and Paris – to offer comfort to our teams as well as 
features that help us improve our environmental efficiency. 
•  Eliminate our use of unnecessary single-use plastics. We no longer offer staff and 
client drinking water in plastic bottles. We instead provide each employee with a 
glass bottle that they can refill as often as they like at filtered water sources in our 
offices. We estimate that by eliminating single-use water bottles, we have reduced 
our global output by about 500 plastic bottles a week. 
•  Promote recycling. We ask our staff to recycle all material possible across our offices, 
including (but not limited to) paper, plastics, aluminium, glass, and ink cartridges. 
•  Use renewable energy. Our Geneva headquarters runs on 100% renewable energy, 
and we are looking to implement the same in our other offices and we plan to do 
the same for our office in London by 2021. 
•  Limit business travel. We actively encourage our employees to participate in video 
conferences as an alternative to business travel wherever possible. To this end, we 
have invested in video conferencing technology for every office. 
•  Reduce our carbon footprint. In line with our climate policy recently launched, in 
2020, we undertook an extensive process of mapping our principal carbon emissions 
in line with the GHG protocol. This includes scope 2 emissions (electricity used in 
offices) and scope 3 emissions (business travel and employee commutes). For the 
coming years, the priority is to reduce our footprint through minimising business 
travel  emission  where  possible,  encourage  employees  to  commute  by  public 
transport and bicycle and maximise energy efficiency in office building. Alongside 
these efforts we commit to offset remaining carbon emissions through carbon offset 
projects. We believe this is a valuable and meaningful tool only if it is with fully 
audited and verified programs to ensure the projects are additive, meaningful, and 
permanent. 
     
Our Staff    We recognise that we can deliver positive value for our investors thanks to the dedication of 
our team, and therefore it is our responsibility as an employer to create a positive and 
supportive environment for our staff in which they can thrive. 
The diversity of our workforce is very important at QUAERO CAPITAL, and our continued 
success is influenced by the wide variety of experiences and capabilities our staff bring to our 
business.  
We work to ensure that QUAERO CAPITAL provides equal opportunities to all our employees 
and job applicants regardless of (amongst others) their gender, religion, race, nationality, age 
or sexual orientation.   
•  In 2019, we implemented a paternity leave policy offering 2 weeks of paternity leave 
to our employees in the year following the birth of the child. We continue to review 
these policies, with an aim of supporting both men and women in the workplace.  
•  In 2020, just before the pandemic started, we put in place a flexible working policy 
where employees can work from home one day per week. 
     
 
 
 
  QUAERO CAPITAL | info@quaerocapital.com | quaerocapital.com  17 
ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 
    May 2021 
 
 
 
Charity    We donate annually to: 
•  The EPIC Foundation, which works with disadvantaged youths globally. 
•  SOS Enfants, which provides free psychological and educational support to children, 
adolescents and their parents. 
•  Fondation Dr Henri Dubois-Ferrière Dinu Lipatti, which contributes to scientific 
research on leukaemia and other blood diseases. 
QUAERO CAPITAL on behalf of its infrastructure projects supports local community by 
sponsoring charity projects in various leisure programs. We strongly believe that it is 
important to participate to the economic as well as social development of communities in 
which we operate. 
     
 
 
  QUAERO CAPITAL | info@quaerocapital.com | quaerocapital.com  18 