
ANNUAL REPORT  
& ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31 December 2020
The Investment Association
C  amomile Court, 23 Camomile Street,
London EC3A 7LL
Registered number: 04343737
T:   +44 (0)20 7831 0898
W:   theia.org
June 2021
© The Investment Association (2021). All rights reserved.
No reproduction without permission of The Investment Association.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
CONTENTS
  Chair’s Review  2
  Chief Executive’s Report  4
  Strategic Report  7
  How we support and promote our members  12
  Directors and Officers  14
  Directors’ Report  15
  Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities  16
  Board Activity and its Committees  17
  Independent Auditors’ Report to Members of The Investment Association  20
  Consolidated Statement of Income and Retained Earnings for the year ended 31 December 2020  25
  Statements of Financial Position as at 31 December 2020  26
  Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 31 December 2020  27
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2020  28
  Full Members at December 2020  38
  Affiliate Members at December 2020  41
  Sector Members at December 2020  42
  External Committees of which IA staff are members  43
1
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
CHAIR’S REVIEW 
DELIVERING POSITIVE CHANGE  
IN TUMULTUOUS TIMES
under management. If anything is a testament to the 
resilience of our industry and to the hard work that took 
place to deliver for our customers, this was it. 
This year past was my first as Chair of the Investment 
Association Board, a position I have been honoured to 
fill. Particularly at a time when our industry’s purpose – 
to help millions of people prepare for a more financially 
secure future, and to support the UK economy and its 
businesses to thrive – has felt even more vital.  
At the start of the pandemic, the IA wrote on behalf of 
the industry, to the Chairs of all FTSE 350 companies 
to set out how they could count on the support of 
investment managers during the pandemic. And 
whether it was the flexibilities that allowed faster 
capital raising, or the new capital itself, the measures 
helped boards focus on leading their business through 
the pandemic and hopefully towards a more secure long 
term future. 
Keith Skeoch
Our role as stewards of UK PLC was in sharp focus 
throughout 2020 and that role is always evolving. It 
requires forward thinking to consider what society will 
need in the future, and to ensure our reputation as world 
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT 2020 WILL  leaders in stewardship standards is maintained.  This 
is why the HMT Asset Management Taskforce came 
ALMOST ENTIRELY BE REMEMBERED 
together to produce Investing with Purpose, a series 
FOR THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC.  of recommendations on how to put stewardship at the 
heart of the investment process and support the UK to 
EVERY ASPECT OF OUR LIVES HAS 
build back better from the pandemic. This was a piece of 
BEEN AFFECTED, NO PART OF THE  work that I am particularly proud of, and I look forward 
ECONOMY AND NO INDUSTRY WAS  to seeing stewardship activity expand across different 
asset classes, to the ultimate benefit of savers. 
LEFT UNTOUCHED. OURS HAS BEEN NO 
EXCEPTION. IT WAS A TUMULTUOUS  As we consider the future, foremost at the top of our 
minds is climate change. Climate change represents 
YEAR, CHARACTERISED BY THE 
one of the greatest systemic risks we’re facing and 
RECORD OUTFLOWS IN MARCH AT THE  addressing it is one of the most important ways we 
can act in the best interests of our customers. The IA’s 
START OF THE PANDEMIC, BUT ALSO 
Climate Change Position Paper published in the autumn, 
THE COMPLETE SHIFT IN OUR WAY  set out seven commitments from the industry and three 
asks of the government to bolster the UK’s position as a 
OF WORKING, AS OUR HOME OFFICES, 
global leader in sustainable finance. As we look ahead 
LIVING ROOMS, KITCHEN TABLES  to COP26 later this year, the IA and the industry will be 
building on this important work. 
BECAME OUR NEW PLACES OF WORK. 
The desire to make a difference has been echoed in the 
That shift to home working has allowed the industry to  behaviours we have seen from investors, with the steep 
continue to serve our clients seamlessly in exceptional  growth in savings being put to work in responsible and 
circumstances – something we can be proud of. Rather  sustainable investment funds as people chose to invest 
remarkably 2020 ended with a record £1.4trn funds  for the greater good not just a return. 2020 saw savers 
2
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
invest almost £1bn a month in responsible investments,  customers, and the departure from the EU provides a 
according to IA data. Responsible investment funds  unique opportunity to update our regulatory framework 
under management rose 66% over the past 12 months  to ensure it remains appropriate to meet the social, 
to £56bn, showing how important investing with  economic and geopolitical challenges that are ahead. 
environmental, social or governance considerations has 
become. And how important it is that our industry meets  Our regulatory system must support rapid innovation in 
investor needs.  areas such as climate change and FinTech which need 
to be hardwired into the new regulatory system. The 
While Covid-19 will be the lens through which we  government approach to regulation will be fundamental 
inevitably see 2020, the death of George Floyd in the  to financial services in the future, and that’s why the 
United States and the growth of the Black Lives Matter  IA is keen to be a partner to the government, helping 
movement, marked a watershed in race relations around  to shape a policy environment that boosts the UK’s 
the world, impacting our industry as it did almost every  position as a global financial centre and the broader 
other. Our industry has made great strides forward on  economic wellbeing of the country. 
diversity in recent years, but there is no doubt that there 
is plenty to be done to ensure it is properly diverse and  I’d like to thank Chris Cummings and all of the IA staff 
inclusive. And the events of last year will have helped  for their hard work to serve members throughout 
move us forward.  the last year.  I would also like to thank the board for 
its continued wisdom and guidance including those 
The important work of Investment20/20 continues to  members, Peter Harrison from Schroders, Rachel 
provide us with a greater pool of diverse talent, and I  Lord from Blackrock, Euan Munro of Aviva Investors, 
am certain that their work will mean that the boards  Joanna Munro from HSBC Global Asset Management, 
of our companies look very different in the years to  and Caroline Connellan from Brooks Macdonald Asset 
come. Their new mentorship programme for senior  Management who have resigned from the board, and 
black professionals in investment management is one  our new members, Marie Dzanis from Northern Trust 
of many initiatives across the industry that will make  Asset Management, Rachel Elwell from Border to Coast, 
a difference. However, this is an area that will require  Nicolas Moreau from HSBC Global Asset Management, 
sustained thought and action in every business in order  and Mark Versey of Aviva Investors.  
for our industry to become truly diverse. 
Even as we emerge from the shadows of the pandemic, 
We’re also using our collective stewardship power to  we know there will be no return to business as usual. So 
press for change across FTSE companies. Where we have  much has changed – how we work, where we work, how 
seen great progress with women on boards through the  we think about diversity in our own organisations and 
work of the Hampton Alexander review, we will hopefully  the ones we invest in, what the regulatory environment 
see similar progress with greater ethnic diversity on  will be for our industry now that we’ve left the EU, and 
boards, as investment managers call for change.  how we invest for the greater good. We are in the midst 
of a period of great change, and it is for us to ensure that 
We’ve unfortunately seen an increase in the number  it is change for the good of the economy, our industry 
of investment scams over the course of the pandemic  and our millions of customers.  
as fraudsters cloned genuine investment products   
to try to trick retail investors. The IA’s campaign has 
been vital in raising awareness of the problem, and 
their important work with the government to push for 
a legislative solution, will hopefully do more to protect 
retail investors.    
2020 was also the year that saw both the end of the   
Brexit process and the start of our new relationship 
with Europe as we officially left the bloc in March, and  Keith Skeoch 
finally agreed a free trade agreement at the end of the  Chair, The Investment Association
year. The industry has taken great steps to prepare for 
all eventualities in order to continue to deliver for all our  21 June 2021
3
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT 
BUILDING A RESILIENT INDUSTRY  
TO SUPPORT THE ECONOMY 
first time when the question “how are you?” has been 
asked so openly and answered so frankly given the focus 
on physical and mental wellbeing.
But where we work is less important than the work we do, 
and this year has demonstrated that like no other. 
It is a year in which British companies have turned  
to us for capital, and we responded by channelling  
£22.6 billion into UK PLC from March to November last 
year to help businesses to ride out the storm and to 
reshape themselves for the new world. 
Investment managers’ roles as stewards of the companies 
that they invest in has been particularly important 
as businesses have been changing so rapidly. Last 
year, together with the City Minister John Glen MP, 
we published an important plan on how stewardship 
and responsible investment could be strengthened 
in the UK. The challenges facing the economy make it 
more important than ever that we follow through on 
Chris Cummings
the proposals that this report contained to connect 
investment decisions more closely with climate 
change and sustainability considerations, as well as 
strengthening the relationship between savers’ broader 
THE LAST YEAR HAS BEEN ONE OF  investment goals and their financial returns.
THE MOST CHALLENGING THAT MANY  It is also a year that has seen some savers look to our 
industry for the first time as total net retail sales tripled. 
OF US HAVE EVER FACED, AND ONE 
This is a very good thing: investing helps to grow people’s 
IN WHICH THE IA, AND INDEED THE  savings, which makes it easier to achieve their financial 
aspirations and prepare for later life. We cannot sit back 
WIDER INDUSTRY, HAS NEEDED TO 
and let this happen, we need to be part of the process 
which gives people the confidence and information that 
THINK PARTICULARLY HARD ABOUT 
they need to make the jump from saving to investing. 
HOW OUR BUSINESSES SERVE 
This is a moment of immense importance for the UK, even 
INVESTORS AND WIDER SOCIETY. 
aside from the pandemic. Leaving the EU means that we 
can develop a brand-new regulatory framework, shaping 
Part of this is due to the pandemic. Covid-19 changed all  the way that our businesses are run, the way that we work 
our lives and I know that this has been a difficult time for  with companies in need of investment and the way that 
many. For those of us lucky enough to have been healthy  we support savers. This is a rare opportunity and one we 
this last year, where and how we work have been some  must seize. Working with government and regulators, 
of the biggest changes that we have personally seen. The  there is a chance to make sure that our industry not only 
pace and success with which we became an industry run  continues to do the right thing by our customers here in 
out of thousands of homes continues to impress me and  the UK, but also builds on our place as a world leader in 
I am glad that much of the ingenuity which enabled this  investment management, bringing jobs, expertise and tax 
is now focused on how we might adapt to the new world  revenue back to the UK. 
of work. Further, it has been a hallmark of our industry’s 
response that real and genuine care has been shown for  Sitting alongside this is the important review of the UK 
all those who work in member firms - this is perhaps the  Funds Regime, our chance to create a new ‘shop front’ for 
4
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
our funds which can be marketed around the world. Our  “    THIS IS A MOMENT OF 
task now is to work with government to make sure that 
this regime is innovative and attractive. In particular, it is  IMMENSE IMPORTANCE FOR 
important the new regime reinforces our place leading 
the pack in green finance and responsible investment.  THE UK EVEN ASIDE FROM 
We must also take the chance to build in the best 
technology and the digitalisation of funds from the start.  THE PANDEMIC. LEAVING THE 
Important change is on the horizon for the UK’s listings  EU MEANS THAT WE CAN 
regime too, and Lord Hill’s review of the UK listings regime 
is an important first step to re-energise capital markets 
DEVELOP A BRAND-NEW 
and attract high-growth companies to set up, list, and 
grow their businesses here. We will be working with the 
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK, 
government and regulators on this as it develops, in 
particular to ensure the UK is the leading global hub for 
SHAPING THE WAY THAT OUR 
sustainable investment so that those companies that list 
here deliver outstanding long-term returns for savers and  ”
BUSINESSES ARE RUN. 
investors. 
This historic period of change has coincided with a new 
strategy cycle for the IA. My hope is that the IA has been 
an increasing support to our members over the last four 
years. The numbers certainly suggest this, with our most  end of the Brexit transition period, our members look to 
recent member satisfaction scores giving us over 80%  us to help them thrive amid rising global trade tensions, 
positive ratings.  an uncertain geopolitical backdrop, climate change, and 
accelerating technological change. 
It is a time during which the IA has grown, both in terms 
of the number of experts on which our members can call  IA members tell me that this moment – where new 
and the scope of what we do. Perhaps most visible among  forces are impacting the whole industry and where 
these is the launch of The IA Engine Ltd, the incubator  rules are now being made closer to home – is one where 
for the leading FinTech firms which might shake up our  outstanding trade associations will play a vital role. 
industry. It has also guided us as we made progress 
towards being a leading digital first trade association.  Our new strategy, therefore, sets out the IA’s role in 
This is fundamental: the right technology will underpin  helping the industry to deliver for our customers, and 
our industry’s success and if we do not constantly  the wider economy and society, in this unprecedented 
innovate, we will be left behind by our customers.  operating environment. It is underpinned by the same 
principles which have successfully guided us in recent 
Our new strategy will guide us through an increasingly  years: we exist to shape policy and regulation; to build 
complex and disruptive landscape. As well as change  our industry’s reputation; and to help our members to 
and uncertainty prompted by the pandemic and by the  succeed. 
“    OUR NEW STRATEGY, THEREFORE, SETS OUT THE IA’S 
ROLE IN HELPING THE INDUSTRY TO DELIVER FOR OUR 
CUSTOMERS, AND THE WIDER ECONOMY AND SOCIETY,  
IN THIS UNPRECEDENTED OPERATING ENVIRONMENT. ”
5
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
Over the next three years our objectives will now be to  Kickstart is creating opportunities for the young people 
work for effective capital markets; to build stewardship,  hardest hit by the pandemic and the IA is co-ordinating 
sustainability and responsible investment; to develop  investment managers’ participation in this. I am very 
our industry’s culture and the importance of diversity  proud that this is happening without the need for any 
and inclusion within that; and to drive our international  public money, and we are the only industry wide scheme 
competitiveness, all while keeping the needs of our  in the country in this position. 
customers at the heart of what we do.   
Of course, both the IA and our member firms can only 
Important work is needed in the next year to fulfil this.  play these important roles if we have the right staff with 
Perhaps most fundamental is our programme aimed at  the right mix of skills working for us. This year there 
keeping the UK, not just internationally competitive, but  has been particular focus across all workplaces on 
truly world leading. A vital plank of this is our work with  ensuring that people from all ethnic backgrounds have 
HM Government to set the new UK funds regime, allowing  the same chances to succeed. The IA has added to our 
us to offer new fund structures to match our customers’  existing work in this field with a recent guide helping our 
changing needs. Chief among these will be the Long-Term  members to create meaningful action on ethnic diversity, 
Asset Fund or LTAF, where I am very pleased to share the  and in our own businesses we are committed to the 
Chancellor’s vision to have this up and running this year.  Change the Race Ratio commitments to nurture talent 
from all backgrounds.  
In November we will have the immensely important COP 
26 summit. Climate change is one of the single biggest  And finally, I expect that in the coming months we will 
systemic risks facing society and the planet today, and as  start to see more people across both the IA and the wider 
long-term stewards of businesses we must play a part in  industry return to working in the office with many still 
mitigating this.  working remotely. The new world of work will not be the 
same as the old one: we need new technology and new 
As we emerge from the pandemic, I am determined  management styles to make hybrid working a success. 
that we play our part in rebuilding the economy. In  We will be supporting our members as they make these 
addition to our work in recapitalising businesses, one  changes. 
thing that gives me particular hope for the future is our 
participation in the government’s Kickstart programme.  The last year has been one of historic change, and I 
am very grateful that we have been guided by the IA 
Board under its Chair, Keith Skeoch, through the most 
demanding of circumstances. It is in times as both 
“    CLIMATE CHANGE  uncertain and as important as these that organisations 
show their true worth, and I am deeply grateful to my 
IS ONE OF THE SINGLE  colleagues at the IA that they have never faltered in 
supporting our members. 
BIGGEST SYSTEMIC RISKS 
 
FACING SOCIETY AND THE 
PLANET TODAY, AND AS 
LONG-TERM STEWARDS   
Chris Cummings 
OF BUSINESSES WE  Chief Executive, The Investment Association 
MUST PLAY A PART IN  21 June 2021
”
MITIGATING THIS.  
6
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
STRATEGIC REPORT
AT A GLANCE
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION  THE IA’S VISION 
(THE “IA”) IS THE TRADE BODY 
The IA’s vision guides all its work.  
REPRESENTING UK INVESTMENT 
“Championing our industry for the benefit it 
MANAGERS. ITS 240 MEMBERS 
brings to investors and the wider economy,  
RANGE FROM SMALL, INDEPENDENT 
in the UK and across the world.”
UK INVESTMENT FIRMS TO GLOBAL 
The IA acts as the investment management industry’s 
PLAYERS. COLLECTIVELY THEY 
voice, represents its interests to policymakers and 
MANAGE OVER £8.5 TRILLION   regulators, and helps explain to the wider world what 
the industry does. It wants its members to achieve 
OF ASSETS ON BEHALF OF THEIR 
the best results for their customers, both in the UK 
and internationally. The IA leads learning, training and 
CLIENTS IN THE UK AND AROUND  
development initiatives to ensure compliance with the 
THE WORLD. THAT IS 13% OF THE   law and to promote industry best practice – all while 
attracting a more diverse workforce into the industry. The 
£67 TRILLION GLOBAL ASSETS  
IA is also closely engaged on wider issues affecting the 
industry, such as the impact of new technology and the 
UNDER MANAGEMENT.
future world of work.
The UK investment management industry plays a major 
STRATEGY REFRESH
role in the economy, helping millions of individuals and 
families achieve their life goals by helping grow their 
investments (mainly through workplace pensions). In  The IA’s strategy was last updated in 2017. In 2020 a 
fact, 75% of UK households use an asset manager’s  strategy refresh was undertaken which established a 
services (knowingly or unknowingly). The industry also  new business plan for 2021 and beyond. Since 2017 it has 
invests billions of pounds in companies and the financing  made major strides towards becoming a leading global 
of transport networks, hospitals, schools and housing  trade association across all metrics and characteristics. 
projects. It supports 113,000 jobs in the UK, including  In particular: in our most recent survey of members KPI 
14,000 in Scotland. It is the largest industry of its kind in  scores had increased across all main categories; since 
Europe, and the second largest in the world, after America.   2016 headcount has grown from 61 to around 90; and 
income has risen from £10.5million in 2016 to £14.3million 
in 2020.  
Nevertheless, the environment in which the industry 
operates had become increasingly complex and 
disruptive, and the external pressures on it were 
changing. Nor was it just the external landscape that 
needed to be looked at, in that there were also issues that 
the IA itself needed to address. These dynamics formed 
the backdrop to the strategy refresh and are summarised 
on the next few pages. 
7
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
BACKDROP TO THE STRATEGY REFRESH   
The increasingly complex and disruptive  
operating environment
 
Covid-19 disruption to the economy and society Rising tensions in global trading and  
political order
This ranged from turbulence in the markets; a lockdown 
for all but “key financial workers”; and the cancellation  Greater protectionism and globalisation could affect 
and postponement of numerous trips and meetings.  markets, and also impact the investment management 
The start of the crisis necessitated members deploying  industry’s commercial environment and location 
durable disaster recovery plans in order to manage  decisions. Rising populism may be a cause or by-product 
volatile markets. The backbone of the industry’s  of increasing tensions, leading to a range of pressures on 
outsourced arrangements and operational resilience  markets and investment firms.  
was tested – no easy task given that these span different 
countries across Europe and internationally. 
 
 Accelerating technological change
Technological change continues to create significant 
 The end of the Brexit transition period
opportunities for innovation, as well as potential 
In the absence of an equivalence decision for the UK,  challenges. The UK fund market is innovating in digital 
there is uncertainty about the future shape of the  funds infrastructure, notably the adoption of blockchain.
relationship between the UK and EU. However, the 
conclusion of technical negotiations on a Memorandum 
of Understanding at the end of March 2021 was welcome 
news providing a framework for “structured regulatory 
cooperation on financial services”. Nevertheless, the UK 
needs to determine the future shape of the domestic fund 
and wider regulatory regime, as well as terms of trade for 
UK and overseas funds.
8
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
Changing external pressures on the industry Along with changes in the landscape, the issues the  
IA itself needed to address
Rising expectations around sustainability and 
responsible investment that are moving beyond  The IA’s workforce and future talent to ensure it is able 
environmental concerns towards broader issues of   to respond effectively to the full spectrum of challenges 
social fairness. the industry faces, bringing people diversity to be truly 
reflective of the investors, communities and people that  
the IA serves.
Growing focus on cost and outcomes in an environment 
where increasing individual responsibility for savings 
and pensions is driving a more visible investment   The IA’s role in Europe and internationally as the UK is no 
management industry. longer a member of the EU but has third country status 
and also in relation to international organisations such 
as IIFA, IOSCO, FSB along with global partnerships with 
asset management and FinTech trade bodies.
Much greater competition within the industry 
particularly between active and passive management, 
and more broadly between the industry and other players 
in areas of asset allocation and risk management. The IA’s representation of the wider investment 
management value chain and bodies such as: IMMFA, 
AIC, AIMA and others.
Ongoing capital market transformation, particularly 
growth in private markets, as part of a broader shift to 
market-based finance and due to customers diversifying  The IA’s partnerships with other trade associations 
further in search of yield. and third parties to ensure it is able to leverage 
complementary activities to project further and constrain 
valuable resources: e.g. TheCityUK, the City of London 
Corporation.
In summary, it was clear that the strategic challenge 
 Intensified regulatory focus on issues of culture, diversity 
for the IA was to ensure that the industry continues to 
and inclusion accompanying and amplified by rapidly 
deliver for its customers, as well as for wider society, in an 
changing societal expectations.
unprecedented operating environment. 
9
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
Reaffirming core principles
In updating the strategy, at the outset the IA reaffirmed 
the three critical and enduring activities that sit at the 
heart of what the IA is here to deliver and what the IA does.      
Shaping policy and regulation
Acting as a convenor and clearing house for the industry, 
the IA will work to develop and promote effective policy at 
the highest levels of authorities in the UK, EU and global 
standards setters.
By partnering with members and expert stakeholders, 
the IA will combine deep policy expertise with operational 
understanding and commercial insight to provide 
SHAPING POLICY AND 
innovative, competitive and customer focused solutions 
REGULATION
for policy issues.
Building the reputation of the industry
The IA will work with firms to help bolster the reputation 
of the industry, working at multiple levels from investment 
practices, including stewardship and responsible 
investment, through to conduct as an employer and firms’ 
BUILDING THE  
culture.
REPUTATION OF THE 
INDUSTRY The IA will particularly focus on the purpose of the 
industry and the wider role of investment managers in 
society, the economy and the planet, building a deeper 
social licence to operate in markets.
Helping firms to succeed
Firms want the IA to help them prepare for and 
HELPING FIRMS TO  operationalise regulatory change, and to be better 
SUCCEED positioned for market developments, e.g. via the 
expansion of the IA’s trade & investment work in the 
international market and an increased training offering.
10
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
Within that framework, the IA set itself a new set of 
delivery objectives, around which were formulated team 
priorities and work plans for 2021 and beyond.
A new set of delivery objectives
Keeping the customer front and centre: 
The IA will play a critical role in providing practical and advocacy support in key delivery areas, 
notably fund vehicles (e.g. Long-Term Asset Fund), communication and disclosure, financial  
literacy and operational effectiveness (e.g. liquidity management). This extends also to  
international competitiveness and the success of the UK as a leading centre serving domestic  
and overseas customers.
Working for effective markets: 
The IA will champion retail and institutional investors’ ability to invest in dynamic, diverse, efficient 
and well-regulated markets. Promoting the role of Market Based Finance, the IA will work with 
stakeholders to ensure appropriate understanding of the buy-side’s role and perspective on 
different asset classes, liquidity, emerging risk and appropriate regulation.
Building stewardship, sustainability & responsible investment: 
The IA will work with authorities, asset owners and investee companies to define and implement 
21st Century stewardship, responsible investment practices, regulatory frameworks and investor 
relations and communications that support the economy, the environment and society’s recovery 
from the Covid-19 crisis and long-term foundations.
Developing culture, diversity & inclusion: 
The culture of the industry, the people and the firms within it, can be its greatest asset. The IA will 
lead work to build healthy cultures, attract, retain and develop the widest diversity of individuals, 
providing a central resource and expertise for member firms. It will also shape people policies and 
use Investment20/20 to attract talent.
Driving competitiveness through innovation and resilience: 
£ The IA will support the development of members’ businesses, through supporting technological 
change (including via The IA Engine) and cyber awareness, product or distribution development, 
international development, to adoption of new working practices. The IA will offer members practical 
support, professional development and access to resources from partners.
11
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
HOW WE SUPPORT AND 
PROMOTE OUR MEMBERS
MEMBERSHIP  
Membership renewal was robust in 2020 despite a  By December 31st 2020, IA membership participation 
challenging operating environment – traversing a global  across all categories had risen to 493 firms:
pandemic, besides the UK’s departure from the European 
Union at the end of the year and several significant   
mergers and acquisitions taking place within the industry. 
2020 TOTAL MEMBERSHIP COMPOSITION
New business was strong with 21 investment 
management firms and 6 affiliated service firms joining 
the IA for access to expert advice, advocacy and our 
wide range of member services. The sector remained 
resilient despite the extraordinary conditions with the 
135
IA providing unparalleled support and advice. Meetings 
and committees ran as usual, unaffected by the virtual 
requirements. 
240
 
Membership sentiment and satisfaction is now regularly 
tracked through quarterly NPS and CSAT surveying, 
providing regular and efficient insight. New key  85
performance indicators on favourability and effectiveness 
are now being developed with these systems to ensure  33
the IA constantly focuses on initiatives which provide 
value to the membership.
Technology and innovation continues to be of significant  Full                     Sector                    Affiliate                  FinTech 
focus for the sector. The IA’s FinTech hub and accelerator 
formerly known as IA Velocity, was rebranded to The IA 
Engine (“Engine”) in March 2020 and has seen ongoing 
 
growth in firms joining the ecosystem. Its mission is 
to fuel the adoption of technology within investment 
management, for the benefit and changing needs of 
clients. Fifteen virtual events and webinars provided 
education and insight for members on subjects such 
as digital distribution, data science and AI as well as 
distributed ledger technology and the role of culture 
and leadership to support innovation. An industry best 
practice guide was launched in September 2020 to 
better support FinTech providing operational advice 
and checklists for both investment managers and 
FinTechs. Cohort 3 of the Engine Innovator Programme 
commenced in April 2020 providing bespoke mentoring 
and connectivity via the Engine Advisory Panel and wider 
IA membership. 
12
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
EVENTS AND TRAINING
Following the implementation of the working from 
home model provoked by the pandemic, our events 
portfolio shifted to running all events virtually. Our events 
continue to encompass all key regulatory developments 
impacting the investment management community and 
aligning the interest and expertise of related financial 
and professional service firms. With over 70 webinars, 
briefings, forums, conferences and virtual roundtables, 
the IA engaged with more than 3,000 individuals during 
the year.
Our flagship policy conference in November 2020 
attracted approximately 200 of the industry’s most 
senior practitioners, regulators and policymakers with 
the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the Rt Hon Rishi Sunak 
MP giving the keynote address. Our Sustainability and 
Responsible Investment Conference in September 
became our biggest revenue-generating event.
The IA training team re-modelled the business to address 
the ongoing member requirement to receive regulatory 
and compliance based training, and delivered 83 virtual 
classroom based workshops in 2020. Additionally, 18 
direct in-company training sessions were delivered 
virtually for IA members. IA Learning, our e-learning 
offering and learning management system platform with 
accredited modules covering everything from governance, 
risk and compliance to cyber security, was successfully 
updated to include ‘working in the new normal’ modules 
with a focus on working from home due to Covid-19. 
Currently over 5,000 IA member individuals hold a licence 
and access to the platform.
TITAN
In 2020 we launched TITAN, the IA’s threat intelligence 
alert network. At April 2021, we have 27 member firms 
actively using the platform to keep up to date on the latest 
cyber threats impacting the investment management 
community.
We plan to build up the network and have members feed 
information into the platform to tailor further the content 
they receive.
13
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS
DIRECTORS COMPANY SECRETARY
The directors of the Investment Association Ltd   J W Knight  
(the “Company”) who were in office during the year and up 
to the date of signing the financial statements were:
REGISTERED OFFICE 
M C P Carmignac 
M Cohen Camomile Court,  
23 Camomile Street,  
C M Connellan ** (resigned 17 May 2021)
London,  
C J Cummings  EC3A 7LL 
P d’Orgeval * (resigned 7 Dec 2020 appointed 6 Jan 2021)
M E Dzanis (appointed 22 October 2020) INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
R L Elwell (appointed 16 September 2020)
Mazars LLP,  
A J Formica  The Pinnacle,  
160 Midsummer Boulevard,  
P Harrison (resigned 29 April 2020) Milton Keynes MK9 1FF  
P J Horrell ***
R Lord * *** (resigned 22 February 2021)
K M McFarland **
N J M D Moreau (appointed 16 September 2020)
E Munro ** (resigned 31 December 2020)
J M Munro (resigned 16 September 2020)
M P O’Shea 
M S Scrimgeour 
K Skeoch * ***
H Smits 
P M Thomson ***
M Versey (appointed 27 January 2021)
MEMBERS OF THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION 
GOVERNANCE COMMITTEES
*  Remuneration Committee
**  Finance, Audit and Risk Committee
***  Nominations and Governance Committee
14
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The directors present their report together with the audited  The Company is also a signatory to HM Treasury’s Women 
consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31  in Finance Charter, the Race at Work Charter and is an 
December 2020.  accredited Living Wage Employer.
The Company has made a significant investment in 
COMPANY STATUS
technology (both infrastructure and software) to facilitate 
The Company is limited by guarantee. Its members have  effective homeworking. 
undertaken that, in the event of a winding up, they will 
We consult widely with employees using the Rungway portal, 
contribute towards payment of the liabilities of the 
a sophisticated tool to gather employee feedback, in order 
Company a sum up to the amount of their guarantee 
to ensure that their views are taken into account when 
of £10. The guarantee is set out in the Memorandum of 
decisions are made that are likely to affect their interests. We 
Association. As at 31 December 2020 there were 240 
communicate widely with all employees through day-to-day 
full members (2019: 240). By virtue of its constitution no 
contact, team briefings, and company-wide town hall and 
dividends are payable by the Company.
away day sessions.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE  The Company continues to be recognised with the Pension 
The results for the Company and its subsidiaries   Quality Mark PLUS and in 2020 attained a gold award for 
(the “Group”) show a profit from ordinary activities before  payroll giving.
taxation of £509,163 (2019: £325,634). Net cash flow 
generated from operating activities was £3,913,453   BOARD DIVERSITY
(2019: outflow of £717,923). The Company’s policy in  The IA board currently has no directors from an ethnic 
relation to surpluses remains to be between two to six  minority background  and is working on changing this. The 
months of expenditure in reserves, with a target of four  IA is a signatory to the Change the Race Ratio and as part 
months. The accumulated reserves at the end of 2020 were  of this we have committed to set targets and increase the 
£3,724,914 (2019: £3,339,618) which equates to   racial and ethnic diversity among board members and our 
3.2 months (2019: 2.9 months), in line with this policy.  senior leadership team. The IA nominations committee 
will seek to meet the Parker Review target of achieving one 
CONSIDERATION OF COVID-19 director from an ethnic minority background by 2024.
Following the government’s roadmap to ease lockdown 
restrictions announcement on 22 February 2021, the  DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
Company has been actively investigating its Return to  The names of the current directors are listed in the Directors 
Office strategy, consulting with staff on the Future World of  and Officers section of this report. None of the directors held 
Work and monitoring the government advice and changes  any interests in the Company during the year. 
in restrictions as they happen. Careful management of 
As permitted by the Articles of Association, the directors 
expenses resulted in a surplus position for 2020. The 
have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third 
Company modelled three scenarios for the 2021 budget, 
party indemnity provision as defined by Section 234 of the 
these ranged from a best case to an impacted environment. 
Companies Act 2006. The indemnity was in force throughout 
At March 2021, the billing cycle for 2021 subscriptions 
the last financial year and is currently in force. The Company 
has finished at 95% renewal rate, which is a more positive 
also purchased and maintained throughout the financial 
result than the best case budget assumptions. Expenses 
year directors’ and officers’ liability insurance in respect of 
will continue to be carefully monitored and managed, but it 
itself and its directors. 
would appear that Covid-19 has not negatively affected the 
financial results as much as might have been the case.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS   Mazars LLP were reappointed as auditors at the AGM held 
during September 2020. 
The Company’s current Key Performance Indicator (“KPI”) 
monitored is member subscription receipts. A weekly  So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
report is produced and reviewed by management regarding  information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware. 
current year subscriptions invoiced and paid, compared to  Relevant information is defined as “information needed by the 
prior year. The Company has now established a new digital  Company’s auditors in connection with preparing their report”.
system of member engagement and satisfaction surveys 
Each director has taken all the steps (such as making 
based on Net Promoter Score and  
enquiries of other directors and the auditors and any other 
will establish KPIs once there is sufficient data.
steps required by the director’s duty to exercise due care, skill 
and diligence) that he ought to have taken in his duty as a 
EMPLOYEES  
director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit 
The Company is a founding partner of the Change the 
information and to establish that the company’s auditors are 
Race Ratio, a business led initiative launched by the CBI to 
aware of that information. 
increase racial and ethnic participation in British businesses.  
15
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ 
RESPONSIBILITIES
THE DIRECTORS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR  The directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and 
PREPARING THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT, 
explain the Company’s transactions and disclose with 
STRATEGIC REPORT AND THE GROUP AND 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with the Companies 
(THE “FINANCIAL STATEMENTS”)  
Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding 
IN ACCORDANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAW  
the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for 
AND REGULATIONS. taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection 
of fraud and other irregularities.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year.  Under that law the  The directors are responsible for the maintenance 
directors have prepared the financial statements in  and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in 
accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom  the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
accounting standards, including Financial Reporting  dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
Standard 102, The Financial Reporting Standard  legislation in other jurisdictions.
Applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102).
Under company law the directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they  By order of the Board of Directors 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Company and all its subsidiaries (the “Group”) and the 
Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that 
period.  In preparing these financial statements, the 
directors are required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and apply them 
consistently;
•  make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
J W Knight
•  state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards, including FRS 102 have been followed,  Company Secretary
subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; 21 June 2021
•  notify its shareholders in writing about the use of 
disclosure exemptions, if any, from FRS 102 used in the 
preparation of the financial statements; and
•  prepare the financial statements on the going concern 
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
16
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
BOARD ACTIVITY AND ITS COMMITTEES
During 2020, the board held five scheduled meetings  All non-executive directors are expected to attend all 
of which one was a board strategy meeting. The table  scheduled meetings of the board and of the committees 
below shows each individual director’s attendance at the  on which they serve, and to devote sufficient time to 
scheduled board meetings which they were eligible to  the Company’s affairs to fulfil their duties as directors. 
attend during the year.  Where non-executive directors are unable to attend 
meetings, board papers are provided in advance and their 
The board meetings follow a formal agenda, which is  comments are given to the Chairman before the meeting 
approved by the Chairman and circulated by the Company  and shared with the rest of the board.
Secretary in advance of the meeting to all the non-
executive directors and other attendees. 
     Finance, Audit   Nomination   
  Board   and Risk   and Governance  Remuneration
 
Board member  meetings   Committee  Committee  Committee
       
Keith Skeoch   5 of 5     1 of 1  2 of 2
Chris Cummings  5 of 5         
Maxime Carmignac  5 of 5         
Michael Cohen  5 of 5         
Caroline Connellan (res. 17 May 21)  4 of 5  2 of 2      
Philippe d’Orgeval (res. 7 Dec 20 app. 6 Jan 21)  5 of 5        2 of 2
Marie Dzanis (app. 22 Oct 20)  2 of 3         
Rachel Elwell (app. 16 Sept 20)  2 of 3         
Andrew Formica   4 of 5         
Peter Harrison (res. 29 Apr 20)  1 of 2         
Peter Horrell  5 of 5     1 of 1   
Rachel Lord (res. 22 Feb 21)  5 of 5     1 of 1  2 of 2
Kim McFarland  4 of 5  2 of 3      
Nicolas Moreau (app. 16 Sept 20)  3 of 3         
Euan Munro (res. 31 Dec 20)  3 of 5  3 of 3      
Joanna Munro (res. 16 Sept 20)  2 of 2         
Mike O’Shea  5 of 5         
Michelle Scrimgeour  4 of 5         
Hanneke Smits  3 of 5         
Patrick Thomson   5 of 5     0 of 1   
Mark Versey (app. 27 Jan 21)  0 of 0         
17
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
THE BOARD’S COMPOSITION AND ROLE  COMMITTEES 
The directors believe that the board is well balanced  The board has delegated some of its responsibilities to 
and possesses sufficient skills, relevant experience and  its three formal committees: the Finance, Audit and Risk 
knowledge to ensure it functions correctly and is not  Committee; the Nomination and Governance Committee; 
dominated by any one person. The role of the board is  and the Remuneration Committee. The Company ensures 
to provide entrepreneurial leadership to the Company  that all of the board committees have sufficient resources 
within a framework of prudent and effective controls,  to carry out their obligations. The Company Secretary 
which enables risk to be assessed and managed. The  acts as secretary to these committees and reports the 
board oversees and directs the affairs of the Company  outcome of the meetings to the board.
in a manner that seeks to promote the success of the 
investment industry for the benefit of its members as a  FINANCE, AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE 
whole, while complying with relevant legal requirements,  
The Finance, Audit and Risk Committee comprises three 
the Company’s Articles of Association, and corporate 
non-executive directors and was chaired until May 2021 
governance standards.
by Caroline Connellan (previously Euan Munro). The 
responsibilities of the Finance, Audit and Risk Committee 
The board takes ownership of the Company’s strategic 
include the following:
direction. It adds value by leading the development and 
regular review of the Company’s purpose, goals, and  •  Making recommendations to the board on the 
strategy. In turn, it provides the necessary frameworks  appointment, reappointment and remuneration of the 
within which the management of the Company can  auditors;
operate in the best interests of the membership. 
•  Maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness of the 
The terms of reference for the board are reviewed as 
internal control systems;
necessary every three years.
•  Reviewing the financial statements of the Company 
prior to referral to the board;
•  Defining and conducting the relationship between the 
Company and the Auditors including the nature and 
scope of the audit; and
•  Reviewing the Auditors’ representation letter and 
preparing the Finance, Audit and Risk Committee report. 
NOMINATION AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE
The Nomination and Governance Committee comprises 
three non-executive directors and is chaired by Keith 
Skeoch. The committee recommends appointments to 
the board and approves the appointment of senior IA 
employees. During 2020, one meeting was held, alongside 
various decisions deliberated over via other methods of 
communication than meetings, as allowed by their terms 
of reference.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee comprises three non-
executive directors and is chaired by Philippe d’Orgeval 
(previously, Rachel Lord). It meets when appropriate and 
is responsible for determining the terms and conditions, 
salary and bonus payments of the Chief Executive and 
certain senior staff.  
18
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
BOARD TENURE AND SUCCESSION PLANNING  INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK ASSESSMENT 
Non-executive directors are appointed for a three-year  The board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s  
term. After an initial three-year term, the non-executives  system of internal control and for reviewing its 
may be eligible for reappointment for a further three-year  effectiveness. The system of internal controls are 
term subject to satisfactory performance and the regular  designed to manage and mitigate the risks affecting 
nomination and approval process. the business and its operations. The control procedures 
will not totally eliminate risks and can only provide 
While there are no explicit term limits, in order to  reasonable (and not absolute) assurance against  
ensure the board remains representative of the wider  material misstatement and loss. 
membership and maintains a diverse mix of skills, views, 
and experience, it is expected that all directors should 
MONITORING AND CORRECTIVE ACTION 
serve no more than two terms. However, the board may 
invite a director to continue for an additional period, or to 
There are clear and consistent procedures in place for 
fulfil a particular role; thereafter, if it deems it in the best 
monitoring the system of internal controls. The Finance, 
interests of the Company to do so. 
Audit and Risk Committee meets at least once a year 
and reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s system of 
GOING CONCERN  internal controls. The Finance, Audit and Risk Committee 
receives reports from line management and the external 
The board has made appropriate enquiries and  auditors.
has concluded that the expected level of member 
subscriptions will cover forecast expenses and therefore 
it is reasonable to assert that the Company and the Group 
will remain in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.  
19
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’  
REPORT TO MEMBERS OF  
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
OPINION  Our audit procedures to evaluate the directors’ 
assessment of the The Investment Association’s ability to 
continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting 
We have audited the financial statements of The 
included but were not limited to:
Investment Association (the ‘parent company’) and its 
subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) for the year ended 31 December  •  Undertaking an initial assessment at the planning stage 
2020 which comprise Consolidated Statement of Income 
of the audit to identify events or conditions that may 
and Retained Earnings, Statements of Financial Position, 
cast significant doubt on the group’s ability to continue 
the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and notes to the 
as a going concern;
financial statements, including a summary of significant 
accounting policies. The financial reporting framework that  •  Evaluating the directors’ method to assess the group’s 
has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and  ability to continue as a going concern;
United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 
“The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and  •  Reviewing the directors’ going concern assessment, 
Republic of Ireland” (United Kingdom Generally Accepted  which incorporated severe but plausible scenarios;
Accounting Practice).
•  Evaluating the key assumptions used and judgements 
applied by the directors in forming their conclusions on 
In our opinion, the financial statements:
going concern; and
•  give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s 
•  Reviewing the appropriateness of the directors’ 
affairs as at 31 December 2020 and of its profit for the 
disclosures in the financial statements.
year then ended;
•  have been properly prepared in accordance with United  Based on the work we have performed, we have not 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and identified any material uncertainties relating to events 
or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast 
•  have been prepared in accordance with the  significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006. going concern for a period of at least twelve months from 
when the financial statements are authorised for issue.
BASIS FOR OPINION 
Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the 
directors with respect to going concern are described in 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
the relevant sections of this report.
Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. 
Our responsibilities under those standards are further 
described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit  KEY AUDIT MATTERS 
of the financial statements section of our report. We are 
independent of the company in accordance with the ethical  Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial  professional judgement, were of most significance in our 
statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard,  audit of the financial statements of the current period and 
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities  include the most significant assessed risks of material 
in accordance with these requirements. We believe that  misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) we identified, 
the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and  including those which had the greatest effect on: the 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the 
audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team. 
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit 
CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO GOING CONCERN 
of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion 
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded 
on these matters.
that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of 
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements 
is appropriate. 
20
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
KEY AUDIT MATTER  HOW OUR SCOPE ADDRESSED THIS MATTER 
 
 
REVENUE  We reviewed the key elements underpinning the trigger points to recognise revenue, 
then confirmed our knowledge on this by performing walkthrough testing.
RECOGNITION
Our detailed audit work regarding revenue recognition in relation to these key audit 
Revenue is the 
matters included but was not limited to:
most significant 
account balance in 
the Consolidated  MEMBERSHIP FEES
Statement of Income 
Reviewed a sample of invoices raised during the year to confirm the appropriate fee 
and Retained Earnings. 
had been recorded including cash receipts. Payment of these invoices was agreed to 
the bank account, or debtors register depending on timing. 
Revenue is made up of 
the following material  Revenue cut-off testing included a review of invoices raised around the year end with a 
streams; membership  focus on the timing of the associated membership to ensure revenue was recorded in 
fees, management  the appropriate period.
fees, institutional 
A review of the deferred income released in the current year, and deferred at the year 
voting information 
end, considering the consistency and patterns seen in the income. This was combined 
service (IVIS) fees, 
with a review of management estimates for income provisions, including a comparison 
training income and 
to historical rate of receivables, any correspondence with clients and actual returns 
event income. 
post year end to the date of audit sign off.
The risk of fraud 
or error due to  MANAGEMENT FEES (INCLUDING IVIS), EVENTS AND TRAINING 
the potential to 
Reviewed income in the year from these sources and investigated the areas of 
inappropriately shift 
divergence from typical performance 
the timing and basis 
of revenue recognition  Reviewed any invoices over materiality raised in the year with agreement to the relevant 
is deemed higher in  documentation. A subsequent sample was haphazardly selected and agreed to 
membership fees and  documentation to gain assurance that services had been appropriately charged out. 
management fees and 
Invoices selected for testing were traced to remittances in the bank account or the 
therefore these two 
debtors listing as appropriate.
revenue streams are 
considered to be a key  A particular focus was placed on cut off with invoices raised one month pre and post 
audit matter. the year end reviewed in detail to identify signs if  income had been recorded in the 
incorrect period.
ALL REVENUE STREAMS 
Credit notes raised in the year and post year end were reviewed for indications of 
ongoing errors, difficult relationships and manipulation of results. Consideration was 
given to the validity and underlying business rationale of credit notes raised. 
OUR OBSERVATIONS 
No material issues were noted from any of our audit work on revenue recognition.
21
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN 
OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT 
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application 
of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds 
for materiality. These, together with qualitative 
considerations, helped us to determine the scope of 
our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit 
procedures on the individual financial statement line 
items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of 
misstatements, both individually and on the financial 
statements as a whole. Based on our professional 
judgement, we determined materiality for the financial 
statements as a whole as follows:
Overall  materiality  The overall group materiality was £429,000. The parent’s 
materiality was £239,000.
How we determined it  The overall materiality level has been determined with reference 
  to revenue (consolidated and parent respectively), of which it 
represents 2%).
Rationale for benchmark applied  In our view, revenue is the most relevant measure of the 
  underlying performance of the group and the parent company and 
therefore, has been selected as the materiality benchmark. 
Performance materiality  Performance materiality is set to reduce to an appropriately 
  low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and 
  undetected misstatements in the financial statements exceeds 
  materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
 
This has been calculated as 80% of the group and parent 
 
company’s materiality; £343,000 and £191,000 respectively. 
Reporting threshold We agreed with the directors that we would report to them 
misstatements identified during our audit above £12,000 
for the group and £7,000 for the parent company as well as 
misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted 
reporting for qualitative reasons.
This has been calculated as 3% of the group and parent 
company’s materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is  As part of designing our audit, we assessed the risk 
based on the relative scale and risk of the component to  of material misstatement in the financial statements, 
the group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of  whether due to fraud or error, and then designed and 
misstatement at component level. In the current period,  performed audit procedures responsive to those risks. 
the performance materiality allocated to the components  In particular, we looked at where the directors made 
and/or subsidiaries of the group ranged between £44,000  subjective judgements, such as making assumptions on 
and £4,000.  significant accounting estimates.
22
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we  MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO 
performed sufficient work to be able to give an opinion on 
REPORT BY EXCEPTION
the financial statements as a whole. We used the outputs 
of a risk assessment, our understanding of the company, 
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the 
its environment, controls and critical business processes, 
company and its environment obtained in the course of 
to consider qualitative factors in order to ensure that 
the audit, we have not identified material misstatements 
we obtained sufficient coverage across all financial 
in the Strategic Report or the Directors’ Report.
statement line items.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following 
OTHER INFORMATION 
matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 
requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
The directors are responsible for the other information. 
The other information comprises the information included  •  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
in the Annual Report, other than the financial statements  company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
and our auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the  been received from branches not visited by us; or
financial statements does not cover the other information 
•  the company financial statements are not in agreement 
and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in 
with the accounting records and returns; or
our report, we do not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon. •  certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made; or
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, 
our responsibility is to read the other information and,  •  we have not received all the information and 
in doing so, consider whether the other information is  explanations we require for our audit.
materially inconsistent with the financial statements or 
our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears 
RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS 
to be materially misstated. If we identify such material 
inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, 
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities 
we are required to determine whether there is a material 
statement set out on page 16, the directors are 
misstatement in the financial statements or a material 
responsible for the preparation of the financial 
misstatement of the other information. If, based on the 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
work we have performed, we conclude that there is a 
and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors 
material misstatement of this other information, we are 
determine is necessary to enable the preparation 
required to report that fact.
of financial statements that are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors 
OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED   are responsible for assessing the company’s ability to 
BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, 
matters related to going concern and using the going 
concern basis of accounting unless the directors either 
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the 
intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or 
course of the audit:
have no realistic alternative but to do so.
•  the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the 
AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
financial statements; and
•  the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report have  Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
been prepared in accordance with applicable legal  whether the financial statements as a whole are free from 
requirements. material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, 
and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
23
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is  •  Gaining an understanding of the internal controls 
not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance  established to mitigate risks related to fraud;
with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement 
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or  •  Discussing amongst the engagement team the risks of 
error and are considered material if, individually or in the  fraud; and
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence 
•  Addressing the risks of fraud through management 
the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of 
override of controls by performing journal entry testing.
these financial statements.
The primary responsibility for the prevention and 
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-
detection of irregularities including fraud rests with both 
compliance with laws and regulations. We design 
those charged with governance and management. As 
procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined 
with any audit, there remained a risk of non-detection 
above, to detect material misstatements in respect of 
of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, 
irregularities, including fraud. 
intentional omissions, misrepresentations or the override 
of internal controls.
Based on our understanding of the company and its 
industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-
As a result of our procedures, we did not identify any 
compliance with laws and regulations related to the UK tax 
key audit matters relating to irregularities. The risks of 
legislation, anti-bribery, and we considered the extent to 
material misstatement that had the greatest effect on 
which non-compliance might have a material effect on the 
our audit, including fraud, are discussed under “Key audit 
financial statements. We also considered those laws and 
matters” within this report. 
regulations that have a direct impact on the preparation of 
the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006.
A further description of our responsibilities for the 
audit of the financial statements is located on the 
We evaluated the directors’ and management’s incentives 
Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/
and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the 
auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our 
financial statements (including the risk of override of 
auditor’s report.
controls) and determined that the principal risks were 
related to posting manual journal entries to manipulate 
financial performance, management bias through  USE OF THE AUDIT REPORT 
judgements and assumptions in significant accounting 
estimates. 
This report is made solely to the company’s members 
as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Our audit procedures were designed to respond to those 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken 
identified risks, including non-compliance with laws and 
so that we might state to the company’s members 
regulations (irregularities) and fraud that are material to 
those matters we are required to state to them in an 
the financial statements. Our audit procedures included 
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
but were not limited to:
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the 
•  Discussing with the directors and management their 
company’s members as a body for our audit work, for this 
policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
and regulations.;
•  Communicating identified laws and regulations throughout 
our engagement team and remaining alert to any 
indications of non-compliance throughout our audit; and
•  Considering the risk of acts by the company which 
were contrary to the applicable laws and regulations, 
including fraud.  Stephen Eames (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of Mazars LLP
Our audit procedures in relation to fraud included but  Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
were not limited to: The Pinnacle
160 Midsummer Boulevard
•  Making enquiries of the directors and management on 
Milton Keyens
whether they had knowledge of any actual, suspected or 
MK9 1FF 
alleged fraud;
21 June 2021
24
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME 
AND RETAINED EARNINGS FOR THE 
YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020
Year Ended  Year Ended 
  2020 2019
  Note  £  £ 
Revenue 6 14,282,394 14,093,784
Administration  expenses   (13,793,067) (13,802,528)
Operating profit 7 489,327 291,256
Finance income   19,836 34,378
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation   509,163 325,634
Tax charge on profit on ordinary activities 9  (123,867) 5,140
Profit for the financial year   385,296 330,774
Total comprehensive income   385,296 330,774
Retained profit brought forward 3,339,618 3,008,844
Retained profit carried forward   3,724,914 3,339,618
All activities of the Group relate to continuing operations. 
The notes on pages 28 to 37 form part of these financial statements.
25
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION 
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2020
Group Company
31/12/2020 31/12/2019 31/12/2020 31/12/2019
  Note    £    £    £    £
Fixed assets          
Intangible assets 10 124,646 - 62,839 -
Property, plant and equipment 815,893 1,129,525 815,893 1,089,530
Shares in subsidiary undertaking 11 - - 102 102
    940,539 1,129,525 878,834 1,089,632
Current assets          
Debtors 12 6,373,543 9,922,865 6,073,138 9,703,633
Cash at bank and in hand 13 9,806,140 6,035,393 9,430,373 5,016,139
  16,179,683 15,958,258 15,503,511 14,719,772
Current liabilities      
Creditors: amounts due within  
14 (13,395,308) (13,748,165) (14,436,218) (14,603,266)
one year
Net current assets    2,784,375 2,210,093 1,067,293 116,506
Total assets less current liabilities   3,724,914 3,339,618 1,946,127 1,206,138
Profit and loss account          
Profit and loss account 1 Jan    3,339,618 3,008,844 1,206,138 1,104,871
Profit for the financial year   385,296 330,774 739,989 101,267
Profit and loss account 31 Dec   3,724,914 3,339,618 1,946,127 1,206,138
Accumulated reserves   3,724,914 3,339,618 1,946,127 1,206,138
       
   
The financial statements on pages 25 to 37 were approved by the board of directors and were signed on its behalf by: 
 
Keith Skeoch, Chair 
 
21 June 2021
Company Number: 04343737
26
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW  
STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED  
31 DECEMBER 2020
01/01/2020- 01/01/2019-
  31/12/2020 31/12/2019
  Note  £  £ 
Net cash (out)flow from operating activities 16 3,913,453 (717,923)
Taxation received/(paid)   - -
Net cash generated from/(in) operating activities   3,913,453 (717,923)
Cash flow from investing activities      
Purchase of property, plant and equipment   (162,542) (236,649)
Interest received   19,836 34,378
Net cash generated used in investing activities   (142,706) (202,271)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash at bank and in hand   3,770,747 (920,194)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 6,035,393 6,955,587
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year   9,806,140 6,035,393
Cash and cash equivalents consists of:
Cash at bank and in hand   9,806,140 6,035,393
27
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE  
YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020
1.  GENERAL INFORMATION
The principal activity of the Company is to represent the interests of the investment management industry in the UK and 
to promote high standards among its members.
2.  STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE
These financial statements have been prepared in compliance with United Kingdom accounting standards, including 
Financial Reporting Standard 102, “The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the United Kingdom and Republic of 
Ireland” (“FRS 102”), and the Companies Act 2006.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These 
policies have been consistently applied to both years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
3.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
BASIS OF ACCOUNTING 
These financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, under the historical cost convention
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION 
The Group consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary 
undertakings. A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group. Control is the power to govern the financial and operating 
policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 
The Company provides a range of benefits to employees, including annual bonus arrangements, paid holiday 
arrangements and defined contribution pension plans. Short term employee benefits, including holiday pay are 
recognised as an expense in the period in which the service is received.
The Company operates a defined contribution plan for its employees. A defined contribution plan is a pension plan 
under which the Company pays a fixed contribution into a separate entity. Once the contributions have been paid the 
Company has no further payment obligations. The contributions are recognised as an expense as they fall due. Amounts 
not paid are shown in accruals in the statements of financial position. The assets of the plan are held separately from the 
Company in independently administered funds.
EXPENSES 
All expenses are accounted for on the accruals basis. 
REVENUE 
All revenue is accounted for under the accrual method of accounting.  The amount of subscriptions receivable from 
members under the terms of the Constitution of the Company is calculated to meet the budgeted expenses net of any other 
estimated receipts for the year. In addition other revenue represents income from training and events run by The Investment 
Association Services Limited during the year, the provision of management services to other trade associations, income 
from IVIS and Investment2020, the setting up of special committees and subscriptions to The IA Engine Ltd. Revenue from 
services rendered is recognised based on stage of completion when both the following conditions are satisfied:
•  The amount of revenue can be measured reliably; and
•  It is probable that the Company will receive the consideration due.
28
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
3.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
 
DEPRECIATION 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is charged to the 
statement of income and retained earnings using the straight line basis as follows:
•  Fixtures, fittings and equipment: 3-5 years, except where warranties are received for longer periods, then they are 
depreciated over the warranty period
•  Leasehold improvements: over the life of the primary lease
•  Software is written off in the year of acquisition
AMORTISATION 
Intangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost less amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to allocate the cost of assets less their residual value over their estimated useful lives, under the 
straight line method. Amortisation is provided under the following basis:
•   Website development: Straight line over 3 years
The assets’ residual values, useful lives and depreciation and amortisation methods are reviewed, and adjusted if 
appropriate, or if there is an indication of a significant change since the last reporting date.
TAXATION 
The Group has entered into an arrangement with HMRC under which it pays corporation tax on its surplus. The 
arrangement allows members of the Association to treat payments to the Association as a trading expense. Irrecoverable 
VAT incurred on expenses has been included in the relevant expense category.
Taxation expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax recognised in the reporting period.
•  Current tax: Current tax is the amount of income tax payable in respect of the taxable profit for the year or prior years.
•  Deferred tax: Deferred tax arises from timing differences that are differences between taxable profits and total 
comprehensive income as stated in the financial statements.
INVESTMENTS 
Investments, other than those in subsidiary undertakings are included at fair value.  Investments in subsidiary 
undertakings are included at cost.
CASH AT BANK AND IN HAND 
Cash at bank and in hand includes cash in hand, deposits held at call at banks, other short-term highly liquid 
investments with original maturities of three months or less.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
The Group has chosen to adopt Sections 11 and 12 of FRS 102 in respect of financial instruments.
• F  inancial assets – Basic financial assets, including trade and other receivables, cash and bank balances are 
recognised at their transaction price.  Such assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost, under the effective 
interest method. Other financial assets, including investments, other than subsidiaries are initially measured at fair 
value, which is normally transaction price. Such assets are subsequently carried at fair value and the changes in fair 
value are recognised in the statement of retained earnings.
• F   inancial liabilities – Basic financial liabilities, including trade and other payables and loans from fellow Group 
companies are initially recognised at their transaction price. Such liabilities are subsequently carried at amortised cost, 
under the effective interest method. Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired 
in the ordinary course of business from suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is 
due within one year or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
29
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
3.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
 
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY 
The preparation of the Company’s financial statements requires the directors to make judgements, estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of 
contingent liabilities, at the reporting date. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical 
experience, expectations of future events and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
However, uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require a material 
adjustment to the carrying amount of the assets or liabilities affected.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the 
revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
4.  SEGMENTAL REPORTING
The Company and Group’s activities consist primarily of the provision of member services in the UK.   
5.  PROFITS OF THE HOLDING COMPANY
Of the profit for the financial year, a profit of £739,989 (2019: £101,267) relates to the Company, The Investment 
Association. The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under Section 408 of the Companies Act 
2006 and not presented a profit and loss account for the Company alone.
 
6.  REVENUE
     01/01/2020-  01/01/2019-
    31/12/2020-   31/12/2019-
       £   £
Full Members               10,630,021  10,068,105    
Affiliate Members                      966,787  941,906   
Sector Members           212,966  166,975    
      11,809,774  11,176,986   
Management Fee Income              575,152  557,942    
Institutional Voting Information Service Income                       450,141  447,650    
Investment20/20 Subscription Income                     558,933  521,624
Events and Training Income                  629,252  1,059,941    
Special Committee Income             115,000  160,000      
FinTech Member Income               115,900  138,100      
Other Income              28,242  31,541   
Revenue             14,282,394  14,093,784  
 
30
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
7.  OPERATING PROFIT
Operating profit is stated after charging:
     01/01/2020-  01/01/2019-
    31/12/2020-   31/12/2019-
       £   £
Wages and salaries           7,656,184  7,038,929   
Social security costs            967,103  854,787    
Other pension costs           837,703  787,959  
Staff costs       9,460,990  8,681,675   
Depreciation & amortisation of tangible & intangible fixed assets                 322,849  332,751   
Operating lease charges                     490,000  490,000   
Auditors’ remuneration         
- Audit services          23,000  17,000 
- Other services including tax                            25,598  10,250    
8.  EMPLOYEES AND DIRECTORS
 
EMPLOYEES
The monthly average number of persons employed by the Company during the year was 94 (2019: 89). The average 
number of key management personnel during the year was 8 (2019: 9).
The Company provides pensions through defined contribution schemes and pension costs are charged as incurred.  
The amount recognised as an expense was £837,703 (2019: £787,959). 
 
KEY MANAGEMENT
Key management includes the directors and members of senior management. The compensation paid or payable to key 
management for employee services is shown below:
     01/01/2020-  01/01/2019-
    31/12/2020-   31/12/2019-
       £   £
Key management compensation           2,538,420  2,578,152              
31
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
8.  EMPLOYEES AND DIRECTORS (CONTINUED) 
DIRECTORS
The non-executive directors received no emoluments in the year.
Total emoluments in respect of the executive directors were:
     01/01/2020-  01/01/2019-
    31/12/2020-   31/12/2019-
       £   £
C J Cummings                  877,985  778,275                
Contributions made to a pension scheme on behalf of Mr C J Cummings were £nil (2019: £nil). 
 
9.  TAX ON PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES 
A) CURRENT TAX 
     01/01/2020-  01/01/2019-
    31/12/2020-   31/12/2019-
    Note   £   £
UK corporation tax on profits for the year     123,867  - 
Adjustments in respect of previous years     -   (5,140)
Tax charge on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities  (b)  123,867  (5,140)
B) FACTORS AFFECTING THE TAX CHARGE FOR THE YEAR    
     01/01/2020-  01/01/2019-
    31/12/2020-   31/12/2019-
       £   £
Profit on ordinary activities before tax    509,163  325,634
Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by standard rate (19.00%) (2019: 19.00%)  96,741  61,870
Effects of:   
Non-taxable income     -  (368,670)
Non-deductible expenses    1,794  86,549
Fixed asset differences    5,054  24,367
Adjustments to brought forward values    2,090  -
Other permanent differences    -  447
Deferred tax adjustment    18,188  173,216
Other adjustments    -  17,081
Total tax charge for the year    123,867  (5,140)
C) FACTORS AFFECTING THE FUTURE TAX CHARGES
A deferred tax asset of £426,712, based on the rate of corporation tax of 19% (2019: 17%), has not been recognised in 
respect of timing differences arising on accelerated capital allowances and taxation losses (2019: deferred tax asset 
£361,472: 17%).
32
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
10.  FIXED ASSETS
    Fixtures,  Intangible   
  Leasehold  fittings and  Assets – 
Group   Improvements  equipment  Websites  Total
  £  £  £
Cost          
1 January 2020  1,130,722  1,032,064  -  2,162,786
Additions   20,108  88,824  53,610  162,542
Reclassification  -  (237,665)  237,665  -
Disposals/write offs  (37,813)  -  -  (37,813)
31 December 2020  1,113,017  883,223  291,275  2,287,515
Accumulated depreciation & amortisation             
1 January 2020  453,191  580,070  -  1,033,261
Charge for the year  116,328  150,782  55,739  322,849
Reclassification  -  (110,890)  110,890  -
Disposals/write offs  (9,134)  -  -  (9,134)
31 December 2020  560,385  619,962  166,629  1,346,976
   
Net book value       
31 December 2020  552,632  263,261  124,646  940,539
31 December 2019  677,531  451,994  -  1,129,525
             
  Leasehold  Fixtures, fittings   Intangible  
Company   Improvements  and equipment  Assets - websites   Total
  £  £  £
Cost          
1 January 2020  1,130,722  966,775  -  2,097,497
Additions  20,108  88,824  -  108,932
Reclassification  -  (172,376)  172,376  -
Disposals/write offs  (37,813)  -  -  (37,813)
31 December 2020  1,113,017  883,223  172,376  2,168,616
          
 
 
Accumulated depreciation & amortisation         
1 January 2020  453,191  554,776  -  1,007,967
Charge for the year  116,328  150,782  23,941  291,051
Reclassification  -  (85,596)  85,596  -
Disposals/write offs  (9,134)  -  -  (9,134)
31 December 2020  560,385  619,962  109,537  1,289,884
   
Net book value       
31 December 2020  552,632  263,261  62,839  878,732
31 December 2019  677,531  411,999  -  1,089,530
33
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
11.  SHARES IN SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKING
The Company holds 100% of the issued share capital of The Investment Association Services Limited, The IA Engine 
Ltd and IA Titan Ltd, all companies incorporated in England, which are consolidated in these financial statements. 
The activities of The Investment Association Services Limited includes the running of training and other events for the 
members of The Investment Association, the provision of management services to other trade associations, the running 
of the Institutional Voting Information Service and provision of subscription services to Investment20/20. The activities 
of The IA Engine Ltd is that of a Financial Technology accelerator. IA Titan started providing subscription services to cyber 
threat alerts during 2020. The registered office for The Investment Association Services Limited. The IA Engine Ltd and IA 
Titan Ltd are the same as The Investment Association, which is: Camomile Court, 23 Camomile Street, London, EC3A 7LL. 
 
12.  DEBTORS
    Group    Company
    31/12/2020  31/12/2019    31/12/2020   31/12/2019 
  £  £  £  £ 
Trade debtors - current year           188,664  243,150  29,279  37,167   
Trade debtors - future subscriptions        5,394,419  9,044,281  5,394,419  9,044,281 
Amounts owed by group undertakings  -  -  21,702  24,185
Other debtors            125,237  59,563  (2,103)  59,563   
Prepayments and accrued income        665,223  575,871  629,841  538,437   
        6,373,543  9,922,865  6,073,138  9,703,633   
  
 
13.  CASH IN BANK AND IN HAND
     Group    Company
    31/12/2020  31/12/2019    31/12/2020   31/12/2019 
  £  £  £  £ 
Bank accounts        9,806,140  6,035,393  9,430,373  5,016,139   
         9,806,140  6,035,393  9,430,373  5,016,139   
 
34
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
14.  CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR 
     Group    Company
    31/12/2020  31/12/2019    31/12/2020   31/12/2019 
  £  £  £  £ 
Trade creditors              93,754  108,060  85,016  72,251    
Corporation Tax            123,867  53,558  -  -    
Amounts owed to group undertaking  -  -  1,704,233  1,443,203    
Other taxation and social security payable         935,806  742,693  887,111  740,020    
Accruals and deferred income       1,514,562  1,424,488  1,032,539  928,426   
Future subscriptions     10,727,319  11,419,366  10,727,319  11,419,366
       13,395,308  13,748,165  14,436,218  14,603,266   
Amounts owed to group undertakings are unsecured, interest free, have no fixed date of repayment and are repayable on 
demand.
15.  LEASE COMMITMENTS
The total of future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases for each of the following periods are:
 
    31/12/2020-   31/12/2019-
       £   £
Not later than one year                  490,074                490,074  
Later than one year and not later than five years                 1,863,638  1,960,296  
Later than five years            -  393,416   
35
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
16.  NOTE TO THE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
     01/01/2020-  01/01/2019-
    31/12/2020-   31/12/2019-
       £   £
Profit for the financial year  509,163  330,774
Tax on profit on ordinary activities  (123,867)  -
Finance income  (19,836)  (34,378)
Operating profit  365,460  296,396
Depreciation & amortisation  322,849  332,751 
Loss on disposal of fixed assets  28,679  10,507 
Working capital movements:       
 - Decrease/(Increase) in debtors  3,549,322  (2,346,235)
 - (Decrease)/Increase in creditors  (352,857)  988,658
Cash flow generated from/(used in) operating activities  3,913,453  (717,923)
 
17.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
      Group    Company
      31/12/2020  31/12/2019    31/12/2020   31/12/2019 
  Note  £  £  £  £ 
Financial assets measured at amortised cost
     Shares in subsidiary undertaking  11  -  -  102  102 
     Trade debtors  – current year  12       188,664  243,150  29,279  37,167  
     Trade debtors – future subscriptions  12   5,394,419  9,192,652  5,394,419  9,192,652  
     Other debtors  12  125,237  59,563  (2,103)  59,563  
     Amounts owed by group undertakings    -  -  21,702  24,185 
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
     Trade creditors  14       93,754  108,060  85,016  72,251  
     Amounts owed to group undertaking  14  -  -  1,704,233  1,443,203  
     Other taxation and social security payable  14       935,806  742,693  887,111  740,020  
     Accruals and deferred income  14    1,514,562  1,424,488  1,032,539  928,426  
     Future subscriptions  14    10,727,319  11,567,737  10,727,319  11,567,737  
36
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
18.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption not to disclose related party transactions in respect to all 
transactions and balances with The Investment Association Services Limited, The IA Engine Ltd or IA Titan Ltd, they are 
wholly owned subsidiaries, as they are eliminated on consolidation, as permitted under Paragraph 1.12 of FRS 102.  
Related party transactions no longer include revenue relating to Industry Delivery Platform Limited, a company that J W 
Knight was a director of (2019: £3,800). There was no amount due at 31 December 2020 from this company (2019: £nil). 
 
19.  SHARE CAPITAL
The Company has no share capital since it is limited by guarantee.  The members have undertaken that, in the event 
of a winding up, they will contribute toward payment of the liabilities of the Company a sum up to the amount of their 
guarantee of £10.
 
20.  LEGAL STRUCTURE
The Company is limited by guarantee, incorporated and domiciled in the UK. The address of its registered office is 
Camomile Court, 23 Camomile Street, London, EC3A 7LL.
 
37
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
FULL MEMBERS  
AT DECEMBER 2020
Aberdeen Standard Fund Managers Limited Canada Life Asset Management Limited
Aberdeen Standard Investments Candriam Investors Group
Aberforth Partners LLP Cantab
Aegon Asset Management UK Ltd Capital International Ltd
Affiliated Managers Group Ltd Carmignac Gestion
Alcentra Limited Carvetian Capital Management Ltd
Alger Management Ltd Cavendish Asset Management
AllianceBernstein Limited CCLA Investment Management Ltd
Allianz Global Investors Charles Stanley & Co
Alpha Real Capital LLP City of London Investment Management Company Ltd
Alquity Investment Management Close Asset Management (UK) Ltd
Amundi (UK) Ltd Colchester Global Investors Ltd
AQR Capital Management LLP Columbia Threadneedle Investments
Architas Multi-Manager Limited Cornelian Asset Managers Limited
Ardevora Asset Management Courtiers Asset Management Limited
Artemis Fund Managers Ltd Coutts
Artisan Partners UK LLP Crux Asset Management
Asset Management One International Ltd
Atlantic House Fund Management Ltd Dimensional Fund Advisors Ltd
Aviva Investors DMS Investment Management Services (UK) Ltd
Aviva Investors UK Fund Services Limited DWS 
AXA Investment Managers UK
Eaton Vance Management (International) Ltd
BAE SYSTEMS Pension Funds Investment   EdenTree Investment Management Limited
    Management Ltd Edinburgh Partners
Baillie Gifford & Co Limited EFG Asset Management (UK) Limited
Barclays Wealth & Investment Management Embark Investments
Baring Asset Management Ltd Equity Trustees Fund Services Ltd
Baring Fund Managers Limited Eurizon SLJ
BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Ltd Evenlode Investment Management
BlueBay Asset Management LLP
BMO Global Asset Management Fiera Capital (Europe) Limited
BNP Paribas Asset Management FIL Investment Management Limited
BNY Mellon Investment Management FIL Investment Services (UK) Limited
Border to Coast Pensions Partnership Ltd FIL Investments International
BP Investment Management Ltd FIL Pensions Management
Brewin Dolphin Ltd Findlay Park
British Airways Pension Investment Management Ltd First Sentier Investors
Brompton Asset Management LLP First Trust Global Portfolios
Brooks Macdonald Asset Management FMR Investment Management (UK) Limited
Brunel Pension Partnership Franklin Templeton Fund Management Limited
BT Pension Scheme Management Limited Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited
FundRock Partners Limited
Fundsmith
38
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
GAM M & G Investments Limited
Genesis Investment Management LLP Mackay Shields UK LLP
GMO UK Ltd Macquarie Investment Management Europe Ltd
Goldman Sachs Asset Management International Maitland Institutional Services Limited
GuardCap Asset Management Limited Majedie Asset Management Ltd
Guinness Asset Management Man Fund Management UK Limited
Gulf International Bank (GIB) UK Manulife Investment Management (Europe) Limited
Margetts Fund Management Ltd
Handelsbanken Wealth & Asset Management Marks & Spencer Unit Trust Management Limited
Hargreaves Lansdown Fund Managers Marlborough Fund Managers Limited
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Marlborough Investment Managers
Havelock London Martin Currie Investment Management Ltd
HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited McInroy & Wood Ltd
Hermes Investment Management Merian Global Investors (UK) Limited
HSBC Global Asset Management (UK) Limited MetLife Investment Management Limited
HSBC Investment Funds MFS International (UK) Ltd
Mirabaud Asset Management Ltd
Ignis Fund Managers Limited Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management (UK) Ltd
IM Global Partner Momentum Global Investment Management Limited
Impax Asset Management Mondrian Investment Partners Limited
Independent Franchise Partners LLP Morgan Stanley Investment Management Ltd
Insight Investment Funds Management Ltd
Insight Investment Management (Global) Ltd Natixis Investment Managers
Invesco Neuberger Berman Europe Limited
Investment Fund Services Limited New Value Investments Ltd
Newton Investment Management Limited
J O Hambro Capital Management Limited NFU Mutual Insurance Society Ltd
J.P. Morgan Asset Management Nikko Asset Management Europe Ltd
Janus Henderson Group plc Ninety One 
JP Morgan Mansart Management NN Investment Partners
Jupiter Asset Management Limited Nomura Asset Management U.K. Ltd
Jupiter Unit Trust Managers Limited Nordea Asset Management
Northern Trust Asset Management
Kempen Asset Management
Kuwait Investment Office Oasis Crescent Wealth (UK) Ltd
Odey Asset Management LLP
Lazard Asset Management Ltd Omnis Investments
Lazard Fund Managers Limited OneFamily
Legal & General Investment Management Limited Orbis Investment Management (Luxembourg) SA
Legal & General Retail Investments Orbis Investments
Legg Mason Investment Funds Limited
LGPS Central Pension Protection Fund
Lindsell Train Pension Services Ltd
Link Asset Services PGIM Ltd
Liontrust Fund Partners LLP Pictet Asset Management Ltd
Local Pensions Partnership Investments Ltd PIMCO Europe Ltd
Lombard Odier Asset Management (Europe) PineBridge Investments Europe Ltd
Longview Partners LLP Polar Capital LLP
Loomis Sayles Investments Limited Premier Miton Investors
Lord Abbett (UK) Ltd Principal Global Investors (Europe) Ltd
LUMYNA Investments Limited Prudential
Lyxor ETF Putnam Investments
Pyrford International Ltd
39
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
Quilter Investors Limited T. Bailey Asset Management Limited
Quoniam Asset Management GmbH T. Bailey Fund Services Limited
T. Rowe Price International Ltd
Railpen Investments TCW
Rathbone Unit Trust Management Limited Tesco Pension Investment
Record Currency Management Limited Thames River Capital
River and Mercantile Asset Management LLP Thesis Asset Management Limited
Royal London Asset Management Ltd Threadneedle Investment Services Ltd
Royal London Unit Trust Managers Ltd Tilney Smith & Williamson Investment Management LLP
Ruffer TIME Investments
Russell Investments Ltd Tokio Marine Asset Management (London) Ltd
RWC Partners Limited Trinity Street Asset Management LLP
Troy Asset Management
Sanlam Investments UK Ltd TT International
Santander Asset Management TwentyFour Asset Management LLP
Sarasin & Partners LLP
Schroder Unit Trusts Limited UBS Asset Management Ltd
Schroders Investment Management Ltd Unicorn Asset Management
Schroders Personal Wealth Union Asset Management Holding AG
Scottish Friendly Asset Managers Ltd Union Bancaire Privée
Scottish Widows Unit Trust Managers Universities Superannuation Scheme Ltd
SEI Investments (Europe) Ltd
Seven Investment Management LLP Valu-Trac Investment Management Ltd
Skagen AS Vanguard Asset Management Limited
Slater Investments Ltd Veritas Asset Management LLP
Smith & Williamson Fund Administration Limited Veritas Investment Partners (UK) Limited
St James’s Place Unit Trust Group Limited Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Limited
Standard Life Aberdeen plc
State Street Global Advisors UK Ltd Walter Scott & Partners Limited
Stewart Investors WAY Fund Managers
Stonehage Fleming Investment Management Limited Wellington Management International Limited
Sumitomo Mitsui Trust International Limited Wells Fargo Asset Management (International) Limited
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (UK) Limited Wesleyan Unit Trust Managers Ltd
SVM Asset Management Ltd
40
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
AFFILIATE MEMBERS  
AT DECEMBER 2020
Addleshaw Goddard K&L Gates LLP
Allen & Overy KNEIP
Alpha FMC KPMG LLP
Baringa Partners Latham & Watkins LLP
BCG – Boston Consulting Group LexisNexis Risk
BDO Linklaters LLP
BNP Paribas Securities Services UK Ltd Lipper Limited
BNY Mellon Asset Servicing Liquidnet Europe Ltd
Bovill
Bravura Solutions (UK) Limited Macfarlanes
Broadridge Financial Solutions Ltd Morningstar UK Ltd
Brown Brothers Harriman Investor Services Ltd
Bryan Cave Leighton Paisner NatWest Trustee & Depositary Services Ltd
Burges Salmon LLP Northern Trust Global Services SE
Northern Trust International Fund Administration  
CACEIS Bank, UK Branch     Services (UK) Ltd
Calastone Norton Rose Fulbright LLP
Charles Russell Speechlys LLP
Citibank International Plc Oliver Wyman Ltd
Citibank N.A. Orbis Access
Clifford Chance LLP
CME Group Pinsent Masons LLP
CMS PwC
Cofunds Limited
CSS RBC Investor Services Bank S.A
Red Deer
Dechert LLP Refinitiv
Deloitte LLP Rimes Technologies
Dentons UK and Middle East LLP Ropes & Gray
The Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation Simmons & Simmons LLP
Ernst & Young Société Générale Securities Services
Euroclear UK & Ireland SS&C Financial Services Europe Limited
Eversheds Sutherland (International) LLP State Street Bank & Trust Company
State Street Trustees Limited
Fala Consulting Ltd Stephenson Harwood
Farrer & Co
FE fundinfo Target Group
Fieldfisher LLP Taylor Wessing LLP
FNZ UK Ltd TCC Group
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer The Bank of New York Mellon (International) Limited
FRT Services TLT LLP
Travers Smith LLP
Grant Thornton UK LLP
Universal Investment
Herbert Smith Freehills LLP
HSBC Bank plc Trustee & Depositary Services Wheelhouse Advisors
HSBC Securities Services (UK) Limited Wolters Kluwer
Worksmart Ltd
IHS Markit
J.P. Morgan Europe Ltd
J.P. Morgan Investor Services
Johnston Carmichael
41
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
SECTOR MEMBERS  
AT DECEMBER 2020
AMP Capital Matthews International Capital Management
Aubrey Capital Management Limited Miton Optimal
Axiom Investors Montanaro Asset Management Ltd
Muzinich & Co
Brown Advisory
Nedgroup Investments
Comeragh Capital
Comgest Asset Management International Robeco UK
ConBrio Fund Partners Ltd 
CQS (UK) LLP Sanlam Asset Management (Ireland)
Credo Wealth Seilern Investment Management Ltd
Davy Global Fund Management Thomas Miller Investment 
Dodge & Cox Worldwide Funds plc Tideway Investments Partners LLP
Trium Capital
Epoch Investment Partners
Equitile Investments Ltd Unigestion
UTI international
GemCap
GQG Partners (UK) Ltd Vontobel Asset Management SA
GVQ Investment Management Limited
Waverton Investment Management
Herald Investment Management Ltd Winton Capital Management
42
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
EXTERNAL COMMITTEES  
OF WHICH IA STAFF ARE MEMBERS
GOVERNMENT AND STATUTORY 
APPG on local authority pension funds  Imran Razvi
Bank of England FX  Joint Standing Committee  Galina Dimitrova
Bank of England Money Markets Committee   Ross Barrett 
BEIS Audit Contact Group  Liz Murrall
BEIS IFRS Stakeholder Group  Liz Murrall
DCMS – Dormant Assets Expansion Board  John Allen
Department for International Trade – Investment Expert Trade Advisory Group  Richard Normington
DIT Financial Services Trade Advisory Group   Chris Cummings
Financial Services Industry Advisory Group   Chris Cummings
FRC Audit TAG  Liz Murrall
FRC Brexit stakeholder group  Liz Murrall
FRC Codes and Standards Committee  Liz Murrall
FRC Corporate Reporting Council  Liz Murrall (Chair)
FX JSC Operations Sub-Committee  David Broadway
HM Treasury – Financial Services Expert Trade Advisory Group  Richard Normington
HM Treasury – Global Financial Partnerships Expert Trade Advisory Group  Richard Normington
HMT Asset Management Taskforce  Chris Cummings
PSSG – The Economic Crime Public Private Steering Group  Adrian Hood
Risk Free Rate Bond Market Sub Group   Hugo Gordon / Ross Barrett 
Risk Free Rate Working Group  Galina Dimitrova
HMRC 
At any time IA staff are members of a number of HMRC industry consultative groups 
CRS/MDR Working Group  Anshita Joshi
Finance Liaison Group  Anshita Joshi
Joint VAT Consultative Committee (JVCC)  Anshita Joshi
OTHER 
Advisory Board for the Centre for Asset Management Research   Jonathan Lipkin
ANNA-DSB Product Committee  David Broadway
ANNA-DSB Technology Advisory Committee  David Broadway (Chair)
ANNA-DSB Technology Advisory Committee, Strategy Sub-Committee  David Broadway (Chair)
BSI/IST12 UK Financial Services Standards Committee   David Broadway (Chair)
Career Ready Westminster Kingsway College Advisory Board  Jenny Barber
CISI Exam Panel for the Collective Investment Schemes Module of the  
CISI Investment Operations Certificate (IOC)  Peter Capper
Cost Transparency Initiative Board  Jonathan Lipkin
Diversity Project Advisory Committee  Pauline Hawkes-Bunyan
Diversity Project HR Workstream  Kate Le Marechal
Diversity Project Steering Committee  Karis Stander/ Kate Le Marechal
Financial Data Exchange (FINDATEX) European Feedback Template Working Group  Carol Thomas
Financial Data Exchange (FinDatEx) PRIIPs Working Group  Carol Thomas
FTSE Russell Policy Advisory Board   Andrew Ninian
Hampton Alexander Advisory Group  Andrew Ninian
ICE Libor Oversight Committee  Galina Dimitrova
43
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
IFIAR IOSWG’s Advisory Group  Liz Murrall
Impact Investing Institute, Advisory Council  Chris Cummings
InterInvest Steering Committee  Paul Scaping
Joint Money Laundering Intelligence Taskforce (JMLIT)  Adrian Hood
Modern Slavery Advisory Committee  Chris Cummings
RFR Communications Sub-Committee  Katie Martin
Take Over panel   Chris Cummings
The British Standards Institution (BSI) Strategic Advisory Group on Sustainable Finance  Galina Dimitrova
The British Standards Institution Steering Group on PAS 7341   Jess Foulds
TISA ESG ExCo  Jess Foulds
Wates Principles Coalition Group   Andrew Ninian
UK INDUSTRY GROUPS 
FCA Trade Association Cyber Insights Group  Pauline Hawkes-Bunyan
Fund Administors Tax Working Group  Anshita Joshi
ICAEW Audit and Assurance Board  Liz Murrall
ICAEW Financial Reporting Committee   Liz Murrall
IRSG Architecture for regulating finance workstream  Nic Edge
IRSG Board  Jack Knight
IRSG Council   Pauline Hawkes-Bunyan
IRSG Data Workstream  Sarah Thwaites 
IRSG ESG Working Group   Jess Foulds
IRSG EU Regulation Standing Committee  David McCarthy 
IRSG European Policy   David McCarthy 
IRSG Global Regulatory Coherence Standing Committee  Richard Normington
Joint Industry Forum on Pensions  Imran Razvi
Joint Money Laundering Steering Group Board   Adrian Hood 
SFE Public Affairs and Communications Forum  Paul Scaping
STAR SteerCo  John Allan
TheCityUK Board   Galina Dimitrova
TheCityUK Communications Network  Emily Walch
TheCityUK Cyber Committee  Pauline Hawkes-Bunyan
TheCityUK European Strategy Group  David McCarthy
TheCityUK Public Affairs Group (PAG)  Emily Walch
TheCityUK Tax Committee  Anshita Joshi
TheCityUK Technical Advisory Group  David McCarthy
TISA Universal Reporting Network (TURN) Board  John Allan
UK Investment Performance Committee   Adrian Hood
44
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
EFAMA 
Various IA staff chair or are members of EFAMA’s working groups covering areas as diverse as corporate governance, 
derivatives, ETFs, FATCA, firm level regulation, FTT, fund accounting, fund processing, fund regulation, investor education, 
markets regulation, recovery and resolution, statistics, sustainable investment, tax and VAT. 
Accounting Taskforce  Mark Sherwin
Anti-Money Laundering Taskforce  Adrian Hood
Benchmarking taskforce  Adrian Hood
Blockchain for Tax taskforce  Anshita Joshi
Board of Directors   Chris Cummings
Distribution & Client Disclosures Standing Committee   Carol Thomas
Economics & Research Standing Committee  Miranda Seath
ETF Taskforce   Hugo Gordon
European Funds Classification Forum   Richard Mawson
Fund Regulation Standing Committee  Peter Capper
Investor Education Platform  Emily Walch
Management Companies Regulation & Services  Pauline Hawkes-Bunyan/  
    Rachel Ellison
Money Markets Fund Taskforce  Peter Capper
Pensions Standing Committee  Imran Razvi/Jonathan Lipkin   
    (Chair)
Public Policy Platform (EFAMA)  Emily Walch
Remuneration Committee  Chris Cummings
Stewardship, Market Integrity, ESG Investment Standing Committee  Jess Foulds
Strategy Taskforce  Chris Cummings
Supervision & Third Country Developments  Nic Edge
Taxation & Accounting Standing Committee          Anshita Joshi
Trade & Transaction Reporting Taskforce  David Broadway
Trading, Trade Reporting & Market Infrastructures Standing Committee  Galina Dimitrova
VAT Taskforce  Anshita Joshi
IIFA 
IIFA Accounting Standards Committee  Mark Sherwin 
IIFA Audit & Finance Committee  Chris Cummings (Chair)
IIFA Conference Committee  Shrena Fraser Johnson
IIFA Cyber Security Committee  John Allan
IIFA International Regulation Working Group   Chris Cummings
IIFA International Regulatory affairs working committee  Jonathan Lipkin/Carol Thomas
IIFA Pension Working Committee  Imran Ravzi
IIFA Regulatory Affairs Committee  Chris Cummings
IIFA Social Media Committee  David Parton
IIFA Statistics Working Committee   Miranda Seath
IIFA Strategy Committee  Chris Cummings
IIFA Tax Committee  Anshita Joshi
45
THE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION
OTHER EUROPEAN AND INTERNATIONAL GROUPS 
Common Reporting Standard (CRS) Business Advisory Group (BAG)  Anshita Joshi
Financial Services Ireland/City of London dialogue  Jack Knight
Global Investor dialogue  Liz Murrall (Chair)
International Organization for Standardization –  
Technical Committee 68: Financial Services  David Broadway
International Organization for Standardization –  
TC68/AG2: Standards Advisory Group  David Broadway
International Organization for Standardization –  
TC68/AG3: Best Practices  David Broadway
International Organization for Standardization –  
TC68/ Sub-Committee 8: Reference data for financial services  David Broadway
International Organization for Standardization –  
TC68/SC8/ CAG: Chair Advisory Group  David Broadway
International Organization for Standardization –  
TC68/SC8/ AG1: Advisory Group on Classification of Financial Instruments  David Broadway
International Organization for Standardization –  
TC68/SC8/WG1: Revision of ISO 10962 (Classification of Finacial Instruments)  David Broadway
International Organization for Standardization –  
TC68/SC8/WG4: Revision of ISO 17442 (Legal Entity Identifier)  David Broadway (Convenor)
International Organization for Standardization –  
TC68/SC8/WG5: Unique Transaction Identifer  David Broadway
International Organization for Standardization – 
 TC68/SC8/WG6: Revision of ISO 6166 (ISIN)  David Broadway
International Organization for Standardization –  
TC68/SC8/WG7: Natural Persons Identifier  David Broadway
International Organization for Standardization –  
TC68/SC8/WG8: ISO/NP 4914 Unique Product Identifier  David Broadway (Convenor)
International Organization for Standardization –  
ISO 20275 (Entity Legal Forms) Maintenance Agency  David Broadway
International Organization for Standardization –  
ISO 4217 (Currency Codes) Maintenance Agency  David Broadway
International Organization for Standardization –  
TC68/Sub-Committee 9: Information exchange for financial services  David Broadway
ISO 20022 Registration Management Group  David Broadway
ISO 20022 Securities Standards Evaluation Group   David Broadway
SWIFT FX Market Practice Group   David Broadway
US PCAOB Standing Advisory Group  Liz Murrall
46
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2020
47
The Investment Association
Camomile Court, 23 Camomile Street, London, EC3A 7LL
www.theia.org    
      @InvAssoc
June 2021
© The Investment Association (2021). All rights reserved.
No reproduction without permission of The Investment Association.