
Pioneering
low carbon solutions
inclusive capitalism
clean energy
sustainable living 
Sustainability and  
an inclusive future
inclusive capitalism 2020-21
Legal & General Group Plc
Pioneering  A fair society with equality of 
opportunity. Younger generations 
supported and enabled to reach 
thriving cities, low carbon solutions, 
their potential. The elderly respected 
and cared for in their communities. 
sustainable communities, clean energy,  Affordable, sustainable homes in 
thriving cities and towns.
affordable housing, accessible finance, 
At Legal & General, we’re pioneering  
a future where today’s capital is used 
digital transformation, smarter  to benefit tomorrow’s society. 
We call it inclusive capitalism.
buildings, healthier lives, digital 
connectivity, community regeneration, 
diverse workplaces, retirement 
planning, innovative research, financial 
inclusion, access to jobs, sustainable 
investment, climate engagement,
an inclusive future
3
In this report Introduction  Looking ahead 
Chief Executive’s review  4 Our journey to net zero  67
Building a better society   67
Context  Growing our business responsibly   67
About the Legal & General Group  7
Appendix 
How we create value  8
Welcome to our 2020 
Our six growth drivers  9 ESG target tables  68
Sustainability Report. Inside,  About this report  71
we share our vision of inclusive 
capitalism and our journey 
towards achieving it.
To ensure transparency, we report  
in accordance with the Global Reporting  
Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. Progress and performance 
Our journey to net zero  24
Click here to read more The time for radical action is now  25
Investing in a low carbon recovery  26
How climate change affects us  28
All the images used throughout this report were 
How L&G is responding to climate risks   29
taken pre-March 2020, before the outbreak of 
Our steps towards net zero   31
Covid-19 and social distancing measures. The power of direct investment  34
Our response to the TCFD guidance  35
Managing our environmental impacts  36
Our sustainability approach  Environmental performance during 2020   37
Our sustainability strategy   12 Building a better society  38
Our focus areas  13 Introduction  39
Our approach to the SDGs  14 Building an inclusive and resilient society  40
Engaging with our stakeholders  15 Building a generation of new,  42 
Focusing on what matters  18 high quality, affordable housing 
Our sustainability governance  19 Urban regeneration and specialist   44 
Managing our risks  21 commercial real estate
Our active ownership approach  22 Creating new neighbourhoods, urban regeneration 45 
and specialist commercial real estate
Increasing resilience and financial inclusion  46
Closing the gap between lifespans   47 
and healthspans  
Growing our business responsibly  49
Introduction  50
How workplaces need to evolve  51
Creating a culture where everyone thrives  53
Proud to be part of the community  62
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21 Partnering with charities  64
4
Chief Executive’s review
“ Our inclusive capitalism agenda 
has never been more urgent 
or important. The unforeseen 
consequence of the pandemic 
has been more inequality; we’re 
Welcome matching words and deeds to help 
level up society and build back 
better.”
We provide financial stability to our customers and 
Nigel Wilson their families in good times and bad. It’s what we’ve 
Group CEO always done and what we’ll continue to do in the 
long term. 
All we do is underpinned by inclusive capitalism: 
a balanced vision, where profits and purpose co-
exist and everyone can build their own stake in our 
economy. It is built on productive partnerships between 
business, government and communities to unlock the 
transformative potential that exists in our society. 
Our purpose sets us apart in our response to Covid-19. 
The human and economic cost of the pandemic 
reaffirm our commitment to inclusive capitalism as the 
only way to do business responsibly. 
Our employees’ response to the challenges of the 
pandemic was first class. They were resilient and 
resolute in their efforts to keep our business running 
and enabling access to the critical financial services 
we provide. Throughout the pandemic, we engaged 
with and listened to our employees, supporting their 
wellbeing, exploring their perspectives and reaffirming 
our commitment to building an agile and inclusive 
business. Legal & General operated throughout 2020 
without accessing any furlough scheme or other 
Covid-19 business support. We extended services and 
opportunities for employees to manage mental health 
issues and deal with stress.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
5
Chief Executive’s review
continued
All of this positioned our business to weather the  Amidst the pandemic response, it has been crucial 
pandemic and deliver a resilient set of financial  not to lose sight of our long-term goals, including 
results, which in turn allows us to step up to the job in  a net zero future. The UK’s leadership of COP26 
hand: supporting society and the economy through a  offers a historic opportunity to engage. Through our 
fair, investment-led recovery. Climate Impact Pledge, we have held hundreds of 
companies to account to drive progress towards net 
We intend to be a leader in that recovery. As investors, 
zero. We are not afraid to call out companies that are 
we have a duty to work with the Government in 
not doing enough, whether it is on delivering inclusive 
creating a more inclusive post-pandemic society. 
capitalism, tackling climate change or addressing 
That is why I was pleased to be invited to be a 
environment, social and governance issues.
member of the Prime Minister’s Build Back Better 
Council which brings together business leaders from  Nigel Wilson
across the whole UK economy to unlock investment,  Group CEO
boost job creation and level up the whole of the 
country. We don’t take this responsibility lightly and 
have launched the Rebuilding Britain Index (RBI), 
a quarterly, community-led index that will act as 
the benchmark in identifying the UK’s investment 
priorities, regional investment gaps and barriers to 
increasing investment, focusing on social, economic 
and environmental needs.  “ Inclusive capitalism is a 
We must also practice what we preach. The cost  balanced vision, where 
10,000
of Covid-19 has, sadly, been high for many Legal & 
General customers – including holders of life insurance  profits and purpose co-
policies and annuitants who lost their lives too soon. 
exist, and everyone can 
Supporting people to prepare for the worst is one of  employees across the UK, North 
the things we do best, and we have been steadfast in  build their own stake in  America, Europe and Asia. 
our commitment to pay all valid claims and provide 
our economy.”
a rapid but sensitive service to bereaved families. 
30,000
We continued supporting our shareholders and 
customers while delivering inclusive capitalism through  Nigel Wilson
investments in infrastructure, clean energy, affordable  Group CEO
housing, and providing products to support individuals’  Our investments since March 2020 are 
financial resilience. Since the UK went into lockdown in  set to create 30,000 jobs. 
March 2020, we have invested £1.5 billion into the UK’s 
towns and cities, creating 30,000 jobs in the long term 
and supporting a regional economic recovery. 
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
6
Our context
We’re ambitious about the future and 
committed to delivering profitable 
growth through inclusive capitalism. 
This philosophy guides our decisions and 
galvanises our work to build a better society.
In this section
About the Legal & General Group  7
How we create value  8
Our six growth drivers  9
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
7
About the Legal & General Group Our businesses 2020 highlights
Retirement £8.8bn
We take on pension scheme liabilities from corporate 
institutional retirement sales
schemes in the UK and the US to bring certainty 
to companies over their liabilities and provide  £910m
guaranteed retirement income to individuals.
Pioneering We help our customers accumulate pensions  individual annuity sales
savings and transform them into income to have a 
retirement planning  colourful retirement life. 
investment management  Investment management £1.3tn
Our savings and investment plans enable our clients to 
capital investment 
assets under management
take control of their financial future. As one of Europe’s 
largest asset managers, Legal & General Investment 
insurance solutions
Management (LGIM) offers investment solutions 
to clients globally and influences the companies it 
inclusive capitalism
invests in to behave in a responsible way that benefits 
everyone. We are the UK market leader in providing 
pension asset management services to institutional 
clients and manage the assets our clients hold to cover 
their pension scheme liabilities and generate returns.
Our purpose is to improve the lives  
of customers, build a better society   Capital investment £3.1bn
for the long term and create value   We channel our customers’ pension assets and 
direct investments
for our shareholders. This inspires us   the Group’s shareholder capital towards long term 
investments in specialist commercial real estate, 
to use our assets in an economically 
clean energy, residential property and SME finance. 
and socially useful way to benefit   Our £3.1 billion direct investments generate returns for 
pensions and on the Group’s capital while benefitting 
the whole of society. 
society through socially responsible investing.
Insurance £2.8bn
Our strategy is based on our vision of inclusive capitalism. 
Capitalism today is not inclusive and we want this to  As the UK’s number one individual life insurance 
gross written premiums
change. We have always believed a fair capitalist system  provider with 5.5 million customers, we help our 
is the best way to achieve progress so that more people  customers protect themselves and their families, and 
benefit from economic growth and financial opportunities.  plan for the unexpected. We provide life insurance to 
We bring inclusive capitalism to life by looking at the  1.3 million people in the US and our group protection 
outcomes we achieve through a holistic lens that includes  business in the UK offers life insurance and income 
more than just financial benefits and investing in things  protection products to 1.8 million people through group 
that are good for society.  protection schemes with their employers.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
8
How we create value
PPrroovviiddeess    
ccaappiittaall CCaappiittaall    
Our synergistic business model 
iinnvveessttmmeenntt  
and scale in each of our businesses 
enables us to deliver inclusive  RReettiirreemmeenntt   ££33..11bbnn
DDeevveellooppss  aasssseettss  
capitalism by creating long-term,  tthhaatt  ssuuppppoorrtt  oouurr  
££88..88bbnn ppeennssiioonn  lliiaabbiilliittiieess ddiirreecctt  iinnvveessttmmeennttss
sustainable value for stakeholders 
and our customers.  iinnssttiittuuttiioonnaall  rreettiirreemmeenntt  ssaalleess
££991100mm
GGeenneerraatteess  
iinnccoommee  aanndd  
iinnddiivviidduuaall  aannnnuuiittyy  pprreemmiiuummss pprroovviiddeess  ccaappiittaall
PPrroovviiddeess   CCrreeaatteess  
aasssseett   rreeaall  
mmaannaaggeemmeenntt   aasssseettss
sseerrvviicceess  aanndd  
ccoo--iinnvveessttss
CCrreeaatteess  
ccaappiittaall  
PPrroovviiddeess  aasssseett  
mmaannaaggeemmeenntt  
sseerrvviicceess  aanndd  cclliieenntt  
rreellaattiioonnsshhiippss
IInnvveessttmmeenntt  
mmaannaaggeemmeenntt  
££11..33ttnn
IInnssuurraannccee  
aasssseettss  uunnddeerr  mmaannaaggeemmeenntt
££22..88bbnn
ggrroossss  wwrriitttteenn  pprreemmiiuummss PPrroovviiddeess  aasssseett  
mmaannaaggeemmeenntt    
sseerrvviicceess
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
9
Our six growth drivers
Capitalism and social progress 
are not mutually exclusive.  
We believe they can work hand 
in hand. Inclusive capitalism  
is long-term investing for 
positive change. 
To achieve it, we have identified six social and 
Ageing   Globalisation   Investing in the  
economic trends that shape our business 
model and strategy to create positive social 
demographics of asset markets real economy
and environmental outcomes and deliver 
sustainable profits. 
The UK population is ageing. By 2040, it is  Asset markets are increasingly globalised and  Years of under-investment have left an urgent need 
estimated there will be nearly 10 million people in  growing – worldwide assets under management are  to invest in infrastructure and urban regeneration. 
the UK aged 75 and over. Their retirement funds  projected to increase from $89 trillion to $106 trillion  The UK is facing a £1 trillion infrastructure funding 
and other assets need to finance their retirement.  by 2024. This represents an enormous opportunity  gap. There is also a serious housing shortage and 
The Covid-19 pandemic has shown the importance  for international asset managers.  challenges for small and medium enterprises which 
and challenges of caring for our elderly as part of a  can struggle to access long-term capital. 
What this means for us 
healthy society.
We are building a truly global asset management  What this means for us
What this means for us business, entering new markets and expanding our  We think assets need to be invested over the 
Companies need to find solutions to secure their  operations. Our investment management business  long term to improve returns, provide pension 
pension commitments. As a leader in pensions  is continuing to selectively extend its global reach  security and breathe life into areas which once 
de-risking and retirement income solutions, we can  with international assets under management of  thrived. We aim to be a leader in direct and socially 
help customers effectively ‘de-risk’ their pension  £388 billion. This positions us to scale our positive  responsible investments that benefit society. 
liabilities so members’ pensions can be paid on  impact and deliver inclusive capitalism.  Our housing developments look to help solve the 
time and in full. We also lead on later living housing  housing crisis, especially in towns and cities outside 
developments and invest in initiatives that support  of the southeast of England.
lifespans and healthspans.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
10
Our six growth drivers
continued
Welfare  Technological  Addressing  
reforms innovation climate change
Many families who rely on state benefits struggle  Consumer technology continues to evolve as  Scientists, policymakers, markets and regulators  “ Our purpose is to create 
to survive financially following the death, disability  people and businesses manage their finances  all agree we must limit global warming to well 
a better future through 
or long-term sickness of a loved one. People need  using digital platforms. Technological solutions  below 2°C to avoid potentially catastrophic 
help to save more for retirement and build their  can increase security and efficiency, but they  impacts on economies, markets, companies and  responsible investing.”
financial resilience. The need to protect people  come with security risks if not managed well.  communities. The journey to net zero creates risk 
from financial uncertainty is even more urgent in  Reliable and relevant technological solutions  management challenges and substantial new 
Michelle Scrimgeour
the wake of Covid-19.  mean the difference between success and failure  growth opportunities, especially in renewables and 
Chief Executive Officer,
in business.  innovative technologies.  
What this means for us Legal & General Investment Management
We enable people to take responsibility for  What this means for us What this means for us
safeguarding their financial wellbeing and  We aim to be a market leader in offering  We can use our own balance sheet and 
resilience through insurance, pensions and  consumers digital access to insurance.  our influence as one of the world’s largest 
savings. Our insurance covers life, critical illness,  Emerging technology will help us raise efficiency  investment managers to support the fight against 
disability and long-term sickness so that people  for customers and businesses as we work to  climate catastrophe. We direct retirement and 
can protect themselves and their loved ones  provide excellent service at low cost through a  investment capital towards environment, social 
should the unthinkable happen. digital operating model. and governance (ESG) investments, including 
technological innovation, clean energy and carbon-
friendly specialist commercial real estate.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
11
Our 
sustainability 
approach
In this section
Our sustainability strategy  12
Our focus areas  13
Our approach to the SDGs  14
Engaging with our stakeholders  15
Focusing on what matters  18
Our sustainability governance  19
Managing our risks  21
Our active ownership approach  22
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
12
Our sustainability strategy 
Our vision of inclusive capitalism sets  1
our ambitious change agenda and places 
sustainability firmly at the centre of our strategy. 
We have mapped out three strategic ‘focus areas’  
which are united by our desire to accelerate 
meaningful change for employees, investors, 
customers and society. They set out how we 
will deliver inclusive capitalism across the three 
elements of environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) practice. 
2
We will evolve our sustainability strategy over 
the coming year. To inform this, we have begun 
a process to update our materiality assessment. 
You can read more about this on page 18. 
As part of this process, we expect to review and 
evaluate our existing targets, as well as setting new 
accompanying targets, the details of which will be 
shared in our next sustainability report.
In the meantime, we are still working to deliver 
against our existing sustainability commitments 
and targets. Some of these have already been 
achieved, and we are continuing our efforts against  3
those that have not yet been met.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
13
Our focus areas
1 Our journey   2 Building a  3 Growing our  
to net zero better society business responsibly
The transition to a low carbon future is both a risk  Inclusive capitalism is an economic system where  Responsibility to our employees, customers, 
and an opportunity. It shapes every part of our  today’s capital is used to benefit tomorrow’s society.  communities and society is the foundation on which we 
business, from how we invest our proprietary assets  Making investments that drive social outcomes is  deliver inclusive capitalism. We are responsible for our 
and influence the companies we invest in to how we  core to our work. Supporting society to emerge from  behaviour and corporate culture and we hold ourselves 
operate day to day.  Covid-19 more resilient and inclusive makes sound  to high standards of integrity.  
commercial sense.  
We have committed to the Science Based Targets  Our responsibility to employees is focused on supporting 
initiative (SBTi) and will extend our set of targets for  Building a better society includes supporting  their wellbeing and engagement as part of an inclusive 
our investments and operational footprint. We will  healthcare systems, providing critical financial  and inspiring workplace. Our approach has been shaped 
increase our investments in renewable energy and  services for customers, contributing to communities  by the impacts of Covid-19. We are committed to strong 
low carbon technology. All the homes we build will  and supporting young people to create a stronger  governance and to developing sustainable supply chains 
be capable of net zero carbon operation from 2030.  society after Covid-19.  where climate change, environmental and human rights 
risks are managed transparently. 
Our journey to net zero:   Building a better society:   Growing our business responsibly:  
In action In action  In action
We have increased our stake in  As a part of our £4 billion partnership  Many charitable and community 
Pod Point and launched a strategic  with Oxford University, we committed  organisations faced funding 
partnership with EDF to accelerate  £200 million for a new Life and Mind  challenges as a result of the 
the national roll out of charging  sciences building which will provide  pandemic in 2020. In the UK, we 
points and make it easier for drivers  innovative facilities for teaching and  launched a £500,000 Emergency 
in the UK to go electric.  research. In turn, these will have  Community Fund and supported over 
positive impacts on health outcomes  200 charities. The cash contributions 
Find out more about how we are 
throughout society.  made by our employees and 
investing in clean energy for a net 
community programmes worldwide 
zero world on page 34. Find out more about how we are 
amounted to £3.5 million. 
investing in specialist commercial 
real estate on page 45. Find out more about how we 
supported people throughout the 
pandemic on page 62.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
14
Our approach to the SDGs
Our contribution towards the SDGs For more information on our contribution to 
the SDGs, look out for the ‘SDG contribution’ 
The following SDGs have the greatest strategic  
boxes throughout this report. You can also 
alignment with the work we do:
discover more in our ‘In focus’ articles on 
pages 26, 40 and 51.
The United Nations’ Sustainable Development 
Re-aligning our approach to the SDGs
Goals (SDGs) are focused on tackling the  Good health and wellbeing Contributing to the SDGs is integral to inclusive 
capitalism. It is important that our business 
pressing social, economic and environmental 
priorities and strategy align with the goals and 
issues that could threaten the livelihoods and  that we can demonstrate how the outcomes we 
are delivering contribute to specific SDGs. As our 
wellbeing of people worldwide.  Quality education
business grows and evolves, our approach to 
the SDGs will progress too. With this in mind, 
we will use our upcoming strategy refresh as 
In 2015, 193 countries signed up to the 2030 
an opportunity to reassess our Group-level 
Agenda for Sustainable Development and the 17 
Gender equality alignment with the SDGs. The outcome will be 
SDGs as a route map towards a sustainable global 
published in our 2021 report and used to shape 
economy. Of the estimated $2-3 trillion of annual 
our future strategy and reporting. See pages 12 
investment developing countries will require to 
and 18 for more on this. 
meet the goals, a significant proportion will have 
to come from the private sector. Even in more  Affordable and clean energy
developed economies, where we operate, the 
private sector will have to play a significant part 
in achieving certain SDG outcomes. More and 
more businesses and investors are recognising 
the opportunity to use their capital to invest with a  Decent work and economic growth
long-term view and help deliver the SDGs.  
The 17 SDGs are an indivisible, highly integrated 
web of global challenges. The interconnected 
Sustainable Development Goals:  
nature of the SDGs is of crucial importance to  Industry, innovation and infrastructure
A blueprint for a better future  
ensuring the purpose of the 2030 Agenda is 
realised. The many interlinkages between the goals 
also mean that, due to the variety of our business  2021  |  Sustainable Development Goals: a blueprint for a better future Not to bFeo dri sptrroibfeustesido tnoa lr ectlaieiln ctsli eonntlsy..  
activities we are contributing to all 17 of the SDGs,  Read more about how  
Sustainable cities and communities
to a greater or lesser extent.  LGIM reflects the UN’s  
SDGs in its investments.
Sustainable 
Development Goals:  
a blueprint for a 
Climate action better future
Hino itws  iLnGveIMstm reeflnetcsts the UN’s SDGs  
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
15
Engaging with our stakeholders
As fundamentally a people-focused business,  “ We keep the interests of the 
we’re committed to understanding our 
Group’s stakeholders at the  
shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers 
heart of our decision making  
and other stakeholders. Their interests are central 
and how we deliver our  
to our decision making. 
strategy to succeed.”
Delivering inclusive capitalism means delivering 
Sir John Kingman
great outcomes for all stakeholders. Listening to 
Chairman
them and taking part in national and international 
conversations ensures we help shape and respond 
to what matters most. 
While Covid-19 has severely restricted face-to-
face meetings, we continue to regularly invite 
our stakeholders to participate in roundtables, 
online surveys and digital one-to-one meetings. 
There has never been a more important time to 
stay connected with our stakeholders. 
Tea and Talk sessions with customers
Legal & General Retirement ran ‘Tea & Talk’ 
sessions with customers. Pre-Covid, we invited 
customers into our offices to give their feedback 
and insights into our products, services or their 
lives in general. We ran a digital version of this in 
Q4 and are planning on running more for 2021. 
Our Investment Stewardship team is very active 
in encouraging and driving Environmental, Social 
and Governance performance from the companies 
they invest in. They also play a key role in making 
sure that the Group’s performance on ESG is 
aligned with LGIM’s campaigns.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
16
Engaging with our stakeholders
continued
Stakeholder group Issues of interest in 2020 Our response
Customers The impact of Covid-19 on retirement saving. We co-created free retirement planning courses with the Open University.   2,000
Around 2,000 people have signed up so far.
sign-ups for our 
retirement planning 
courses
Unclaimed pension pots. Our retail retirement business launched a new pension tracing and consolidation service,   £19.4bn
helping pensioners find up to £19.4 billion of unclaimed pension pots.
unclaimed pension pots 
waiting to be traced
Customers suffering financial hardship due   To help mitigate the effects of Covid-19, for UK retail protection customers we introduced deferred  £141m
to the impact of Covid-19. payment ‘holidays’. This allowed over 400 customers to defer premium payments for up to three 
months and introduced a care package for members of our group protection schemes displaying 
paid in Covid-19  
prolonged symptoms.
related claims
We have paid out £141 million (with net impact of £76 million) in Covid-19 related claims1.
Shareholders Corporate Governance and transparent  Shareholders were invited to attend a live, virtual shareholder engagement event on 9 December 2020,  
performance disclosures. which included presentations from the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Committee Chairs.
A number of shareholder questions, submitted either in advance or live, were answered on the day.
The importance of dividend income to retail  The Board recognised how important the dividend is to retail shareholders, particularly when many  
shareholders.  other companies were deferring or not paying their dividends. Therefore, on the basis that the balance  
sheet remained robust, the Board took the decision to pay the final dividend.
Communities Incorporating learnings from Covid-19 into  We donated £5 million to Newcastle City Council to build a prototype care home which moves away from  £5m
future projects. traditional large-scale facilities and incorporates learnings from Covid-19 on infection control.
to build a prototype  
care home  
in Newcastle
Better responses to public health emergencies. We are participating in the Trinity Challenge, a coalition of 22 leading businesses, charities, researchers  £10m
and educators. This global initiative will help populations throughout the world better prevent and 
respond to public health emergencies, and award a £10 million prize fund for breakthrough solutions  prize fund to build 
which harness the power of data and analytics to build systemic resilience to future pandemics. pandemic resilience 
1 www.legalandgeneralgroup.com/media-centre/press-releases/legal-general-pays-record-764m-in-uk-claims/
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
17
Engaging with our stakeholders
continued
Stakeholder group Issues of interest in 2020 Our response
Suppliers Ability to identify, report and remediate human  We implemented a five-year Modern Slavery strategy. Our approach was to ensure commitment within  5 year
rights issues. the business, to risk assess our operations and supply chains, to plan how we applied due diligence  
within our business and supply chains, to apply remedy where we found instances of human rights  Modern Slavery 
abuses and to monitor and communicate our progress. strategy implemented 
Availability of business guidance on  Our new Group Procurement and Supplier Management Sustainable Sourcing Principles Statement 
responsible sourcing activities. provides guidance and a benchmark on important subjects as part of the sourcing process. We have a 
clear set of principles that provide guidance on our five key sustainable commitments. We have provided 
a recommended approach for each commitment, highlighting high risk areas and considerations and 
detailing responsible sourcing to show best practice.
Supplier compliance and communication. Our Supplier relationship managers engage in an annual CSR Meeting with our material suppliers.  
The purpose of this meeting is to have an open discussion with our suppliers, allowing them to 
showcase their roadmaps and sustainability strategies.
Employees Personal wellbeing. During 2020, we took material steps to put in place and communicate the availability of support  100
mechanisms. We extended access to our Employee Assistance Programme to cover employees’  
direct family; launched a partnership with wellbeing app Unmind; and publicised our network of   Mental Health First 
Mental Health First Aiders. Aiders at L&G 
Employee engagement and job satisfaction. 83% of employees took part in the October Voice survey, providing 16,805 individual comments. Our  83%
employee satisfaction score increased considerably during the first half of 2020 and then, in line with 
other organisations, slightly receded from June to October (74 in March; 81 in June; 77 in October).   of employees  
This reflects an upward trajectory since the beginning of lockdown with an increase between March   took part in the October 
and October 2020. Voice survey
Government   Corporate governance and transparent   We have engaged with international, national and regional governments on a range of issues such as 
and regulators business practices. Covid-19 response and recovery; supporting jobs and growth through urban regeneration; addressing 
climate change; the UK’s exit from the European Union and International Trade.
As part of our dialogue with governments and regulatory authorities, we responded to relevant 
government and regulatory consultations, as well as shaping responses from trade and industry bodies. 
We have participated in a number of Groupings initiated by Government.
Involvement in COP26. Michelle Scrimgeour (LGIM CEO) is a member of the Business Leaders Group for the COP26 climate 
conference, helping to steer companies towards success in a low carbon economy.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
18
Focusing on what matters
Our materiality process
We are following a four step approach:
Identifying relevant topics Gathering stakeholder perspectives Next steps
1 2
We conducted in-depth desk-based  We engaged external stakeholders  Once the materiality 
As a large and varied business, it’s important  research to identify the most relevant  through a survey to prioritise each of  assessment is 
that we  reflect on the constantly changing  sustainability topics playing out in our world.  the shortlisted topics based on their perceived  complete, which 
This consisted of a review of mega and industry  importance. It was important to capture a range of  is expected later 
sustainability landscape to identify the issues   trends, a peer review to uncover which topics are  perspectives including: charity partners, suppliers,  in 2021, we will 
that will impact and influence our ability   considered material in our sector, a review of ESG  trade associations, clients, government, investors  publish the results. 
frameworks and legislation, a media review to  and NGOs. We also drafted tailored prioritisation  We intend to use 
to deliver inclusive capitalism. 
uncover topics surfacing in the media relating to  criteria to help reduce subjectivity. We gained input  the prioritised 
Legal & General (L&G) and sustainability in the last  from senior stakeholders throughout the process.  sustainability 
12 months, and also a review of topics captured  topics to inform 
Materiality is a process designed to identify and  Insights gained from this step allowed us to identify 
in existing L&G materials – including our risk  the evolution of 
prioritise the sustainability topics that matter most  the sustainability topics that stakeholders felt were 
management landscape.  our sustainability 
to our business and our stakeholders. We believe  most important for our business. Stakeholders also 
strategy and targets. 
that a rigorous materiality assessment ensures  We then analysed and distilled the research  provided valuable opinions on emerging sustainability 
that we can identify and manage our risks and  findings into a shortlist of 26 sustainability  topics and those which they considered would rise or 
opportunities and respond to them in the right  topics, classified into six groups. Topic names  fall in importance over time. 
way through an informed and robust strategy.  and descriptions were refined to enhance clarity 
Materiality is also used to guide reporting and  and comprehension. 
wider communications.
Assessing topic impact and influence Validating the sustainability matrix
3 4
We are currently working with an independent  Testing the shortlist of sustainability  We held a workshop with internal senior 
sustainability consultancy, Radley Yeldar, to update  topics across three dimensions  leaders from various business functions 
our materiality assessment. Their involvement  (importance, impact and influence) provides  including HR, Finance, Risk, Investor Relations 
will ensure a thorough and unbiased exercise  a fuller indication of which topics should be  and Employee Communications. The purpose 
is undertaken. We will use the outcomes to  prioritised. To achieve this, we proposed some  of the workshop was to check and challenge our 
inform the evolution of our strategy and the  indicative scores for the impact and influence  indicative impact and influence scoring and the 
information will be included within next year’s  dimension using tailored prioritisation criteria  draft materiality matrix as a whole. This process 
sustainability report. to reduce subjectivity. The impact dimension  allowed a broader range of relevant internal 
relates to the sustainability topic’s impact  stakeholders to input their perspectives on the 
on L&G and the influence dimension relates  impact of each topic on L&G and L&G’s influence 
to the level of influence L&G has over each  over each topic, to produce a more accurate 
sustainability topic.  finalised materiality matrix. 
The results of this indicative scoring process  At the time of writing, the results of this 
were plotted onto a materiality matrix, along with  assessment are being reviewed, refined and 
an average of stakeholder importance scores  validated internally. 
for each sustainability topic, to create a draft 
materiality matrix. 
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
19
Our sustainability governance
Strong governance ensures we do the right thing. 
Our governance framework enables us to respond 
to risks such as climate change by making sure they 
are understood, identified, assessed, measured 
and managed by all our businesses.
Roles and responsibilities The Group Board, through the Group Risk Committee 
Nigel Wilson, Group CEO, is ultimately responsible  and Executive Risk Committee has delegated 
for the Group’s strategic direction and progress on  oversight of the management of the risks associated 
inclusive capitalism and sustainability. The Group  with climate change to the Group Environment 
Chief Risk Officer is responsible for ensuring we  Committee. More information is available in our 
understand, identify, measure, monitor, control  TCFD report on the governance on Climate Change.
and report risks in line with the risk strategy and 
Click here to read more
risk appetite parameters set by the Group Board.   
The Group Chief Financial Officer, who is also a 
The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy 
Board member, ensures risks connected to our 
is presented to the Board annually, giving the Board’s 
investments are properly managed.
executive and non- executive directors the chance 
Governance committees: roles  to formally engage with the CSR programme at 
The Group Board Nominations and Corporate  least once a year. In 2020, ‘addressing climate 
Governance Committee is responsible for ensuring  change’ became one of our six strategic growth 
compliance with the principles of good corporate  drivers, emphasising the importance of climate risk 
governance. This includes oversight of the Group  and the opportunities arising from the necessary 
strategy from the Diversity and Inclusion Council. energy transition.
Click here to read more on   Governance committees: in focus  
Group Board Committees  
Each governance committee undertakes activity 
designed to improve the way our business is run. 
The Chief Risk Officer is responsible for ensuring a 
Through our investment management business’s 
strategy is in place to understand, identify, measure, 
active ownership approach, we engage with 
monitor, control and report risks from climate 
investee companies to improve their governance 
change in line with the risk strategy and risk appetite 
performance. The power of our influence elsewhere 
parameters set by the Group Board. 
makes it all the more important to ensure that we 
govern our own business in the right way. 
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
20
Our sustainability governance
continued
The Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Council was formed in  Group Sustainability Governance
October 2020 with the aim of reviewing and refreshing 
the group-wide aspirational goals for D&I. Formed of 
senior leaders across the business, the council has  L&G Board
already begun to enable meaningful discussions and 
build group-wide consensus about how to improve D&I 
outcomes. Topics covered so far include our approach to  
recruiting more diversely; the launch of a global mentoring 
Group Executive   Group Risk   Resources   Nominations & Corporate 
approach; and aligning policies, processes and practices. 
Committee (ExCo) Committee Board Governance Board Committee
See page 55 for more on our D&I approach. 
The Modern Slavery and Human Rights Committee, 
sponsored by Non-Executive Director Lesley Knox, 
brings together representatives across Procurement,  Group   Modern Slavery   Global Diversity  
Executive Risk  
HR, Risk and other business functions as well as our  Health & Safety  & Human Rights   and Inclusion  
Committee
recognised union, Unite. The committee has helped  Committee Committee Council
develop our new Sustainable Sourcing Principles 
Statement, which provides guidance for responsible 
procurement decisions across the business.
Group 
Environment 
Our Group Health and Safety Committee, supported 
Committee (GEC)
by location-based committees and committees in our 
subsidiaries, brings together representatives from each 
business division as well as Unite. The committee’s 
role is not only too oversee our groupwide H&S policy 
Environment  Climate Risk 
statements, management systems and process and 
Subcommittee Subcommittee
procedures, but also to drive continual improvement 
in our management of these issues. The Committee’s 
focus for 2020 was principally on safely managing 
Covid-19: see page 54 for more information on the steps 
Climate Risk 
we took to keep our people safe. 
Working Groups
All committee meetings are held quarterly.
Executive remuneration
From 2021, an ESG measure is part of the annual 
bonus performance conditions for executive 
directors. This was included in the new remuneration 
policy which shareholders approved in 2019.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
21
Managing our risks
Effective risk management ensures that we properly understand 
and respond to the risks related to our business and our ability to  Our risk management framework
achieve inclusive capitalism. Straightforward, collaborative and 
Risk appetite The Group’s overall attitude to risk and the 
purposeful behaviours underpin our risk framework, helping to  ranges and limits of acceptable risk-taking 
create a culture of openness and transparency in how we make 
Risk-taking  The formal cascade of our risk appetite to 
decisions and manage risks.  authorities managers, empowering them to make decisions 
within clearly defined parameters 
A global risk management framework supports  Risk   Our strategies for managing the risks in the 
informed risk-taking across our businesses. It sets  policies  environments in which we operate, so as to ensure 
residual risk exposures are those within appetite  
the risks to which we are prepared to be exposed 
and those we want to avoid. Risk limits and 
Risk   Tools that help managers identify and evaluate 
standards of internal control are in place to ensure 
exposures remain within our overall risk appetite.  identification  the risks to which we may be exposed so that 
they can be managed in line with our risk policies 
and assessment
Our operating businesses are responsible 
for managing their own risk-taking within the 
Risk   How we report and review ongoing and 
parameters of the Group risk appetite and policies. 
management  emerging risks, and assess actual risk positions 
Assessing and pricing for risk is central to their 
relative to the risk targets and limits that we set 
information
business decisions.  
Under the direction of the Group Chief Risk Officer, 
Risk   Review and challenge, by the Group and 
the risk oversight function supports each business 
oversight divisional Chief Risk Officer teams, of how we 
with expert advice and guidance on risk, ESG, 
identify and manage risk 
reputational impacts and capital management 
while ensuring risk-taking remains within 
Risk   Our structure of group level committees 
acceptable parameters.  committees  oversees the management of risks and 
challenges how the risk framework is working
The Group Internal Audit function provides 
independent assurance on the effectiveness of 
Culture   Performance measures that focus on the 
business risk management and the operation of 
and reward  delivery of effective risk management, business 
our risk framework.  and customer strategy, and culture 
For information on our risk landscape see page 41 of our annual report
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
22
Our active ownership approach
As one of Europe’s largest asset managers with £1.3 trillion   Our approach to ownership 
To inform our investment decisions, we conduct  Key categories 
of investments, our approach to responsible investing stems  
extensive research into potential environmental  incorporated into the 
from – and helps to inform – our vision for inclusive capitalism.   and societal outcomes. We embed ESG factors in  active investment 
our investment processes through a quantitative  process: 
We engage with the companies we invest in to effect positive 
ESG scoring system which is available to all 
change on behalf of our clients and society. portfolio managers to support their investment 
Environmental
decisions. ‘ESG Flags’ are identified where there 
is a high level of risk relating to a list of specific 
• Products
ESG indicators.
• Climate change
Rated A+ for responsible 
Companies with poor environmental credentials  • Water and waste
investment strategy and 
are subject to an escalation process which requires  • Supply chain
active ownership from the 
the fund manager to perform a detailed secondary  •  Environmental  
UN Principles for Responsible 
assessment of the company and obtain additional  policies and controls
Investment.
approvals before a purchase is made. 
Ranked #1 among asset 
Excluding certain companies and sectors Social
managers for our approach 
LGIM has long prioritised company engagement 
to climate change in separate 
over exclusion. Through our approach to active  • Products
independent reviews by NGOs 
ownership, we have sought to improve companies’  •  Labour, health and safety, 
ShareAction and InfluenceMap.
standards by engaging with them and using  and community
our voice.  • Supply chain
• Bribery and corruption
However, when combined with engagement 
and voting, and to help mitigate investment 
risks, targeted exclusions can also be a very  Governance
powerful tool.
• Board robustness
Our company-wide policies on thermal coal and  • Investor rights
controversial weapons mean that we exclude from  • Audit
all discretionary investments issuers generating  • Disclosure and policies
more than 30% of revenues from thermal coal,  • Remuneration
mining and extraction and those involved in the  •  Tax transparency 
manufacture of cluster munitions, anti-personnel 
and lobbying
landmines and biological and chemical weapons. 
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
23
Our active ownership approach
continued
Engaging on deforestation
Without urgently tackling and reversing 
Through our Future World Protection List, those  Our engagement focus in 2020
deforestation, meeting the net zero challenge 
who continually violate UN Global Compact 
There were 891 engagements with companies in 
will be impossible. LGIM joined an investor 
principles are, in addition to coal and controversial 
2020. Full details are set out in LGIM’s 2020 Active 
coalition to directly engage senior Brazilian 
weapons issuers, excluded from select fund 
Ownership Report. 
government officials in 2020. We expressed 
ranges. Through our Climate Impact Pledge, 
our concerns, warning of potential divestment 
companies that do not take sufficient action 
LGIM’s 2020 Active Ownership Report
from local food companies and even 
to prepare for a net zero transition will also be 
government bonds. We also engaged 
excluded from select fund ranges.
Climate action
companies like consumer goods giants 
We significantly expanded the coverage and ambitions 
Procter & Gamble and Nestlé on the topic of  LGIM’s controversial weapons policy
of our climate engagement programme, the Climate 
deforestation. In the former, we supported 
Impact Pledge. We held hundreds of companies to 
a shareholder proposal on the elimination  LGIM’s coal policy
account and called on the UK Government to take 
of deforestation from its supply chain and 
urgent action to reduce emissions. Through voting and 
encouraged the company to increase the  Active engagement
investment sanctions, we engaged companies in 15 
percentage of sustainably certified pulp  We think being an engaged and active owner is 
climate-critical sectors and published climate ratings 
it used. central to drive real world change. Engaging with 
for around 1,000 large companies. 
investee companies ensures good portfolio 
Engaging on modern  management and is vital to our net zero ambitions.  Diversity and inclusion
slavery and fast fashion We strengthened our commitment to our 
LGIM’s Global Research and Engagement 
progressive diversity policy by opposing all-male 
Platform identifies the most material ESG topics 
As part of a collaborative engagement, we 
boards globally and sanctioning low levels of 
at an industry level and directs our research and 
challenged FTSE 350 companies that had 
gender diversity. We support the Parker review of 
engagement towards the areas that are most 
failed to meet the reporting requirements of 
diversity on UK boards and from 2022 we will vote 
likely to impact either the financial or operating 
the Modern Slavery Act, 2015. Our aim was 
against large UK and US companies that do not 
performance of investee companies. The outputs 
to highlight the importance of eradicating 
have ethnically diverse boards. 
shape engagement activities across all our 
modern slavery and to encourage a greater 
investments and stewardship, enabling us to  Good governance
891 degree of challenge on social issues 
set goals and targets at a company level with  We continue to promote good governance, from 
using shareholder rights. Separately, we 
one voice.  the quality of audit to director independence. 
engaged with Boohoo Group to discuss its 
We will vote against CEOs who also serve as board 
response to criticisms of poor practices  The LGIM Investment Stewardship team engages 
In 2020, the Investment Stewardship team  chairs because we believe the separation of these 
held 891 engagements with 665 companies.  in its supply chain. As a consequence,  on behalf of all client assets across themes mainly 
roles is a key principle of good governance. 
Boohoo announced its Agenda for  related to climate change, remuneration, gender 
4,700 Change programme to improve supply- diversity, human capital, audit and cyber security. 
chain management, responsible sourcing  Board composition is also a theme – ensuring 
and transparency. the Board has the necessary expertise and 
directors whose election we opposed   independence to oversee the management and 
due to governance concerns.  strategy of the organisation. 
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
24
Focus area 1  Our journey to
Our journey to net zero
climate resilience     p28 
climate action     p29 
net zero emissions     p31 
low carbon investments     p34 
climate transparency     p35 
net zero 
“ We are deploying our capital 
to accelerate the UK’s 
progression to a low cost, 
low carbon economy. Our 
clean energy investments, 
which include low carbon 
heat, transport and power 
generation, will play an 
essential part in the UK’s 
solution for reaching net zero 
carbon emissions by 2050.”
John Bromley
Head of Clean Energy
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
25
Our journey to net zero
The time for radical action is now
Our purpose inspires us to use our assets  
to benefit everyone. The transition to a low 
carbon economy is a crucial step towards 
realising our vision of inclusive capitalism.
Key issues We recognise that ‘Environment’ encompasses 
more than just climate change and we face a broad 
Climate change and how it affects L&G  set of specific risks and opportunities across our 
businesses and balance sheet. Page 36 details  our 
L&G’s carbon footprint
wider environmental commitments. 
Renewable energy investment 
However, the climate issue is both the biggest challenge 
and the biggest investment opportunity of our lifetimes. 
TCFD and disclosing L&G’s approach  
to climate risks and opportunities  We invest where we see potential to drive 
decarbonisation and provide positive, long-term 
Key commitments and targets outcomes for our investors. Managing climate risk is 
crucial to building resilient communities and protecting 
We have set Group balance sheet carbon intensity  our assets and investments. In making investment 
targets to monitor alignment with the Paris objective 
decisions, we must always weigh up the sometimes 
and will reduce our portfolio carbon emission intensity 
competing demands of our environmental and social 
by half by 2030 and targeting net zero by 2050.
obligations. For example, in investing in social and 
modular housing, we recognise the impact of increased 
We will launch a climate solution capability for 
carbon on our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. Similarly, in 
LGIM’s clients in 2021, quantifying climate risks 
within, and temperature alignment of, their assets. order to influence as an investor, we must sometimes 
retain stakes in companies whose ESG performance is 
As a large UK housebuilder, we will enable all new  sub-par. This is a constant balancing act. 
homes we build from 2030 to operate with net 
Our journey to net zero includes funding the clean 
zero carbon emissions. In addition, we’re seeking 
energy transition, influencing as an investor and 
to understand and monitor the embodied carbon 
reducing our operational carbon footprint. We have 
associated with the construction of our homes.
committed to set science-based targets to reduce 
For further information please see the appendix emissions across each of our businesses.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
26
In depth: Investing in a low carbon recovery
What role will 
ESG investing 
play in a more 
resilient post-
pandemic 
future?
An inclusive and investment-led 
recovery must also be a low  
carbon one which levels up  
regions and sectors.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
27
In depth: Investing in a low carbon recovery
57% If Covid-19 has taught us anything, it’s that  The UK government’s ten point plan sets out 
responsible investing has a crucial role in  the approach to building back better, supporting 
enabling society to navigate times of crisis –  green jobs and accelerating the path to net zero. 
ESG funds forecast to  from accelerating research and development and  As investors begin to consider the impacts of their 
outnumber conventional funds  pushing the boundaries of innovation to securing  investments, the Covid-19 pandemic has served to 
by 2025, increasing their share 
of the European fund sector  communities’ wellbeing. As we rebuild the  underline the trend towards ESG investing. One of 
from 15% to 57%.1 economy, resilience must be a guiding principle.  the drivers is demand for sustainable investments 
This is a central ambition of SDG 9, which targets  that can withstand an unpredictable market and 
2 million  sustainable and resilient infrastructure, and it is at  climate change. Supporting the green recovery  
the core of our approach to inclusive capitalism. is a clear opportunity.
jobs To be truly resilient, investment must embed  This sentiment has driven our vision for inclusive 
climate considerations into an inclusive recovery.  capitalism to address economic inclusion and 
The role of cities may look very different in a  drive sustainable growth for the past decade. 
A green recovery plan in the EU would  post-covid world and investment needs to level  Our UK domestic inclusive capitalism direct 
result in 2 million more jobs than a  up regions and sectors. At the beginning of the  investment programme has invested £28 billion 
return-to-normal plan by 2024.2
pandemic, there was concern that the momentum  on this journey; that’s about 1.5% of the UK’s GDP.4 
behind addressing climate change may be  We’re ambitious to invest another £28 billion and 
SDG 9
swamped by the short-term response, but the  we need others to come on board to maximise 
crisis reinforced the need to invest in resilience  the potential positive impact. If four or five other 
Industry, innovation   to potential future climate scenarios.  UK corporations were to join us, the investment 
and infrastructure. programme would be worth £170 billion. It would 
The green recovery must now be led by low carbon 
make a huge impact, driving the change that is 
investments in the built environment and climate-
needed and benefiting the investment community 
friendly businesses and sectors. A green recovery 
by directing capital towards a future that is both 
will boost income, employment and GDP while 
The role of cities may look 
resilient and inclusive. 
reducing emissions. Globally, there would be 7% 
different in a post-covid  reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 
if a green recovery plan was implemented.3
world and an inclusive and 
£28bn investment-led recovery 
must be focused on 
Over the last 10 years our UK domestic  levelling up regions  
Inclusive Capitalism direct investment 
programme has so far invested £28 billion   and sectors.
on this journey. 1 www.pwc.com/gx/en/industries/financial-services/assets/wealth-management-2-0-data-tool/pwc_awm_revolution_2020.pdf
2 www.wemeanbusinesscoalition.org/press-release/report-green-recovery-plans-boost-income-employment-and-gdp
3  www.wemeanbusinesscoalition.org/press-release/report-green-recovery-plans-boost-income-employment-and-gdp
4 www.forbes.com/sites/nigelwilson/2020/09/19/the-covid-pause-and-inclusive-capitalism/?sh=7250ce6a35dc 
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
28
Our journey to net zero
How climate change affects us
We must drastically reduce emissions over the next decade and 
work towards net zero by 2050 to prevent the most devastating 
SDG Contribution
effects of climate change. Our roadmap to net zero focuses  
on funding the transition to support a low carbon future and  
deliver secure returns for our shareholders.
January 2020 was the warmest January since  We advocate an investment-led recovery with  Five areas of investment risk policy. 
1880.1 As global temperatures rise, we will see  a greener approach to the built environment  These five areas 
more extreme storms, floods and droughts and   and efforts to grow climate-friendly business.  1 We will decarbonise the assets on our  demonstrate how we are 
balance sheet to align with the Paris  strengthening resilience 
the extinction of species. To keep temperature  At the same time, we need to manage the risks 
objective, which we interpret as limiting  and adaptation to climate 
rise to within 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels,  and ensure the resilience of our business and 
warming to 1.5°C.  change and promoting the 
emissions need to fall by 7.6% each year for the  investments. We use our influence as a large  integration of climate action 
next 10 years.2 By 2030, we need to reduce the  investor to promote a transition to a low carbon  2 We advocate for urgent action   in national policies and 
amount of CO2 emissions by 32 gigatonnes.3   economy. This includes supporting the goal of  to mitigate the climate emergency   strategies, alongside our 
The UN has said the collective ambition to  carbon neutrality by 2050, in line with global efforts  from both governments and the  work to drive the transition  
to a low carbon future.
achieve this must increase more than fivefold over  to limit warming to 1.5°C. We have also committed  companies we are invested in. 
current levels and huge investment is needed.  to the Science Based Target initiative (SBTi). 
3 We will use our influence as a large 
Climate change represents a strategic growth area; 
investor to promote a transition   SDG targets
$1.3 trillion of investment is needed to achieve 
to a low carbon economy.
global net zero emissions ($20 trillion by 2025).4 
13.1     13.2
This shift in investment represents the biggest  4 We support the goal of carbon neutrality  
investment opportunity of our lifetimes.  by 2050, in line with global efforts to 
limit warming to 1.5°C.
Addressing climate change is also a crucial 
element of rebuilding a resilient and inclusive  5 We have committed to the Science 
society following Covid-19.  Based Target initiative (SBTi).
Read more about the SDG 
1  www.brand.legalandgeneral.com/tackling-the-climate-crisis/five-reasons-were-investing-in-clean-energy-v2
goals and targets online at  
2 www.un.org/en/climatechange/science/key-findings
sdgs.un.org/goals
3 www.unfccc.int/news/cut-global-emissions-by-76-percent-every-year-for-next-decade-to-meet-15degc-paris-target-un-report
4 www.iigcc.org/news/global-framework-for-investors-to-achieve-net-zero-emissions-alignment-launched-8-trillion-investors-put-it-into-practice
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
29
Our journey to net zero
How L&G is responding to climate risks
We manage our risks arising from climate change through  Each of our businesses faces different climate-related risks and opportunities 
and these shape their strategic focus and climate strategies.
a range of strategies. Because we cannot eliminate all 
risks through asset allocation, we make it a priority to 
understand and manage the environmental impacts   Our business Focus Climate strategy
of our decisions and actions. 
Retirement •  Portfolio decarbonisation to align
with the Paris Climate Agreement
We have developed specific commitments that  •  All new homes we build from 2030 will be 
respond to climate risks and support us in our  designed to operate with net zero carbon 
our journey to net zero. Climate, and our response  emissions. Work on reducing embodied 
Capital   •  Direct more capital to clean energy investments. 
to it, cannot be considered in isolation. We need  carbon is continuing. 
investment Examples to date include wind energy, solar 
to ensure that we integrate wider sustainability/ •  Our operational carbon footprint (occupied  photovoltaics (Oxford PV), nuclear fusion 
ESG considerations within our decision making  offices and business travel) will be net zero (Tokamak Energy), electric vehicle charging 
(Pod Point) and ground-source heating
process. For example, our commitment to building  from 2030.
(Kensa Heat Pumps) 
more social housing will inevitably impact on our 
Our response to climate change is built   •  Understand and reduce our operational footprint 
carbon emissions. But our balanced and measured 
around three pillars: and the embodied carbon associated with our 
approach to all our commitments means they are  housing developments
considered holistically, in the broader context of  Invest: How we invest our assets: we 
our vision for inclusive capitalism. believe that the key source of climate 
risk to our business is through the  Insurance •  Develop best-practise technology to be used
•  We have set Paris aligned carbon intensity
shareholder-owned assets.  on retro and new build housing
reduction targets for the assets on our 
Group’s balance sheet.  Influence: How we use our scale  
•  Climate-related targets are now part of our  and resources to influence, support 
Executive remuneration scorecard from 2021. the transition and reduce the risk of 
Investment   •  We use our influence as a large investor 
•  In March 2021, we launched a climate solution potential adverse physical outcomes. 
management to push companies and regulators to step up
to enable investment management clients  on sustainability
Operate: How our businesses operate 
to quantify climate risks and temperature 
through reducing the carbon footprint  •  Work in partnership with our clients to set 
alignment of their assets.  decarbonisation goals for portfolios
of the assets we create and our  
direct carbon footprint to support   •  Enhance product offering from model outputs
our long-term resilience.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
30
Our journey to net zero
How L&G is responding to climate risks
continued
Active engagement: the Climate Impact Pledge 
The Climate Impact Pledge is our flagship 
engagement programme to encourage companies 
to step up their ambition towards net zero, 
build resilient strategies and succeed in a low 
carbon world. We have published climate ratings 
for around 1,000 companies under a ‘traffic 
light’ system and these are publicly available. 
Companies were selected from 15 climate-critical 
sectors (from aviation to steel making) and 
are responsible for 60% of all greenhouse gas 
emissions from listed companies. 
Our targeted approach uses voting and investment 
sanctions to influence companies and has 
contributed to improvements to climate targets 
and strategies. We have sent letters detailing 
“ Through our engagement 
our assessment to several hundred companies 
identified as having poor scores relative to  programme, renewed to align 
their size. Alongside this quantitatively driven 
with the net zero challenge, we 
engagement programme, we have selected 
60 companies that we believe can and should  want to help steer companies 
embrace the transition to net zero carbon 
60 companies
emissions in the next few years. We will carry  and our clients towards success 
out in-depth engagement with these companies  We have selected 60 companies  
in a low carbon world.”
with the results of our engagement (including any  that we believe can and should embrace 
companies added or removed from our sanction  the transition to net zero carbon 
emissions in the next few years. 
lists) to be announced in June 2020. Under our  Michelle Scrimgeour
approach, divestment is seen as a last resort.  Chief Executive Officer, Legal & General Investment Management 
and member of UK Government’s COP26 Business Leaders 
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
31
Our journey to net zero
Our steps towards net zero
200
Started development of a net zero 
retirement community to create 200 
age-appropriate homes powered by 
To deliver real-world change, our actions must match our words.  Reducing emissions in our portfolio renewable energy generated on site
Our institutional retirement business has 
We are on our own journey towards net zero by 2050.  
committed to: £1.4bn
This year, we committed to the Science Based Target Initiative  •  reduce portfolio carbon emission intensity
by 18.5%1 by 2025.
(SBTi) and strengthened our commitments to decarbonise the 
Clean energy investments  
Our capital investment business has committed to:
assets on our balance sheet to align with the Paris Agreement.  (2019: £1.3bn)
•  invest in clean energy through electric vehicle 
infrastructure, ground-source heat pumps and  A-
rating
alternative technologies.
Our focus for 2021 is to develop detailed and 
timebound plans in all our businesses to follow our  •  build all homes to be capable of net zero
roadmap to net zero. These plans will be linked to the  operational carbon by 2030. Carbon Disclosure Project score 
development of science based targets and will provide  Investing in a low carbon future
milestones against which we will report our progress.  Rebuilding our economy from Covid-19 is a chance 
#1
to create a greener built environment, to support 
new climate-friendly business sectors and create 
more green jobs. We’re increasing our investments  LGIM’s approach to climate change 
in low carbon infrastructure – from heat pump  was rated number 1 globally in 2020 
technology for social housing to a national network  (ShareAction)
of electric car charging points.
Pioneering 2%
clean energy solutions
Reduction in investment portfolio 
low carbon futures carbon emission intensity – down to  
117 tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent 
per £1 million invested2
climate engagement
green infrastructure
inclusive capitalism
1 From end 2019 levels.
2  As at December 2020, compared to the previous year – see our 2020 TCFD report for full details.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
32
Our journey to net zero
Our steps towards net zero
continued
Active climate engagement We also supported employees who needed to 
Accelerating innovation  We offer climate-friendly investments and influence  work in the office. This meant that our core offices 
with companies we invest in, voting on companies’  remained open and we operated airflow systems 
During 2020, nearly 100 of our people 
climate resolutions. In 2020, we broadened our  for longer periods of time to minimise the risk of 
worked on our Climate Change Virtual 
Climate Impact Pledge, updating the exclusions for  in-office Covid-19 transmissions. This resulted in a 
Accelerator – a business incubator that  1,000 thermal coal and the Climate Impact Pledge stocks.  slight increase in our operational office footprint. 
brought people together from across our 
See page 22-23 for more information on this. 
businesses to find innovative, low carbon  We have seen an increase in our footprint from 
solutions. Its aim was to identify and develop  Reducing our operational carbon footprint  our housing businesses which reflects our growth 
Companies rated by our  
new opportunities for commercial revenue  Climate Impact Pledge. We are embedding Carbon Net Zero criteria across  in this sector. In contrast, our business travel 
streams and create significant shareholder  our supply chain and committed to the Science  significantly decreased, as has the carbon from the 
value while supporting the journey to  139,000 Based Target initiative (SBTi) to further align  management of our Real Assets, many of which 
net zero. Some ideas have already been  our operational carbon reduction targets to the  were impacted by Covid-19 restrictions. 
integrated into the business and we are  Paris objective. 
exploring opportunities to invest in them. 
In 2020, our operational carbon footprint 
They include the outcomes of investigations  Investment stewardship votes  
decreased by 13%. However, as with many 
into low carbon district heating  (2019: 115,000).
businesses, this was impacted by Covid-19 as we 
technologies, ways to reduce embodied 
transformed our normally office-based operations 
carbon through less carbon intensive  13%
to a predominantly home-based workforce. 
construction processes, and opportunities 
To capture the carbon impacts of our employees 
to work with local government to improve 
working from home, we introduced an assessment 
carbon efficiency and cost by retrofitting 
reduction vs 2019 in our   methodology based on a paper by leading carbon 
commercial and residential properties.  Group operational footprint   consultancy, EcoAct. This impact equates to 1,733 
down to 40,344 tCO2e. tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO e) and is 
2
a new source of Scope 3 emissions. 
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
33
Our journey to net zero
Our steps towards net zero
continued
Carbon1, 5
Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 CO2e (tonnes) absolute CO2e relative  
(employees) 
In the analysis below we distinguish between Scope 1 and 2 emissions which relate  2020
40,344 3.96 tonnes
to our own operational footprint, and the much larger estimated footprint of Scope 3 
emissions, which includes the carbon emissions from the companies that we invest  2019
46,164 5.09 tonnes
in. We use the Scope 1 and 2 emissions from companies in our investment portfolio 
to calculate our total Scope 3 portfolio emission intensity.  2018 48,744 5.56 tonnes
Scope 1 GHG emissions globally (tonnes)² Scope 2 Total Market (non renewable)³ Total Location (total)4
All direct GHG   Indirect GHG emissions 
emissions. 2020 globally (tonnes)  2020 2020
15,163 1,122 20,319
from consumption of 
2019 purchased electricity,  2019 2019
15,226 3,015 23,716
heat or steam.
2018 2018 2018
12,447 4,553 28,982
Scope 36 Balance sheet investment Business Travel Serviced offices Home working7 Waste
GHG emissions   (CO2e/£m Enterprise Value) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (tCO2e)
globally (tonnes)
117 CO e/£m 7,223 7,316 251 1,733
42
2
2019: £120m CO e/£m
2
3,045
84
2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2020 2020
1   Emissions are calculated using The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. Emission Factors  4   Scope 2 Location: Emissions from electricity directly purchased using average grid emissions factors  
are from the UK Government Emissions Conversion Factors for Greenhouse Gas Company reporting (BEIS 2020). (UK Government Emissions Conversion Factors for Greenhouse Gas Company reporting (BEIS 2020).
2  Scope 1: Emissions from directly purchased fuel combustion i.e. gas for heating, cooling, cooking, and ODS losses. 5   Total carbon is calculated using scope 2 location based emission and includes scope 3 business travel,  
3   Scope 2 Market: Emissions from directly purchased electricity using supplier specific emissions factors   serviced offices and homeworking.
e.g. renewable energy backed by Renewable Guarantees of Origin certificates. 6   More scope 3 categories have been included in 2020. This will inform the basis of reporting going forward.
7  Calculated using the EcoAct Home Working Emissions White Paper 2020
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
34
Our journey to net zero
The power of direct investment
To support a low carbon future, we need to 
build a cleaner, greener society. That is why we 
SDG Contribution
have invested £1.4 billion in renewable energy 
infrastructure across the UK.
We believe the clean energy transition represents  Our clean energy investments and product offering 
the biggest investment opportunity of our lifetimes.  expanded in 2020, including: 
With its lower costs, greater resilience and 
•  A 36% stake in Kensa Heat Pumps, one of the  These examples 
environmental benefits, clean energy generation  UK’s largest players in ground source heat  demonstrate how we’re 
offers stable long-term returns to secure pension  investing long-term capital 
pump technology. 
payments far into the future. By unlocking the  to accelerate progress 
•  Increased stake in Pod Point, a leading electric 
power of pensions, we can play an important  towards a low cost, low 
vehicle charging point operator from 16% - 22%. carbon economy. By doing 
role in tackling climate change. Reducing the 
•  Launch of an energy saver cashback offer for this, we’re contributing to 
cost of power for consumers supports inclusive 
lifetime mortgage policyholders.  access to affordable, reliable 
capitalism, so everyone benefits. 
and modern energy services 
•  A climate transition index fund and a core fixed 
Technology to accelerate green growth income range which provides a higher allocation and helping to increase the 
share of renewable energy in 
So far, we’ve invested in three offshore wind farms  to green bonds and issuers with higher 
the global energy mix.
and into renewable energy funds that pay for new  ESG scores. 
£1.4bn
projects. And we’re backing companies developing 
•  Long-term financing for HeatRHIght to develop 
zero carbon fusion and solar energy technology 
its air source heat pump technology.  SDG targets
and installing electric vehicle and low carbon 
•  Investment in Tokamak Energy to develop fusion
heating infrastructure. We’re supporting clean  technology, aiming to bring fusion energy to the  investment in renewable energy to date. 7.1     7.2
energy businesses that employ more than 400 
market by 2030. 
skilled workers in the UK green economy.  70%
•  Launch of an electric car scheme, provided by
Zenith, open to all employees. 
•  Development began to create the first net zero
(regulated energy) retirement community,  of our retirement business’s renewable 
using Kensa Heat Pumps, at Millfield Green,  investments, by market value, are in  
the UK offshore wind sector. 
Bedfordshire.
Read more about the SDG 
goals and targets online at  
sdgs.un.org/goals
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
35
Our journey to net zero
Our response to the TCFD guidance
We support the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 
What is TCFD? Disclosures (TCFD) and have strengthened our policies 
The Task Force on Climate-Related  during the past year. We advocate for urgent action to 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) was  
mitigate the climate emergency and increase transparency 
created in 2015 to develop consistent 
climate-related financial risk disclosures   across governments and the companies we are invested in.
for companies, banks and investors to 
provide clear information on climate risk. 
We closely monitor the actual and potential  Focus on transition risk  Strategy 
impacts of climate risks and opportunities on our  We focus on transition risk because successful  Our strategy recognises the journey to net zero as 
business strategy and planning with a focus on  delivery of the Paris Agreement will require a  an investment opportunity and a transition risk. 
assets and transition risk. fundamental change in the global economy. This is  Our bespoke Destination@Risk model is designed 
a significant near-term issue and risk for our  to inform investment decisions and our strategy 
Short-medium term risks
business, especially our investment portfolio.  and policies focus on making us resilient to 
We view the journey to net zero as an investment 
climate-related risks. 
opportunity and a transition risk. Transition risks  Our response to the TCFD 
arise from the shift to a low carbon economy  In 2021, we produced our third TCFD report.  Risk management 
and include impacts on asset valuation and  There is no industry-specific approach to  We identify transition risk impacts on asset 
the economy.  consistent reporting at this time and we continue  valuation due to the shift to a low carbon economy 
to learn and improve our reporting. By aligning our  and physical risk impacts on asset holdings or 
A  ddressing  Long-term risks
commitments with the Science Based Targets  changes to insurance liabilities as a result of 
climate change  The catastrophic physical risks that would result 
is the next step  from uncontrolled climate change on our business,  initiative (SBTi), we have the opportunity to  weather events. Our mitigation strategy builds 
in delivering  independently verify our pathway to net zero and  carbon controls into the investment process. 
on inclusive  investments and the economy are one of the 
increase transparency of our climate impacts for 
capitalism reasons we are committed to creating a net zero  Metrics and targets 
our stakeholders. 
world. We are all exposed to long-term physical risks  To assess climate-related risks and opportunities, 
L2rCee0lcig2moa0mal  Ct&mel i-Gmereenalndateeater tRaidole  FnGpsiorn ofrarutno picnm iP al itllnch Dee i wsTcaitlshok s uFroersc e(T oCnF D) such as impacts on asset holdings and changes to  Governance  we focus on Scope 3 investment portfolio carbon 
insurance liabilities due to more frequent and severe  The Board is accountable for our long-term  intensity, portfolio temperature alignment and 
weather events and shifts in climate.  stewardship and added ‘addressing climate  operational carbon footprint. We have set Group 
change’ as one of our six strategic growth drivers  balance sheet carbon intensity targets to monitor 
Focus on assets 
in early 2020. The Group Environment Committee  alignment with the Paris objective and will reduce 
The main climate risk to our business is through 
oversees the ongoing management of climate- our portfolio carbon emission intensity by half by 
the assets on our balance sheet. We are also 
related risks.  2030 and targeting net zero by 2050. 
Click here to read the full 2020   exposed to liability impacts in our retirement 
TCFD report on our website and insurance businesses based on mortality 
assumptions and experience. 
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
36
Our journey to net zero
Managing our environmental impacts
Our risks and opportunities extend beyond 
climate change and decarbonisation and we  Strategic commitment
are broadening our focus to address wider 
Our journey   We are fully aligned with the Paris Agreement  
environmental impacts. to net zero and committed to achieving net zero by 2050.
The energy   We will reduce our energy usage in line with 
We have developed a new set of strategic 
we use our journey to net zero and  source energy  
commitments. They focus on the eight areas on 
from renewable sources.
which we impact and have the opportunity to drive 
change through our direct operations. We are 
The way   We will maximise agile working practices and 
now developing detailed targets for each of these 
we travel technology to actively reduce the business miles  
commitment areas and will communicate the  we travel. By 2030, we will have net zero emissions 
outcomes in our 2021 report.  from our essential business travel.
Natural  We will protect the natural resources we use through 
resources the implementation of sustainable procurement 
principles throughout our supply chain.
Single use  As part of our commitment to protect the  
plastics natural environment, we aim to eradicate  
single use plastics from within our supply chain.
Water We will protect and minimise the use of water 
resources in the spaces we create and occupy.
Circular  We aim to minimise and design out waste through 
economy the careful implementation of the principles of the 
circular economy.
Biodiversity Through the careful management and design of  
the spaces we occupy and develop, we are 
committed to creating diverse and valuable natural 
spaces and achieving overall net biodiversity gains.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
37
Our journey to net zero
Environmental performance during 2020
Like many others in 2020, our business was impacted by Covid-19 as we transformed our normally office-based 
Waste Measurement 2018 2019 2020
operations to a predominantly home-based workforce. The impact of this is reflected in our 2020 environmental 
performance data shown in these tables and any significant reductions in our 2020 performance should be  Total waste generated (tonnes) – absolute tonnes 14,891  31,033  25,191 
attributed in part to the impact of Covid-19 on our operations.
Total waste per employee tonnes 1.70  3.42  2.47 
Energy usage¹ Measurement 2018 2019 2020 Occupied offices (including serviced offices) tonnes 814  898  395 
Electricity MWH 102,817 92,951 78,781 Our housing business5 tonnes 14,077  30,135  24,796 
Gas MWH 44,028 53,404 53,923
Waste to landfill (%) 
Fuel (diesel)² Litres 1,328,661 1,794,385 1,351,318
Occupied offices (including serviced offices) % 6.4 4.5 0.77
Fuel (propane)² kg 1,081 42,558 43,911
Our housing business6 % 9.2 1.9
1  Energy Usage covers all directly controlled operations (UK & International).
5  Construction waste includes our CALA and Modular Homes businesses only.
2  Fuel refers to volumes consumed by our directly controlled UK construction sites.
6  No breakdown of waste volume available for construction sites in 2018.
Business travel³ Measurement 2018 2019 2020
Occupied Offices Water Consumption (m³) –  
Total business travel tCO2e 7,316 7,223 3,045 normalised (per employee) Measurement 2018 2019 2020
Total business travel per employee kg 834 795 299 Total occupied office water consumption m3 39,524 45,838 24,888
Motor vehicle tCO2e 3,101 3,078 2,174 Occupied office water consumption per employee7 m3/employee 4.51 5.05 2.44
Business organised travel4 tCO2e 59 75 11 7   Water was rebaselined in 2019. We extended data collection in 2019 to include previously excluded serviced offices and offices associated 
with our construction businesses. Where metered water volumes are not available, benchmarks from Better Building Partnership have 
Trains tCO2e 987 564 111 been applied.
Flights tCO2e 3,170 3,506 749
Click here to go to our data centre
3  Includes business travel originating from both UK & International businesses
4  Includes employee sustainable travel initiatives at Legal & General’s Hove office e.g. park & ride buses and staff travel bus from Surrey.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
38
Focus area 2  Building
Building a better society
affordable housing     p42 
future cities     p44 
inclusive neighbourhoods     p45 
financial inclusion     p46 
healthier lives     p47
a better society 
“ This year has highlighted 
the importance of 
investment to the 
functioning of modern 
societies – something 
that will be critical to the 
recovery from Covid-19.”
Sir John Kingman
Chairman
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
39
Building a better society
Building a better society
Building a better society depends on creating a 
more inclusive form of capitalism which benefits 
everyone. To achieve it, financial institutions 
must invest in the real economy. We use pension 
funds and savings to do just that.
Key issues We are committed to using society’s capital for 
society’s benefit. This means we invest pension 
Resilience and financial inclusion  funds in the real economy, delivering financial 
security for pensioners and fostering growth 
Building a generation of new, 
across towns and cities at the same time. 
real and affordable housing 
We target our investments to support financial 
resilience, create new and better neighbourhoods, 
Creating new neighbourhoods: urban 
build the right kind of houses and enable society to 
regeneration and specialist commercial 
real estate  deal with health challenges. 
To breathe new life into cities, we invest in science 
Lifespans and healthspans: sustaining the 
and innovation districts and urban transformation 
activities of daily life within strong communities 
projects. Our direct investments in specialist 
commercial real estate, residential property and 
Key commitments and targets
clean energy will help to level up the UK’s towns 
and cities. 
Our ambition over the next five years is to increase 
our direct investment portfolio to £5 billion.
We aim to measure social value across 20% 
of our property assets by value by 2023.
LGIM will engage with investee companies on 
key themes that will help to create more resilient 
societies, namely diversity, health, technology, 
income inequality and financial inclusion.
For further information please see the appendix
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
40
In depth:  Building an inclusive and resilient society
How can we build 
on the learnings of 
Covid-19 to achieve 
a more inclusive 
and resilient 
society?
Harnessing the power of 
innovations will build societal 
health and resilience, with better 
outcomes for everyone.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
41
In depth: Building an inclusive and resilient society
There is an intrinsic and indivisible link between  protect and support vulnerable people during the 
a healthy and resilient society and inclusive  pandemic, access to health services for people with 
capitalism. By building a healthy society and  pre-existing conditions was down 20% at the peak of 
enabling people to live well for longer, we all  the crisis.  
benefit, both socially and economically. 
As we look to emerge from the pandemic stronger 
This aim is central to SDG 3, which includes a target   and more resilient, we must seize on opportunities 
to achieve universal health coverage for all. offered by Health Tech innovations and data to 
support prediction and prevention. Achieving this 
To increase resilience to future pandemics and 
will require integration between health, care 
address the long-term challenges facing society, our 
and other partners – be that health innovation 
health system must pivot away from being geared 
companies, investors, the NHS, social care, housing, 
towards managing illness to enabling people to live 
benefit systems, private companies, payers and 
well for longer by directing resources at addressing 
providers. Public and private funding can come 
the risk factors that impact health. Covid-19 severely 
together through truly inclusive partnerships that 
impacted the health and care system in the UK, and 
make new innovations available to all. This is why 
reasons include the high prevalence of risk factors 
we are partnering with Innovate UK to deploy 
that affect health in our ageing population and the 
£6 million in grants to technology start-ups that 
need to address health inequalities. Before the crisis, 
are making a difference in the healthy ageing 
around 85% of the ‘burden of disease’ in the UK was 
market. Our aim is to invest in dynamic health-tech 
from long-term conditions rather than infectious 
businesses that have a proactive, predictive and 
disease. While measures were put in place to 
preventative advantage; helping reduce cost and 
occurrence of ill-health, linked to the ageing process.
As we look to emerge from the pandemic  The response to Covid-19 and the incredible success 
£6m of the vaccination programme have shown that 
stronger and more resilient, we must 
collaboration across sectors, with all of society 
seize on opportunities offered by Health  coming together to address a common challenge, 
can achieve remarkable benefits. The overwhelming 
We are partnering with Innovate UK to  Tech innovations and data to support  response to ‘Clap for Carers’ indicated how the nation 
deploy £6 million in grants to technology  values our National Health Service and a renewed 
start-ups that are making a difference in  prediction and prevention. Public and 
recognition of the need for inclusive health and social 
the healthy ageing market.
private funding can come together  care for all. If we can harness this clarity of purpose, 
leadership and spirit of working together across 
SDG 3 through truly inclusive partnerships that  the health innovation ecosystem, then we have an 
unprecedented opportunity to improve public health 
make new innovations available to all.
for the long term. 
good health and wellbeing.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
42
Building a better society
Building a generation of new,  
What have we done?
high quality, affordable housing
6,000 homes
Planning permission for 6,000  
homes through our later living, build 
Affordable homes will play a vital role in getting  to rent, modular housing and build  
to sell businesses.
the UK economy back on track after Covid-19. It is 
more important than ever that we build the houses  3,000 
society needs and plug shortages in the market. 
We are working to deliver 3,000 new 
affordable homes a year from 2023.
Tackling the housing crisis
£100m
The UK’s housing gap – the difference between 
current housing stock and the number needed  We provided £100 million in 
for everyone to have a decent home to live in – is  deferred long-term financing to 
estimated to be over one million. Demand for  Bromford Housing Group to support 
housing has grown, but there are two million fewer  their goal to deliver 12,000 new 
affordable homes by 2028. 
social houses and flats for people on low incomes 
than 40 years ago. And new social housing is being 
£75m
built at a quarter of the rate.1 
The housing crisis is putting home ownership out  in long-term financing to Bernicia to 
of reach for many, and the biggest social impact  provide 650 much needed homes in 
the North East of England by 2023.
comes from the lack of affordable and social 
rental homes. The number of people who cannot 
£48m
afford market rates is growing and 35% of those 
in council and housing association homes are 
committed to Clúid Housing  
working households.
to deliver around 200 new social 
homes across Ireland. 
1  news.files.bbci.co.uk/include/newsspec/pdfs/bbc-briefing-housing-newsspec-26534.pdf
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
43
Building a better society
Building a generation of new,  
high quality, affordable housing
continued
Making the housing market fairer  The benefits of modular:
and more sustainable  Lower costs SDG Contribution
Affordable homes Strict specifications mean our properties are 
Investing in affordable housing is one of the  finished on time (or early) and need less aftercare.  
ways we deliver inclusive capitalism in the UK.  Higher quality
We build good quality rented and shared ownership  Digital modelling ensures the highest quality 
homes across England – and we are determined  and rigorous quality procedures at each stage of 
to do more. We want to lead the evolution of the  manufacturing and construction.
By adopting innovative 
affordable housing sector by combining our long- 
Sustainable living techniques such as modular 
term capital with the expertise and management 
construction, we are 
Factory-built homes are designed to achieve a 
capability of high quality providers.  helping to provide safe and 
more sustainable future, taking into account their 
affordable housing for more 
Legal & General Affordable Homes is now in it’s  whole-life environmental impact.
people. At the same time, 
second year. We have already developed over 650 
the approach enhances 
Faster construction
new homes for customers in all parts of England  sustainable and inclusive 
Standardisation of modular parts means homes 
and we are working to deliver 3,000 new homes a  urbanisation by promoting 
can be built faster, with fewer issues and reduced 
year from 2023.  sustainable living across the 
disruption to local communities. lifecycle of a home.
Find out more in our 2020 Affordable Homes 
End-to-end delivery
Customer Annual Report.
We collaborate on all aspects of planning, design 
SDG targets
Click here to read more and production, pre-construction, installation and 
on-site groundworks, sales and aftercare to ensure 
11.1     11.3
Our Modular Homes Business fewer delays. 
We believe it’s time for a new approach to solve the 
challenges facing the UK housing market. 
Modular housing is the sort of solution that can 
help tackle the UK’s property crisis. We’re using 
modern precision methods and a full-delivery 
approach to make modular housebuilding more 
efficient and sustainable. 
Read more about the SDG 
goals and targets online at  
sdgs.un.org/goals
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
44
Building a better society
Urban regeneration and specialist 
commercial real estate  Urban regeneration in Glasgow
£81.5m
We invest society’s capital in specialist 
commercial real estate including science and  Our £81.5 million of funding to create 
Tackling the housing crisis
346 build to rent homes and 12,800 
innovation districts, data centres, clean energy  sq. ft. of commercial space is helping  6,000 homes
to regenerate areas of Glasgow.
technologies and urban transformation.
We have secured planning  
permission for 6,000 homes  
across our housing businesses and 
funded regeneration schemes. 
Investing in towns 
and cities
£1.5bn
We’re investing to level up  
the UK’s towns and cities.
A hub for science 
Supporting livelihoods in Newcastle
30,000 jobs Innovative research £65m
£210m
Supporting business
Our investments since March 2020   300 investments
are set to create 30,000 jobs. 
Completion of The Lumen Building,  
We have invested in over 300 companies, from  We invested £210 million in Birmingham   a hub for science and technology 
universities to science laboratories to start-ups.  Health Innovation Campus. businesses in Newcastle.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
45
Building a better society
Creating new neighbourhoods, urban regeneration 
and specialist commercial real estate
The long-term under-investment 
SDG Contribution
in towns and cities and small and 
medium enterprises (SMEs) in the 
UK has led to imbalance across 
the country. We invest in the 
real economy to support urban  Putting the UK at the  A blueprint for specialist  Releasing the power  
These examples 
regeneration outside London. forefront of science commercial real estate of pensions demonstrate how we’re 
investing long-term capital 
Our Bruntwood SciTech partnership  With its world-class university,  We take pension assets and invest  to accelerate progress 
Levelling up and fostering innovation is the UK’s largest science and  Oxford competes among the top  them in a socially useful way to  towards supporting 
We use our capital to encourage the next  innovation property platform.  technology clusters in the world.  create prosperity now and for the  economic growth and 
infrastructure. By doing 
generation of crucial scientific and health  It operates in eight locations across  The city, however, lacks affordable  future. Sky Studios Elstree is a joint 
this, we’re contributing to 
innovations. Our teams work with local leaders  the UK, including Alderley Park, which  residential and commercial space  project between Sky and Legal 
employment and helping to 
and decision-makers to deliver place-changing  now operates as a national Covid-19  that is essential to attract graduates  & General. The state-of-the-art 
drive innovation across the 
regeneration. Our projects in the UK’s cities and  testing hub. We have also agreed,  and support innovative businesses.  film and TV studio is expected to  UK and beyond.
towns outside London show what ‘Levelling Up’  in partnership with the University of  As part of our 50:50 partnership with  create over 2,000 jobs, generate 
means in practice. We believe innovation is key  Birmingham, to provide a new Health  Oxford University, we’ve committed  £3 billion of production investment 
to tackling economic and societal issues and we  Innovation Campus in the city of  £200 million for a new Life and Mind  and become the most sustainable  SDG targets
are an active investor in data centres, creative  Birmingham. The £210 million, 10-year  sciences building which will provide  film and TV production site in the 
industries and science and technology. We aim  masterplan will create up to 10,000  innovative facilities for teaching and  world. An example of how we use  8.2
to be market leaders in the digital provision of  new jobs and contribute £400 million  research. In turn, these will have  pensioners’ capital for society’s 
insurance and other financial solutions and our  to the regional economy by 2030.  positive impacts on health outcomes  benefit, the project received planning  9.5
Fintech businesses are expected to grow as they  throughout society, well beyond the  permission in July 2020. 
diversify their products. city itself. 
20,000 £200m £325m
Our Bruntwood SciTech partnership will   We have committed £200 million for   Our £325 million investment is expected to  Read more about the SDG 
create more than 20,000 high-value jobs   a new Life and Mind sciences building   create over 2,000 jobs, generate £3 billion  goals and targets online at  
in Manchester, Liverpool, Leeds,  in Oxford.  of production investment. sdgs.un.org/goals
Birmingham and Cheshire.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
46
Building a better society
Increasing resilience and financial inclusion
Financial pressures are 
impacting our customers  
more than ever before.  
As communities recover from  Providing peace of 
Covid-19, we must support  mind with Co-Op  
vulnerable people and increase  Legal Services
their financial resilience. 43% of over-55s are extremely concerned 
about the financial impact of suffering 
dementia in later life and 47% worry about 
Increasing financial resilience means helping  their partner being unable to access their 
people take responsibility for their own financial  money.1 We have partnered with Co-Op Legal 
security through insurance, pensions and savings.  Pension pot tracing and consolidation   Promoting inclusion through digitalisation Services to help customers access a Lasting 
Our commitment to financial inclusion drives us  Over half of 45- to 65-year-olds have more than  Digital platforms enable people to organise their  Power of Attorney (LPA) at a discounted rate 
to act as a responsible lender to support financial  one pension pot and only 17% of them have  finances and working lives. Technological solutions  for when they need a helping hand. 
resilience across our customers’ lifetimes. consolidated to manage their savings better.  can improve customers’ lives, increase security 
Our new tracing service helps people track  and support how we work and access information. 
A new age of retirement
down their lost and forgotten pension pots and a  We aim to be market leaders in the digital provision 
With people living longer, retirement age is 
consolidation solution for those wanting to bring  of insurance and other financial solutions.  69%
increasing and financial services must keep up. 
their pension savings together.  
We are building on our strong heritage with a  Looking ahead, we will continue to explore opportunities 
move towards digitisation and investment in our  Mortgage solutions for later in life to tackle new and evolving customer needs by: 
drawdown proposition to enable more people  Outstanding debt for over 55s is expected to reach  We improved digital 
•  making our products more mainstream and  accessibility and tools in the 
to access capital. We launched a TV campaign  over £500 billion by 2029. Our retirement interest-
accessible through the Residential Mortgage Market; wake of Covid-19, resulting in 
to challenge outdated stereotypes of retirement  only mortgage allows customers to pay their  a 69% increase in self-service 
•  educating financial advisers on the importance of
and an online course with the Open University to  outstanding interest-only mortgage balance and  logins in 2020. At the same 
and options for later life;
give people information and confidence to secure  stay in the home they love. A fixed interest rate for  time, we maintained a post 
financial resilience later in life.  the mortgage term allows people to access funds  •  looking at the flexibility of our existing product range  room service for those  
to support those in short- and long-term financial  who do not have access  
from their home. 
difficulty; and to digital channels. 
•  building on our Vulnerable Customer treatment with 
a particular focus on the support we offer those 
1 www.ftadviser.com/regulation/2017/09/29/fca-power-of-attorney-proposals-spark-scam-fears/ facing financial pressures. 
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
47
Building a better society
Closing the gap between lifespans and healthspans
#ShareTheOrange
We are passionate about building a society where people  Legal & General teams  Dementia Friends
can lead happy, healthy later lives. 1.25 million older people  with Samuel L. Jackson  Dementia is one of the most feared 
conditions in the UK and will affect more 
in the UK are Legal & General customers. Tackling the  and Alzheimer’s Research 
than two million people by 2050. A lack 
challenges of longer lives shapes our business. UK to battle the serious  of understanding around dementia has 
led to the misconception that it is an 
misconception that dementia 
inevitable part of ageing, when it is actually 
Covid-19 highlighted the challenges in caring for  •  Our £20 million sponsorship of the Advanced  is an inevitability of old age. caused by pathological diseases. We have 
older people. Pressures on our care system will  Care Research Centre at Edinburgh University  partnered with Alzheimer’s Research 
continue unless better outcomes for older people  will fund research on improving care in later life UK on its award-winning awareness 
are delivered through long-term, research-backed  and revolutionising how it is delivered.  campaign, #ShareTheOrange, for the past 
change. These pressures may see more people  •  We donated £5 million to Newcastle-Upon-Tyne’s three years. It sends the message that 
looking to fund private healthcare and other care  Being Well programme for the city council’s  dementia is caused by physical diseases 
options. As people live longer, their pensions and  prototype care home in designed-in infection  – and this means we can do something 
savings also need to last longer.  control and small-scale communal living. about it. We also think it is crucial our 
•  We are supporting the Trinity Challenge, a  employees can support customers with a 
We think the next stage of the ageing challenge is 
global initiative to help populations throughout dementia diagnosis and, when appropriate,
to close the gap between a person’s ‘lifespan’ and 
the world better prevent and respond to public  their carers. We are a dementia-friendly 
their ‘healthspan’.1 Our aim is to create a generation 
health emergencies. business and members of our team are 
of leaders in care and support world-class 
now ‘dementia friends’.
academic research into how we can better provide 
for older people. In 2020, we supported three 
programmes that are working towards this goal:
1  The key measure of healthspan is ‘activities of daily living’ (ADLs). ADL is a term used by healthcare professionals to refer  
to groups of self-care tasks a person can do on a day-to-day basis and include showering, dressing and self-feeding. 
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
48
Building a better society
Closing the gap between lifespans and healthspans
continued
1.4m
Supporting the journey through care
Every year, some 1.4 million people seek support to  SDG Contribution
find care for the over 65s. Our new Care Concierge  Every year, some 1.4 million 
is a digital, end-to-end service designed to help  people seek support to find 
care for the over 65s.
customers and their families understand, find and 
fund the right care for them. The service hosts 
online guidance and tools which show how long  1,000
a customer’s assets and income might last and 
provides personal advice to support people and  Our investments in care and 
their loved ones on the care journey.  health reflect our contribution 
Our Guild Living and Inspired 
to SDG 3, particularly around 
Our report, Caring for Britain, shares stories of  Villages now include over 
reducing premature mortality 
1,000 homes in six villages 
older Britons who have confronted the realities  through non-communicable 
with a pipeline of 18 further 
of today’s care system with the individuals  diseases such as dementia, 
sites in development.
and organisations working to deliver radical  and reducing suicide 
improvements in the quality and quantity of care.  mortality rate.
Investments in health and care 
Our investments in health and care help individuals  SDG targets
lead longer and healthier lives. We support 
companies focused on healthy ageing and offer  3.4
‘scale-up’ businesses the chance to bid for a share 
of £6 million grant funding through our role in the 
Government’s Innovate UK Initiative: The Industrial 
Strategy Challenge Fund. We have helped allocate 
around £1 million of this funding so far, including in  Retirement living solutions
Congenica, a digital health firm that has pioneered  Our later living developments aim to transform 
software to enable rapid genomic data analysis  what people can expect from later life by providing 
at scale.  vibrant communities specifically built to activate 
retirement living. Our Guild Living and Inspired 
Villages businesses now have over 1,000 homes 
in six villages with a pipeline of 18 further sites 
Read more about the SDG 
in development. We’ve also secured planning 
goals and targets online at  
permission for around 900 later living homes  sdgs.un.org/goals
across Kent, Bedfordshire and Surrey.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
49
Focus area 3  Growing our
Growing our business responsibly
people and culture     p53 
responsible supply chain     p60 
thriving communities     p62 
charitable partnerships     p64 
business responsibly
We continue to build a 
diverse workforce and 
an inclusive workplace, 
where every individual’s 
unique background is 
valued and everyone has the 
opportunity to contribute 
and succeed. 
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
50
Growing our business responsibly
Growing our business responsibly
Responsibility to our employees, customers, 
communities and society is the foundation on 
which we deliver inclusive capitalism. Holding 
ourselves to high standards of integrity is central  
to how we operate. It is practising what we preach, 
and it is also good business. 
Key issues We understand the impact of our actions on 
the lives and welfare of our employees and 
People and culture  communities. Complying with laws and regulations 
and meeting high ethical standards are the 
Involvement in our communities 
foundations on which we work. 
Social enterprise  Our major focus this year has been on managing 
the impact of Covid-19 on our employees and 
Charity stakeholders 
customers – keeping people safe and healthy 
while maintaining access to critical financial 
Suppliers
services. An engaged and productive workforce 
Health and safety is the lifeblood of our business and we spent time 
listening to our people, supporting their wellbeing, 
Key commitments and targets exploring external perspectives and reaffirming 
our commitment to building an agile and inclusive 
We remain committed to taking practical steps   business. We launched a range of initiatives to help 
to increase diversity and inclusion in all parts   meet the growing social needs arising from the 
of our business. Covid-19 disruption. 
We will continue to make progress in our supply chain, 
using our Sustainable Sourcing Principles which cover 
climate change, environmental disruptions, supporting 
SMEs and improving Human Rights.
For further information please see the appendix
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
51
In depth: How workplaces need to evolve
Workplace 
culture in  
a post-2020 
world 
Workplace culture will need  
to be flexible and inclusive  
as we rebuild 
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
52
In depth: How workplaces need to evolve
Creating and maintaining workplace cultures that  Listening also characterised our response to 
Employee expectations of company  are inclusive and fit for the future will require a  the challenges of remote working. By consulting 
highly nuanced and person-centred approach.  employees on what worked, what didn’t and their 
culture are changing and new challenges   Our response has been to listen carefully to  preferences for the long term, we involved them 
our people. The ‘L&G Listens’ project gathered  in shaping a future workplace culture and ways of 
are emerging around how to maintain  
personal perspectives and stories from a diverse  working that are genuinely based on their needs.
a sense of culture when the majority   range of employees to provide a balanced view 
Whatever the post-Covid workplace looks like, 
of our culture. It told us what we are doing well 
it must balance the needs of people and the 
of employee interaction is moving   and where we can do better. The insights have 
needs of business. This isn’t easy and there is 
shaped our thinking on how we can build a more 
online. The conversation on inclusion   no one-size-fits-all solution. That is why we don’t 
employee-centric, diverse and inclusive workplace. 
subscribe to the extreme positions of 100% 
has evolved to be seen as a critical  
remote working or 100% office working as a future 
function of culture, and it is central   model. Remote working isn’t a cultural panacea: 
presenteeism can flourish as the lines between 
to our core philosophical belief in  ‘working’ and ‘not working’ blur and inequalities 
in people’s home lives are exposed. Meanwhile, 
inclusive capitalism.
time spent in offices can be either productive or 
unproductive for many reasons – from employee 
engagement to building design. 
We advocate for a move away from offices as 
2020 put workplace culture under the spotlight as 
‘clerical factories’ and towards flexible spaces 
social inequalities became more starkly apparent. 
where collaboration is the focus. As a major 
The forced shift to remote working dissolved the 
commercial landlord, we see a place for the office 
boundaries between work and home. For some, it 
in the future economy, including as an employer. 
was an opportunity to rebalance priorities from the 
But we acknowledge that thoughtfulness of design 
comfort of home. For others, the shift to working 
must characterise the office of the future, with 
at home wasn’t easy, productive or even possible. 
employee wellbeing, environmental gains and 
Meanwhile, the murder of George Floyd and the rise 
flexibility at its core. Workplace culture can only 
of the Black Lives Matter movement raised collective 
flourish when we have ‘workplaces’ in which it can 
consciousness of racial inequity in our society. 
happen. Striking the right balance between in-
The outsized impact of the pandemic on black and 
person and remote work will be a learning process 
minority ethnic communities was symptomatic of 
and weighing up the needs of employees against 
the structural inequality that exists in the UK and 
SDG 8 those of the business will be key. 
beyond. These issues speak to SDG 8 with its focus 
on inclusive economic growth and decent work 
for all – outcomes that are core to our vision of 
decent work and economic growth 
inclusive capitalism. 
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
53
Growing our business responsibly
Creating a culture where everyone thrives
Our 10,000 employees pull together to deliver inclusive 
capitalism across a wide variety of functions – from 
customer service and sales to expert financial advice, 
asset management and construction. We’re investing in 
communities across the UK and beyond; from Hove to 
Chicago, Hong Kong, Maryland and Cardiff, our presence 
around the globe is increasing.
Supporting people during Covid-19
Covid-19 has been the most significant risk to the 
“ The issue of personal wellbeing is one 
health and safety of our people we have faced. 
We put employees’ wellbeing at the core of our  of great concern to our employees.  
decisions and prioritised their welfare. In turn, 
The fact they feel able to discuss this topic 
they pulled together to give support to millions 
of customers. 
reflects well on our company’s culture. 
Most of our employees worked from home for a 
We have put support mechanisms in place 
large part of 2020, with a small minority accessing 
our UK workplaces. Safety measures following  including helplines, a mental wellbeing 
government guidance were put in place at all sites 
which needed to open.  app and a network of Mental Health First 
Alongside practical interventions and support, we  Aiders – employees trained to support 
were aware of the potential impact of lockdown 
their colleagues when they need it most.”
and working from home on people’s mental health. 
We increased our focus on employee wellbeing 
and expanded the mental health support on offer.  Lesley Knox
Designated Workforce Director 
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
54
Growing our business responsibly
Creating a culture where everyone thrives
continued
What we did to support our employees •  Ran a series of ‘isolation invitations’ – virtual 
We continued to listen to people’s views: our Voice  sessions featuring external guest speakers to 
survey was supplemented by targeted ‘Listening  connect with our people and offer practical tips
in Lockdown’ research. This allowed us to monitor  for working and thriving in a virtual world;
engagement levels, identify areas of concern  •  Partnered with mental health app Unmind to
and act on specific issues relating to work during  offer free access for all our employees;
Covid-19. The key areas of concern included  •  Extended healthcare cover to all employees; and
improving access to technology, supporting our  •  Continued to train and support our network of
employees’ welfare, and helping them achieve  100 Mental Health First Aiders. 
work-life balance in a virtual world.  Our offices and housing businesses were in  
This insight helped us to develop and refine  regular contact with regulators to review our 
our support offering. We recognise that  actions, control measures and to review our 
every individual responded differently to the  standards. On each occasion, the regulator 
pandemic, driven by specific personal and work  was complimentary of our controls and 
circumstances. Developing a holistic wellbeing  their implementation. 
approach has proven challenging but our principle  Employee communications 
of an inclusive and person-centred approach  Our employee engagement effort focused on 
guided us. We: timely and clear communication throughout the 
“ Working in partnership  pandemic and listening carefully to our employees’ 
•  Continued to pay all Legal & General employees
views. Communications – including new Chief 
with Legal & General, Unite  as normal throughout the pandemic;
Executive-led virtual town halls and podcasts, 
•  Adapted our working environment to protect
have been fully involved  those who needed to be in our offices,  email updates and intranet content – helped 
employees navigate the challenges and stay 
e.g. thermal screening at entry points;
+5 and consulted, and our  connected. Use of our corporate intranet increased 
•  Supported their wellbeing through our Employee 
by 275% during 2020, and an average of 18% of 
colleagues are always at   Assistance Programme – which we extended to 
employees joined each virtual town hall meeting. 
include family members; 
the top of the agenda.”
Point increase in our  •  Adapted working hours where necessary to  As of October 2020, our overall employee 
employee satisfaction as   facilitate childcare and committed to full pay for satisfaction score, our key engagement metric, had 
at October 2020, vs 2019. Pam Edwards anyone needing to work differently; increased by five points compared to September 
Head of Unite’s Legal & General section, commenting   •  Created a build factory to provide our teams with 2019, from 72pts to 77pts. 
on Legal & General’s Covid-19 safety measures  technology to work from home and continue to 
roll out new laptops;
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
55
Growing our business responsibly
Creating a culture where everyone thrives
continued
We were disappointed not to meet our 2020 
A new office for Cardiff City Centre  targets and we are taking further steps to increase 
In October 2020, we announced that we would  diversity in all parts of the business. This includes 
relocate our two Group offices in Wales to a 120,000  reinforcing inclusive hiring practices, expanding 
sq. ft. facility in Cardiff’s Central Square as part of a  family-friendly, agile working practices and 
wider £450 million regeneration scheme. The move  investing in wellbeing resources such as access 
will provide a collaborative, agile space to support  to a backup network for child, adult and elder care. 
evolving working practices and shifting needs in  The creation of our Group Diversity and Inclusion 
the wake of Covid-19. There will be a strong focus  Council in 2020 will help us to widen our ambitions 
on employee wellbeing, incorporating cycle and  and keep us focused on positive actions. 
changing facilities, a café, social space and an 
Building a diverse and inclusive Board 
external terrace. As our wider business, customer 
An effective Board embodies diversity of thought and 
and location strategies evolve, the emphasis 
background and reflects the people and communities 
on location-independent working will increase. 
we serve. Our Board continues to support Lord 
Agile working and technology will enable people to 
Davies’ and the Hampton-Alexander voluntary targets 
switch flexibly between the office and home.
for a third of all members to be women by 2020. 
A diverse workforce and an inclusive workplace As at 31 December 2020, our Board comprised 30% 
At Legal & General, we are continuing to build a  women and 70% men. Our total of women directors 
diverse workforce and an inclusive workplace,  fell below 33% as we improved the mix of Non-
where every individual’s unique background  Executive directors. We are committed to increasing 
is valued and everyone has the opportunity to  the number of women on the Board and will address 
contribute and succeed. We are working towards  our current position as soon as possible. 
progressive improvements in representation 
We are pleased that the appointment of Ric Lewis 
across all protected characteristics.  Citywire Gender 
in 2020 and the arrival of Nilufer von Bismarck in 
We aspirationally targeted 50% female  Diversity May 2021 brings a significantly greater diversity of 
representation across our core UK and US  ethnicity to the Board.
We were awarded the Citywire Gender 
population and 40% female representation at 
Diversity ‘Judge’s choice’ Award for 
middle/senior management level – both by the  2/5 50% 30%
our work on gender diversity and our 
end of 2020. As at 31 December 2020, female 
leading position on ethnicity and female 
representation across the Group stood at 45% 
representation at board, executive and 
and at 35% among middle/senior management. 
senior levels and across other senior roles.  Two of our five businesses  Our aspirational targets are  As at 31 December 2020, 
Our Executive Committee comprised 25% women, 
are led by a female CEO.  50% female representation  our Board comprised 30% 
with two of our five businesses led by a female CEO.  across our total population. women and 70% men. 
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
56
Growing our business responsibly
Creating a culture where everyone thrives
continued
Gender pay gap  Actions to raise the profile of D&I across our  Gender Pay Gap data
In 2020, our median gender pay gap continued to  businesses included: SDG Contribution
narrow driven by improvements in our investment  All UK   L&G  
•  Launching a programme of employee listening 
management and housebuilding businesses  business Resources LGIM(H)
to build understanding about different lived 
but offset by a widening in our retirement and 
experiences to inform our D&I Council’s strategy. 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
insurance businesses. We are making progress but 
•  Introducing a digital, strengths-based ‘Best 
we know there is always more to be done. Like all  Mean 30.8% 27.6% 25.6% 25.6% 15.5% 21.3%
Team’ toolkit to help employees challenge  Pay
companies, Legal & General can and must play a 
thought patterns and behaviours when making  Median 26.6% 28.5% 25.6% 21.2% 18.8% 19.6%
role in driving positive change.  Our efforts to increase 
hiring, promotion and development decisions.
Mean 48.0% 58.4% 47.3% 49.7% 40.4% 51.8%
gender diversity reflect our 
See our separate Gender Pay Gap Report for  •  Reinforcing inclusive hiring practices and  Bonus
contribution to SDG 5 on 
further information including our full pay gap data  broadening the focus to other areas of under  Median 40.6% 45.5% 35.3% 35.2% 48.4% 52.8% gender equality – specifically 
and a summary of the actions we are taking to  representation beyond gender.  Legal & General has three employing entities with more than 250 people in the UK:  the need to end all forms of 
address this issue.   •  Celebrating International Women’s Day and  LMeagnaal g&e Gmeennetr a(Hl Roeldsionugrsc) eLstd L t(d“L PGlIcM (“(LH&)”G a Rndes CoAuLrcAe Hs”o),m Leegsa. Nl &o tGee tnhearta Cl AInLvAes Htmomenets   gender discrimination and 
International Men’s Day in partnership with  also will publish its own report in the first half of this year. ensure women’s full and 
Diversity and inclusion: progress in 2020
effective participation in 
Moving Ahead, World Mental Health Day and 
To reflect the importance of creating a diverse and  Click read more in our gender pay gap report decision-making and equal 
Pride events. 
inclusive business, we have established a Global  opportunities for leadership.
Diversity and Inclusion Council which reports to  •  Partnering with the Diversity Project to 
the Group Executive and Group Board. It is chaired  run two public panel events in support of
by Laura Mason, CEO of our institutional retirement  #TalkAboutBlack. SDG targets
business and Global Diversity and Inclusion 
5.1     5.5
Sponsor. The council comprises senior leaders 
from across our divisions and geographies and 
is tasked with defining and driving an ambitious 
agenda for D&I across the Group. 
Not A Red Card campaign
Mental Health is a leading cause of 
long-term absences from work. Our Not  100
A Red Card campaign continues to raise 
awareness, remove stigma and take action  Read more about the SDG 
around mental health in the workplace.  goals and targets online at  
We have over 100 Mental Health First  sdgs.un.org/goals
Aiders supporting our people. 
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
57
Growing our business responsibly
Creating a culture where everyone thrives
continued
Developing the workforce of the future
Our objectives to ensure people can 
To deliver inclusive capitalism, we must invest 
access talent and development in our own people and the experts and leaders 
of tomorrow. Our ambitions as a company will 
require leaders who are authentic in how they 
1 Leaders deliver change and business results  
approach leadership and agile in spotting and 
through inclusive leadership
seizing opportunities. 
•  We rolled out line manager training to create 
We help people perform at their best while driving 
consistent capability. 
a consistent and efficient approach to personal 
•  We launched senior leadership development
development. Conversations with employees, 
programmes to drive inclusive leadership. 
feedback from Voice surveys and our strategic 
•  We refocused our early careers and apprenticeship
workforce plan support the development of our 
activities to support our commitment to creating 
approach to training and development. We have 
a diverse and inclusive workforce of the future. 
three objectives that ensure people can access 
2 Have a future-ready workforce of professionals   talent and development. 
with the right skills
•  We use data analytics to support future 
skills development. 
•  We continue to develop resilience, wellbeing and 
remote working support tools. 
3 Have a high trust and high challenge  
performance-driven culture
•  We held performance-focused development sessions
to equip managers with coaching skills. 
•  We evolved our approach to performance management
with a focus on having powerful conversations. 
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
58
Growing our business responsibly
Creating a culture where everyone thrives
continued
A culture of strong ethics Transparent engagement 
As part of practising what we preach, we are  Policymakers value input from us to inform their 
committed to meeting the highest standards  thinking about rules and regulations. We have 
of business ethics, honesty, openness  clear principles for engaging with government 
and accountability.  and policymakers:
Code of Ethics
•  We do not make political donations. 
The Nominations & Corporate Governance 
We are politically neutral, working with all 
Board Committee is responsible for developing 
parties, officials, regulators and other policy
a business ethics framework and ensuring its 
organisations in the jurisdictions where 
consistent application across our companies in 
we operate. 
the UK and overseas. We respect the rules and the 
•  We work collaboratively, both directly and through 
best-practice principles laid down by regulatory 
a range of industry representative bodies. 
authorities and our Code of Ethics is regularly 
•  We aim to deliver evidence-based, practical 
reviewed and communicated to employees. 
proposals for consideration by policymakers.
Anti-bribery and corruption •  We aim to be experts and thought-leaders: we 
We do not tolerate any person acting on behalf of  are rich in expertise that we share with those 
the company participating in any form of corrupt  responsible for formulating public policy. 
practice and we do not accept or offer bribes.  •  We’re focused on delivering positive outcomes
Our Group Financial Crime Risk policy ensures  for customers, shareholders, investment 
controls to prevent such activity, including the  markets, the broader economy and society. 
control and approval of giving and receiving gifts 
and hospitality. For full details, see the Code of 
Ethics on our website.
We are among the Top 75 
Click here to read more
UK employers in the Social 
Privacy and Customer Data
Mobility Foundation’s Social 
Protecting customer data is extremely important 
to us. Our Group policy requires all parts of the  Mobility Index in 2020, up 
Group to have robust data privacy and security 
arrangements, which are tightly monitored. from 67 in 2019 to place 42.
Click here to read more
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
59
Growing our business responsibly
Creating a culture where everyone thrives
continued
What we engaged on in 2020 •  Direct investment in infrastructure, affordable 
We continued to participate in government  homes, regeneration, non-carbon transport, 
and policy opportunities in pursuit of inclusive  clean energy and digital networks;
capitalism. The Group CEO is a member of the  •  Engagement with stakeholders across the 
UK Prime Minister’s Build Back Better Council and  United States at federal, state and city level,
LGIM’s CEO is co-chair of the COP26 Business  including Chambers of Commerce;
Leaders Group. Our Corporate Affairs Director  •  Deploying capital to boost the start-up/
is a member of the Government’s Expert Trade  scale-up ecosystem;
Advisory Group for Financial Services. •  The UK’s transition from the European
Union; and 
We produced thought leadership to inform public 
policy debate including research on ‘Isolation  •  International trade.
Economy’1 and ‘Bank of Mum & Dad’2. We also  In November 2021, the UK is due to host world 
responded to consultations and helped shape  leaders at COP26 as they unite to tackle climate 
responses from trade and industry bodies on  change. We are using this opportunity to show 
issues including: the vital role Boards have to play in developing 
•  Economic recovery from the pandemic and the  roadmaps towards net zero. Displayed in the 
UK’s Covid-19 strategy; Financial Times, our advert series in partnership 
with Chapter Zero will feature leading businesses 
•  Supporting jobs and growth through urban
with net zero plans in the run up to COP26. 
regeneration and specialist commercial 
real estate projects;
Click here to read more on Chapter Zero
•  The changing accumulation and decumulation 
landscape and changes to the pensions and ‘at
retirement’ market;
•  Financial regulation – both conduct
and prudential;
•  Corporate governance, ESG and 
sustainable finance;
1  10 million Brits volunteering as the nation unites in the Isolation Economy, says Legal & General : Legal & General (legalandgeneralgroup.com)
2  Bank of Mum and Dad to drive UK housing market recovery after COVID-19, says Legal & General : Legal & General (legalandgeneralgroup.com)
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
60
Growing our business responsibly
Creating a culture where everyone thrives
continued
A responsible supply chain Our Supplier relationship managers engage in an  Modern slavery is one of the greatest human 
Our responsibility doesn’t end with our own four  annual CSR Meeting with our material suppliers to   rights issues of our time. It is estimated to be a  SDG Contribution
walls – we are responsible for impacts across our  explore their compliance with policies including,   $150 billion trade, affecting around 40.3 million 
supply chain. Covid-19 created new risks in global  but not limited to, the environment, modern slavery,  people worldwide. We want to see all forms of 
supply chains and we engaged with suppliers and  diversity and inclusion, and gender pay gap.  forced labour and modern slavery end and we 
changed the way we operate as a result.  The purpose of this meeting is to have an open  are committed to providing decent work and 
discussion and allow the supplier to showcase  treatment across our supply chain. As a diversified 
Our new Group Procurement and Supplier 
their roadmaps and strategies. It also allows us  global organisation with an international supply 
Management Sustainable Sourcing Principles 
Statement provides guidance and a benchmark on  to demonstrate to our clients the way that we  chain, there may be human rights risks in our  Our efforts to develop a 
are improving sustainability across our supply  supply chains and we demand these impacts are  responsible supply chain and 
important subjects as part of the sourcing process. 
chain. It can also be used to highlight the need  taken seriously. Our new modern slavery strategy  provide a safe workplace drive 
There is a need to consolidate internal thinking  for further upskilling and education within an  aims to assess, identify and remedy potential  our contribution to SDG 8,  
specifically the targets to 
and get external insights on how CSR objectives  immature business model, and we can coordinate  risks related to the UN Guiding Principles on 
eradicate forced labour, end 
should or could be integrated into supply chain  these events in the form of supplier workshops  Business and Human Rights, the International 
modern slavery and human 
practices. We have a clear set of principles that  or forums. Labour Organization’s Core Conventions and the 
trafficking, and promote a 
provide guidance on our five key sustainable  International Bill of Human Rights.  safe working environment  
Human rights and modern slavery
commitments. We have provided a recommended  for all workers.
Our commitment to human rights encompasses  What was new in 2020?
approach for each commitment, highlighting high 
a diverse range of people, doing their jobs well,  •  We adopted the Ethical Trading Initiative 
risk areas and considerations, detailing responsible 
responsibly and respectfully. From builders  Base Code to set strong standards of worker 
sourcing to show best practice. Working groups  SDG targets
creating new affordable homes to pension risk  treatment in our supply chains, with emphasis
have been established and each person will own a 
transfer professionals, the behaviour of our people  on the ‘no forced labour’ provision.  8.7     8.8
role as a subject matter expert. They are tasked to 
creates this culture of respect. Our Human Rights  •  We embedded references to the Modern Slavery
raise the profile of these important topics and help 
policy – published in 2020 – sets out how we will  Act into our policies and documentation and 
us drive positive tangible change in our business 
work together to achieve it.  created new policies and supplier requirements 
and supply chains. 
where there were gaps. 
We selected a consultancy, 3Keel – a certified  •  We committed to the Gangmasters and Labour
B corporation – to help us implement our  Abuse Authority Construction Protocol to 
strategy. We intend to implement and publish  proactively help eradicate modern slavery 
corresponding group policies, KPIs and templates  in the construction industry. 
to enable compliance with these principles to drive 
real change.  Read more about the SDG 
goals and targets online at  
sdgs.un.org/goals
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
61
Growing our business responsibly
Creating a culture where everyone thrives
continued
Health and safety performance CALA is implementing a Health and Safety culture 
We are fully committed to providing a safe and  change programme, the general ethos of which 
healthy working environment for all our employees  is encapsulated in their work code, ‘One Team, 
and those affected by our operations or activities,  One Goal, Safe Home’. This will involve a series of 
and understand the importance of this   workshops for both site and office based CALA 
to both employees and other stakeholders. staff, which are designed to raise awareness of 
how the whole team, regardless of department or 
We face a range of different risk profiles across our 
role, can contribute to a positive safety culture and 
businesses, from higher-risk construction activities 
support in maintaining a high-level of standards for 
to office-based work. We take a consistent and 
the team, the public and customers.
risk-based approach to managing health and 
safety across our businesses, led by the Group 
Health and Safety Committee and location 
specific committees.
Our group-wide H&S policy statement, and 
associated H&S management system, sets out 
our processes and procedures to ensure proactive 
management of H&S and our commitment to 
continual improvement. They are applicable to all 
our operations, although each of our businesses 
and their subsidiaries retain the responsibility and 
ownership of the management of H&S and has 
the autonomy to implement suitable and effective 
policies and procedures to manage all potential 
risks and obligations associated with business 
activities. This means that we can shape our 
training and controls to match the level of potential 
risk from each of our activities whilst ensuring that 
we have a consistent approach across the Group.  
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
62
Growing our business responsibly 
Proud to be   Bridging the funding gap 
facing communities 
Charitable and community organisations 
part of the 
saw significant funding challenges during the 
pandemic. In the UK, we responded by launching 
a £500,000 Emergency Community Fund in April 
community
which distributed funding to over 200 charities. 
The cash contributions made by our employees, 
cash-matching, volunteering and our UK and US 
community programmes amounted to a group-
wide total of £3.5 million in 2020. 
Supporting communities 
In the US, Legal & General America ran its annual 
during Covid-19 
charitable giving campaign. Digital events and a 
The essence of inclusive capitalism is using capital  salary contribution scheme raised over $900,000 
to benefit all parts of society. 2020 emphasised the  for the Boys & Girls Club of Frederick County and 
urgent need to address inequalities and disadvantage  other charities chosen by employees. $47,170 was 
within communities. Working in partnership and pooling  also contributed to Chicago’s Community Covid-19 
resources to achieve better outcomes for people is even  Response Fund.
more important during these challenging times.
Befriending the nation 
The impact of Covid-19 – especially on less well-off  in lockdown 
communities – has highlighted the crucial need to create  
In Spring 2020, 2.6 million people in the UK 
a more resilient future for all parts of society.
reported feeling lonely ‘often’ or ‘always’, 
according to the Office of National Statistics. 
During the lockdown period, the profound impact 
Our response 1 Supporting healthcare during  of something as simple as a phone call became 
the early stages of Covid-19;
apparent. We reshaped our work with Royal 
We target funding, expertise  2 Providing critical financial   Voluntary Service (RVS) to support those in need 
and employee time to  services for our customers;  and launched a telephone befriending programme 
benefit communities and  to connect with people through regular, informal 
we adapted our response  3 Contributing to communities 
catch ups. Our volunteers were given the 
in 2020 around five key  in need;
opportunity to become a ‘befriender’ – making 
themes:
4 Supporting young people  calls to vulnerable people in need of human 
during Covid-19; and connection. We have since been working with three 
charities – RVS, Independent Age and Carers First 
5 Creating a stronger society  
– to provide this service. The befriending service 
for the post Covid-19 world.
started as a small pilot with just 10 employees and
now includes over 80 befrienders.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
63
Growing our business responsibly 
Proud to be part of  
the community
continued
Supporting younger people
SDG Contribution
Young people were disproportionately impacted 
by the pandemic which disrupted their studies, 
relationships, work, opportunities and mental 
health. Disadvantaged young people have been 
hit particularly hard. With schools closed and 
many students at risk of falling behind, we made 
supporting remote learning a key focus of our 
We think every young 
community support. We boosted remote learning 
person should have access 
by working with Keele University and Higher 
to inclusive and equal 
Horizons+ to launch the ‘Uni Connect’ Virtual  Proud to be part   opportunities for quality 
Maths Club. This gave over 450 teachers access  education. Our investments 
to resources designed to engage young people  of  FastFutures support initiatives that aim 
studying at home.  to eliminate inequalities in 
We are a founding partner in FastFutures,   education, including those 
related to gender and young 
a 12-week digital and business skills 
people from less advantaged 
programme for young people from  
Creating a stronger society  communities.
under-represented groups. 
450 after Covid-19 
Of those enrolling in the first cohort during 
The response to Covid-19 has highlighted  SDG targets
2020, 61% were female, 47% from a black  
challenges in caring for older people. Pressures  
or minority ethnic background, 55% from   4.1     4.5
Working with Keele University and  on our care system will remain after the current 
a lower socio-economic background,  
Higher Horizons+ to launch the ‘Uni  pandemic unless better outcomes are delivered 
Connect’ Virtual Maths Club gave over  10% LGBTQ+, and 7% disabled.
through a longer-term, systemic, research-
450 teachers access to resources 
backed approach to alleviating them. As part 
designed to engage young people 
studying at home.  £250,000 of our focus on lifespans and healthspans, we 
are supporting three programmes to address 
this: the Advanced Care Research Centre at the 
University of Edinburgh; Newcastle-Upon-Tyne’s 
We invested £250,000 and 150 of our employees  Being Well programme; and the Trinity Challenge, 
volunteered as mentors to create opportunities for  a global initiative to help populations throughout  Read more about the SDG 
goals and targets online at  
young people at the start of their careers.
the world better prevent and respond to public  sdgs.un.org/goals
health emergencies.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
64
Growing our business responsibly 
Partnering with charities
Our partnerships with  EMpower Foundation  We increased our charity   Supporting teachers 
charities underpin  We are proud to be supporters of   matching scheme   and home learning
EMpower Foundation. For 20 years,  from £500 to £5,000 to 
inclusive capitalism by  We funded Virtual Maths Club, a Uni 
they have worked alongside local  support charities in these  Connect Programme working with 
enabling us to support  organisations and young people to  challenging times.  Higher Horizons+ and Keele University.  
advance innovative programming 
communities and make   Over 450 teachers have registered to 
and best practices to enable youth 
access the Club’s free online maths 
a real difference in  to live their full potential in emerging 
resources for students studying at home.
people’s lives. markets countries.
£5m
Developing social 
enterprises
Legal & General donated £5 million 
Since 2013, we have made a  to Newcastle-Upon-Tyne’s council, 
commitment to help social enterprises  Being Well programme for a 
prototype care home. 
through our SE-Assist model.  
We support Wales’ Social Enterprise 
Academy’s leadership and enterprise  
programmes, enabling local entrepreneurs  
to play a role in post-pandemic business 
growth and regeneration.
Digitalising 
community action
We are a founding partner of  450
LetsLocalise, a digital social innovation 
that supports schools to give every 
student the best chance of success by 
Over 450 teachers have registered 
combining community action with the  to access free maths resources for 
power of an online platform.  students studying at home.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
65
Growing our business responsibly 
Partnering with charities
continued
Duke of Edinburgh   Research can change the  Tackling youth 
(DofE) future. But to help us get  isolation and skills
there sooner, we must 
We are a Silver Partner of Duke of  LGIM America has been working 
Edinburgh (DofE) UK which supports  change the conversation  with the Spark program in Chicago 
young people of all backgrounds to have  about Dementia.  since 2013. Spark is an education-
opportunities to be the best they can be.   focused non-profit that provides 
Our funding this year focused on  career exploration and self-discovery 
increasing the reach in the North East  opportunities to middle school students 
and Wales where there is little DofE  in under-resourced communities on 
infrastructure. We also support DofE  the South and West sides of Chicago. 
America to provide the International  During the pandemic, Spark pivoted 
Award for young people in the US. quickly to a virtual model, adjusting the 
Raising   programming to suit home learning. 
Supporting 
confident girls
vulnerable people 
Our joint venture with the Girls Friendly  with the Royal 
Society has funded four new groups 
Voluntary Service
in London, Cardiff, Leeds and Bristol. 
Volunteers deliver activities to develop  Our six-year partnership with the Royal 
Raising awareness 
confidence, self-esteem, emotional  Voluntary Service (RVS) has seen 
wellbeing and resilience among girls  of Alzheimer’s hundreds of colleagues give up their time 
from five to sixteen. to volunteer. We supported its appeal to 
We have partnered with Alzheimer’s 
raise £5 million to deliver crucial services 
Research UK on its award-winning 
5 – 16  to vulnerable older people in hospital and 
#ShareTheOrange campaign to 
in the community in 2020. 
transform mindsets and empowerment  “ The students and Spark 
around Alzheimer’s for the last three 
have overcome much 
years £5m
years. The social media campaign over 
during the pandemic, 
four years achieved a potential reach 
but have persevered and 
of 46,146,498. The films themselves 
Volunteers deliver activities to develop  achieved over £3.5 million views.    grown as a result .” We supported the RVS appeal to raise  
confidence, self-esteem, emotional  £5 million to deliver crucial services 
wellbeing and resilience among girls  Bradley Wynn,  to vulnerable older people in hospital 
from five to sixteen. Head of Client Strategy and in the community in 2020. 
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
66
Looking 
ahead
2020 was an extraordinary year and 
Covid-19 is the greatest challenge to our way 
of life in recent times. We remain confident 
and ambitious for the future as we look 
ahead to playing our role in the economic 
recovery. 
In this section
Our journey to net zero  67
Building a better society  67
Growing our business responsibly  67
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
67
Looking ahead
Our journey to net zero Growing our business responsibly
Pioneering 2021’s rescheduled COP26 Future ways of working  
Legal and General will continue to proactively lead  Digitalisation and globalisation have sparked radical 
and engage the debate to address climate change in  shifts in how we live and work. Covid-19 then 
a sustainable economy
2021, including through our involvement in the run-up  accelerated these changes further than we could 
to, during and after COP26. Climate is not only the  have imagined. These changes raise essential 
an equal society 
most urgent issue but also the biggest investment  questions about the precarity of jobs, the support 
opportunity of our lifetimes.  We can harness the  available to those unable to work or retire, the 
better public services
power of business and markets to ensure the  skills needed for current and future jobs, and the 
transition happens.  All of us must now move from  voice people will have in shaping these outcomes. 
inclusive capitalism
promises and commitments to action and delivery. There are immediate questions about the future of 
the office and the rise of location-agnostic working. 
LGIM’s CEO, Michelle Scrimgeour, co-chairs the 
Business Leaders Group alongside The Secretary  Sustainable supply chain  
of State for Business at the international COP26  Supply chain sustainability can no longer be 
climate negotiations, due to be held in Glasgow  ignored. We have taken a positive step forward 
in 2021, in an effort to increase momentum for  and created a new Sustainable Sourcing 
climate action in the private sector. LGIM’s Head  Principles Statement that provides guidance 
of Sustainability and Responsible Investment,  and a benchmark on ESG for those involved in 
Meryam Omi, is also on secondment as a COP26  procurement and supplier management.
‘high-level champion’ for climate finance.
Diversity and inclusion
Building a better society We continue to build a diverse workforce and an 
Investing in the real economy   inclusive workplace. We will achieve the former by 
We want to go beyond investing in ideas that  proactively recruiting from a more representative 
already exist, by supporting the UK’s world-leading  cross-section of the communities where we 
scientific community and in turn supporting regional  operate, and by creating new early careers 
economic growth and funding innovation.  opportunities. We will deliver the latter with better line 
management capability, and by establishing a global 
International expansion
mentoring programme.
We will build on the success of our US pension risk 
transfer business and grow our presence in Asia  Mental health
and the US.  As we develop new ways of working in response 
to the Covid-19 pandemic, we will continue to 
Building new homes
find ways to support our people’s mental and 
It is more important than ever that we deliver the 
physical wellbeing. 
houses our society needs to address shortages 
across every dimension of the market. We’ve 
gained planning permission to build 6,000 homes 
through our later living, build to rent, modular 
housing and build to sell businesses.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
68
Appendix
We focus on delivering inclusive capitalism through our strategic 
priorities. Our businesses contribute in many ways and we have a 
range of commitments and targets for addressing environmental, 
social and governance issues. The following table provides a  
selection of these and where further detail and information on 
performance can be found. 
Target Deadline Further information
Journey to Net Zero  We have set Group balance sheet carbon intensity targets to monitor alignment with the Paris objective and will reduce  2030 All of these commitments and targets  
commitments and  our portfolio carbon emission intensity by half by 2030 and targeting net zero by 2050. can be found in the 2020 TCFD Report
targets
Our retirement businesses, covering c.90% of our Group balance sheet, has further committed to reduce portfolio carbon  2025
emission intensity by 18.5% by 2025 as part of a wider published ESG policy.
We will launch a climate solution capability for LGIM’s clients in 2021, quantifying climate risks within, and temperature  2021
alignment of, their assets.
As one of the UK’s most active real estate managers, the LGIM Real Assets business will reduce the operational carbon  i) by 2030
and energy intensity of our landlord-controlled areas (Scope 1 & 2 emissions) by 60% by 2030 and will establish Science  ii) by 2021
Based Targets (SBTs) for our wider Scope 3 emissions during 2021, as part of our wider Real Estate Net Zero Roadmap.
We will develop energy efficient commercial properties in our urban regeneration business and set Science Based  2022
Targets (SBTs) that are aligned with the Paris objective.
As a large UK housebuilder, we will enable all new homes we build from 2030 to operate with net zero carbon emissions.  2030
In addition, we’re seeking to understand and monitor the embodied carbon associated with the construction of our 
homes.
From 2030, our operational footprint (occupied offices and business travel) will operate with net zero carbon emissions. 2030
LGIM will help clients understand better the risk and opportunities created by the low carbon transition through  2023 You can read more detail in our  
education and then provide investment solutions to finance and benefit from the low carbon transition.  2020 Active Ownership report 
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
69
Appendix
continued
Target Deadline Further information
Building a better  Our ambition over the next five years is to increase our direct investment portfolio to £5 billion with a target blended  2025 You can read more about this ambition  
society commitments  return of 8–10%, and to add over £10 billion of third-party capital assets and asset creation for our retirement business. on page 34 of our Annual Report.
and targets
Our delivery pipeline is growing and our ambition is to deliver 3,000 modular homes per year by 2024. 2024 You can read more about this ambition  
on page 35 of our Annual Report.
We aim to be able to deliver over 1,000 new homes Under ‘Build to Rent’ schemes each year across the UK. 2024 You can read more about this ambition  
on page 35 of our Annual Report.
We aim to measure social value across 20% of our property assets by value by 2023. This involves engaging with our  2023 In our next report we will be able to provide  
property managers, suppliers and occupiers at asset level. Despite a challenging 2020 in obtaining data due to Covid-19,  an update on progress on this target.
we believe that we would be able to achieve our 20% target by 2022.
Develop investment solutions via LGIM that are more clearly aligned to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).  2023 You can read more about this target  
on page 14 of this report.
LGIM will develop and enhance long-term investment offerings which integrate ESG themes.  2023 You can read more about this target  
on page 22 of this report.
LGIM will engage with investee companies on key themes that will help to create more resilient societies, namely  2023  You can read more detail in our 2020 
diversity, health, technology, income inequality and financial inclusion.  Active Ownership report.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
70
Appendix
continued
Target Deadline Further information
Growing our  We have three objectives to ensure our people can access talent and development experiences:  2022 You can read more about this target  
business responsibly  •  Ensure leaders deliver change and business results through inclusive leadership on page 54 of our Annual Report.
commitments and 
•  Build a future-ready workforce of professionals with the right skills
targets 
•  Deliver a high trust and high challenge performance-driven culture
We remain committed to taking practical steps to increase diversity and inclusion in all parts of our business. We will: 2022 You can read more about this target  
•  Take steps to improve the data we hold on our people, including on ethnicity and other protected characteristics on page 54 of our Annual Report.
•  Continue to report progress on narrowing our gender pay gap (median and mean) across all our reportable entities,
as well as progress against our aspiration for 50% female representation across our total population and 40% 
representation at middle/senior management level
•  Improve diversity through hiring more diverse talent and establishing new early careers opportunities
•  Improve inclusion through improved line management capability and creating a global mentoring programme
We will continue to make progress in our supply chain, using our  Sustainable Sourcing Principles which cover climate  2025 You can read more about this target  
change, environmental disruptions, supporting SMEs and improving Human Rights.  on page 55 of our Annual Report.
We will take steps to reduce our operational environmental impacts (over and above our carbon targets). We aim to: 2025 You can read more about this target  
•  Protect the natural resources we use through the implementation of sustainable procurement principles throughout on page 36 of this report.
our supply chain
•  Eradicate single use plastics from our supply chain
•  Protect and minimise the use of water resources in the spaces we create and occupy
•  Minimise and design out waste through the careful implementation of the principles of the circular economy
•  Create diverse and valuable natural spaces and achieve overall net biodiversity gains, through the careful
management and design of the spaces we occupy
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
71
About this report
This report explains the Legal & General Group’s 
sustainability strategy and our main global activities 
during fiscal year 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2020.   
Reporting frameworks and standards This report is not externally assured.  
This report has been prepared in accordance with  All financial figures used have been taken 
the GRI Standards: Core option; the GRI Content  from the Annual Report which has been 
Index is available online.  independently audited.   
Click here to read the GRI Content Index Click here to read previous reports online
Legal & General Group Plc (the Group) is reporting  The previous edition was published in June 2020.
under the Sustainability Accounting Standards 
We will continue to publish our sustainability report  
Board (SASB) standards as part of our ongoing 
on an annual basis.
commitment to provide further transparency and 
data to our stakeholders. 2020 is our first year of 
disclosure and we anticipate that our disclosures 
will continue to evolve. We are reporting under the 
Group’s classification of Insurance although it is 
important to note that our business operates in 
four key areas: retirement (pensions), investment 
management, capital investment and insurance. 
Our general insurance business was sold in 2019.
This report was developed and produced  
with Radley Yeldar.
Legal & General Group Plc Sustainability and inclusive capitalism 2020-21
Feedback
We welcome feedback and questions  
from readers. Please direct them to:
Sara Heald
Head of Corporate Social Responsibility 
E  Sara.Heald@group.landg.com  
T 020 3124 2039
Registered office
One Coleman Street, London EC2R 5AA
Registered in England and Wales, No. 01417162.
Pioneering
low carbon solutions
inclusive capitalism
clean energy
sustainable living 
an inclusive future